---
title: "Bad Bits"
date: "2013-12-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=726"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=726"
---

Block chain technology could be the great innovation that gets us over a
serious hump into a low-work society. Or, it could be a clever idea that
has no practical use. That’s thing with technology. It’s often not as
useful as people assume initially. Many times the technology ends up in
something completely different from what the inventors originally
imagines. The microwave over is the best example.

The idea of a digital currency is fine as it already exists to a certain
extent. The use of cash has declined, because people now charge
everything or use a debit card. That’s an electronic version of your
home currency. This is made possible by the vast digital network that
allows you to engage in commerce digitally. Specifically, it allows
people to convert their currency into a digital representation for
transmission around the globe.

One of the primary attributes of currency is portability. Cash and coins
are more easily transported than sheep or bales of hay. Converting sheep
into coins, means the shepherd can turn his labor into something he can
tote to the next village and trade for something produced by some other
farmer. Currency makes the value of labor quantifiable and portable,
which means it then move around in society as property.

Another primary attribute of currency is it is not easily destroyed.
Coins are hard to destroy. If one is damaged, it can be exchanged at the
mint for a new one. Similarly, paper money is quite durable. It does not
decay over time if properly cared for by the holder. This is the bulk of
what the US Bureau of Engraving and Printing does every year. Currency
is durable and the replacement of that which is destroyed is predictable
and orderly.

In this age, we have figured out how to increase the amount of currency
in circulation to keep pace with natural attrition, but also the
increase in labor. That’s a long topic that can be debated forever, but
in theory, a slowly expanding money supply reflects growing efficiency
and growing value of labor. In a perfect world, there would be no
inflation and no deflation, as the amount of money would grow and shrink
in sync with labor.

That last bit is what gets lost in discussion about Bitcoin. A
crypto-currency has a finite supply. The cost of getting the first
“coin” is X. The next coin is X plus some small additional amount. The
next coin is X plus a slightly larger amount. This continues on at a
predictable rate until the final coin is minted. The cost of minting
increases with each coin so the cost of minting coin X is less than the
cost of coin X+n.

This means the coins increase in value over time. A single currency unit
of labor, for example, will increase in value. Put another way, the
amount of lawn work I can buy with a currency unit today will be less
than I can buy tomorrow. That makes the currency deflationary by design.
In times of great technological progress, it will be wildly
deflationary. In this way, it has the same defect as hard money. It’s
cyclical.

Now we have another big problem with Bitcoin. [It is easily
stolen](http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2013/12/23/bloomberg-anchor-gets-bitcoin-on-live-tv-and-is-promptly-robbed-by-a-viewer/).
The QR code \*is\* the money, not the bit of paper on which it was
printed. Try stealing a coin on paper currency through the television
and see how that works for you. For better or worse, stealing hard
money, so to speak, means physically taking to from the holder. There
are no special precautions one need take to keep their money safe when
it is physical coin or paper.

With Bitcoin, there’s no truly safe place. Worse yet, you don’t know it
is stolen, in this case, unless you try to use it. There’s also the
problem of the vault where you keep your money suddenly disappearing. If
you keep your coins locally and your hard drive fails, you coins are
gone. If you store in the cloud and the cloud company disappears, your
money disappears with them. Bitcoin is by definition, a fragile storage
of value.

Now, this raises two other issues. One is the currency is not
self-validating. I can examine a coin or paper and determine if it is
real. I do not require a third party. Bitcoin requires validation of
each transaction. That third party is a network of computers, but they
are not anonymous. To work, they must keep a record of every transaction
of every coin. That means the third party tracks your every move in
order to function as a validating authority.

Everything about Bitcoin says it cannot be a widespread currency. At
best, it can be a short-term transition point. Person X wants to give
Person Y money, without using the above ground financial system. Person
X then converts money into Bitcoin, sends it to Person Y, who
immediately turns it into real money. if you are a drug dealer or a
revolutionary, this is useful. To everyone else, it is a pointless
novelty.
