---
title: "Obama X"
date: "2013-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=328"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=328"
---

In the Reagan years, liberals had a standard response to the fact Reagan
was wildly popular. They said he was *personally* popular, but his
policies were not popular. It was sort of true, in that some of his
polices were unpopular, but his winning personality and the booming
economy more than made up for it. Similarly, conservatives argued that
the Clinton polices were not popular, but the affable Clinton was well
liked. They had some evidence, but the Clinton polices were not all that
different from the Bush polices.

The argument really fell apart in the Bush years. Initially, most white
voters respected him as a decent guy. He was not charismatic, but
efforts to demonize him never got very far because he was seen as decent
and honestly, if not terribly bright. He won two elections largely
because the public viewed him as the least bad option. Put another way,
his polices were not all that popular and his personality was not ideal,
but he was less offensive to middle-class white people than Gore or
Kerry.

In contrast, we may actually be seeing an example of a president riding
personal popularity in the face of his unpopular polices. There’s little
doubt he won in 2008 because of the magic negro stuff. He was the living
validation of everything the Baby Boomers believed about race and
culture. Huge increases in the vote from black women, liberal whites and
upper-middle class whites carried him to victory, even though his
platform was ill-defined and not particularly interesting. The voters
just wanted to like him.

The 2010 election and the continuing hatred of his signature achievement
underscores this fact. The phenomenon is in full bloom with Syria. Obama
is in the <a
href="http://www.gallup.com/poll/113980/gallup-daily-obama-job-approval.aspx"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">mid-to-low-40’s according to Gallup</a>,
yet his Syria policy has <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2013/09/09/politics/syria-poll-main/index.html?hpt=hp_t1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">27% support</a>. Part of it can be
attributed to the poor handling of the issue. That said, no amount of
salesmanship is going to make another war popular. The best he could
have done is match his own approval rate by rallying his party, but even
they can’t get on-board with a war with Syria.

At the end of the Bush years, we saw what happened when the majority
party used up all of its good will with the public. The 2006 election
wiped out the GOP. We saw what happened when the president used up all
of his good will. Bush fell into the low-30’s at one point. Obama is at
42% right now and this fiasco is not helping him. It will be interesting
to see if his coalition starts to unwind as we saw with Bush. The Obama
coalition may very well be more fragile, even temporary, but that may
not be clear until the next election.

<a
href="http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/09/03/how-fragile-is-the-new-democratic-coalition/?_r=5"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This piece from the NYTimes</a> lays it
out well. Personal validation has a short shelf life in politics.
Eventually the practical overtakes it in importance. A big chunk of the
Obama coalition is on board solely because it feels good. Of course,
blacks support him on racial grounds, but they expect something in
return. If loving Obama no longer feels good for liberal whites and
blacks feel like they are getting shorted, Obama and the Democrats will
have a very bad election in 2014. His personality may not be enough.

Of course, the one thing black politicians have often used when in
trouble is the race card. Kurt Schmoke was the first Obama. He was a
clean and articulate guy who came out of elite colleges and promised to
be a new type of black politician. That is, black on the inside and
white liberal on the inside. When that formula stopped working, he
started dressing like Nelson Mandela and talking like Malcolm X. Perhaps
Obama will find some way to play the race card before the 2014 election.
Maybe he’s going to be Obama X.
