---
title: "Roid Rage"
date: "2013-07-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-07-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=60"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=60"
---

<a
href="http://espn.go.com/mlb/story/_/id/9500252/ryan-braun-milwaukee-brewers-suspended-remainder-2013-season"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Baseball is getting around to penalizing
players</a> in the last round of PED troubles. The Biogenesis scandal
promises to take down 20 players using old lab records. Baseball seems
determined to use this case to make an example of some guys. Banning
players for 90 games is a big penalty and puts the player at risk of a
permanent ban. Braun is a confirmed liar and now he has two strikes
against him. Another pinch and he is gone for good. That’s the theory
anyway. We’ll see if it actually happens.

The great error baseball made was agreeing to a bunch of rules and
procedures that invite the lawyers into the room. They want this stuff
out of the game for a some very good reasons. The press may claim fans
don’t care, but the press is full of idiots. The home run blitz we saw
in the last decade was getting ridiculous and would have undermined the
game. Plus, someone was going to have a stroke or get seriously injured.
Former players would be in TV boo-hooing about how they wrecked their
bodies for those evil owners.

The way to do it was not an overly complicated process negotiated with
the union. The first step was to ban all of the names in the Mitchell
Report for life. Following the example of gambling 100 years ago, would
most likely make cases like the one we see today unnecessary. Banning
the players they knew cheated and were named in the report would have
sent the same message
<a href="kenesaw%20mountain%20landis" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Kenesaw Mountain Landis</a> sent to baseball when he
banned the Black Sox players for life. That would put an end to this for
even the dumbest players.
