---
title: "Getting It Wrong"
date: "2013-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=198"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=198"
---

The Left hates baseball, mostly because it is the one sport that has
resisted the cultural nonsense we see in other sports. Blacks don’t
dominate and there is little opportunity for them to showboat. That
vexes the Left greatly. It’s also the sport with the highest percentage
of old stock owners and front office people. Throw in the fact it has
thrived, despite not being a TV friendly sport and its existence seems
like an affront to the ruling orthodoxy. Therefore, the Left is always
agitating to change the sport in order to ruin it.

A fine example of this is <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323639704579014843915503078.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Major League Baseball’s decision to
implement replay next year</a>. There’s no need for this. Umpires
certainly make mistakes and those mistakes alter the outcome of games.
No one has ever been able to make the case that the overall results of
the season have ever been altered by umpire mistakes. If I have to make
ten decisions to save my life, one mistake kills me. If I have to make a
million decisions and each one may shorten my lifespan by five minutes,
any one call is meaningless to me.

That’s the case in baseball where each game features hundreds of small
decisions by umpires. According to people who claim to have studied it,
they get it right 90% of the time. That does not count the five hundred
decisions on balls and strikes. Given that no one can come up with an
example of a mistake costing a game, which then altered the outcome of
the season, a big portion of the 10% in question either is
self-canceling or irrelevant. That and the mistakes often cancel one
another out even in the course of games.

There’s nothing to be gained by adding instant replay. There’s also the
fact that the games are long enough now. In fact, they are too long.
When I was a kid, games last about 2.5 hours, with games often coming it
under two hours. Today, games last three hours and in the post-season,
they last four hours. That’s too long. Adding another reason to slow the
flow of the game just means the games will drag out even longer.
Frankly, if you wanted to ruin the game, making the games longer is what
you would seek to do.

Frankly, I’ve never understood the fetish to turn sports into battles
between teams of robots executing code. No one pays to see an ATM
machine perform tasks. Put two chess playing computers on TV and no one
watches. People want to see humans make mistakes. That’s the point of
sports. The guy who overcomes a bad call to win is a hero, while the guy
who lets a bad call ruin his focus is a loser. In baseball, arguing with
umps is a part of what makes the game fun. A baseball game is not heart
surgery.

There’s an error rate that is acceptable and for 100 years the game has
existed within that error rate. The people obsessed “with getting it
right” don’t get the point of the game. These are people who have become
convinced that making columns in a spreadsheet happy is the point of
life. Culture is about celebrating what makes us human. Sport is popular
because it reenacts the ups and downs of life. It also features the
conflict of men, but in a format in which no one dies in the combat.
Replay advocates don’t get that.
