---
title: "Scaring the Bleep Out Of The Honkies"
date: "2013-12-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=627"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=627"
---

Something that jumps out when reading the chapter on Weather Underground
in <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Destructive-Generation-Peter-Collier/dp/0786100907"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank"><em>Destructive
Generation</em></a>, is that a big part of the attraction of radical
politics in chaotic mayhem. Early on, the Weathermen did a lot or
organizing. That required the leaders to travel around the country to
visit other radicals. One of them was Bernadine Dohrn, Obama’s patron in
Chicago. She was the main recruiter for the group.

In one passage, Horowitz described how she and her companion at the time
liked to cause mayhem on airplanes, so the passengers would think they
were crazy. The point, she said, was to “scare the shit out of the
mother fucking honkies!” They would engage in raunchy behavior or dress
in outlandish clothes, for no other reason than to irritate the other
people on the plane. Their goal was to be disruptive just to be
disruptive.

This is a major feature of radical ideology. The revolution is not going
to start by itself, so the vanguard needs to first destabilize the
system. The proletariat needs leadership, but they also need to be freed
from the shackles of the system. The way to do that is to attack the
institutions of the bourgeoisie. As faith in those institutions falters,
the middle-class will be forced to choose sides. Those who side with the
radicals will be rewarded. Those who side with the establishment will be
killed along with the ruling class.

That’s why bombing campaigns were popular with the New Left here and in
Europe. If the police and courts cannot protect you from the revolution,
you’re not going to support the system. The point of this form of
terrorism is to reveal the rulers as illegitimate, by making it seem
 like their impotence is deliberate. Instead of blaming the bombers, the
people begin to turn on their rulers, opening the door for the radicals.

Now, the New Left was not a real Marxist revolutionary group. They were
just spoiled middle and upper-middle class kids from good families. They
liked all the good stuff of the system, they just wanted to shortcut
their way to positions of power. The Marxism language and radical
politics were always a pose for people like the Weathermen. They just
liked causing trouble. Most of their time was spent doing drugs and
fornicating.

The few sober moments were spent screaming at one another about why they
have done nothing but get high and fornicate like animals. A handful of
hardcore nuts did some real damage, but most were just there for the
party. Those nuts, however, were attracted to the cause for the
opportunity to cause mayhem. By the time Dohrn and Ayers were running
things, that’s all there was as the 60’s had petered out.

The way Horowitz describes these people, the impression is that their
lust for mayhem was driven but a desire to get attention. One of the
founders spent a lot of time cultivating an image suggesting he came
from the lower-class, when he was a rich kid. Dohrn strutted around
dressed like a hooker and banging men in public. Ayers worked hard to
cast himself as a lady killer. The whole
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weatherman_Member_List"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">list of founders</a> is
distinguished by the amount of time and effort each put into crafting an
attention grabbing image.

It’s easy to understand why these people were fond of declaring that all
politics is personal. For them, it was literally true. The lust for
mayhem became a part of these cultivated images. All politicians are in
it for personal reasons, but most are defined by things outside of
politics. Radicals are only defined by their politics. They have no true
self that can exist outside their current politics. It’s why they are so
angry and violent. Any push-back to their program is a personal attack,
as it literally is personal for them.

It reveals something about all radical politics, regardless of the age
or the issue. These people define themselves by their politics, which
are by nature in opposition to the normal social order. They have to
both attack that normal order, trying to overturn it, but also do so in
a purely personal way. The effort they invest into “being different” is
not really about the thing they are pretending to be. It is about that
which they are rejecting.
