---
title: "The Cult of Modern Economics"
date: "2013-09-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=376"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=376"
---

Economics is not a STEM field, even though economists try hard to
convince people it is a branch of mathematics. It is a social science
decorated with mathematics. That gives it the veneer of respectability
that a field like sociology lacks. That said, it often resembles a cult,
in that it has developed an internal logic and language that makes
perfect sense to those inside, but seems weird and nutty to those
outside. For example, they treat Maynard Keynes in the same way Mormons
treat Joseph Smith.

Anyway, the buzzing over the Fed’s sudden course change is a good
example. <a
href="http://blogs.reuters.com/felix-salmon/2013/09/19/the-surprising-value-of-not-tapering/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is a fairly typical example</a>. It
does not mention Keynes, but the the belief that creating credit money
is always and everywhere a good thing is on display. The intellectual
trap they have made for themselves is quite clear. If credit creation
 adds to the GDP, then it is always good to create debt. There are no
conditions under which it can be bad so expanding he money supply
becomes a permanent part of the economy.

No one ever stops to wonder how this can be so? After all, if it were
that easy, it should have worked all the other times it was tried. The
answer, of course, is to say it is different this time. The “new normal”
meme has become the get out of jail free card for every utopian dreamer.
In the case of economics, any doubts about endless credit creation is
waved away with the line, “things are different.” In other words,
everyone is supposed to just take what economists say on faith.

Economics is the religion of modern times. In a previous age, rulers
would have a holy man or a shaman to endorse his polices. Today, the
economists provide this role. In Obama’s first term, Christine Romer was
trucked into the White House to tell Obama and the country that the
math” said a reckless spending spree was just what the economy wanted.
That’s when the “multiplier effect” got loose in the conversation. Since
then every minor economic shaman has some theory about a multiplier
effect.

The nuttiness is on full display <a
href="http://politicalcalculations.blogspot.com/2013/08/the-power-of-quantitative-easing.html#.UjwrWT9dCBo"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">at this site</a>. These guys have built
out a series of interactive charts to show various “multipliers” and the
impact of the current fads in the faith. For the record, they are making
sport of the whole idea by showing the nonsense of it all. The fact is,
government spending fueled by debt is great until you run out of people
willing to lend you money. Then you become Detroit. Quantitative easing,
which is just credit creation at below market rates is just a clever way
to disguise it.

By pumping the extra money into assets like stocks, purchasing power is
destroyed slowly, rather than in hyper inflation like you see with old
fashioned money printing. At some point, the new money will leak into
the real economy. Americans have been getting poorer slowly, but seem to
be figuring out what has happened to them.Adjusting for inflation, the
government share of the economy has more than tripled in the last forty
years, per capita and adjusting for inflation.

 

 

In addition to the growth of the state at all levels, the amount of
debt, both public and private, has exploded: At every stop along the
way, modern economics has told our rulers that this was the right
policy. The result is a massive, incompetent government systematically
beggaring the public. More critically, it has allowed for the transfer
of social capital to massive global companies and financial
institutions. The price of cheap goods is living among strangers who you
don’t dare trust as neighbors.

 
