---
title: "This Changes Everything (Maybe)"
date: "2013-11-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=524"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=524"
---

Technological leaps change how humans relate to the natural world and to
one another, but they can also change people. The reason is the
technological leap changes the environment of people in ways that change
selection pressure. The move from hunter gatherer to agriculture is a
good example. The sorts of traits that are favored by the former is not
the same that is favored by the latter. Greg Cochran and Henry
Harpending made this case in the book The 10,000 Year Explosion.

The thing is though, the changes are slow. There’s never been a
technological change that has killed off a portion of the population
carrying some mutation deemed deleterious in the new technological
environment. The changes described by Cochran and Harpending happened
over many generations. A person living in the 5th century was not all
that different from a person living in the same place during the 10th
century. People got a little smarter, a little more peaceful, but people
remained essentially the same.

We could be on the cusp of the first great biological revolution
introduced by human technological advance. If this is true, and it is
most likely is true, the next great technological advance will change
humans. If we can alter the DNA of human embryos, we will alter the DNA
of human embryos. All the blather about bioethics is just that, as we
have seen in every other human endeavor. If people can do it, and see an
advantage in doing it, then people will do it, no matter the ethical
implications.

Since most of the limits on our life spans are genetic, the most logical
use of such technology is to extend our lives. This could be something
done on fully formed humans at some point. This would not require
changing our DNA, but changing how certain genes express. Of course,
“fixing” genetic defects in the embryo could eliminate a wide ranges of
diseases. The result of that is a new generation of humans capable of
living much longer and living a much healthier than all previous humans.

There may be a hard coded upper limit to life span that is beyond
genetics, but curing the diseases of old age would be well within the
realm of possible. Aldus Huxley probably got it exactly right when he
described a future where humans lived in their prime years right up
until death. Since every human culture is based around the inevitability
of death, big chunks of it become useless. Why bother developing a
relationship with God, for example, if you will never meet him.
Immortality redefines mortality.

Of course, another logical step is to improve off-spring. As soon as
parents can pay to increase the good traits in their children, they will
do it. If we can change our DNA to increase IQ, we will. Getting faster,
bigger, stronger, better looking and whatever else we want could be
possible if science can alter the DNA. How long before the Chinese
create a class of nine foot guys with sprinter speed and near perfect
coordination so they can dominate the Olympics? The bet is a week after
they figure out how to do it.

Of course, this is still science fiction. The amount we know about the
human genome is a drop in the ocean of what can be known. Having a
general understanding of genes and gene mutation is a long way from
making super men. Still, technology has a habit of moving quickly. It’s
also possible we don’t have to know a whole lot in order to make better
people or cure some diseases. As agriculture showed, small changes can
have enormous downstream consequences of human beings.
