---
title: "The Genius Cat Lady"
date: "2013-09-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - IQ
params:
  original_slug: "?p=405"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=405"
---

This is one of those sites that is so full of nuttiness it almost feels
like satire, but it is completely serious. Obviously, a site calling
itself “Brain Pickings” should be brimming with sarcasm, but this one is
brimming with unintentional comedy. For starters the blogger describes
the site as “a human-powered discovery engine for interestingness.”
There is a better than even chance that Maria Popova is going to end up
living with 50 cats. It juts has that sort of vibe, based on the first
impression.

<a href="http://www.brainpickings.org/index.php/about/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The “about” section</a> is a bit sad. Anytime you see
someone claiming to be in “search for meaning” you just know they are
acquainted with the psychiatric industry. Women seem to use that
expression a lot and almost always they are single, childless and full
of feminist nuttiness. Women with kids and a husband have all the
meaning they need. They don’t have blogs where they talk about their
feelings and pretend to be free spirits. Perhaps there are exceptions,
but that’s the general rule.

Anyway, The post is about someone called Angela Duckworth, who appears
to have been given a MacArthur genius grant for telling people things
that are mostly false. Her claim to genius status is a new book
explaining  how “self-control and grit — the relentless work ethic of
sustaining your commitments toward a long-term goal — impact success.”
 While that is largely true, you are born with these qualities, or not
born with them in the case of people who lack those qualities.

Is there anyone who does not know that successful are blessed with
personality traits like determination and a relentless work ethic”? Now,
the blank slate people don’t accept that these are innate qualities, for
the most part. Instead they think they are the product of environment
like good home habits and good schools. There’s money in selling people
books about how they can acquire the skills that will make them
successful, so it makes sense that people write such books. A genius,
however, should know better

Now, Miss Duckworth is not dumb. According to the post, she thought
about starting a school to put her theories to the test, but decided the
“model did not hold much promise” so she “decided to pursue a PhD
program at Penn.” It’s always better to be someone offering novel,
untested theories that confirm the deeply held beliefs of the ruling
class, than to be the person trying to make those novel ideas work. The
former pays better and has little risk, while the latter pays poorly and
usually ends in tears.

Another amusing tidbit from the post is this weird way of avoiding the
obvious. “She found that the students’ self-discipline scores were far
better predictors of their academic performance than their IQ scores.”
This is certainly true, but the correlation between IQ and impulse
control is high. There’s a very good chance that the kids with poor
self-control also happened to be black. They were probably from poor
families. It’s hardly a revelation that poor impulse control, low-IQ and
poverty are features of black communities.

This is the trouble people often have when thinking about this stuff.
The the traits associated with high achieving people tend to be
clustered together. That is, there are few high-IQ people with poor
impulse control and high time preference. On the other hand, there are
people with self-control, but a low-IQ. Intelligence is still the main
factor in life outcomes, but self-control can either mitigate or amplify
it. A dumb guy with self-control is going further than a average guy who
can’t control himself.

A better way of stating it maybe is to think these various traits as
forces pushing in either direction on a person. Some push harder,
because they have greater value in current society. Intelligence means a
lot today, but not as much in the tenth century, at least with regards
to life outcomes. The mafia used to say you get further with a kind word
and a gun than with just a kind word. Today you get further
determination and high-IQ than just determination. That’s strangely
difficult for modern people to accept.
