---
title: "The Bob Seger Lesson"
date: "2013-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=395"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=395"
---

I was getting a haircut on Sunday and the chit-chat with the barber was
about music. She is my age, mid-40’s, so she thinks the new pop music is
mostly crap. Her son is listening to hip-hop, which is degenerate crap.
That was never said, but the thought was in the air, so to speak.
Whatever artistic merit there was to hip-hop, if any, disappeared when
white boys in the suburbs became the prime demographic for music about
the ghetto. That and the performer cannot sing, read or write music or
string together comprehensible lyrics.

There’s lots of crap in pop culture, so hip-hop is just one example. To
paraphrase John Derbyshire, pop culture has always been filth. It’s also
always been a racket to skim middle-class whites of money. Read the book
<a
href="https://www.amazon.com/The-Wrecking-Crew-Inside-Best-Kept/dp/1250030463"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Wrecking Crew</a> and you will learn
about how the early rock music was mostly manufactured by middle-aged
Jews from the Jazz era. The difference between now and previous eras is
that there used to be talented musicians and groups producing some
quality stuff.

A good example is
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Seger" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Bob Seger</a>. He got famous in the 1970’s with a bunch
of hits that still get airtime today. Go into a college bar and you will
still find a few Seger songs getting played. Seger was before my time,
for the most part, but my generation was playing his stuff in the 80’s
and 90′ so it is not like he is a newly re-discovered fad because of a
TV commercial. The reason he had some staying power is the quality of
the music. Even doggerel put to a simple ditty can aspire to the sense
of the timeless.

I was never a big fan, but I have been listening to his greatest hits
lately. The lyrics and pacing are phenomenal. It is what you get when
experienced professional musicians with talent make records. In all
probability they hammered out each song on a piano and then brought in
the rest of the instruments. The studio sessions were about getting the
sound on vinyl, not making bad voices and bad musicians sound good.
Seger and his collaborators had real talent and produced a quality
product.

That got me thinking about what is and what is not quality pop
music. There are probably dozens of examples from each decade that you
can point to like this. The 1950’s were dominated by manufactured pop
hits, but Chuck Berry made the electric guitar do things unheard of
before his time. Fifty years from now people will find his licks
beguiling. The Stones, The Who, and Hendrix will hold up and have held
up. The 70’s had Zeppelin, which may have been the most sophisticated
rock band ever.

Nothing in pop music rises to the level of Beethoven, of course, but
there and bands and performers in most decades with artistic talent.
That seems to have slowed in the mid-70’s with the rise of disco and
hip-hop. I’m not sure who from the 80’s would be in the same club as the
Stones or The Who. The 90’s saw things fall apart completely, as there
were no dominant acts. That could simply be my age showing, but I was
till plugged into pop culture in the 1990’s, so I don’t think I’m
falling into geezerism here.

This apparent decline in high end quality music the last two decades is
a mystery that goes without notice. Instead, the pop industry just turns
up the hype to eleven figuring young people will not notice they are
being sold synthetic pap. It’s not an accident that the “hype man” has
become a feature of everything from sports to movies. There are
thousands of people paid to tell us that the latest movie, TV show or
pop act is the greatest thing since the invention of the wheel.

Still, where are the talented musicians going if not into the garage or
basement to create something good? Part of the answer is nowhere. Young
people are simply not picking up instruments as they did in the past.
When I was a kid, everyone played something, even in poor neighborhoods.
It was just the way. I was started on the trumpet at six and took
lessons until I was 12. Most kids dropped it for sports or other stuff,
but many stuck with it.

Today, the only kids I see with an instrument are Asian girls carrying
violins. Blacks have abandoned the guitar and seem to be losing interest
in the drums.  Whites have dropped music entirely. <a
href="http://www.guitarplanet.eu/guitar-music-in-crisis-pt-i-rocks-commercial-decline.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This old post</a> describes the plight of
the guitar in music. As white culture recedes, pop culture has changed
to appeal to non-whites. As pop culture has become a formal part of
state control, garage bands no longer have a place, so white kids don’t
bother wasting their time learning to play instruments.

Another argument is that computers are filling the void. Anyone can now
sit down at their PC, load some software and create the sound of drums,
guitar, piano, etc. They can make their voice sound like something other
than a bag of cats. There’s no longer a need to learn to read music or
play an instrument. Certainly studios stopped using drummers when they
could use computers instead. The problem here is the computer does not
improvise, experiment or make adjustments.

Again, this a reflection of the culture. As whites become a minority in
their own lands, their culture switches from that of a confident
majority to that of a captured minority. There can be great art to
emanate from a defeated people. James Joyce was a man from a captive
people. Southern literature reflects the culture of a defeated region of
old America. Maybe pop culture will change to reflect the plight of
whites in the West. Alternatively, American Indians never produced a pop
culture after their defeat. They just died out.

That brings me back to Bob Seger. He did not hit it big out of the womb.
He kicked around for years learning how to play music that people
enjoyed. Good musicians have an ear for what others will like. That
comes from many nights in many clubs. Dragging your computer gear into
the club and “DJ’ing” is really not the same thing. When you get down to
it, you’re just wearing another man’s suit, pretending you look better
in it. A vibrant people make for a vibrant culture, which makes
a <span style="line-height: 1.625;">Bob Seger possible.</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.625;">Like America, our pop culture is dying
with autumn closing in…</span>
