---
title: "When Experiments Against Reality Go Wrong"
date: "2013-09-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=326"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=326"
---

I’m fond of using the word “reality” in discussion with members of the
Cult of Modern Liberalism. Part of it is that it makes them crazy. They
love to end debate by uttering catch phrases like “as a member of the
reality based community…” that are finished with a recitation from the
catechism intended to end the discussion. In other words, it is just
another way they declare themselves our moral superiors, giving them thr
ight to rule facts out of bounds when they contradict tenets of the one
true faith.

[Over at Marginal Revolution an hysterical
homosexual](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2013/09/the-american-fertility-rate-is-no-longer-declining.html#comments)
took me to task for using the term in a post about religion and
fertility rates. I’m assuming he is a homosexual due to the overwrought
use of the word “intolerant” when discussing religion. That’s one of
those things you see with gays in the academy. They use the word
intolerant a lot. It is, as they say, a dog whistle. Pointing out
observable facts sent him racing to the fainting couch.

I thought about that when reading this story about the [rape scandal at
Vanderbilt](http://www.buzzfeed.com/bobbyallyn/an-ugly-rape-case-involving-vanderbilts-football-team-could).
From news accounts, this appears to be real rape or [“rape-rape” as
Hoopie Goldberg calls it](http://youtu.be/o5FVssACWRM).  A young woman
was violated by a group of football players while she was unconscious.
The documented actions of the accused indicate a consciousness of guilt
and an attempt o hide the facts from authorities. On the surface, it
looks like a real crime was committed.

Whether or not they are legally guilty of rape will be left up to
whatever peculiarities of Tennessee law that apply. Sex crimes are
funny, as the statutes reflect regional sensibilities. Age of consent is
a good example. In some states, a woman getting passed out drunk and
then crying foul stands no chance, because the law requires the court to
evaluate the credibility of the people in order to determine consent.

Anyway. what these men did to this woman should be punished with a long
stretch in prison, assuming the facts back the narrative in the press.
If it was one drunk guy and a drunk girl, then that’s a different story.
These players seem to have been sober, knew she was beyond drunk and
then acted in a way after the incident to suggest the presence of a
guilty mind. That’s not kids making a mistake. It’s criminals committing
real crimes.

They are not, however, 100% responsible for the events. If a man jumps
into a lion’s den wearing a meat suit, we blame him, not the lion.
Similarly, if a woman goes out partying with a man and gets so drunk she
is unconscious, she bears some responsibility. Now, men are not animals
so they don’t get a pass like with the lion, but they are not immune
from nature. This is something people knew up until last week.

Young men since the dawn of time have been willing to risk everything
for sex. It is as much a part of our biology as left handedness or
stereoscopic vision. It is why women have been taught to be weary of
young men since the dawn of time. It’s why there were prohibitions
against young people hanging around one another unsupervised. it was to
protect the men from themselves and the women from the men.

That held until the magical thinking of feminism came along with all of
its nature denying beliefs. If we arrange things the right way, they
argue, women can be men, just *without* dicks. Men can be pleasant
lesbians *with* dicks. Otherwise, sex as a biological characteristic can
be willed away. [Boys can be raised as girls and girls as
boys](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/sep/6/toys-r-us-goes-gender-neutral-united-kingdom/). <span style="line-height: 1.625;">Like
everything else with Cultural Marxism, sex becomes this gray, formless
nothingness encompassed by the hollow word “gender” that means
everything and nothing.</span>

Reality does not go away when you stop believing in it. By nature, boys
want to have sex with girls. They will go to great lengths to do it.
Getting a girl drunk so she will give in to a man’s advances dates back
to the first discovery of alcohol. Teaching women that this does not
exist is like teaching them that gravity is a social construct. It is
not just madness, it borders on the criminal. This young woman could
easily have avoided this terrible thing by following the wisdom of a
thousand generations of women before her.

Again, this does not absolve these young men, but a sensible society
would find some way to mention the reckless stupidity of this woman.
Everyone is far too afraid as the witch doctors and medicine women of
feminism will never permit it. Instead the male student body of
Vanderbilt will be subjected to lectures about denying their biology and
the women will be told they are failing as women if they observe a bit
of restraint when dealing with the opposite sex. It is senseless
madness, but that’s where we are in America.
