---
title: "Why Conservatism is Dead"
date: "2013-11-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=565"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=565"
---

Political movements have a life cycle. They are born of the particular
circumstances of their time. They thrive to whatever extent they can,
but then they fade and die. The main reason they run their course is
people don’t live forever. That and careers in public life are short,
usually lasting no more than two effective decades. There are some
exceptions, but twenty years is a good number. That means the people who
start the movement and bring it to preeminence are usually half way done
by that point.

Liberalism, for example, has gone through a number of reinventions over
the last century because the trends run their course and the people move
on. Wilsonian Democracy petered out with World War I and was replaced
two decades later with the New Deal liberalism of FDR. That ran out of
steam and was replaced with the New Left and the sixties counter
culture. That fell apart in the 70’s with Carter. The neoliberal
movement of today is a replacement for the largely defunct New Left
radicalism of the 60’s.

The fact that today’s liberal spasm is sort of a walk down memory lane
for aging lefty boomers suggests this phase of Progressive politics is
the last. Instead of supplanting the nold movement and old people, with
something new championed by new people, the modern Left is more of an
echo. It’s a reconstitution of old ideas from past movements into
something of a Frankenstein’s monster of politics. Regardless, the point
is mass movements have a life cycle and they eventually either die or
stagnate.

Conservatism, at least was passes for it these days, has clearly run out
of steam and is now just a husk of a movement.  A good example of this
is National Review. It was one of the founding publications of the
conservative movement, a response to New Deal liberalism. The insanity
of the sixties breathed life into the movement eventually leading to
Reagan and the conservative reformation of the 1980’s. Throughout those
years National Review was the platform for radical conservative thinkers
to spread their ideas.

Today, it is a market platform for conventional mediocrities looking for
talking head gigs on the cable channels. Anyone that is slightly edgy
gets tossed out and the magazine mostly functions to promote dullards
like Ramesh Ponnuro and Rich Lowry. Neither of whom have said or written
anything anyone has bothered to remember. As John Derbyshire once told
me, they are just career men with mortgages and families. He was being
nice about that. They are squatter living in the ruins Buckley old
mansion.

One magazine is no big deal, but it is emblematic. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/364004/six-health-care-demands-newt-gingrich"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They have a piece up by that technocrat
Newt Gingrich</a>. For two decades now Gingrich has been peddling his
brand of right-wing technocracy. He obviously had success with this, as
it put him in the Speaker’s chair. The fact that his tenure was a
failure and he had to leave under a cloud should be judgement on him and
his ideas. Instead, he’s another guy shuffling around the remains of
Conservative Inc., repeating the old lines from the old program.

The fact that there’s nothing remotely conservative about him seems to
be lost on everyone. Within living memory, the editors of National
Review would have been railing against Gingrich and his crackpot ideas.
Today, they collude with him to sell books. The gist Gingrich’s pitch is
that the state should meddle in your life so you do things Newt things
are a good idea. It really is incredible what passes for right-wing
these days. In the 1980’s, Ronald Reagan would have labeled Gingrich as
a nanny-state liberal.

That’s why the Right is dying. It ran out of ways to jam conservative
goals into the Progressive moral framework, so it is reduced to
repackaging liberalism as “big government conservatism.”  Young people,
we are told, are more libertarian and maybe that is true, but
libertarianism is mostly childish nonsense. What they mean by
libertarian is what people used to call libertine. Of course young
people want to party, fornicate and avoid responsibility, duty and
sacrifice. That’s what it means to be young.

Getting high and hanging out with friends is not the foundation of a
political ideology or a cultural movement. If anything, it is further
proof that the Right is dead and this new thing called neoliberalism is
not getting many takers. In fact, what passes for both Left and Right
are now just excuses for the people in charge increasing their power and
privilege, while not having top fulfill their duties to those over they
rule. It’s just a series of complex arguments based only in the
authority of the people making them.

That’s why conservatism is dead. It was, at its heart, the promise to
create a legitimate alternative to the prevailing Progressive orthodoxy.
That’s why it flourished in the 1980’s and carried Reagan to victory.
For a lot of reasons, it never fulfilled that promise. Instead, it was
co-opted and corrupted into predictable opposition, willing to throw
every fight to the Left. That’s increasingly obvious as the demographic
changes cry out for a new opposition to the ruling class. The
conservatives are instead defenders of the status quo.
