---
title: "Living Past 115"
date: "2013-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=393"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=393"
---

<a
href="http://www.rationaloptimist.com/blog/why-are-there-so-few-people-over-115-years-of-age-one/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is an interesting post</a> that
touches on two interesting things. One is the fact we may be reaching
the limit of human longevity. Once you eliminate the problems that come
from scarcity and then address the basics of medicine, human life spans
start to grow. People also get healthier over their lifetime. Humans are
far healthier late in life than at any other time. We are probably
within reach of solving some of the big killers like cancer, heart
failure and dementia. While some may never be “cured” they will be
manageable.

For things related to aging, the eeffects will continue to be postponed.
Within living memory, a healthy a vigorous 70-year old was something
like a miracle. Today it is common. We will certainly be seeing more and
more vigorous octogenarians, especially as medicine gets a grip on using
things like HGH and SARM’s. Of course, we are already seeing drugs that
allow humans to extend their sexual activity into old age and the demand
for this stuff will spike as Boomer head into their final chapter of
life.

This need to extend life and the quality of life is not without some
spooky stuff. Here’s a bit from the linked post.

“The only way to get a person past the “Calment limit” of (say) 125 will
be some sort of genetic engineering. This might prove to be, if not
easy, at least fairly routine — in technical terms. Fiddling with just a
few genes in worms, fruit flies and mice has enabled scientists to
extend their lifespan, sometimes up to sevenfold. One recent study in
Lausanne found a 50 per cent reduction in the activity of just three
genes on Chromosome 2 increased mouse lifespan by about 250 days, and
kept them healthy longer.”

Once you start talking about genetic engineering people, the mind
quickly moves from the spooky to the sinister. As soon as it becomes
possible to alter one’s aging with gene therapy, drugs will be created
to give the same effect. If reducing a certain protein extends
youthfulness, a clever company will bottle it and sell it. Human nature
being what it is, there will come a time when this is not just possible,
but considered essential.

Strangely, the naive assumption that people will be ethically
constrained in this area is why we will see the genie get loose as soon
as it can be uncorked. Matt Riddley, the writer of the linked post,
thinks it is hard to imagine any scientists willing to do what is
necessary to bring such technology forward, with regards to humans.
After all, it will require human trials and that means experimenting on
embryos, which will be brought to term. That’s a nice way of saying it
will require experimenting on kids.

The fact that China would have zero hangups about doing this is alien to
most western ethicists. Amazingly, China remains an inscrutable place
for the West. The Russians would probably have no trouble with the
ethics either. Even if they were not willing to experiment on their own
people, they would happily team up with India or maybe the Iranians to
conduct the research on their people. Making fewer better people is
probably the next phase of the arms race between peoples.

Riddle asks an interesting question, which suggests something about the
Western cognitive elite.
“<span style="font-family: Georgia, 'Bitstream Charter', serif; line-height: 1.625;">Plus,
ethics aside, it is not easy to see where the demand for such a drastic
and expensive step would come from. Who would actually want their next
child to live past 125, let alone badly enough to go through with it?”
There’s that fatigue with living that turns up in the elites, that
animates the current culture. The thing is, not everyone is looking to
call it quits. That’s the Western disease. </span>
