---
title: "A Big Hoax"
date: "2013-12-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=657"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=657"
---

The Left can believe things that are obviously wrong. So much so, they
can convince people who should know better that up is down and down is
up. Health care is a great example. For example, the ObamaCare debacle
is turning into the greatest public works failure in the history of man.
If the Hoover Damn had cracked open on the first day and crumbled into a
pile of stones, it would not be as big a failure as ObamaCare.

Every day brings another hilarious failure of the website or some aspect
of it. What has gained less attention is the fact few people have
bothered to even try to sign up. Of those,
<a href="http://nypost.com/2013/12/07/the-medicaid-time-bomb/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">almost all should have been on
Medicaid all along</a>. The Left claimed 20 million Americans were
without insurance and would buy it if it were cheaper. They claimed
another 20 million or so were young people who should be paying into the
system, but are not.

The Left believed the 40 million uninsured myth with the intensity of a
fanatic. As the numbers come in, they hold to it. Even non-Liberals
still accept the claim. Never mind that the figures never held up to
experience or reason. If you are young, you don’t need insurance. If you
are poor or old, you can go on the dole. If you have a job, you most
likely have a policy from work. Small business people have private
plans.

Of course, a trip to the local ER shows it is full of illegal aliens who
should not be here in the first place. The great uninsured never existed
in numbers worthy of this initiative. The uninsured, those who
legitimately exist, are like the unemployed. They are a temporary class,
a shifting, dynamic cohort that is transitioning from one job state or
life state to another. There was never a great emergency to be
addressed, but the Left believed it.

The great uninsured was a big fat hoax. They never really existed in
numbers warranting state action. Instead of asking to look behind the
curtain, everyone went along with the claims made by the Left. So much
so we have a multi-trillion dollar disaster on our hands that will end
up helping a handful of people, who probably never needed the help in
the first place. Those who did need help could have relied on existing
programs.

Even now, the debate still focuses on how to replace it or how to fix
it. No one is bothering to ask why the premise of the thing is not
holding up to empirical fact. You can be sure that if anyone publicly
challenges the claim they will be called a monster. Obama will keep
wheeling out white people supposedly helped by his program and the
liberal press will yammer about the lack of an alternative. No one will
question the premise.
