---
title: "The Problem With Health Care"
date: "2013-12-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=683"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=683"
---

Friday I went to the doctor for an evaluation. The reason for this is
the dentist saw a tiny little bump on my tongue that she said was
probably nothing. Since I have insurance, she said I should get it
checked out by a specialist. She gave me a referral to someone she
knows. With some worry, I made the appointment. Unless I have the
slowest growing tumor in history, it is a nothing issue, but you never
know and the hygienist is right about having it checked out to make
sure. Who knows? This could be my last post here.

I made the appointment and was told to show up 30 minutes early to do
paperwork. I was given a clipboard and five forms. Half of it was the
basic data a doctor would need in order to get a general history of the
patient and get paid for services. The rest was data to defend him
against future lawsuits. <a
href="http://www.citizen.org/documents/medical-malpractice-payments-do-not-increase-health-care-costs-report-2013.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Liberals have argued for years
that litigation</a> is a tiny part of health costs, but they have a
conflict of interest as most are lawyers abusing the court system. The
rial lawyer lobby is very powerful in America.

Even objective studies cannot account for the millions of hours wasted
filling out forms forced on us by the plaintiff’s bar.  A partner in a
law firm filling out forms at a doctor’s office is a $1000 of waste.
Multiply that over tens of millions of people and you have billions
squandered in the morass of paperwork alone. That’s before you consider
how many times you fill out the same form. Every visit to the doctor
seems to require a new form, with the same data, but in a slightly
different order with a new date.

I finish the forms and the whatever you call the people at the front
desk took a copy of my insurance cards and driver’s license. Again, the
scan of the license is about money. If they have to chase me, they now
have my photo ID. This was something truck hijackers would do in the
50’s and 60’s. They would take the truck driver’s license and tell him
to claim it was two black guys or two Mexicans. Since they had his
license, he was under obvious pressure to cooperate. It’s an interesting
comparison.

Then I wait and wait and wait. I had 12:30 appointment but did not get
to see the doctor until 1:00. He was with me for 132 seconds. I know
because I timed the great event. I then spent fifteen minutes checking
out and paying my bill. That part was an issue because I learned they
did not take insurance, but would submit the claim to my carrier for
reimbursement. I tried to use my HSA VISA card, but that was declined
for some reason. I then used my regular credit card to pay the $150 for
the 132 second consultation.

The consultation resulted in another appointment. He will remove the
bump and send it out for examination. He says it is unlikely to be
anything but I will have peace of mind knowing for sure. He will also
have $650 for the service. If I want my HSA to cover it, I will have to
spend hours working that process. There’s a cost there as my time is
worth something to me. I could pay out of pocket, but I have insurance
for this stuff. They ain’t giving me a discount for not using it. It is
another hassle for a service that is probably unneeded.

This is the problem with health care in a nutshell. It is something we
all need, so it has attracted a special class of highwaymen. They stand
between you and the product or service you need, demanding a toll.
Unlike a stickup man, they force you to fill out forms and wait in line
to be robbed. This is also why American health care will collapse before
it is reformed. Those highwaymen have powerful lobbies to prevent laws
curtailing their activities. We’ll just have to wait until we’re all
bled dry, before there is reform.
