---
title: "The Kurds"
date: "2013-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=43"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=43"
---

[Steve
Sailer](http://isteve.blogspot.com/2013/07/the-slow-success-of-kurdish-nationalism.html)
has a post up on this piece in
the [NYTimes](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/18/world/middleeast/momentum-shifts-in-syria-bolstering-assads-position.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0) about
Syria. The Kurds are looking like the one population group in the Arab
world with a chance to escape the entropy of Islam. In Iraq, Saddam
tried to exterminate them, but they hung on. Today, the Kurdish areas of
Iraq are the only civilized portion of the country. Business is booming,
they have a reasonably sane government and they have avoided the
sectarian terrorism that still plagues the rest of the country. This
with no help from the Americans.

Now we see they are quietly taking control of their areas in Syria. The
Turks are naturally nervous about this, but there’s not much they can do
about it. For the Turks, all of the options in Syria are bad options.
Their bigger concern is the fact the Kurds will outnumber the Turks in
twenty years. The future belongs to those who show up and in Turkey, the
Kurds will showing up in big numbers. They have a TFR three times that
of the Turrks.

Between the three countries, the Kurds number 30 million. They sit on
loads of oil and gas and they practice a mild form of Islam. This allows
them to be favorably disposed to western capitalism, without swallowing
the degenerate Western culture. That sounds like the makings of a pretty
good country, at leats by the standards of the region. Maybe the West
should start looking at the Kurds as potential partners instead of the
crazy Arabs.
