---
title: "Libertarian Stupidity"
date: "2013-08-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Libertarians
params:
  original_slug: "?p=261"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=261"
---

When you look around the public square, you can’t help but notice that
the number of interesting and insightful people seems strikingly low.
It’s like television where expanding from three channels to three
hundred resulted in 297 channels of crap, in addition to the previous
three channels. The democratization of the media has not opened the
field to new and interesting people and ideas. Instead, it has allowed
in an army of mediocrities who repeat all the same stuff everyone else
says. It is a sea dull-witted conformists.

A post like this in the American Spectator is a good example. There is a
worthy discussion, maybe even a debate, to had over the role of populism
in a modern western society. It’s a debate we will have to have, one way
or the other. Populism is not an unalloyed good. It can run amok, like
we saw with Hugo Chavez, where it turned into a cult of personality <a
href="http://www.breakingnews.ie/world/venezuelan-president-maduro-sleeps-in-chavezs-crypt-603252.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">that has lived on after his death</a>.
Granted, it is Venezuela and western style liberal democracy is a poor
fit, but populism seems like a poor fit too.

Closer to home, the Bolsheviks are probably the quintessential
populists. There movement was the literal overturning of the old
hierarchical order. You can’t get any more populist than that. The Nazis
were certainly appealing to populist sentiment. Granted, they were
battling the Bolsheviks for popular support, but that just goes to the
heart of the criticism of populism in general. When the goal is simply
to win enough of the crowd to gain power, populism can easily become mob
rule and then authoritarianism.

The point here is that we are about o have a long debate about populism
and it would be a good idea if serious people, or at least people with
serious pretensions, were capable of discussing the issue like adults.
It would also help that the people writing for public consumption knew
something about the subjects. For example, there is a lot of overlap
between political libertarianism and populism. In both cases, there is a
rejection of rule by expert and the rejection of expertise as a
requirement for rule.

Even if you think the similarities between populist politics and
libertarianism are incidental, the rejection of populism in that post is
just crude posing. It is something that has become a common feature of
so-called conservatism. It’s a cultivated sneer from people with nothing
to show for themselves. What conservatism has borrowed from
libertarianism is the dilettantism. They parade around as if they know
everything, but they sport of record of failure that would make a
Cleveland sports fan blush.

In a way though, studying modern libertarianism a good way to understand
why Buckley-style conservatism was a huge flop. Their goal was to engage
the Left within the constraints of the political system, designed by the
Left. Before long, they turned playing by the rules into a badge of
honor, despite getting whipped by the Left, who never abides by the
rules. Libertarians similarity shoot themselves in the foot, but always
finding someway to remain a marginal player. They take pride in being
ignored.
