---
title: "Fixing Baseball"
date: "2013-10-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=459"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=459"
---

Pretty much the only major sport I watch and enjoy is baseball.
Post-season baseball is a lot like post-season hockey. You have the best
teams, and usually the best pitchers, competing under pressure. There’s
plenty of dramatic moments, which is not always the case with regular
season games. In July, an elite pitcher on his game will have the other
guys swinging freely late in games as they just want to get over with
quickly. No one says it, but it happens. The umps will expand the strike
zone late in games too.

The problem is the games take too long. Game one of the ALCS took four
hours. Game three took almost four hours and it was a 1-0 game. After
every pitch the batter wanders off to scratch himself and adjust his
gloves. Pitchers stare in for the sign like they are cracking the zodiac
code. If a runner gets on we see ten throws to first, a few visits to
the mound and, of course, more scratching and adjusting. It get
ridiculous. When a half-inning lasts over 20 minutes, the games are
taking too long.

There’s no way TV held an audience for the great Sox comeback in game
two. I bet ten percent of the starting audience was up to see it. What’s
the point of watching a game if you know you will not be up to see the
end? If fans like me find it too taxing to watch these games, the causal
fans are not watching. At best, they are tuning in and out while
watching other shows. That seems like a sure way to lose your audience.
Those people tuning in and out eventually just tune out and stop being
fans.

The most obvious way to speed up the games is to expand the strike zone.
That way you have have pitchers throwing strikes, which means the
hitters have to swing. It also makes it more difficult for hitters to
bad defensively. the narrow strike zone allows hitters to lay off a lot
of pitches and just train to handle the narrow strike zone. Good hitters
can work a count and sit on the pitches they can hit. Giving the high
strike back to the pitcher would force hitters to swing at tough
pitches. That should speed up the game a bit.

That would probably reduce offense initially, but good hitters would
adjust in time so it would not result in the death of offense. In fact,
it would probably bring back the contact hitter as a weapon. In the old
days of huge ball parks, slap hitters would just put the ball in play to
get on base. The small parks of today reward the sluggers, so the
contact guys has faded from the game. The the most likely result is
soemthing like the 1970’s where a lineup has a mix of sluggers and
contact hitters.

People can tolerate a 2-0 game if it lasts two hours. Making fans sit
and watch for three and half hours, you better have some offense. The
trade-off for lower scoring would be shorter games. The other way to do
it and something that would fix the playoffs is to keep the hitter in
the box. Give the hitter one time out. Otherwise, the ump calls the
batter in and the pitcher can throw until the ump calls time out. If the
hitter needs to scratch himself, he has to do it in the box in-between
pitches.
