---
title: "The Madness Of Paul Krugman"
date: "2013-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=452"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=452"
---

Usually when people us the word fanatic, it is intended to suggest
unpredictable or irrational enthusiasm for something, often something
trivial. The sports fan who paints himself in team colors and goes to
the park shirtless in sub-zero temperatures. The guy who organizes items
on his desk in a very specific way and gets upset when someone moves
anything. There’s no *logic* behind that sort of activity. The means are
extreme and the ends are pointless, maybe even self-defeating.

Then there is the religious fanatic, like the guys [handling
snakes](http://holiness-snake-handlers.webs.com/) or [nailing themselves
to a
cross](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/03/29/filipino-devotees-reenact_0_n_2978190.html).
From the outside it looks irrational and pointless. To the fanatic it
makes perfect sense, but that’s just proof of the fanatic’s
irrationality. In other words, there is an inverse relationship between
what the outsider sees and what the fanatic sees as rational. The
nuttier the behavior, from the perspective of people looking in, the
more rational it seems to the people doing it. Again, the sense is a
break with reason.

That’s something to keep in mind while reading [this piece on
Taki](http://takimag.com/article/the_mouthpiece_of_redistribution_james_miller/page_2#axzz2hVEX6HvL).
Paul Krugman is a guy you meet and immediately the words “fanatic”
springs to mind. If you did not know anything about him, you would
assume he is under the care of a doctor. He has that bug-eyed stare and
twitchy demeanor that suggest his medications need adjustment. He’s also
prone to ranting and raving about things that have an imaginary feel to
them. He’s just one of those guys who gives normal people the willies.

Because he is a culture warrior on the Left, he is immune from such
scrutiny. His fellows in the cult admire his zeal and lap up his
rhetoric. They also like to wave around his academic credentials as
proof his work is gospel. The fact that he has been wrong about most
everything and has become a punchline in his profession is ignored. In
fact, the more he is wrong, the more zealous he becomes, suggesting
there is some point in the future where police must be called to get him
out his office.

That’s not just a way of dismissing him. It’s possible that he is quite
mad, yet functional enough to carry on in his role. Blaize Pascal was
ten times more brilliant than Krugman and he was a religious
fanatic. Even in his age, when what we would consider extreme
religiosity was common, Pascal was considered a bit over the top. The
old line about there being a fine line between genius and crazy did not
spring from nothing. Put another way, fanaticism is not a barrier to
entry in the ruling classes.

History is shot through with men who were both crazy and brilliant.
Diogenes was most likely a schizophrenic. Pythagoras was certainly a
nut. That does not mean every genius is on the edge of sanity. It is
just that you can be both brilliant and crazy as long the crazy is not
debilitating. Pascal’s religiosity was driven by the same obsessive
curiosity that drove his science and math. It was, for the most part, a
harmless thing. People will tolerate a lot of eccentricity in exchange
for brilliance or devotion to a cause.

In the case of Krugman, we see that he was generally liberal before
going way out where the buses don’t run. Like his coreligionists, he was
radicalized by the 2000 election. From that point, his writing became
increasingly excited and paranoid. His nuttiness seems to feed some need
on the Left. That and they seem to be in a race with one another to see
who can stake out the most extreme position. If the finish line is crazy
land, the guy running fastest toward it will look like a hero.

Still, one has to wonder how much crazy a society can tolerate. In the
medieval person, excessively religious people were not uncommon, but the
damage they could cause was limited by the technical realities of the
age. Today, a crazy idea can not only rocket around the world in
minutes, it can set of millions of other crazies just as fast. The
internet is this constant positive feedback loop for these people. In
other words, the madness of Paul Krugman becomes something like a
pathogen. That can’t be good.
