---
title: "Smart Fraction Theory"
date: "2013-07-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-07-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=80"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=80"
---

John Derbyshire has a bit in his weekly transmission bout [Smart
Fraction Theory](http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/sft.htm). The
argument, one that John describes well in his broadcast, is that a
society needs to have a certain percentage of the population with high
IQ in order to maintain the institutions necessary for a functioning
society. The author of the paper argues that there is a threshold number
of “smart people” described as possessing an IQ above 108. About 30% of
the American population falls into that category, as of the date of the
paper.

A basket case like Equatorial Guinea probably has less than 1% that fall
into this category as they have an average IQ at about 60. The few truly
intelligent rule over the rest in the same way the one eyed man is the
king of the blind. In fact, the result of this tiny smart fraction is
that the powerful few are always on the hunt for smart people who could
compete with them. The result is a brain drain, where the smart either
flee or risk being killed. Then there is the issue of the smart breeding
with the stupid, rather than the smart.

John raises the topic in relation to Detroit. No one says it publicly,
but the general belief is that when Detroit went black it was never
coming back. The crime, corruption and dysfunction were baked into the
cake and would follow the predictable path. Coleman Young, the first
black mayor, was so openly hostile to whites that he could fairly be
described as the Robert Mugabe of American politics. Like post-colonial
African leaders, he combined Marxism with a hatred of white people. The
results were predictable.

The conclusion many make is that since there are no majority black
societies that are thriving, the cause of the problem must be IQ. Prior
to the 60’s, Detroit had a majority white population who supplied the
bulk of the “smart fraction” needed to carry the underclass. Once they
left, the remaining black population lacked the number of smart people
to carry the underclass. The result is what we see in sub-Saharan
Africa. That tiny elite then began looting the city like termites.
Collapse was the inevitable result.

I think that looking strictly at IQ misses a wide swath of observable
facts that play a role as well. Lebanon is not exactly brimming with
geniuses. If not for outside intervention by Israel and Syria, it would
be a peaceful and prosperous land, by the standards of the Arab world.
It would not be a rich country, but it would not be Detroit either. West
Virginia is brimming with pinheads, yet manages to avoid the pathologies
we see in Detroit and other black cities. Culture can and does provide a
structure within which people make choices.

Much of what plagues sub-Saharan Africa is anti-colonialism. The ruling
elite that replaced the Europeans rulers were motivated by what turned
out to be an insane desire to scrub away the stain of colonialism. That
led to doing the opposite of what made sense in many cases. Killing the
white farmers in Mozambique resulted in the exodus of all whites, along
with their wealth and expertise.  Robert Mugabe eventually went down the
same path and Zimbabwe is now one of the poorest nations in the world.
Negative identity is death.

Detroit went through a similar process. The same is true of many cities,
particularly those in the north. Blacks had moved from the Old
Confederacy to the north for factory and service jobs. Whites found a
way to segregate without resorting to the same tactics of the South.
Eventually, blacks figured out that the anti-racism of Northern whites
was just a pose so they could pretend to be the moral superiors of
Southern whites.The bitterness of blacks who came along in the 50’s,
60’s and 70’s is due in large part to the realization.

That’s the big question raised by the Detroit bankruptcy. We’ll probably
never have a public debate on IQ. We can have a public debate on
culture. The Left’s desire to nurse black hatred of whites cannot hold
up if every majority black city in the nations is falling into
bankruptcy. Even a few is enough to get the attention of the public.
[The fact that race relations appear to be getting
worse](http://news.investors.com/ibd-editorials/072513-665198-obama-and-holder-responsible-for-worsened-race-relations.htm),
despite the election of Obama twice, says the gap between public debate
and on-the-ground reality is getting big. That can’t last forever.
