---
title: "In China Everything Is Fake"
date: "2013-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=417"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=417"
---

One of the weird things you see in illicit drug markets,  is the
intolerance for a specific form of fraud. Just about anything goes in
the drug game, except for fake drugs. If a dealer gets caught passing
off baby laxative as cocaine, he is going to be dead. It is not just
that he ripped off his customers. It’s that he cheats his fellow drug
dealers. The guy selling fake stuff raises everyone’s costs and risks.
The faker gives everyone a bad name.

It is one of those truth about the marketplace that everyone just
accepts. No matter how rough the trade, every deal is based on
trust. It’s why pawn shops willingly cooperate with the police to
counter theft for similar reasons. Their customers are not going to
solicit a business that supports burglary. Antique dealers try to
uncover fakes as it undercuts their business. Why spend big money on an
original when you can get a fake?

None of these measures stop the fakers, of course, but part of every
organic market is an organic mechanism to police the market.
Counter-intuitively, highly distributed markets can do this better than
centralized markets. It’s why industries like music and movies lobby the
state to crack down on forgers. Unlike the drug dealer, the record
company cannot kill a downloader. Hollywood cannot go around breaking
skull in movie theaters when they catch a guy pirating a film. They turn
to government for that.

There is a vast middle ground where most of us live and that’s where
fakers can cause the most trouble. For example, a site like National
Review will post something like <a
href="https://www.unleashyourthin.com/p/tbl/metabolism-killers/10211?utm_source=taboola&amp;utm_medium=sponsored-content&amp;utm_campaign=2013-09-05-article-metabolism-killing-foods&amp;utm_content=5-metabolism-killing-foods-to-avoid-at-all-costs&amp;utm_term"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this</a> in their article queue. It is
not an article, but an advertisement dressed up to look like an article.
National Review agrees to place ads like this in their article queue in
order to trick people into clicking on the link, thinking it is
legitimate content.

Magazines now have multi-page advertisements made up to look just like
one of their normal stories. Even more strange is the ad in question
here is itself full of fake stuff. The whole xenoestrogen stuff is
largely nonsense, at least as it relates to organic food. Plants have
all sorts of tricks to ward off pests. That’s just one of the many ways
life has evolved over millions of years. Calling something organic has
come to mean “good” and in morally good, but it is important to remember
that cobras are organic too.

Putting that aside, this is deception. it is just as much a forgery as
the guy printing fame art or selling fake drugs. The market place for
ideas is a marketplace like the drug trade or the art trade. It relied
on the participants acting in good faith and maintaining a high level of
intolerance for fraud. When the creators of the market for conservative
ideas are embracing wholesale fakery, it calls their integrity into
question.  In the case of conservatives, it simply confirms what
everyone has suspected for a long time.

It does not stop there. <a
href="http://www.economist.com/news/china/21586845-flawed-system-judging-research-leading-academic-fraud-looks-good-paper"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">According to this story</a> in the
Economist, academic papers are also being forged. The market for fake
term papers is well developed. Even before the internet, there was a
market for term papers, and essays among undergraduates. Today, the
internet makes it a thriving market, so colleges now employ software to
combat it. You can probably outsource your thesis if you are so
inclined. Since few of them are every read, who’s going to notice if
your thesis is mostly recycled from prior work?

To no one’s surprise, the epicenter of this new fraud is China. There’s
always been an embrace of banditry among the Chinese.  We get the term
“sand bag” from China. In the colonial days, Chinese tea merchants would
put sandbags at the bottom of casks to defraud the British. It is a
bandit culture with no history of integrity. There are companies that
have to use special coding on their boxes to distinguish their product
from the fakes, as the Chinese will fake even the most mundane things.

Like the fake news story, fake research has a terrible trade off. If no
one can tell the real stories in a magazine from the ads, people stop
buying the magazine. If we can no longer distinguish real research from
fake stuff from China, we no longer do research because no one can trust
it. This is the great challenge to the West posed by China. If they are
to remain a part of the developed world, they have to play by Western
rules regarding fraud and theft. If they can’t do that, then they have
to be isolated and excluded.

That’s not so easy when China can offer Western counties access to a
billion cheap workers and unlimited ecological degradation. Making
batteries in China is cheaper than making them in California, because
the Chinese government does not care if the workers die and the land is
poisoned. The battery maker is willing to tolerate some theft, but can
the rest of us tolerate it?  Is that a good trade? What’s good for
business is not always what’s good for society. Otherwise, we would
still have slavery.
