---
title: "Barnacles"
date: "2013-12-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=690"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=690"
---

<a
href="http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2013/12/software-patents.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">There’s an interesting thread
on Marginal Revolution </a>about software patents. In recent years
“patent trolls” have become a parasitic industry all to themselves.
Companies are created to acquire patents from the holders so they can
then shake down whoever may be using them in their product. The patent
troll buys a patent and then seeks out who may be using something like
it. The user may not even know they are using a technology that is
patented by another. Their choice is fight in court or pay up. It’s a
form of green mail.

This form of business goes back a long time to when travelers would take
over an inn or a private home and you had to pay them to leave. Imagine
a town suddenly infested with appear to be gypsies and carny folk. The
choice is to get a gang of men to drive them off or pay them to go
infest the next town. Of course, just as gypsies target the weak and
stupid, the patent trolls tend to pick on little guys lacking the means
and sophistication to fight back.
<a href="https://www.eff.org/issues/resources-patent-troll-victims"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This from EFF is a good
example</a>.

The idea of a patent or license is to encourage and direct the behavior
of the creative into practical things. Instead of offering a prize, the
inventor is granted exclusive rights to his invention for a fixed period
of time. The world gets the invention and the inventor gets money, maybe
lots of money. Otherwise, the smart and creative would have every reason
to conceal their cleverness. The farmer with a better plow would not
sell his idea, as that would work against his interests. Patents, in
theory, increase human knowledge.

The assertion that patents are necessary to spur invention is a new
idea. In fact, the idea of patents for intellectual property came under
heavy assault in the 19th century.  That was an age of industrial growth
and an explosion of innovation. For most of the last 500 years, starting
from the advent of the patent system in Venice, patents were limited and
temporary. There was an understanding that no idea remains hidden
forever. If the first discoverer did not publish it, others would
discover it in time and publish it.

What we see today with patent trolls is how the law is easily turned
into a weapon by the parasite class. In a prior age, the landlord had to
actually own real property, before he could extract rents. Today, you
get rich by finding a way to freeload off the system in some way. The
better you are at it, the richer you get. Perhaps you get so rich you
can buy land and rent it out. The modern economy, thanks to technology
and complex financial instruments, is highwaymen shaking down everyone
in the normal economy.

The current morass is just another example of why schemes to correct
some aspect of the human condition always fail. There’s a fraction of
every human society that seeks out ways to live on the labor of others.
It is their one skill and their sole focus. Some become salesman or
lawyers. Others go into banditry or illicit trades. They are always with
us. Try to protect the rights of the honest with patent laws, for
example and the parasites will find a way to use that as way to lever
money from the honest. Since they are really good at being parasites,
they can never be out foxed by new laws. They always win in the end.
