---
title: "Collective Amnesia"
date: "2013-10-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=420"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=420"
---

As the roll out of ObamaCare looks more and more like a roll over a
cliff, keep in mind that this is probably the best of times for the
program. In time, the reality of the program will be impossible to deny.
Quietly, so as not to offend the racial sensitivities of blacks, the
program will be gutted and rolled back. It can’t work and it can’t last,
because it will be an albatross on the political class. It’s like
creating a food shortage and thinking it will be good politics to run on
building better bread lines.

How is it possible that anyone is surprised that this is a gigantic
flop?

No one alive today can recall a government project that came in on time,
under budget or worked anything like it was promised. For as long as
anyone has been a live, there have been jokes about $500 hammers and
$1000 toilet seats. The image of the government worker asleep on the job
has been a stock character for a century. Yet serious adults have been
walking about for three years believing the government could pull off a
monumentally complex IT project without a glitch.

It really is amazing.

Steve Sailer likes to bring up the fact that we seem to forget a lot of
important things as a society. It is clear we are getting collectively
dumber. People in Boston today lived through the Big Dig. As public
works projects go, it was one of the greatest boondoggles in the
nation’s history. For close to two decades, every local yokel with a
shovel found someway to get his beak wet on the thing while slowing down
completion.
<a href="http://pogoblog.typepad.com/pogo/2006/05/digger_deeper_i.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This old blog post</a> does a nice job
covering the finer points.

Yet, those very same people who saw that nonsense for close to two
decades have total faith in government to handle health care. It is as
if they have brain damage. Not only that, the same people,e preaching
for government run health care will fly into a purple faced rage over
the evil of corporation health care. They will often do it from the
pages of corporate media platforms. It’s as if they are incapable of
remember what they said five minutes ago or recognizing their own
staggering hypocrisy.

It is not just government projects. People rhapsodizing about how well
Tip O’Neil and Reagan got along and made government work. They say, “Tip
and Reagan would not let the government shut down.” Anyone alive then
should know that the two men went at one another hammer and tong for
eight years. It was often vicious. They had quite a few government
shutdowns in the process.Politics were probably worse then than now as
Democrats regularly claimed Reagan was a nut hell bent on blowing up the
world.

Of course, collective amnesia is a feature of politics. You see that
with the treatment of Ted Cruz by the media. Not long ago, the moderate
Democrat was wither a social conservative, but fiscal liberal, or a
social liberal but pro-business. That was considered the moderate wing
of the party and there were a lot of them. That’s Ted Cruz. Thirty years
ago he would have been a moderate. Today he is a far right Republican.

Of course, that points to just how far Left the political class has
moved over the last several decades. That march Left relies on a
collective amnesia, so it is probably just a natural part of the
Progressive ruling coalition. They control the media, so they get to
decide what is forgotten, which is everything inconvenient to current
efforts. Forgetting the past, however, just means repeating past
mistakes over and over until something really bad happens, like a
revolution or wide scale social unrest.

But history is not for the amnesiac.
