---
title: "Playing Diogenes of the Blogosphere"
date: "2013-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=179"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=179"
---

This topic over at Marginal Revolution is amusing, mostly for the
comments. Much of it brings to mind Steve Sailer’s bit about <a
href="http://takimag.com/article/occams_butter_knife_steve_sailer_july_24/print#axzz2bwfZdw5O"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Occam’s Butter Knife</a>. That is,
instead of looking for the simplest answer to a modern social problem,
the comments are a hunt for the most complex and least plausible
explanation. There’s a healthy bit of solipsism in the post, as well as
the follow on comments. They can’t figure out why tough divorce laws
evolved in some societies, so they just assume there is no rational
reason for it.

The English figured out before most that easy divorce is bad for human
society. The people who post and comment over at that site are very
bright. Yet, the idea that easy divorce is bad for society has never
occurred to them. I guess they have been in a marriage negative culture
for so long, they know nothing else. Of course, my taunt about
monogamous heterosexual marriage being the best way to propagate the
species was a turd in the punch bowl. That upset a few of them.

It also has the benefit of being true. For most of human history, people
have understood that strong families make for a strong society. The
definition of strong family, however, is not universal and not all
people evolved culturally to the point where they can think about
things. Africans did not evolve marriage customs like in the rest of the
world, as monogamous pairing was never an advantage for the humans
living in Africa. In Europe, monogamy is common, which is a reminder
that evolution is always local.

As to marriage in the West, it was assumed to be so obvious up to about
last week, so no one thought it needed to be discussed. It is like the
importance of the sun or the act of breathing. One of those things
everyone knows by the time they are five or six years old. Yet, we now
live in a time when this has to be explained and many of our brightest
cannot accept it. My guess is the typical intellectual under the age of
50 thinks marriage is about having someone to share the bills and a bed.
Children are merely a lifestyle choice.

The response to my assertion about the English vexed quite a few of
them. Again, a plainly true point that raises hackles. As far as human
species go, the English have punched way above their weight. They
settled and created five countries in addition to their own. They turned
India into a modern state and rescued Hong Kong from the Chinese, which
in turn may have rescued China from the Chinese. Their language is a
universal tongue. I could go on, but the evidence is clear on that
point.

As far as human culture goes, few can claim the same success as the
English. Yet, Western intellectuals are hell bent on reversing all of
it. That touches on the most taboo of subjects, so there is no point in
raising it in a public forum. As soon as anyone starts talking about
Jewish influence in American high culture or even something like the
Frankfurt School, the pointing and sputtering starts. Even if you are
ambivalent about Jews, as I am, you get called an anti-Semite and shut
down for even mentioning it.

There are still ways to shine the light on the obvious though and that’s
worth doing as long as their are still people worth convincing. The role
of the dissident thinker these days is mostly to operate as a
subversive, undermining faith in the prevailing orthodoxy. That’s the
point of this blog and the point of commenting on other blogs. Throw
some sand in the gears, cast doubt on deeply held beliefs, get those who
can be saved questioning the dominant culture. Maybe enough break loose
to form a useful counter-culture.

 
