---
title: "Higher Ed"
date: "2013-08-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=248"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=248"
---

One of the more frustrating debates in modern America is the one over
student debt. It seems like the mere mention of the subject turns smart
people into blithering idiots. The president has come forth with a “new”
proposal to address student debt. The gist of it is a laundry list of
government created metrics that schools will have to post for public
view.  The assertion is that this will “empower” students to make better
choices, thus avoiding debt for worthless degrees.

That sounds nice and maybe would impact student choices at the fringes.
Without proof that students are making mistakes because they lack this
knowledge, it falls into the realm of wishful thinking. I think it is
easy to prove that this information is easily attainable. Thirty years
ago when I was a student we were regularly given information about
future earnings, job prospects and debt consequences. Only willful
ignorance kept English majors from knowing they were not going to get a
six figure job out of college.

Today, the Interwebs makes it easy to know just about anything about
everything. Not only can you easily learn what you can expect in salary
with a given degree, you can break it down by region and get some sense
of lifetime earnings. Granted, that takes effort and it people have a
way of gaslighting themselves on these things. But, they would do that
with whatever the government is going to provide. You cannot get around
the fact that white people have to be brainwashed into believing college
is a requirement.

Now, it would be nice, if like calorie counts on menus, the realities of
college were printed on the front of the brochure. Everyone loves
convenience. Like those calorie counts, however, there’s no evidence it
changes behavior. <a
href="http://lionoftheblogosphere.wordpress.com/2013/08/22/the-obama-plan-to-reduce-college-costs/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s what makes this post from the
former Half Sigma blogger</a> so weird. His enthusiasm is misplaced. <a
href="http://lionoftheblogosphere.wordpress.com/2013/08/23/that-magic-of-obama/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">His casting it as a “conservative idea”
is the sort of sloppy thinking</a> we see on the Left. There are plenty
of dumb ideas with the conservative stamp of approval.

Yuval Levin offers some good questions in <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/356536/presidents-higher-ed-plan-yuval-levin"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this posting</a> at NRO. He does not
mention it, but government standards turn the regulated into rent
seekers. It is axiomatic. In this case, the universities suddenly need
to bribe politicians to get the standards they want. As Levin points
out, it is not clear what should be measured and by whom. That opens up
the door to all sorts of shenanigans. The best way to ensure rational
markets is to eliminate the number of intermediaries between the
supplier and consumer. Another government agency to set standards is
just going to make this more dishonest that they are now.

That’s the fundamental problem with higher education debates. Everyone
is trapped in the old paradigm of government financing. No one ever asks
why tuition has risen at five and six times inflation since the
government got into the student loan business. The two markets that have
seen the greatest amount of government intervention are higher ed and
health care. In both prices have rocketed up, basic service levels have
declined and massive amounts of debt have been accumulated. That’s
called a clue
