---
title: "Why Legal Weed Is Not So Easy"
date: "2013-10-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=496"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=496"
---

When most people think about libertarians, the thing that comes to mind
is their obsession with legalizing drugs. Since the 80’s, every
conversation with a libertarian always turns into a debate about
legalizing drugs. The right-libertarians are less berserk about it, but
there are far fewer of them than the left-libertarians. The former are
more like traditional conservatives, while the latter are just low-tax
liberals. Drug normalization used to be a standard item on the
Progressive agenda until the 1990’s.

While libertarians are right about many of the consequences of the drug
war, they are unrealistic about the consequences of legalization. The
easiest way to see this is to think about a mother driving down the road
with her pre-teen kids. On the radio is a splashy ad about the weed sale
at WalMart. In a society that has banned cigarette ads, it seems
unlikely that we would tolerate the open sale of drugs, even mild ones
like weed. In other words, libertarianism sounds great in the lab, but
it would never hold up in the wild.

Even if you can work out a convenient lie like “medical marijuana” so
you can have legal weed that exists on the fringe of society, there are
other problems. <a
href="http://www.foxsportsflorida.com/story/Carl-Pelini-resigns-as-FAU-coach-over-il?blockID=956191&amp;feedID=3720"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is a good example</a>. If these two
coaches were at a bar getting hammered, they would maybe face some sort
of reprimand or a trip to a phony counselor. That’s never going to
happen with smoking weed, like these idiots were apparently
doing. <span style="line-height: 1.625;">The public may be willing to
legalize weed to a limited extent, they will never embrace it like beer.
</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.625;">Punishing employees for doing that
which is perfectly legal will also be problematic. The public, faced
with a choice between banning weed or allowing their kid’s teachers to
do bong hits in the teacher’s lounge will prefer prohibition. When
you </span>get<span style="line-height: 1.625;"> to things like drug
testing air traffic controllers, heavy equipment operators and law
enforcement people, even legalizing weed creates all sorts of new
problems. Again, people can tolerate a pilot who likes a beer after his
shift. They won’t tolerate a pilot doing bong hits.</span>

Whenever this is pointed out, libertarians always come back with “Well,
what’s the difference between drinking beer and smoking weed.” It’s a
form of tactical ignorance, whereby they demand you prove something that
is obvious. A person can have a beer and beer completely functional.
Most beer drinkers don’t get hammered. The whole point of smoking weed
is to get wasted. The same is true of most street drugs. The proper use
must lead to a mental state that makes the user incapable of rational
behavior.

Anyway, it is the central problem with libertarianism and liberalism.
Both make assumptions about humans that are not based in reality. Humans
are not moist robots. We have prejudices and preferences that are not
always rational from a distance. More important, American is a
multi-ethnic and multi-racial society. Blacks have different social
behavior than whites. What would work fine for middle-class whites
living in the suburbs, is never going to work for blacks anywhere. This
is a fundamental reality of life.

Even if the biodiversity scares you, consider the cultural things.
People in New England are obviously different in their attitudes and
behavior from people in Appalachia. Travel around this country and note
how many different tribes of whites. The Founders got this, which is why
the designed a federations. America is a land of nations. Universalist
secular religions like libertarianism and Progressivism start by
pretending these differences are superficial and meaningless, despite
all the evidence to the contrary.

The point is, even under ideal conditions, like a white middle-class
suburb, libertarianism is a non-starter, because people are not
rational. They have tastes and preferences that are not rational. They
don’t want weed being sold in the open. They don’t want cigarettes sold
to kids or porn on daytime television. More important, they expect their
government to make sure these things don’t happen. Therefore, legalizing
drugs will almost certainly result in all sorts of new laws to make sure
weed remains a marginalized item.

That said, it’s never been clear that libertarians are serious about any
of their arguments, so this could just be a pose. After all,
libertarians don’t seem to care about the war on smoking. Banning them
from advertising seems like a serious breech of free speech rights, yet
libertarians can’t be bothered to address it. The reason is that would
get them in trouble with the Left. A big part of libertarianism is
avoiding any issue that is important to the Left, unless of course they
agree with the Left, then they are enthusiastic.
