---
title: "Tick Tock"
date: "2013-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=56"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=56"
---

One of the more irritating aspects of living in a land run by a
religious cult is that reality is forced into the official narrative.
That which cannot fit is not just ignored, it is rejected and often
ferociously. Prior to the 2012 election, as an example, the media
refused to cover the erosion of the American middle class. If anyone
mentioned anything about the stagnant economy they were greeted by a
press wielding pitchforks and torches chanting “burn the witch!” The
fact that it persists after the hero has been re-elected is more
troubling.

It suggests these nuts really believe their own bullshit.

Here’s an example. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/china-business/10191759/China-risks-deflation-trap-as-true-GDP-crumbles.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">China’s economy is slowing</a> and very
well may be in recession. The official number for there are always
inflated or plain wrong so assuming the worst case is wise. Nitwits like
Thomas Friedman will have to explain why their preferred brand of
authoritarianism is suddenly not working. More important, the world will
have to find a new champion to save this Potemkin world economy. Most
important, we will now have to start wondering what happens to the
ChiComs when their Ponzi scheme unravels. A billion pissed off Chinamen
can make a helluva mess.

Then we have the on-going saga of Europe. <a
href="http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/a618e750-f246-11e2-8e04-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2ZmEUDWtV"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Portugal is in trouble</a>. We’ve seen
this film and know how it ends. The main political parties suddenly join
together to force through unpopular polices. They put on a show for a
while, but in the end, they are simply the faces of the ruling elite.
They will close ranks to defend their privileges. They force through the
cuts and taxes to get the bailout. The policy fails and the people
suffer. Eventually, the fringe parties start looking less fringe and the
economic crisis moves to a political crisis.

In Greece, they are afraid to hold another election for fear of the
communists. In Italy they fear the populists. Reality is that thing that
does not go away when you stop believing in it and the reality looming
over everything right now is the inherent defects of credit money and
the economy built on it. Our leaders have built this amazing house of
cards out of credit money. It is just a matter of time before it begins
to collapse.
