---
title: "Detroit"
date: "2013-07-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-07-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=51"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=51"
---

The chattering skulls will certainly be talking about Detroit,
specifically about the [bankruptcy
filing](http://www.freep.com/assets/freep/pdf/C4208687718.PDF). It is
the largest municipal bankruptcy in our history. More important, it is
viewed as a preview of coming attractions. Roughly half the states and
hundreds of localities are technically insolvent. The money they raise
through direct taxation is insufficient to cover their operating
expenses. They get by through borrowing and transfers. Without state
subsidies, for example, Baltimore would be bankrupt.

[Kevin Williamson has a
column](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/353862/detroit-goes-down-kevin-d-williamson)
up on it today. He dances around the elephant in the room, of course,
but he does allude to it. What’s wrong with Detroit is it is full of
blacks. The culture of corruption runs from the top all the way down to
the bottom. This is not just a math problem. It is a moral problem.
Detroit did not suddenly become corrupt. It started after the riots of
the late 60’s. A city that was majority white became 80% black in 15
years. The whites fled taking their money, taxes and expertise with
them.

On the numbers side, [ Karl Denninger has a
post](http://market-ticker.org/akcs-www?post=222858) up on the math of
the problem. Detroit owes $9 billion to health and pension funds. That
number will keep going up every day as current workers accumulate
benefits. That’s $10,000 for every man, woman and child currently in the
city. Throw in the secured credit, net out those unable to work and it
is not hard to see the problem. The city owes more than it can ever
possibly pay, probably by a factor of three – at best. Everyone the city
owes should expect thirty cents on the dollar.

Karl makes a larger point, one that will be with us for a long time. One
generation cannot promise itself future money from the pockets of the
next generation. It is an unenforceable contract between generations.
The reason is you cannot force people to execute their contractual
obligations, no matter how they entered into the contract. Even slavers
understood this. The people living in Detroit today are unable and
unwilling to pay the debts created by previous generations, so those
debts will not be paid.

The same is true across the country where government has racked over $54
trillion in pension and health promises. That’s $180,000 for every
person in the country. By comparison, Detroit looks great. There’s
simply no way all of those promises can be met, especially with the
demographics of the country changing. Will newly arrived foreigners
agree to pay your pension payments? The answer is not just “no” it is
“hell no.”

Again, we see the same old pattern as we see with all of our nation’s
maladies. The seed was planted in the 1960’s. The generation that won
the fight against fascism, threw in the towel twenty years later to make
their kids happy. The selfish, resentful brats we call Boomers have
rampaged through American culture like locusts, destroying everything in
their path. In old age, they will be demanding the rest of us live in
poverty so they can have cushy pensions and health plans.
