---
title: "Econometrics is not Science"
date: "2013-11-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=553"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=553"
---

Alex Tabarrok has posted a <a
href="http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014481881300077X"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">bit of troll bait</a> on firearms and
suicide. It’s troll bait because these studies are created to get
attention. They do that by confirming some aspect of the narrative and
decorating it with the veneer of science. A PhD, claiming a correlation
between something lefty sees as a great evil and something that is bad,
will get the the usual suspects buzzing about the author. Often, the
authors of the paper will put together a cover letter for the media, so
they don’t have to read the actual study.

In this case, guns and suicide is the issue. If it were a paper claiming
to prove that religion makes you a bigot or lead in the water makes you
hate socialized medicine, it would have a better chance of landing on
TV, but guns still work in certain quarters of the Left. The paper
itself is not worth reading, but the on-line debate is <a
href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2013/11/firearms-and-suicides-in-us-states.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">worth a read</a>. The content of the
debate is not all that interesting. It’s the nature of the debate. It
reveals a lot about the sorts of people who are prone to accepting these
sorts of studies at face value.

Everything from the soft sciences starts with statistical correlation
between one thing and some other thing. The idea is to create the belief
that a causal relationship exists, where only (maybe) a correlation
exists. The most famous of which is the claim that marijuana use leads
to hard drug use. The fact that people prone to drug addiction would use
the most common drugs first is hardly surprising. Claims that weed
*causes* heroine use are easily disproved by the tens of millions of
weed smokers who never use heroine.

The statistical methodology in this paper is sound and it is hardly
shocking that more guns would mean more successful suicides. Guns are a
great tool for killing yourself. It is exceedingly rare for someone to
survive a gun shot to the head. People often panic and call for help
when taking pills or slashing their wrists. They have ample time to
contemplate their act before and during its commission. That and they
can always call for help after committing the act. That’s not happening
after the hammer goes click.

That said, it does not show that guns *cause* suicide. That would mean
forming metal into a particular shape has some influence over the
psychological well being of humans. Only a lunatic would think such a
thing. Instead, they modify the claim to, “well the availability of the
gun can lead some people to rashly elect suicide when they otherwise
would have time to be talked out of it.” That assumes legal gun make gun
more available. If you are planning to shoot yourself, you still have to
buy the gun and that takes time.

In real science, cause and effect are tested. In fake science like this,
cause and effect are inferred or implied, depending on the claim. In
this case, the implication is guns cause suicide as the author goes out
of his way to make the claim that other forms of suicide declined in his
study. Even if the observation is accurate, the way it is framed is
intended to lead people to a causal relationship. It’s not an outright
lie, but it is dishonest, because the intent is to convince people of
soemthing that is false.

That’s the issue with the soft sciences. They are too prone to these
sorts of shenanigans by the Left. Much of it never replicates and much
of it is politically motivated. The result is nutty ideas are lacquered
with the respectability of science, despite being ridiculously wrong or
misleading. That’s not to say there is no value in discovering
statistical correlations. It’s just that it is a starting point to begin
thinking about causal relationships and more complex statistical
relationships.
