---
title: "Lessons From the Market: Libertarians"
date: "2013-12-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Libertarians
params:
  original_slug: "?p=651"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=651"
---

I will often describe my politics as libertarian, but that’s just to
avoid having to talk about it with people who can’t think beyond the
Left-Right paradigm. For the most part, I hate libertarians. The good
ones are mostly nuts. The bad one, which are most of them, suffer from
the same defect as Progressives. They just refuse to accept the human
condition and instead imagine a world in which humans act in ways no one
has ever witnessed.

Libertarians, like liberals, tend to confine their thinking to the hot
house where conditions are optimal. Unlike liberals who get to
experiment on real people, libertarians have to confine themselves to
thought experiments. That probably explains the obsession with
legalizing weed. If you spend all of your time imagining a utopian
society, drugs are a good way to break up the monotony, or at least get
you pas the reality of the present.

Any political philosophy that does not start with the understanding that
some portion of society is irrational, no matter how you define
rational, is not getting very far. Well, it’s not going to work if you
try to implement it. That’s why utopian schemes always end in a blood
bath. It sounds good on paper, but the people never cooperate, so the
solution is to get better people, which means getting rid of the bad
people.

This is obvious when you go to the grocery store. My habit is to go on
Sunday morning to pick up my provisions for the week. At 8:00 AM on
Sunday the crowd is tiny and it is a quick in and out for me. Today I
was a little late, showing up at 9:00 AM. We were expecting a snow
storm. It is Christmastime. The parking lot was 80% full and the store
was packed with people. Specifically it was packed with mothers toting
children.

There were old people staggering around for no earthly reason. Then
there were the families, who decide a trip to the store is a good time
to share their family experience with the world. What should have been a
30 minute trip to the store took over an hour. It would have been
longer, but I did not need anything from the deli so I avoided that
line. I also got a little lucky when I hit the register lanes. A fresh
one opened as I arrived.

Now, what does this have to to do with libertarianism? Libertarians
start from the premise that, left to their own devices, people will
self-organize. Yet, left to their own devices, people cannot figure out
it is a bad idea to bring your kids to the grocery store. They cannot
figure out that a little snow is not the end of civilization, requiring
them to load up with groceries. They cannot navigate the self-checkout
in an orderly fashion.

There’s no way in hell these people last a week in a world without rules
and custodians to make sure they follow the rules. If they found
themselves in such a world, their singular focus would be on finding
people willing to setup a custodial state and make sure they are safe
and protected. They may not be a majority, but they are a large enough
minority to make libertarianism impossible. It is at odds with nature
and the human condition.
