---
title: "Radicals: Fay Stender"
date: "2013-12-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=620"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=620"
---

I’m reading *[Destructive
Generation](http://www.encounterbooks.com/books/destructivegeneration/)*
by David Horowitz and Peter Collier. It is a collection of
mini-biographies of the people who made up 1960’s radicalism. It was
published in 1989 so it was around when he was going public with his
move out of radical politics. His Wiki entry, surprisingly, does a good
job summarizing his life as a public intellectual. I say it is
surprising as Wiki is populated with liberal crazies, who often assault
the pages of people they deem enemies of the faith. Somehow, he has
escaped their wrath.

It’s funny how White and Jewish Baby Boomers have cast these long
shadows over subsequent generations, but blacks have cast no shadow. The
same can be said for Hispanic activists or American Indian activists.
Not only have their causes been forgotten, but the people have been
forgotten in many cases. Huey Newton, Bobby Seale and George Jackson
have left no imprint on black Americans. Even old warhorses like Alcee
Hastings and Eleanor Holmes don’t mention them, despite having known
them.

Jewish and white radicals from the 60’s and 70’s had no problem going
mainstream after they had grown tired of radical politics. Bill Ayers
and Bernadine Dohrn landed in the academy, despite living a life of
crime. They were the principle backers of Barak Obama’s political
career. Of course, David Horowitz stayed in radical politics through the
1970’s and then changed teams. Lots of Jewish radicals made the same
journey, either through neoconservatism or some other avenue.

Anyway, the first chapter is on Fay Stender. [Her Wiki is
here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fay_Stender). As you can see, she was
in no small part responsible for giving us prisoner rights, a madness
that remains with us to this day. She also helped create the prison
gang, *The Black Guerilla Family*. They have probably killed thousands
by this point as their reason to exist is to sell drugs and control the
prison system. Stender and her cult of radicals set free dozens of these
psychopaths, who went onto murder innocent people once they were
released.

What jumps out to me in the 60-page description of Stender’s life is
just how much sex drove radical politics. Stender was mostly driven to
the prison movement because she wanted to have sex with black guys. The
milquetoast Jewish boys at college could not light the fire like a black
street thug. Women are wired to seek out high status males, which often
leads to lusting for the bad boys. Still, the Jewish obsession with
blacks, particularly in this way, is something that gets ignored for
obvious reasons.

The weird part of these legal radicals like Fay Stender is they seem to
act from an odd combination of self-absorption and detachment. On the
one hand, they did sacrifice to help these black criminals. On the other
hand, they lived lives a million miles away from the results of their
work. Stender and her ilk operated as if they were never going to be
touched by any of this stuff. They were visitors, experimenting on the
host population for personal glory among their people. It turned into a
suicide mission.

Finally, the conventional wisdom is the New Left radicals were Boomers.
The truth is they were not. Stender and her crowd were born in the
1930’s. In fact, all of the leading radicals of the 1960’s were born in
the thirties and early forties. Generally, we think of the boomer as
having been born between 1945 and 1964, with the real end point being
much earlier for the “60’s generation.”  By the time of the Summer of
Love, Fay Stender was a middle-aged woman. That’s something that
probably bears further examination.
