---
title: "Racism in America"
date: "2013-11-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=535"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=535"
---

Growing up when and where I did, I’m familiar with racism. I never
experienced it or witnessed anyone cause harm to another because of
their race, but I grew up hearing stories about it, mostly in school. In
my home, my parents took the view that treating people of different
races poorly was rude. In public, you never aired your opinions about
race or other races. It was just rude and we were instructed to never do
it.

My first real exposure to a real honest to goodness racist was through a
black schoolmate. His father or uncle, I no longer remember, refused to
speak with or do business with white people. This was most likely just a
boast, as I don’t think it would be possible, even today. My friend told
it to me because he thought it was funny and assumed I would think it
was funny, which I did. At that age, it was ridiculous.

But, in adulthood I learned like everyone else that race is a thorny
subject. All the school lectures remained mythical for someone my age or
younger. Only old people now recall when discrimination was permitted.
Anyone under the age of fifty grew up watching integrated sports and
entertainment, went to integrated schools and worked in jobs with people
of other races. Still, race hovers over everything. Jim Crow has been
talked to death, but other race issues have been forbidden for so long
people no longer know how to discuss them.

One such example is black racism. In America it is OK for a black person
to be a public bigot. Al Sharpton has made a career out of being a
public bigot. Blacks gladly embrace their racism and think nothing of
it. In fact, the people in charge encourage blacks and now the other
non-whites groups, to root for their own team and root against whites.
 [This story buried in the news is a perfect
example](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2495932/Texan-wins-election-misleading-voters-believing-black-using-flyers-showing-African-Americans-supporting-neighbor-Dave-Wilson.html).
Black voters elected a white guy because they thought he was black.

What’s left unsaid, but everyone knows, is he would have had no shot
running as a white guy. Despite the fact the voters agreed with him,
they would never have voted for him over a black guy. The old white guy
obviously knew this and acted accordingly. There’s some attempt to say
other factors decided the election, but the fact that the winner
actively concealed the fact he is white says he knew what he was doing.
He rightly figured out that the incumbent was unpopular, but blacks
would never vote against one of their own.

My own view is we would be wise to decouple official racism from
personal opinion. Times change and opinions change. Young people today
don’t think the word “nigger” has any more emotional value than any
other word. I hear young people, white and black, use it amongst
themselves. In my day that was a sign of poor upbringing. Whites and
black avoided the term out of self-respect. Young people are probably
right to devalue it. Some things should be left in the past and archaic
racial terms are a good candidate for the memory hole.

At the same time, rooting for your own side or wanting to be around your
own kind is perfectly normal. Private discrimination is just a fact of
life. Lecturing people about just creates this weird sense of terror. If
your private words or private actions are revealed, your life can be
destroyed, because you will be condemned as a racist. Unless you’re
black or Hispanic or whatever else is washing up in American. Peaceful
separation should be the norm and not condemned.

Official racism, however, is not something we should tolerate because it
is incompatible with a free society. Even if you think the free society
stuff is just nonsense, official racism is unworkable and always fails.
As a white guy, I don’t want my government discriminating on racial
lines, because it makes my government unnecessarily expensive. That and
it gives them an excuse to play favorites within my tribe, not just for
my tribe.

That said, I know this will never happen.
