---
title: "MSNBC’s Decline"
date: "2013-08-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=279"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=279"
---

Kathy Shaidle has a post on her site (now defunct) about the fact Rush
Limbaugh has decided to boycott MSNBC. he will no longer use audio clips
from their shows on his show, presumably, address the points they make
on their shows. I don’t know what sort of ratings Limbaugh is pulling
these days, but I doubt his audience has much of an overlap with the
sort of people who watch screamers like Chris Mathews. I’ve tried to
watch some of their offerings just for laughs, but it is so
over-the-top, I switch off after a few minutes.

Most of their shows are hosted by people who seem to struggling with
mental illness or struggling with extreme rage. Mathews always has that
look on his face like he just caught a whiff of a bad odor. If I were
trying to mock Prog culture I’d create skits like Hardball and
characters like the Rachel Maddow, a <a
href="http://www.mediaite.com/online/rachel-maddow-candidly-discusses-her-cyclical-depression-with-rolling-stone/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">mentally disturbed lesbian</a>. I suspect
a fair bit of their audience is made up of people looking for clips to
post on right-wing sites.

The recent cratering of their viewership may suggest the public is
growing weary of the left-wing freak show. Five years of Obama has
probably satisfied the public interest in the radical Left. This
happened at the end of the 1970’s. The press was making fun of Carter
and the lefty talk shows were losing audience. Guys like Phil Donahue
suddenly found themselves as old geezers talking about yesterday topics.
They staggered on into the Reagan years, so it is safe to assume the
MSNBC types will stagger on as well.

A theory of mine is these liberal spasm follow the same pattern as the
great awakenings, that would feature a religious revival among
Protestants. Since the dawn of the Progressive era, this civic religion
has occupied the emotional space where old fashioned Christianity used
to live for the American radicals. Part of it is the entry of Jews into
American Progressivism, but part is due to the waning of Christianity
among the intellectual elites in the West. Progressivism is the new
faith, but has the same rhythm

These liberal spasms don’t have a defined end or beginning. By the end
of the 1970’s, the public had put up with riots, war and stagflation at
the hands of
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">ridiculous posers</a> and <a
href="http://theunderanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2012/01/dirty-hippies.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">filthy teenagers</a>. The staggering
incompetence of Jimmy Carter was the finishing touch on that liberal
spasm. Roughly speaking, the first post-war Progressive Awakening
started with John F. Kennedy and ended with the election of Reagan.
Maybe the assassination of JFK was the flash point at the start and the
impeachment of Nixon was the peak.

maybe this spasm, which seems to have started with the election of Bush
over Gore is now peaking with the second term of Obama. It’s hard to
know when you’re in it. People in the 1970’s probably thought the Left
got their pound of flesh with Nixon’s resignation, but the craziness
continued on for five more years. Even with the election of Reagan, the
Left never went away. They just went into a slumber where they reformed
as this weird racial identity cult built around a hatred for white
people. Maybe the end is not near after all.

That’s why it is probably a mistake to look at the TV ratings of lefty
chat shows and read too much into it. It could simply be a natural
decline that happens when politics is no longer front and center. Maybe
the crazies just need to take a break to recharge the batteries, before
they launch into a another war on the rest of us. Given the MSNBC is
immune from market forces, their ratings are not all that important.
Even if they lose all of their advertisers, they will remain on the air
as long as they get mandatory cable fees..
