---
title: "Their God is Dead"
date: "2013-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=208"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=208"
---

<a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2013/aug/14/problem-with-algorithms-magnifying-misbehaviour"
target="_blank">I love stories like this one</a>. The staggering lack of
self-awareness by our elites is breathtaking at times. A good bookend to
that story is [this
one](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2389545/Intelligent-people-just-likely-racists-difference-likely-act-beliefs.html?ito=feeds-newsxml)
from earlier in the week. Put the two together and we have smart people
holding all the same prejudices as everyone else, but acting on them in
a covert way. That is unless they try to automate their decision making,
then those prejudices come percolating up as the efficiency of the
machine drops the pretense, signally and customs. The HAL9000 in
question was just following the logic of its programming, which will
always reflect the logic of its programmer.

I posted a comment on Marginal Revolution where I saw the story. The
longer version starts with the understanding that all human societies
have an organizing ethic. Religion has usually filled the role to one
degree or another. The Greeks had a range of cults based on capricious
gods. They also had philosophical schools that reinforced the generally
accepted morality. Athens also had a civic ethic that was centered on
the assembly. All of this reflected the general understanding, the
beliefs, of what it meant to be a Greek and what it meant to be a good
Greek. It also provided the enforcement mechanism to keep good Greeks
in-line and exclude non-Greeks.

For 1500 years, European people relied upon Christianity to provide the
framework of the organizing ethos of the people. The Catholic Church
defined what it meant to be moral and elites of Europe particularized it
to their time and place. In the 11th century, the life of the peasant,
the merchant and the noble was the same across Europe. Language
differences and minor customs were different, but the big stuff was the
same. Civil society was organized along the same hierarchical lines as
the Church. The elites were all devout Catholics and derived their
identity from their faith.

That began to change in The 100 years War. National identity began to
supplant religious identity. As is always the case, the ruling elites
went first. By the end of the war, the idea of an English king of France
or even part of France was absurd. The French could only be ruled by the
French. The Thirty Years War brought this to the remainder of Europe.
More important, national identity became the dominant organizing
principle of the ruling elites in Europe for the next 400 years. The
blood bath that was The 30 Years War convinced them that war over who
defines the one true faith was madness. Christianity began to die in
Europe, starting with the ruling classes. The new organizing faith was
nationalism.

In America, Christianity remained a central component of the ruling
class through the Civil War. If you read the propaganda of the
Abolitionists, it is shot through with Christian appeals. The elites of
the north truly believed they were on the side of God. The lyrics to the
[Battle Hymn of the
Republic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Battle_Hymn_of_the_Republic)
are a good example of the religious fanaticism behind the abolitionist
movement. By the end of the war, no one with the IQ of a goldfish could
believe they were on the side of angels. From that point on reformist
Christianity ceased to be the central organizing tenet of the American
ruling class.

Today, the organizing faith of America is what Jonah Goldberg labeled
Liberal Fascism. It is a mix of cultural Marxism, managerial socialism
and economic corporatism. The proper American is judged by his
antagonism toward Christianity and nationalism. You see it with Obama.
He is our first overtly non-Christian President. His attendance at the
racist church in Chicago was a way to signal to his peers that he
understood the impulses of the prols, but rejected their primitivism.
His early rejection of American Exceptionalism was a nod toward the
elite’s loathing of nationalism. Obama is the quintessential member of
the ruling elite.

Of course, it animates the elite’s desire to reshape society. One of the
strange aspects of America’s adoption of European socialism is how it is
spiced with those old puritan and evangelical instincts. Our rulers live
like Victorians and are always proselytizing about restraint. Mayor
Bloomberg has made his final term about self-denial as a virtue. Then
there is the evangelism. Like 17th century Puritans, our elites spend a
lot of time making sure we are thinking the right thoughts. Bias is the
witchcraft of the 21st century.

Thus I have circled back to the start of this post. The religion of our
ruling elites is like all religions at all times. A big part of it is
the claim that if we organize things the right way, conduct ourselves
the right way, we will gain salvation from the human condition. Their
belief they can purge themselves of tribal bias is as superstitious as
believing elves and sprites occupy the forest or that demons take over
young girls causing them to break the rules. The shock for the folks in
the first story is that they were confronted with the fact they have
been lying to themselves. God is not, in fact, on their side.
