---
title: "The Dullards Of Maryland"
date: "2013-08-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=91"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=91"
---

Maryland has some of the worst drivers in America. If you are traveling
north-south, you will be on I-95 through the state. This means you will
spend a lot of time behind someone in the left lane driving below the
speed limit. You are going along at 70 mph until you come up on someone
doing 55. You then have to get around them by passing them in the center
lane. Maybe there will be a line of cars stacked up behind the idiot, as
drivers figure out how to get around the rolling road block. It’s the
craziest thing, a common site.

Another oddity of the state is the person driving in your blind spot.
They camp out on your passenger side usually, just off fender. You speed
up, they speed up. You slow down, they slow down. What’s really crazy
about it is you can speed up to 90 and they will keep up with you. Not
always, but I’ve had this happen more than once. You’re trying to get
over to the right and they just sit in that blind spot. The only way to
shake them out of this is to cut them off. You get the one finger solute
as they pass you.

The crazier version of this is the combination of the rolling roadblock
and they slow down speed up guy.You come up on a slow poke in the left
lane. You decide to pass using the middle lane. They will speed up as
you pass trying to remain in your blind spot. They were doing 55 and
then they force you to crack 100 to get around them. Once you get by
them, they slow down again and disappear into the rear view. Talk to
locals about this and they will get indignant. Being a roadway vigilante
is the divine right around here.

Of course, part of this and other weird habits is the extreme
provincialism you see in the Baltimore area. People in small states
often have a stubborn localism. I’ve met people in Rhode Island who have
never left the state. That’s close to impossible, given that a wrong
turn takes you over a state line. In Baltimore, there are lots of people
who have never left the state. I know college graduates who went to
college in the state and got a jobs that never require travel. Such
isolation inevitably results in weird habits and attitudes.

There’s another aspect that is peculiar to Maryland. Baltimore has a
very high number of dullards.  Out of curiosity I looked up IQ by state.
<a
href="http://www.city-data.com/forum/general-u-s/547133-states-ranked-iq-how-does-yours.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The first link</a> was this one. It seems
to jive with what <a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=3&amp;sqi=2&amp;ved=0CEAQFjAC&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.vdare.com%2Farticles%2Faverage-iq-by-state-honest-numbers-at-last-0&amp;ei=I1D6UZLpLu-s4AOrqoHwCg&amp;usg=AFQjCNH31nQ-jE0oahqANoLr1PumZ23RPw&amp;sig2=uXR5VD2sioKDvYRshVIG0g&amp;bvm=bv.50165853,d.dmg&amp;cad=rja"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Steve Sailer has reported</a>. He’s one
of the most reliable writers on the subject so I assume it a good
estimate. Maryland ranks 32. A safe bet is that the Baltimore area is
below the state average and the smart fraction is very thin. A big part
of it is the demographics, but another piece of the puzzle may be the
lead paint problem.

On the other hand, Rhode Island ranks 33 on the IQ list and they don’t
have the demographic challenges nor the bizarre driving habits, but
maybe they have other strange habits with which I am unfamiliar. On the
other other hand, Baltimore used to be a city dependent on low-skill
labor. It could simply be a carry over from when the city was a natural
magnet for the stupid looking for work. It;s hard to know, but I do know
I have never experienced the combination of dullness and provincialism
anywhere else.
