---
title: "The Politics of ObamaCare"
date: "2013-11-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=541"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=541"
---

When it was passed, Kevin Williamson predicted that ObamaCare would
collapse and either be repealed or drastically altered. His reasoning
was that any attempt to rearrange 1/6th of the US economy was going to
end in disaster. The public would be furious and the politicians of both
parties would sprint to remedy the problem. Throw in the fact that the
mathematics never made sense and it could not last and therefore would
not last.

This is the classic line of retreat from these guys. Rather than fight,
they smugly claim that they can just sit back and wait for things to
happen. They are forever sitting in the pumpkin patch, waiting for the
Great Pumpkin to arrive and defeat the Left. The fact that the savior
has yet to arrive, despite three generations of conservatives waiting in
the pumpkin patch, never gets mentioned. It also new promises that he
will arrive any minute.

That’s the theme of <a
href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevenhayward/2013/11/11/obamacare-will-be-repealed-well-in-advance-of-the-2014-elections/#2d866f503fff"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this article</a> an old warhorse from
Conservative Inc., with regards to the coming midterms. We’re seeing a
lot of soul searching on the part of Democrats now that the poop has hit
the fan with the exchanges, rate hikes and cancellations. It’s hard to
know how this is playing with the voters, but the way to bet is the
people who show up for midterms are not happy with the results of
ObamaCare thus far.

Democrats probably believe the marketing from the Left. That is, this
was just part of the plan, a game of three dimensional chess. The
argument that this disaster was part of the plan to advance single payer
does not hold up though. If these guys were that clever, they would not
be running for the hills right now. The people who wrote this bill are
not geniuses. They got trapped in a process and created a mess.

Now they have a big problem. Obama and the White House probably don’t
care. Obama has always been oddly indifferent to politics.
<a href="http://isteve.blogspot.com/2013/11/i-told-you-so.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Steve Sailer</a> has thoughts on that,
but the better answer is that Obama is just an entitled incompetent.
He’s had an easy life, because he ticked the right boxes at the right
time in history. As a result, he expects the world to wait on him. When
it doesn’t, he just watched basketball on TV.

The Democrats in Congress are learning that they cannot rely on this
administration to guard their interests. That means they have to figure
out how to cut their own deal with the GOP to avoid owning the whole
mess of ObamaCare. It also means they may have to cut Obama loose, so to
speak. Inside the party that is going to be very difficult. Obama may be
a lame duck and he may be lazy, but he’s still president.

Then there is the natural divide within a party when facing a midterm.
Safe Democrats will hold a different view than vulnerable Democrats.
Mary Landrieu will have no choice but to become a vocal opponent of
ObamaCare if she expects to remain in the Senate. On the other hand,
Elizabeth Warren can be the defender of the faith as she has no fear of
the voters. The party is a collection of people who planned to hang
alone.

Harry Reid can scheme against both sides to help those with a chance to
win over those who are in hopeless races. Landreiu, if she is not
careful, could find herself getting the cold shoulder from her party in
2014. That sort of stuff makes it very hard for the party to navigate.
At some point, they will have to land on a strategy to unburden
themselves of this fiasco. It may take one more election for that to
happen.

The trouble is they were not prepared for this. The whole game of social
democracy is that people like free stuff. If every free stuff scheme has
something close to a majority getting their beak wet, then there’s never
a majority in favor of getting rid of it. There may not be a majority
getting welfare, but there are plenty of others willing to support what
they view as riot insurance. Welfare keeps the blacks at home and away
from the suburbs.

The middle class goes along with socialism because they fear social
unrest more than the tax colector. With massive money creation and
borrowing, social democracy looks like the cure to all of life’s
problems. The trouble with ObabaCare is there is no benefit to any group
the voters think important. No one is getting the free stuff or the
protection from those wanting free stuff. ObamaCare is just a wrecking
ball through the existing order.

That’s why the theory in the Forbes article seems right, but the
Democrats are not there psychologically. Again, they thought this was
going to work. They have spent the last year calling Republicans Hitler
loving child rapists. That said, the GOP has always been there to help
them, so maybe they will deliver this time. The stupidity of the GOP is
hard to fathom, so it’s best to assume they have some stupid idea you
can’t imagine.

That means collapse may be inevitable, but before that can happen, the
GOP will rush into take the blame or find someway to mitigate the damage
to the party that created it. The smug pundits of Conservative Inc. can
then predict the next time that there is no need to fight the Left, as
things will work out in then end. It makes one wonder about whose
interest they are protecting, but everyone knows the answer to that one.
