---
title: "People Are Not Rational"
date: "2013-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=702"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=702"
---

The main complaint about the field of economics, at least libertarian
economics, is that it starts with assumptions not based in reality. The
number of references to “rational behavior” or “rational actors”
indicates the people into these subjects are powered by wishful
thinking, rather than clear-eyed realism. Humans, alone or in groups,
are not rational. People regularly act irrationally, even when the
rational option is obvious. A good example is <a
href="http://theweek.com/article/index/254290/how-the-vitamin-industrial-complex-swindled-america"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">right here in this story</a>
on the supplement scams:

*But surely consumers play some role in the rise of the vitamin
industrial complex. Research about the ineffectiveness of vitamins, or
worse, has been around since the 1940s, after all. “People over time and
particularly people in the United States have been led to believe that
vitamin and mineral supplements will make them healthier, and they’re
looking for a magic pill,” Dr. Cynthia Mulrow, another of the Annals of
Internal Medicine editorialists, tells Reuters.*

*And the “magic pill” habit may be hard to break, scathing editorial or
no. For what it’s worth, here’s the pushback from the supplement trade
group the Council for Responsible Nutrition:*

*The Annals of Internal Medicine editorial “demonstrates a close-minded,
one-sided approach that attempts to dismiss even the proven benefits of
vitamins and minerals,” says the group’s CEO, Steve Mister. “It’s a
shame for consumers that the authors refuse to recognize the real-life
need for vitamin and mineral supplementation, living in a fairy-tale
world that makes the inaccurate assumption that we’re all eating healthy
diets and getting everything we need from food alone.”*

All those rational actors economists talk about will look at the
mountain of studies on one hand and a collection of con-men on the other
and believe the con-men, even though they sort of know they are being
swindled. Facts and evidence will play no role. They want to believe.
They will listen to goofy celebrities and TV airheads about whole food
vitamins and be convinced this stuff is beneficial. The fact that these
people are wholly unqualified to talk about any of this stuff will count
for nothing.

It’s why much of libertarian economics is absurd. In the very general
sense, sure, markets are rational in that they display preferences of
the participants. But, there are few unadulterated markets and therefore
few truly rational markets. That implicit irrationality is known by the
participant, which alters their behavior. People are not moist robots,
acting on a simply set of binary instructions. We may be controlled by
our code, but it is vastly more complex that the simplified models that
come for modern economics.
