---
title: "TFA Uber Alles"
date: "2013-09-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=403"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=403"
---

<a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2013/09/i-quit-teach-for-america/279724/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I saw this</a> linked on
<a href="http://isteve.blogspot.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Steve Sailer’s site</a> and thought it worth a different
take. Steve tends to focus on the race angle, which is not unreasonable.
For as long as I have been alive, public policy types have been harping
about the race gap. Sometimes they take a break and lecture about the
lack of females in science, technology and math fields. They always
start with the same premise. White men have rigged the game and
are surreptitiously keeping the black man down and the girls out of the
STEM fields.

No one bothers to explain why white men have allowed Jews and Asians to
overrun the system. n fact, east Asians are starting to overrun elite
prep schools and universities, which is why they are <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-20/nyc-private-schools-group-recommends-dropping-admissions-test.htmlhttp://"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">dropping the private school entrance
exams in NYC</a>. Too many Chinese kids are winning places in the
schools. We have spent tens of billions on every education fad
imaginable and the numbers have not budged. In fact, <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2013/09/this-years-sat-scores-are-out-and-theyre-grim/279999/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">they may have declined</a>. For some
people, that’s a clue that maybe something else is at play.

This first quote from the Teach For America article is amusing. “The
phrase closing the achievement gap is the cornerstone of TFA’s general
philosophy, public-relations messaging, and training sessions. As a
member of the 2011 corps, I was told immediately and often that 1) the
achievement gap is a pervasive example of inequality in America, and 2)
it is our personal responsibility to close the achievement gap within
our classrooms, which are microcosms of America’s educational
inequality.”

If the missionary zeal was not clear enough, there’s this. “Although TFA
seminars and presentations never explicitly accuse educators of either,
the implication is strong within the program’s very structure: recruit
high-achieving college students, train them over the summer, and send
them into America’s lowest-performing schools to make things right. The
subtext is clear: *Only you* can fix what others have screwed up.”

Youth organizations in Mao’s China, Stalin’s Russia and Hitler’s Germany
had the same premise. The older folks had made a mess of things. The
next generation, the young people, they can start fresh as the new model
citizen in the new model army. Ladling on a healthy dollop of “trench
socialism” gets you an individual who has given over themselves entirely
to the cause. Of course, it’s not hard to see how this can get out of
hand. Today TFA is helping little black kids read. Tomorrow they
overthrowing the state.

Well, maybe they won’t until tomorrow. In the weeks between accepting
the offer to join TFA and the start of our training, I was told by
e-mail that “as a 2011 corps member and leader, you have a deep personal
and collective responsibility to ground everything you do in your belief
that the educational inequality that persists along socioeconomic and
racial lines is both our nation’s most fundamental injustice and a
solvable problem. This mindset,” I was reminded, “is at the core of our
Teach For America.”

Anyone familiar with 20th century European history can see what the TFA
is doing. It is not quite a cult, but it has the trappings of a mass
movement. The people running TFA are trying to build something more than
a teacher training program. They want an army of true believers
infiltrating the schools. Presumably these young fanatics will one day
take up positions of authority and run the education system. The fact
that every totalitarian movement aims first at the youth is not
coincidence here.

It is the sickness of democracy. With a king, there’s no doubting his
authority and legitimacy. His father was king. Alternatively, with a
great warrior or general, he earned the spot by killing the enemies of
the people. Even a dictator has the legitimacy of force that he uses to
maintain power. In democracy, the only reason for anyone to be in charge
is they talked the dumbest people into voting for him. Therefore, you
need some way to convince people to follow the rules and respect the
system.

The trouble is, civic religions quickly turn the country into an
ideological state and what soon follows is the fanatics. Unlike the
Maoist or Stalinist fanatics, no one is under any illusions about their
source of power. In a democracy, the people become convinced they voted
for the fanatics. The only way to prevent this is to have an official
religion that has a source of authority outside the state. It’s a
different form of throne and altar, but it can keep the fanatics under
control, at least until the throne kills off the altar.
