---
title: "Pat Buchanan Was Right"
date: "2013-08-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=123"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=123"
---

I fully admit to falling for the Bush-Cheney “Freedom Agenda” stuff in
the 2000’s. I did not fall for it entirely, as I assumed they were lying
about most of it. I figured their talk of spreading democracy was just
cover for getting rid of troublesome dictators they did not like
anymore. Given the rising tide of Islamic terrorism and the failure of
other options, I was willing to give it a shot. After all, fighting the
lunatics over there was better than fighting them over here. It seemed
like the best option at the time.

The build out of the surveillance state was always a problem for me, but
that was mostly for economic reasons. I just saw DHS quickly turning
into another EPA. We would end up with a costly, blundering bureaucracy
that accomplished nothing good. I also assumed the Left would hamstring
all efforts to make the surveillance state effective, as they did with
the CIA during the Cold War. It turns out I was mistaken on both
accounts. The neocons really meat what they said and the Left never
bothered to oppose the surveillance state.

In fairness to most everyone back then, the Left was out of their mind
with rage after the 2000 election and then went nuts over the response
to 9/11. A good rule for over a century is the assume that the Left is
up to no good and going against their program is the way to truth.
Seeing one Progressive after another ululating in the streets over the
Bush foreign policy made it much easier to support. That and there was
no alternative. It was the Bush plan or incoherent craziness that seemed
to be rooting for the Muslims to win.

That was then. We have now seen a number of Muslim counties get the
vote. In every case they voted for Islamic parties. It turns out that
the majority of Arabs are deeply religious and they want to live in a
country ruled by their coreligionists. In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood
garnered the plurality of the votes. The second place party was even
more Islamic. In other words, the typical Egyptian saw the Brotherhood
as the moderate option. The same thing happened in Iraq when we held
their elections.

Iran, of course, has been down this path for 30 years. Despite the
economic and political problems in Iran, the majority of the people
actually support the ruling mullahs. They want to live in a country run
by the tenets of their faith. Turkey is steadily moving toward becoming
an Islamic state, rejecting western style liberal democracy. Again, the
majority is in favor of Islamic rule. It really does not matter what the
neocons hoped would happen, they should have know that Muslim countries
would vote for Muslim government.

<a
href="http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/political-islam-s-retreat-from-pluralism-and-legitimacy-by-timur-kuran"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s what makes this post
bothersome</a>. A lot of of us have learned a lot about the Arab world
and Islam in the last decade. Our intellectuals, however, have remained
stubbornly ignorant. They desperately cling to the unsupported assertion
that there is a constituency in these countries for liberal democracy.
They see the young people on TV with their mobile phones and think
that’s reality. That’s not reality. Those people are maybe 20% of the
population. The rest see them as emblematic of the problems with liberal
democracy.

It’s like the word “democracy” now means a whole package of economic,
political and cultural institutions, rather than a political system. If
the people vote for their traditional way of life, somehow that is
anti-democratic. On the other hand, if our neo-liberal rulers rig an
election to thwart the will of the people, that’s democracy in action.
It’s hard to know if this is the result of anti-Western hostility among
out elites or simply ignorance. It is probably a product of both.
Anti-Western hatred has cultivated a generations of stupid
intellectuals.

Either way, we are the first people on earth to have a ruling elite that
loathes the very culture over which they rule, the culture that makes it
possible for them to exist. This was Pat Buchanan’s insight thirty years
ago. The American idea of a moderate representative republic that looks
out for the interests of the people is revolting to the people who rule
over us. So much so, they have revolted against everything associated
with it. The result is a weird secular religion that they think they can
spread around the world.
