---
title: "The GOP’s So-Con Problem"
date: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=153"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=153"
---

[This post by Steve
Sailer](http://isteve.blogspot.com/2013/08/a-confederacy-of-douches.html) is
good reminder that social conservatives are not small government people.
In fact, they are not even conservative in the modern sense of the word.
To be a conservative today means being in favor of small government, low
taxes and free markets. You can throw in a bias toward global
corporation over national small business. Social conservatives are none
of those things. Some social conservatives are in favor of those things,
but most are not all that interested in these issues.

I’ve always suspected that a major defect of the Republican coalition is
that the social conservatives are in favor of big government, when it
comes to their issues. They want the state to ban abortion and put
prayer back into schools. That’s why they are engaged in politics in the
first place. In the 1980’s when Farewell and Robertson were going
strong, the argument they made was that good people will lead to good
government. If they could get their guys in office, government would
enact their agenda.

The trouble is the social conservatives are largely ambivalent about the
small government, pro-business stuff, so they are not engaged in those
issues. This allows the GOP to play a double-game on a major segment of
the base. They promise to address the social issues and fight the
culture war, but only after they take care of the tax cuts, sweetheart
deals for business and so forth. Throw in the warmongering agenda from
the neocons and the GOP is basically a long con by neocons and the
chamber of commerce.

The Bush years proved that this formulation can’t work forever. Even
social conservatives eventually figure out they are being conned. They
got one of their own, George Bush, into the White House. He was the
first Evangelical since Jimmy Carter and unlike Carter, he made his
politics conform to his religion. He was supposed to be the final piece
of the puzzle. Instead, the Bush years were nothing but giveaways to big
business and trillions spent attacking half the world. The social
conservatives got nothing for their support.

We are seeing it again with immigration. Evangelicals, Mormons and
Catholics think the ticket to filling the pews is to bring in 30 million
Mexican peasants. I see vans all over my part of the world for Baptist
churches painted with Spanish and English writing. The local Catholic
church does a service in Spanish now. Immigration is good for business
if you’re in the church business.  At least they hope it is, just like
they hoped Bush would fill the bench with pro-life judges. The
Evangelicals are now for open borders.

The trouble is, open borders are suicide for the party and probably
suicide for the religious establishment. When the church members are
seeing their towns ruined by immigration, they will have little patience
for sermons in favor of open borders. The result will be what happened
to main line Protestant churches once they sold out to the Democrats.
Their pews are full of degenerates and the clergy is gays and lesbians.
The Evangelicals are headed for a world where the pews are full of
peasants looking for free stuff.
