---
title: "A Looming Revolt?"
date: "2013-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=146"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=146"
---

A good thing to ponder is how America has gone this long without falling
into an autocracy of some sort. That is the natural end of democracy and
it is something the Founders understood. They were educated men and that
meant knowing their Greek and Roman history. The Greeks would regularly
appoint a dictator to deal with emergencies like war or social unrest.
The Romans eventually succumbed to autocracy. The French Revolution
eventually gave us Napoleon. The Germans gladly accepted Hitler as the
Fuehrer.

The natural course of popular government is to give way to some form of
authoritarianism, either supported by the masses or imposed by the
elite. Even today, we see European countries slowly turning over their
national sovereignty to an un-elected bureaucracy. The strange truth of
democracy is it eventually votes itself out of existence. The people, it
would seem, simply tire of the responsibility. Perhaps it is just a
phase societies go though as they swing from disorder to order. Maybe
people are just incapable of keeping it.

In a June 21, 1788 speech urging ratification of the Constitution in New
York, Alexander Hamilton said, “It has been observed that a pure
democracy if it were practicable would be the most perfect government.
Experience has proved that no position is more false than this. The
ancient democracies in which the people themselves deliberated never
possessed one good feature of government. Their very character was
tyranny; their figure deformity.” This attitude was representative of
the Founders as a whole.

The puzzle is how has America slowed this process and still maintained
some sense of self-governance. One reason is the constraints of the
original Constitution. Today, it is the Bible of conservatives or maybe
the Ten Commandments. It is a “who we are document” for the civic
nationalists. In reality, it was a strongly anti-democratic documents
that sharply limited popular participation in the federal government.
The early American republic was much closer to Sparta than it was to
Athens and that was deliberate.

The Spartan nature of the document a natural hostility to power within
the ruling elite of America into the 20th century. In other times and
places, the strong man arguing against democracy, promising to cut
through the clutter and solve the problems, had no emotional barrier
like that to overcome. American rulers have to swear to live within the
Constitution to get a purchase with the public. Opponents of the “man of
action” promising fix things in a hurry, therefore had a ready weapon to
check their path to despotism.

Another reason, at least in America, is that the Progressives always
gets ahead of themselves and anger the public. The Right never wins by
their own accord, but the Left does lose from time to time. The first
example of secular madness in America was the abolitionist movement. The
fanatics of the North agitated for the end of slavery ending in the
slaughter of 600,000 white people in order to free 3 million pieces of
farm equipment. Reconstruction foundered because the public grew weary
of the fanatics.

Another useful example of this phenomenon is the Wilsonian Era. Many on
the Right have declared Wilson as history’s greatest monster, but that’s
nonsense. His opponent was the blood thirsty Theodore Roosevelt, so
Wilson was not all bad. Still, he was a true believer and convinced he
could redesign American culture. He was probably our first technocratic
ideologue. Maybe he is best described a proto-fascist totalitarian.  Of
course, he went too far and the reaction to Wilsonian Democracy was the
[Return to Normalcy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Return_to_normalcy).

In fact, the pattern that started with the expansion of the franchise in
the early 20th century has been periods of liberal fanaticism followed
by periods of normalcy. The FDR/Truman years brought excesses and a snap
back with Eisenhower. Then it was the Johnson years, that brought more
excess and then a corresponding revolt by the “silent majority” in the
election of Nixon. Democracy in America has been spasm of progressive
excess followed by the long hangover, which is then followed by another
binge of excess.

This phenomenon is well documents and called the [ratchet
effect](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ratchet_effect). The nation moves
toward despotism, then takes a small step back, followed by another
great leap toward despotism and some small drawback. Maybe the reason
America has not collapsed into despotism is that we’re only into a
century of democracy. Maybe we’re just a few more turns of the wheel
before the public demands a strong man to impose order. Perhaps the
Progressive fanatics have just not gone far enough or crazy enough to
break the system.

The other thing worth noting is the compression of the cycles. The
pendulum is now swinging wildly between radical change and modest
reform. When every political institution has an approval rate below 50%
and the most democratic one, Congress, is down at 15%, the path is clear
for a strong man to take over. When the lawlessness of the Obama
administration is finally revealed, it is possible the public will
simply throw in the towel on democracy. Black triumphalism could very
well portend [a looming snap
back](http://www.vdare.com/articles/john-derbyshire-on-the-voter-demographic-that-dare-not-speak-its-name).
