---
title: "Healthy Living"
date: "2013-12-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=694"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=694"
---

When in the office, I try to keep up with the world by listening to the
talk radio guys that make their audio available on-line. There’s a limit
to how much Rush Limbaugh type of commentary I can take, so I switch it
up and listen to some sports or maybe a local chat show. I’m working, so
it’s more background noise than anything else, but it give me some idea
of what my fellow citizens are interested in at the moment. That way I
can do small talk with them without sounding like a visitor from another
planet.

An ad that seems to turn up all over is for some sort of weight loss
drug. It may be a dietary supplement, I don’t know as I never pay
attention until the end. The pitch at the end of the ad is a warning
about the possibility some fat people will lose weight too quickly, so
they should use caution while using the drug. It’s an obvious lie, but
they are playing on people’s desperation. It is a spin on the four hour
erect claims from Cialus. The idea is to get the sucker thinking the
worse possible result is their dreams come true.

It is a terrible thing to do, but it is a staple of the supplement
business.  The “male enhancement” ads always warn about users suddenly
having super models flocking to them for a little bit of that raging
manhood they will get from the drug. At least the Cialus guys can claim
to be defending themselves against a possible side effect. The weight
loss drug is just a scam with exactly zero science behind it. In fact,
all of them are
[scams](https://health.usnews.com/health-news/diet-fitness/diet/articles/2010/07/12/weight-loss-drugs-often-no-better-than-fakes-german-study),
as most are just common herbs or maybe even nothing at all. Just filler.

I’ve been into health and fitness, off and on, for over 30 years and I
have seen all sorts of crazy fads. The one that has always baffled me is
supplements. The best source of vital nutrients is food. A properly
constructed diet provides all of the vitamins and minerals a human
requires. Even athletes can get everything from food. The use of
steroids and growth hormone changes some of the math, but food remains
the only supplement you really need. Eat a low-carb diet with plenty of
green vegetables and you’re good.

According a massive new study, [there’s no
evidence](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/multivitamin-researchers-say-case-is-closed-supplements-dont-boost-health/)
to even make a weak correlation between supplements and good health.
Even taking a multivitamin is a waste of effort, because most Americans
have too much of everything in their diet. Most of those vitamins and
minerals in the pill will be broken down in your stomach and passed
throughout as waster product. There’s some evidence that vitamin-D is of
some help to white people in the winter, but you can get that from fruit
and vegetables too.

This will have no impact on the sale and use of these magic potions.
People want to believe in miracle drugs. The core of every confidence
game is the willingness of the sucker to think he is special. That’s
always at the heart of these marketing plans for pills, magic diets or
exercise fads. That’s the diet pill pitch. Most people, they claim, will
lose weight, but you could be special. You could be the exception, who
loses tons of weight. It is the same element that allowed [Victor
Lustig](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victor_Lustig) to sell the Eiffel
Tower for scrap.

Food cults are nothing new and that is what the supplement business is
when you examine it. The Greeks and Romans were fond of food cults.
Pythagoras was a vegan, for example. Sacrificing animals and food
offerings to the gods are part of it. Five thousand years ago, the cult
would sacrifice a bull and leave some food at a shrine. This was
followed by a feast. Today the cult arrives as Whole Foods to sacrifice
their wallet for organic bananas and a variety of supplements, almost
always “all natural.”

The truth is, humans are omnivores. Our bodies evolved over a very long
time eating meat, fish and wild greens. That’s what we’re good at
digesting. If you want to maintain a healthy diet, cut out the carbs and
focus on meat, fish and eggs. Nuts and cheese add variety and fresh
produce, when in season, as a source of carbs when you’re using that
body as it was designed. That’s the other piece of the health puzzle.
Exercise. We are made for lifting heavy things and short bursts of
activity.
