---
title: "Riley Cooper"
date: "2013-08-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=94"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=94"
---

The root of the word culture is “cult.” Modern people hear the word cult
and think of nuts living in a compound somewhere, waiting for the aliens
to arrive. If you are old enough, you may recall [Jim
Jones](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Jones) and his wacky escapades
in Guyana. We never think of our culture or customs as anything like a
cult, but every society has their beliefs, customs and taboos. More
important, every society has its rewards and consequences for either
exulting the prevailing beliefs or violating one of the taboos. It’s
what makes up culture.

Therefore, every society has its morality police who roam around testing
private virtue in public ways. Paula Deen was sent off to internal
banishment for being honest about dropping a now forbidden word in the
before times. Travon Martin was sainted for confirming an article of
faith about America, held by the people in charge. That is, white people
secretly wish to kill black bodies. The morality police use these sorts
of examples to both crush the wrong thinkers and warn the righteous of
the consequences of sin.

Now we have [Riley
Cooper](http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=4&cad=rja&ved=0CEQQFjAD&url=http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/07/31/riley-cooper-racist-n-word-video_n_3684651.html&ei=zsL7UZWXOs__4APu_YGYCQ&usg=AFQjCNFq_v0vWYaK11QKUR4Dzc07BPwsTQ&sig2=wvPELNN_XsggpfNXxbtR9w&bvm=bv.50165853,d.dmg),
a stupid redneck who was caught dropping the magic word at a country
show. At this moment, his career as a professional football player is
close to being over simply because he holds views that are different
from the ruling cult. The pressure on the Philadelphia Eagles to cut him
will be high. If he is cut, no team will sign him, fearing a visit from
the morality police. It is OK to sign a
[murderer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donté_Stallworth) or rapist.
Those are just crimes against people. Signing a racist would be a crime
against the gods.

The same people snuggling up with a picture of MLK every night are now
claiming <a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=11&amp;cad=rja&amp;ved=0CGgQFjAK&amp;url=http://www.philly.com/philly/sports/eagles/20130801_Eagles_didn_t_go_far_enough_in_disciplining_Riley_Cooper.html&amp;ei=qcP7UfDgOdfI4APF0oGwBw&amp;usg=AFQjCNFXMWQQ-B80fxEVYi3-LLfNyzaN5w&amp;sig2=oyIbVT--JagTG3cMAEjCOg&amp;bvm=bv.50165853,d.dmg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Riley Cooper must be punished</a> because
he is white. In other words, it’s not about racism, as a universal
concept. It is about hating white people as a sign of virtue. In this
case, a white guy using the word “nigger” is bad because he is white,
not because using the word “nigger” is always bad.  One day soon, whites
will be forced to use separate drinking fountains and have to ride in
the back of the bus, just like a , well, you get the point.

Civic religions operate on fear. In
cases <span style="line-height: 1.625;">like this, it is the fear that
people will notice the nutty contradictions. Cooper is not working math
puzzles in his free time. He is a dumb jock, but he sees the double
standard every day. His teammates call one another “nigger” all the time
and it is considered cool. In other words, he foolish decision to get
tanked up and start yelling “nigger” is not a problem because he said a
bad word. it is a problem because it underscores this obvious double
standard. He must be punished.</span>

In the name of racial tranquility, they are now demanding that the black
players denounce their teammate. It is not enough to hang the scarlet
“N” on the white guy, they have to dictate the thoughts of the black
guys too. A cynic would say our rulers like it when we are trying to
kill one another. That implies a logical intent. The more likely answer
is it is simple zealotry. They have been trained to yell at the white
racist and defend the back victim. If the black guys don’t join in they
must suffering from the effects of institutional racism.

The best part of this, the part that should lead one to think there is
not only a God, but he has a wicked sense of humor, is the presence of
Michael Vick. This is the guy who was found to be [torturing animals for
pleasure](http://moderndogmagazine.com/gallery/where-former-michael-vick-dogs-are-now).
He would drown puppies in buckets of water and electrocute them. If he
really needed to get off, he would hang them from trees. By any
reasonable standard, Michael Vick is a demented and dangerous lunatic.
News actors are [running to him for his
opinion](http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=9&cad=rja&ved=0CFwQFjAI&url=http://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/nfl/eagles/2013/07/31/quarterback-michael-vick-forgives-wide-receiver-riley-cooper-for-racial-slur-n-word/2606911/&ei=qcP7UfDgOdfI4APF0oGwBw&usg=AFQjCNFvyQNui3WVX9iI8EoD9HmLJxC60A&sig2=TDhnSih7bpps8SstrZRgnA&bvm=bv.50165853,d.dmg)
about the monster that is Riley Cooper.

This is all madness and it will end poorly. Humans are designed to be
suspicious of and antagonistic toward those not like them. We evolved in
small groups and suspicion of outsiders was always an evolutionary
advantage. In the case of disputes over precious resources, tribal
hatred rising to the level of religious faith. In a modern, multi-ethnic
society such as ours, a certain amount of friction is natural.
Deliberately exacerbating it is a good way to get a civil war, but the
social justice warriors probably want that.
