---
title: "Stupid Smart People"
date: "2013-12-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=713"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=713"
---

<a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/monkey-cage/wp/2013/12/20/democrats-currently-have-a-1-percent-chance-of-retaking-the-house/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> in the
Washington Post suggest the health care debacle will have an impact on
the midterm elections. One thing we learned from the Nate Silver
experience is that polling does not tell us much of anything on its
face. The polls today have little correlation to what will transpire on
election day in November of 2014. Whatever you may think about his
methods, he was more right than wrong in 2012, so I it is not a bad idea
to take his word for what it all means, <a
href="http://www.policymic.com/articles/71679/midterm-elections-2014-polls-show-republicans-could-take-over-the-senate"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">which is not much right
now</a>.

Then again, <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-12-20/obama-aides-say-more-to-gain-coverage-under-aca-than-canceled.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">when you see stuff like
this</a> it is hard to imagine things getting *better* for the Democrats
next year. This should be the honeymoon period as goodies get dispensed
and the Democrats take credit for it. Obama should be enjoying good
numbers, as the people tend to get sentimental about the siting
president at this stage. If people are angry about Obama’s polices and
by extension the Democrat agenda, imagine how people will feel when the
bill comes in 2014. Things look gloomy for them.

On the other hand, the Stupid Party always finds a way to snatch defeat
from the jaws of victory, so it is safe to assume they will not gain
much from the health care issue. That’s the thing though. Why are they
so predictably stupid about these things? How is it that these people
got to this point? They are not retarded or even dimwitted. It takes a
degree of cleverness to be a politician, even at the town level. When
you get to national politics, you need to be a shrewd operator. Why are
Republicans so bad at politics?

Of course, it is not just the Republicans. They are the most egregious,
but the fact is, all politicians are quite stupid in their execution.
Further, they have clueless people on their staffs and there is an army
of people in the policy side who get everything wrong. Look at the Bush
people. Most of his advisers were smart Jews from the neocon side of the
party and they got everything wrong. In fact, they came close to
destroying the Republican party. Again, it’s not just Republicans. It is
the entire political class.

Look at Obama.
<a href="http://isteve.blogspot.com/2013/05/obamas-lsat-score.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">According to Steve Sailer</a>,
Obama is above average in IQ at the minimum. He thinks he is in the
top-2% or maybe higher. John Derbyshire makes similar arguments. John
approaches the political-IQ issue a little different. He points to Obama
having a high
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linguistic_intelligence"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">verbal-linguistic
intelligence</a>. That high verbal is a huge advantage in politcs,
relative to math aptitude. Derbyshire and Sailer are first rate on the
IQ beat so if they think Obama is an elite IQ, they are probably right
about it.

So, why did Obama sign off on that stupid health care program?

Even if you want to dismiss the argument that Obama is smart, the army
of people around him are certainly not blockheads. Pelosi looks like an
opium addict, but she did not get to where she is by being stupid. Chuck
Schumer is a smart guy. He got a perfect score on his SAT, when that
counted for something. Surely the army of policy experts involved in
creating the bill were smart enough to know that the bill they created
was going to be a political disaster. There really is no way to blame it
on stupidity.

How is it that so many smart people could be so stupid? The explanation
offered by partisans is that this unfolding disaster is part of a
sinister plan to turn the country over to a single payer. That sounds
good when you write it down on the napkin at the bar, but in reality it
looks like madness. These people are wired to be politicians and
politicians always seek to be on the good side of the voters. Even rabid
ideologues avoid crossing the people until they have total power.

If the plan is to smash the system and then rush in with a replacement,
this is a ham-fisted way to go about it. If you’re so clever to scheme
this sort of way, you should be clever enough to remove your
fingerprints. If this does collapse private insurance in America,
liberalism will be discredited for a generation, maybe forever. The
folks replacing the demolished system will not be radical socialists.
Now, radical socialists do suffer from a weird form of myopia, but are
they really that myopic?

That still leaves a long list of incredible stupid statements that work
against the interests of these bright people. Obama admitting that he
just learned that insurance is complicated probably lost him five points
of support. Pelosi’s crazy act makes even her most fanatical supporters
cringe. Then you have back benchers like Debbie Wasserman-Schultz. How
in the heck can we explain her existence? The inescapable conclusion is
the political class has a large number of very smart people who say and
do outlandishly stupid things.

We may be led by smart people, but they do outlandishly stupid things.
