---
title: "That Left Side of the Bell Curve"
date: "2013-08-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=189"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=189"
---

A topic that will become increasingly important is what to do with
low-IQ workers in a modern, technological society. For most of human
history, there was a demand for most if not all of the low IQ
population. Farming required a lot of labor. Maintaining buildings,
roads and so forth required loads of guys willing to take direction.
Then there was the demand for men willing to dress up and kill men loyal
to a different ruler. It’s not that there has been a demand for dumb
guys, it’s that there was always some way to put them to use.

Once we moved into the industrial age, manufacturing soaked up most of
the low IQ workers, along with middling IQ workers. When the usual
suspects decided to sell off the manufacturing base to Asia, retail and
services were seen as the cure for excess unskilled labor. We would have
an economy based on selling one another insurance and doing each others
laundry! Of course that could never work, but it worked for a while as
easy credit allowed us to pull forward GDP. <a
href="http://ashokarao.com/2013/08/14/a-disjoint-labor-market-and-the-two-recessions/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Now, it is not working.</a>

The evidence at this point suggests two things. One is that the
technological revolution along with an extended recession has changed
the approach of business. The old pattern was that businesses hired up
in good times and cut staff in lean times. The new pattern is that
business invests in technology in good times to get more from the same
staff. In lean times they may do the same, but looking for ways to cut
staff. In other words, technology is cutting jobs at the peak and the
trough of the economic cycle.

The other thing that I think we see is the lagging effect of technology.
For 25 years technology raced ahead of what users could use. By the time
of the Great Recession, we had an enormous amount of excess technology.
The old joke in the 1990’s was that 90% of Microsoft Word users utilized
10% of the product. Few companies utilized 25% of their IT investments.
Companies have been sitting on all the tools to automate big parts of
the business, but they never deployed the technology. That’s changing
now.

Of course, there is something else that never gets discussed. That is
the high cost of cheap labor. Government policy has made it expensive
for employers to recruits and train the working class of America. On the
other hand, government has made it easy to import indentured servants
who work cheap. This has become so common, the servants and their
masters are now important constituencies. The unemployed white working
class is not an important constituency, so no one bothers to speak for
them.

This brings me back to the point of the post. We have a lot of people on
some form of government assistance. In fact, the government claims that
<a
href="http://news.investors.com/business/012612-598993-entitlements-soar-under-president-obama.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">nearly half of all homes have at least
one person on the dole</a>. I think we can assume that a big chunk of
that number is for retired people. Another big chunk is the poor and
stupid. Simply putting them on welfare does not solve the problem.
Unless we are willing to have large scale reservations for the low
skilled, this economic problem will soon be a very serious social
problem.

In a democracy, lots of people with no purpose and not sense of
connection to the greater society is going to become attractive to an
ambitious politician. That’s always the argument against democracy.
Someone always comes along as the champion of the little people,
promising to help them as long as he becomes ruler. Most tyrants in
human history rose to power on the back of the lower classes. America
now has a growing disgruntled class, sitting around waiting for their
champion, who will surely arrive one day.

Putting aside the political risks of large numbers of unemployed dumb
people, how does a high tech society put these people to use? In a
different age, the way to use up extra people was to start a war. These
days, the modern military needs smart guys, not dumb guys. Then there is
the fact that wars are now vastly more conservative with human capital.
Even if we wanted to invade Canada, the war will be fought with robots
and drones, rather than infantry battalion. It turns out that war is not
the answer either.

 
