---
title: "Lessons From The Tebow Experience"
date: "2013-09-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=301"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=301"
---

The New England sportsball team cut Tim Tebow yesterday, which resulted
in celebration form every Progressive warren in the nation. It was not
just cultists, but their bourgeois bohemian fellow travelers. The usual
suspects on the Left have hated Tebow from the start, because of his
overt Christianity and his decidedly southern sensibilities. The cold
civil war, as <a
href="http://takimag.com/article/the_cold_civil_war_grinds_on_john_derbyshire/print#axzz2dfKt1sLS"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">John Derbyshire calls it</a>, will always
be with us and play out in a myriad of little ways. Northern whites,
then as now, scarcely see southern whites as American.

Those racist, science hating rednecks are what hold the nation back from
progressing into a glorious future! On the other side, southern whites
see northern whites as God hating, self loathing lunatics enslaved by a
radical European religion bordering on a cult. There’s no room for
compromise when both sides see the other as the problem. Through no
fault of his own, Tebow is emblematic of this rift and therefore too
much of a distraction for NFL teams, given his talents. Therefore, his
career now appears to be over.

Of course, the main reason Tebow was cut from the sportsball team is
that he is not good at sportsball, at least not at the position he seeks
to play. Professional sportsball is a merciless business. There are
millions on the line and therefore no one can let their emotions get in
the way of winning the sportsball contests. If Tebow could help a team
win at sportsball, he would have a job, even if he was murdering people
on the side. These leagues are loaded with criminals and deviants who
are good at sportsball.

That’s not why the lunatics were cheering, of course. They hate him for
cultural reasons, so they wanted to see him fail. Now, it is not just
the cold civil war stuff. That certainly plays a role in Progressive
thinking, but a growing aspect is the general hatred of maleness,
particularly white maleness. In the Progressive hierarchy of evil, white
males are slowing moving to the top, taking the place of mythical bad
guys like Nazis and Klansmen. The Pale Penis People will soon be enemy
number one.

Tebow is pretty much the emblematic white male. He’s not sitting around
reading books or worrying about his privilege. He plays sports and likes
hanging with his bros on the sportsball field. Then there is the
religious aspect. His faith leads him away from the sorts of vices the
ruling class likes to peddle to young white males. That makes Tebow a
real problem if he manages to succeed at sportsball. Just imagine the
comparison between him and the typical sportsball player. it raises a
lot of uncomfortable truths.

That’s probably the main lesson from this. Even if you don’t care about
sportsball, it is a part of the popular culture, so it is wise to pay
some attention to it. The deliberate africanization of basketball and
football is a foreshadowing of the browning of America that is planned
for us by our betters. The subtle hatred of Tim Tebow, quintessential
white guy, will one day soon be common in the culture. Today they hate
this guy because he is a Christian, but tomorrow they will hate all
white men for being white.
