---
title: "The Words of Fake Intellectuals"
date: "2013-12-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=635"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=635"
---

Certain words and phrases take on meanings because of who uses them. For
instance, the noun “moderate” in the political context always means
liberal. The only people who ever use it are liberals. All of my
“moderate” friends, for example, are conventional liberals, who
faithfully line up for the democrat in every race. They always lament
the lack of “moderate” republicans. Of course, moderate republicans are
always liberal.

In the context of personal health, the word is an adjective for the
pests and scolds who think they can tell us how to live. In those cases,
“moderate” means self-denial. Moderate drinking means no drinking.
Moderate eating means no food you like. The common thread here is that
fanatics have run off with a perfectly good word and turned it into a
chilling horn blast signaling the arrival of people who reminder you of
your ex-wife.

The neologism “wonk” is a favorite word on the Left. They say it means
policy expert, but it really means agitprop expert. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/12/02/wonkbook-healthcare-gov-will-work-that-means-obamacare-can-work-too/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ezra Klein</a> is a good
example. He repeats the politically acceptable dogma in slightly new
ways, which makes him a favorite of the people in the political class.
Nothing he has ever written would require critical thinking or knowledge
of the subject. He just flatters his fellow Progressives, by telling
them what they want to hear.

While in theory, the word “wonk” is supposed to mean a policy expert or
perhaps an expert on existing regulations, it almost always means
flatterer. A wonk is someone who comes up with clever sounding ways to
conform what the political class thinks about something at the moment.
Not even the political class really, just the army of camp followers
that make up the commentariat. To be a wonk is to never question
anything.

A word that has been totally corrupted is “data.” To the people fond of
using it in social commentary, the word is a synonym for signs, like the
ones a shaman would see in goat entrails. You see it in that Klein
piece. *“*HealthCare.gov is clearly working better. But is it actually
working? *It depends on how you read the data.*” This suggest data
itself is meaningless, as what matters is who is reading and, of course,
their motivations.

Look at the construction. He declares this thing is better, then
suggests it may not be working at all, depending on information that has
not been presented. In this case, “data” means “who you ask.” To an
empiricist or anyone vaguely familiar with practical mathematics, data
is what your mathematical representation of reality has to include in
order to meet the minimum test of validity. To Klein, data is a sign to
be read.

The dilettante is “a person who cultivates an area of interest, such as
the arts, without real commitment or knowledge.” In this increasingly
fraudulent age, the pseudo-intellectual is something of a dilettante,
but instead of learning enough to fake it, they make up new language or
corrupt the existing language, so they sound smart without having to
know anything about the subject. They don’t know anything. They know
about things.

Perhaps another way to put it is we live in a meta-era, in that our
intellectual class does not know things or even things about things.
They are meta-intellectuals, in that they know things about being an
intellectual, the clothes, the verbal cues and so forth, but they are
not intellectuals nor to they know any. That’s really just a nice way of
saying they are fakers, which is why they like fake language. They are
as phony as three dollar bills.
