---
title: "Subsidizing The Crazy"
date: "2014-10-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3019"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3019"
---

Most cable channels can’t exist without mandatory cable fees. Without
the buck per month or so they get from your cable bill, they go out of
business. ESPN, for example, is on everyone’s cable service and the fee
is something like $5 a month. They get close to seven billion a year
from those fees, despite the fact only 20% of homes watch ESPN. If we
ever went to a la carte pricing or pure pay per view, ESPN folds up
shop. They only generate about two billion in ad revenue. If they
survived, it would be a much different format. They would not be paying
the NBA those enormous rights fees either.

A better example is MSNBC. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/13/business/media/leaning-forward-msnbc-loses-ground-to-rival-cnn-.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This sob story in the NY Times</a>
reports that their best shows draw fewer eyes than late night
informercials.

<a
href="http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/m/rachel_maddow/index.html?inline=nyt-per"
class="meta-per" title="More articles about Rachel Maddow."><em>Rachel
Maddow</em></a>*, the biggest star on the MSNBC cable network, just
posted her lowest quarterly ratings results ever.*

*“Morning Joe,” MSNBC’s signature morning program, scored its
second-lowest quarterly ratings, reaching an average of just 87,000
viewers in the key news demographic group.*

*And “Ronan Farrow Daily,” the network’s heavily promoted new afternoon
show, which stars a 26-year-old Rhodes Scholar with a high-profile
Hollywood lineage, has been largely a dud.*

*Though it has mostly happened quietly, which may be a comment on the
cable network’s larger status in the media landscape, MSNBC has seen its
ratings hit one of the deepest skids in its history, with the recently
completed third quarter of 2014 generating some record lows.*

*Phil Griffin, the president of MSNBC, acknowledged that his network had
been struggling, but put it in the context of the overall drop in cable
news. “This has been a tough year all around,” he said. “All three cable
news channels are drawing a smaller combined audience than they were
five years ago.” He also emphasized that despite the plunge that caused
it to trail CNN in the last quarter, the network remained ahead of CNN
for the full year.*

*In the past, MSNBC’s ratings have typically fallen during times of
intensely followed major news events. The current period is awash in
them, with stories like ISIS and Ebola commanding a high degree of
international reporting. This plays well to CNN’s strengths.*

*MSNBC consciously established its brand as politics-centric,
approaching stories from a left-of-center viewpoint, in deliberate
contrast to the right-of-center approach of Fox News, which continues to
dominate the news channel ratings. At the same time, MSNBC moved away
from a close relationship with NBC News that it had during the early
years of the network. Today, fewer NBC News correspondents appear on
MSNBC.*

*Mr. Griffin said that a general apathy about American politics has also
hurt the network. “You can look at the dysfunction in Washington, the
wariness about politics, the low approval ratings,” he said. “That’s had
an impact. But we’ve got to adjust; we’ve got to evolve.”*

*MSNBC’s recent results have not been encouraging. During the third
quarter, Ms. Maddow reached an average of 183,000 viewers in the
audience component that most matters to MSNBC’s advertisers, viewers
between the ages of 25 and 54, her lowest total since she started her
show in 2008.*

Note how the Times tries to equate Fox News with MSNBC, like they are
mirrors. That’s insane, of course. Fox is pretty much straight news with
a prime time of infotainment shows. O’Reilly, Hannity and the others are
entertainers. They generate the big ratings and that’s how you pay the
bills, usually. MSNBC is just a parade of screaming lunatics. Rachel
Madow looks and sounds like a woman struggling with her sanity. A
generation ago, these people would never been allowed to be on
television.

It is just another example of how socializing costs boils off the normal
and rational, leaving the weird and the extreme. The proliferation of
cable channels relies on every home having cable (or satellite) and
paying roughly the same for the service. The 20% who love sports get
ESPN at a far cheaper rate than under a pay-per-view scenario. Billions
are shifted from people with no interest in sports to these sports
teams, via the socialism of the cable bill. Instead of catering to a
broad audience, ESPN can focus on fanatics and indulge in their crackpot
politics.

CNN and then MSNBC followed a similar path. CNN got on everyone’s basic
service, thus guaranteeing them a buck a month from every home, whether
anyone watched or not. With a guaranteed revenue stream, they were free
to indulge in whatever nonsense that was current at the time. Now, the
only place people watch CNN is at airports. Similarly, MSNBC piggybacked
on NBC to get on basic cable. They drifted into insanity and now the
only place people watch is at the day room of the local asylum.

This happens whenever the link between the paying customer and the
service provider is unclear, as is always the case with third party
payments. Medical services get increasingly worse at the retail end
because the patients are not the customers. It is the insurance company
and government paying the bills. The schools are another example. The
people running the schools care more about the unions and pressure
groups than the students. People respond to incentives and when you
funnel those incentives through third parties, it is natural to assume
the needs of those third parties are supreme. In the case of the cable
news channels, the money is there no matter what they do, so the weird
tastes of the people running the channel dominate.

It is why I think a smart politician on the Right would be wise to
champion a la carte cable. No one likes dealing with the cable
monopolies. No one likes the fact they are paying for a bunch of
channels they never watch. The cable monopoly is a perfect target for a
populist politician. It’s why the lunatics chirp about “net neutrality”
They know making the ISP’s into bad guys is easy money. The benefit to
the Right is forcing a la carte pricing on the evil cable companies
would go a long way toward de-funding the Left’s propaganda organs.
