---
title: "Blowing It"
date: "2014-09-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2702"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2702"
---

Deliberately lying for money is a strange thing.  <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/conspiracy-theorizing-about-crime-stats/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer has a post up</a>
about <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/08/opinion/charles-blow-crime-bias-and-statistics.html?hpw&amp;rref=opinion&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;version=HpHedThumbWell&amp;module=well-region&amp;region=bottom-well&amp;WT.nav=bottom-well&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a column by Charles Blow</a>.
The disgust in Steve’s commentary is obvious. Charles Blow is fairly
emblematic of his class, which means he sings the old time religion
whenever called upon. He also has to know his words are, at best,
nonsense. In reality they are intended to deceive his readers or at
least allow them to remain deluded. Judging from the comments, the
readers want to believe what amounts to a global conspiracy and Mr. Blow
is happy to feed them heaping piles of baloney for a fee.

Of course, Charles M. Blow could believe what he writes. That seems
unlikley as the way he tells his lies suggests he knows he is lying.
maybe he would like others to know he is lying too. Sociopaths often
take pleasure is knowing that others know they are lying, running a scam
or getting over on them. The general tone and structure of the column
suggest he knows he’s full it. His final paragraph gives the game away.

*There is no way in this country to discuss crime statistics without
including in that discussion the myriad ways in which those statistics
are informed and influenced by the systemic effects of racial
distortion.*

*Individual behavior is not the only component of the numbers; bias is
the other.*

The previous 735 words, a bunch of assertions and dubious statistics,
are intended to dispute the obvious picture one must draw from the FBI
crime reports. Yet at the very end, when his intended audience is
nodding so enthusiastically they cannot keep up, he admits that those
statistics in the crime reports are true. He would just prefer it if his
coreligionists remain convinced otherwise.

Again, maybe he is just as deluded as his readers. Maybe that’s just how
people cope with disconformation. When the facts of the world are
unacceptable, people find ways to wrap them in magical thinking and lots
of hooting and hollering. It’s the lawyer who defines his work in moral
terms, when he is just a guy who lies on behalf of criminals. It’s the
politician who thinks he is doing the Lord’s work as he lines his
pockets with the people’s money.

It’s is hard to know. Magical thinking is a part of the human condition,
probably a necessary part. Wishing for things to be a certain way is the
seed of inventiveness. It is also the genesis of all sorts of crackpot
ideas intended to avoid facing reality. Maybe that’s all that it takes
for a guy like Charles Blow to write these columns every week for his
employer. Like an aging minister delivering yet another version of the
same old sermon, it’s not that he believes what he is saying, it’s that
he has nothing else.
