---
title: "Skepticism Versus Atheism"
date: "2014-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=884"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=884"
---

<a
href="http://www.thisviewoflife.com/index.php/magazine/articles/why-sam-harris-is-unlikely-to-change-his-mind10"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is an interesting
post</a>. Atheism is one of those things that is ridiculous when you
seriously consider it. The atheist claims to be certain about the
existence of god, but that is impossible. By definition, God is
unknowable, so you either believe he exists or you don’t believe he
exists. The key word there is belief. This is a human trait that is
rooted in our biology. We know it is heritable and we have some sense of
why this is a useful human trait. To argue against it is to argue
against biological reality.

Here’s a relevant passage:

*If reasoning is so easily swayed by passions, then what kind of
reasoning should we expect from people who hate religion and love
reason? Open-minded, scientific thinking that tries to weigh the
evidence on all sides? Or standard lawyerly reasoning that strives to
reach a pre-ordained conclusion? When I was doing the research for The
Righteous Mind, I read the New Atheist books carefully, and I noticed
that several of them sounded angry. I also noticed that they used
rhetorical structures suggesting certainty far more often than I was
used to in scientific writing – words such as “always” and “never,” as
well as phrases such as “there is no doubt that…” and “clearly we
must…”*

*To check my hunch, I took the full text of the three most important New
Atheist books—Richard Dawkins’ The God Delusion, Sam Harris’s The End of
Faith, and Daniel Dennett’s Breaking the Spell and I ran the files
through a widely used text analysis program that counts words that have
been shown to indicate certainty, including “always,” “never,”
“certainly,” “every,” and “undeniable.” To provide a close standard of
comparison, I also analyzed three recent books by other scientists who
write about religion but are not considered New Atheists: Jesse Bering’s
The Belief Instinct, Ara Norenzayan’s Big Gods, and my own book The
Righteous Mind.*

I’m a bit skeptical of this method. It assumes things that are not in
evidence, as they say in court. people who are confident in their
beliefs probably use language loaded with certainty, but we live in a
passive age, so maybe not. Language is as much a part of the culture as
ritual and ceremony. Given that we live in a feminine age, it may be
that atheists have changed their language to use the passive-aggressive
technique popular with women. In other words, it’s not as simple as the
author assumes.

*To provide an additional standard of comparison, I also analyzed books
by three right wing radio and television stars whose reasoning style is
not generally regarded as scientific. I analyzed Glenn Beck’s Common
Sense, Sean Hannity’s Deliver Us from Evil, and Anne Coulter’s Treason.
(I chose the book for each author that had received the most comments on
Amazon.) As you can see in the graph, the New Atheists win the
“certainty” competition. Of the 75,000 words in The End of Faith, 2.24%
of them connote or are associated with certainty. (I also analyzed The
Moral Landscape—it came out at 2.34%.)*

One of the under discussed aspects of atheism is that the adherents are
the biggest proselytizers. generally, we assume proselytizing is a sign
of doubt. The person trying to bring you over to his side wants
confirmation. if he were sure about what he thought on a subject, he
would just add it to the stock of truths he carries with him. He would
assume most people have the same truth. The proselytizer, in contrast,
is never really sure, so he hopes to convince others so he  can be sure.

*Reason is indeed crucial for good public policy and a good society. But
isn’t the most reasonable approach one that takes seriously the known
flaws of human reasoning and tries to work around them? Individuals
can’t be trusted to reason well when passions come into play, yet good
reasoning can sometimes emerge from groups. This is why science works so
well. Scientists suffer from the confirmation bias like everybody else,
but the genius of science as an institution is that it incentivizes
scientists to disconfirm each others’ ideas, and it creates a community
within which a reasoned consensus eventually emerges.*

This is where the skeptic shows his worth. Science is just as prone to
nonsensical beliefs as any other human endeavor. The endless feuding
over climate science is a great example. Even the most empirically
minded can become zealots, losing all perspective in their crusade. The
skeptic is far less likely to fall into this trap as he is much more
willing to accept that we simply don’t know the right answer. The
skeptic, unlike the atheist, is only sure of his won fallibility.
