---
title: "It’s a Cult"
date: "2014-08-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2621"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2621"
---

I’ve been calling American Liberalism a cult for a long time. I get some
grief for it from normal people, because they think I’m engaging in name
calling. The word cult has some baggage. We typically think of cults
having a charming leader. That leader is more than a little nuts and
eventually leads his followers to a
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Jones"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Jonestown</a> like end. The
messianic nature of American Liberalism is not always obvious, but it’s
right there if look hard at the Left.

Modern times and the trendiness of the Left means their various beliefs
burst forth for a while and then recede into the background, only to
come around again with a new marketing pitch. State rationed health care
is a good example. The American Left has been dreaming of it since they
discovered Bismark. Every ten years or so they have a new way to pitch
having their cult decide how much and how often you get medical
treatment.

The cultish properties of American Progressives is clear in the story of
ObamaCare. It was supposed to be the final step into the Eden of free
health care for all. The rank and file members of the Cult of Modern
Liberalism were convinced that a fountain of unlimited health care was
hidden away somewhere, maybe next to the golden plates Joseph Smith
found out west. If they could slay the evil insurance monsters that
guard it, the people would be free to dip their cups into it and get all
the health care they desired – free! They used different words, but that
was the sales pitch and they truly believed it. They still do.

Then reality, that thing that does not go away when you stop believing
in it, came roaring into the room. Millions saw their policies canceled.
I’m on my third cancellation. Rates went up and the public went crazy.
As was described in
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">When Prophecy Fails</a>, the
Left was at first stunned into silence. The disconfirmation was soul
crushing. Instead of Eden, the result was chaos. Then, the faithful
rallied and they are now ready to <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/28/upshot/medicare-not-such-a-budget-buster-anymore.html?smid=tw-nytimes&amp;_r=1&amp;abt=0002&amp;abg=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">proselytize once again</a>.

*You’re looking at the biggest story involving the federal budget and a
crucial one for the future of the American economy. Every year for the
last six years in a row, the Congressional Budget Office has reduced its
estimate for how much the federal government will need to spend on
Medicare in coming years. The latest reduction came in a report from the
budget office on Wednesday morning.*

*The changes are big. The difference between the current estimate for
Medicare’s 2019 budget and the estimate for the 2019 budget four years
ago is about $95 billion. That sum is greater than the government is
expected to spend that year on unemployment insurance, welfare and
Amtrak — combined. It’s equal to about one-fifth of the expected
Pentagon budget in 2019. Widely discussed policy changes, like raising
the estate tax, would generate just a tiny fraction of the budget
savings relative to the recent changes in Medicare’s spending
estimates.*

*In more concrete terms, the reduced estimates mean that the federal
government’s long-term budget deficit is considerably less severe than
commonly thought just a few years ago. The country still faces a
projected deficit in future decades, thanks mostly to the retirement of
the baby boomers and the high cost of medical care, but it is not likely
to require the level of fiscal pain that many assumed several years
ago.*

*The reduced estimates are also an indication of what’s happening in the
overall health care system. Even as more people are getting access to
health insurance, the costs of caring for individual patients is growing
at a super-slow rate. That means that health care, which has eaten into
salary gains for years and driven up debt and bankruptcies, may be
starting to stabilize as a share of national spending.*

You see? The prophesies were true! The prophesies were true! The Great
Pumpkin will bring free health care for all!

Keep in my that this what “data driven journalism” really means. It is
the old time religion sprinkled with statistics. To the faithful, “data”
are a topping, like jimmies on an ice cream sundae. The “data” presented
here are both fanciful and useless. The threat to Medicare is not cost
per patient. The threat is the number of patients when the Boomer
retirement is in full bloom. Driving the cost per patient down a few
bucks is nothing when the number of patients is growing geometrically.

But, that’s how it goes in a cult. They need to believe and so they will
always believe. It took 100 million corpses and 150 years for Communism
to finally die. In my youth, American lefties would say that communism
was never really tried and that Bolshevism was not true Marxism. I don’t
think they were ever convinced to drop it. The Left just decided to go
with Cultural Marxism, figuring the economics would take care of itself.
