---
title: "More Failure"
date: "2014-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3017"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3017"
---

I fully admit to initially supporting the second war with Iraq. I was
not enthusiastic about it, but it did appear we could maybe do some good
by installing a rational government in Iraq as a counter to Iran and
Syria. I never had any illusions about self-government succeeding there.
These people are incapable of managing liberal democracy, but they could
handle a mild authoritarian state that was friendly to the West.

I assumed the Bush people were going to find a guy with a thick mustache
who was happy to do business with us. I also thought they were just
trolling thge Letf with all the talk about democracy. They would find a
tough guy who would play ball, which has been the American since Monroe.
Instead they went for liberal democracy and that was a total failure.
Disaster is the right word for it.

Amazingly, it appears the Obama administration has managed to make it
worse. [This
story](http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/comment/war-against-isis-us-strategy-in-tatters-as-militants-march-on-9789230.html)
from the British press suggests Iraq is about to fall, in a fashion
similar to what we saw in South Vietnam a million years ago.

*America’s plans to fight Islamic State are in ruins as the militant
group’s fighters come close to capturing Kobani and have inflicted a
heavy defeat on the Iraqi army west of Baghdad.*

*The US-led air attacks launched against Islamic State (also known as
Isis) on 8 August in Iraq and 23 September in Syria have not worked.
President Obama’s plan to “degrade and destroy” Islamic State has not
even begun to achieve success. In both Syria and Iraq, Isis is expanding
its control rather than contracting.*

*Isis reinforcements have been rushing towards Kobani in the past few
days to ensure that they win a decisive victory over the Syrian Kurdish
town’s remaining defenders. The group is willing to take heavy
casualties in street fighting and from air attacks in order to add to
the string of victories it has won in the four months since its forces
captured Mosul, the second-largest city in Iraq, on 10 June. Part of the
strength of the fundamentalist movement is a sense that there is
something inevitable and divinely inspired about its victories, whether
it is against superior numbers in Mosul or US airpower at Kobani.*

*In the face of a likely Isis victory at Kobani, senior US officials
have been trying to explain away the failure to save the Syrian Kurds in
the town, probably Isis’s toughest opponents in Syria. “Our focus in
Syria is in degrading the capacity of \[Isis\] at its core to project
power, to command itself, to sustain itself, to resource itself,” said
US Deputy National Security Adviser Tony Blinken, in a typical piece of
waffle designed to mask defeat. “The tragic reality is that in the
course of doing that there are going to be places like Kobani where we
may or may not be able to fight effectively.”*

*Unfortunately for the US, Kobani isn’t the only place air strikes are
failing to stop Isis. In an offensive in Iraq launched on 2 October but
little reported in the outside world, Isis has captured almost all the
cities and towns it did not already hold in Anbar province, a vast area
in western Iraq that makes up a quarter of the country. It has captured
Hit, Kubaisa and Ramadi, the provincial capital, which it had long
fought for. Other cities, towns and bases on or close to the Euphrates
River west of Baghdad fell in a few days, often after little resistance
by the Iraqi Army which showed itself to be as dysfunctional as in the
past, even when backed by US air strikes.*

*Today, only the city of Haditha and two bases, Al-Assad military base
near Hit, and Camp Mazrah outside Fallujah, are still in Iraqi
government hands. Joel Wing, in his study –”Iraq’s Security*

*Forces Collapse as The Islamic State Takes Control of Most of Anbar
Province” – concludes: “This was a huge victory as it gives the
insurgents virtual control over Anbar and poses a serious threat to
western Baghdad”.*

*The battle for Anbar, which was at the heart of the Sunni rebellion
against the US occupation after 2003, is almost over and has ended with
a decisive victory for Isis. It took large parts of Anbar in January and
government counter-attacks failed dismally with some 5,000 casualties in
the first six months of the year. About half the province’s 1.5 million
population has fled and become refugees. The next Isis target may be the
Sunni enclaves in western Baghdad, starting with Abu Ghraib on the
outskirts but leading right to the centre of the capital.*

*The Iraqi government and its foreign allies are drawing comfort, there
having been some advances against Isis in the centre and north of the
country. But north and north-east of Baghdad the successes have not been
won by the Iraqi army but by highly sectarian Shia militias which do not
distinguish between Isis and the rest of the Sunni population. They
speak openly of getting rid of Sunni in mixed provinces such as Diyala
where they have advanced. The result is that Sunni in Iraq have no
alternative but to stick with Isis or flee, if they want to survive. The
same is true north-west of Mosul on the border with Syria, where Iraqi
Kurdish forces, aided by US air attacks, have retaken the important
border crossing of Rabia, but only one Sunni Arab remained in the town.
Ethnic and sectarian cleansing has become the norm in the war in both
Iraq and Syria.*

At some point, Iran gets involved directly. They have no choice. How
exactly that works is a mystery, but they are not going to let their
Shia brothers get over run by the Sunnis. This is a part of the world
with many ancient rivalries, but they have plenty of new ones too. The
Saudis and GCC worry much more about Iran than the worry about the
lunatics running ISIS. These far flung religious wars are good for
business anyway. The Saudis can send their lunatics off to fight and die
in Syria or Afghanistan, rather than have them cause trouble in Riyadh.

Iran getting directly involved in Iraq is a bigger concern because it
moves them to the head of the class and that puts the Saudi relationship
with Washington in jeopardy. It also upsets the Israelis for similar
reasons. In a weird way, the success of ISIS is putting everyone on the
same side for vastly different reasons, but the Obama administration
seems paralyzed right now. Either they don’t know what to do or Obama is
too afraid to do anything. It could be both.

As Obama heads into lame duck status, he finds his popularity at home
dipping into the 30’s and his party running from him like he is Patient
Zero. Usually presidents spend their final two years legacy building
with various foreign policy projects. Obama has never had much interest
in foreign policy and has proven to be incompetent at it. The world is
going to get much worse over the next two years. Maybe untenably worse
