---
title: "The Permission State: Lawless Country & Lawless Cops"
date: "2014-03-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1299"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1299"
---

Starting in the 1990’s, America started building and arming paramilitary
units around the country. Most point to the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Hollywood_shootout"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">North Hollywood Shootout</a>
as the genesis, but you can probably put the start date in the 1970’s
when Daryl Gates formed the Los Angeles SWAT unit after the [Symbionese
Liberation
Army](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbionese_Liberation_Army "Symbionese Liberation Army")
ran wild in Compton. <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Rise-Warrior-Cop-Militarization-Americas/dp/1610392116"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Radley Balko wrote a good
book</a> on the subject last year. <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424127887323848804578608040780519904"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s a Wall Street Journal
article</a> from him last year that covers the important ground.

The foolishness of building these paramilitary units is obvious in
retrospect, but at the time it was just the normal consequence of
allowing public sector unions. To get the cop endorsement, pols promised
them every toy on the market. The result is we are one step closer to
warlordism. <a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/motorcades-dc_784271.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece from William
Kristol</a>, of all people, is a good example of what’s coming to a town
near you. Washington is now a Renaissance capital with armored
limousines instead of gilded carriages. I

<a
href="http://fox5sandiego.com/2014/03/17/feds-raid-gun-parts-stores-despite-court-order/#ixzz2wPQ98hGv"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from California
is yet another example of the police ignoring the law. Who is going to
stop them? Apparently not the courts.

*With a search warrant in hand, federal agents from the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives confiscated computers,
customer lists and the questionable polymer 80 percent lower receivers
from four Ares Armor store locations throughout San Diego County over
the weekend.*

*“There were women and children inside our retail establishment when the
(ATF) agents came in with guns drawn,” said Ares Armor Executive Officer
Dimitrios Karras. “They came into our manufacturing facility with their
guns up like they were invading Iraq.”*

*The raid happened three days after Ares owner was granted a temporary
restraining by a judge to stop ATF agents from searching their stores.*

*The ATF confirmed they were investigating the stores for federal
firearm violations.*

*The case stems from the sale of what is called an 80% lower receiver,
which gun enthusiast use to build their own rifles and guns.*

*Building a rifle with specific versions of the 80 percent receivers is
legal.   The polymer lower receiver appears to be manufactured
differently with two parts, making them a firearm and illegal sell,
according to the ATF.*

*“We did ask the court to clarify if these things were firearms or not,”
said Karras. “We did ask for protection as this gets resolved within the
court system.”*

*Karras said they had their polymer lower receivers locked in a closet
ready to turn over to the ATF since Wednesday.  He was more concerned
about the federal agents taking lists of his customers’ information.*

*“If anybody is a criminal organization that should be investigated, I
think they should look in the mirror. We gave them a black eye
publicly,” Karras said. “They tried to do an underhanded deal with us.
They said, ‘Hey hush, hush. Keep it secret and nobody’s going to know
that we took the customer list from you. Nobody’s going to know we took
this from you.’”*

*The investigation has some customers nervous about their right to bear
arms.*

*“I’m on that list, and **I’m waiting for the knock on the door to tell
me they are here to remove my second amendment rights**,” one customer
told Fox 5.*

<a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/us/2014/03/18/high-school-senior-jailed-kicked-out-school-and-may-lose-army-dream-because/?intcmp=latestnews"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">It is already happening</a>.

*An Ohio high school student has already been jailed and kicked out of
school for having a pocket knife in his car, and now he fears he could
lose his dream of serving in the Army.*

*Jordan Wiser, a student at Ashtabula County Technical School in
Jefferson, is finishing up his senior year from home after school
officials searched his car in December and found the folding knife and
an Airsoft gun. School officials called police, who charged him with
illegal conveyance of a weapon onto a school ground based on the
three-inch knife.*

*“I declined to allow them to search myself or my car and that I wanted
to talk to my lawyer or my father,” Wiser told FoxNews.com. “They told
me it wasn’t an option.”*

You don’t get the rest of those rights in the Bill of Right either, it
seems.  The American ruling class has not cared for our Constitution
since the outbreak of Progressivism in the 19th century. It has steadily
grown worse to the point where the current president is openly hostile
to basic guarantees in our Constitution. The courts laugh at the very
idea of a restraint on government authority. Now, the cops look upon the
masses with contempt. It’s not hard to see where this going to end.

You may say to yourself, “As long as you obey the law it is not a
problem. These isolated issues are just that.” That’s not the concern.
The trajectory is the concern. A century ago the average American rarely
bumped against agent of the national government. The Post Office was his
only regular interface with Washington. He infrequently had dealings
with his local government. Today, everyone of us bumps into government
at all levels We must get permission for everything we do now.
