---
title: "Data Driven Liberalism"
date: "2014-08-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2393"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2393"
---

The term “data journalism” as it is mostly just a marketing scheme. It
is just a way to decorate popular fads with the veneer of science. The
Left has always wrapped itself in the cloak of science, believing it
works like garlic on a vampire. In their case it is intended to ward off
Christians and “right-wing extremists.” Vox, 538, Grantland, The Upshot
and others have glommed onto all of this and recast generic, boiler
plate Progressive dogma as “data journalism.”

Ezra Klein is the worst example. He started out in life as a doctrinaire
lefty and has now dressed himself up as a technocratic nerd boy. Ezra
Klein went to school for political science and maybe took statistics for
liberal arts majors, but otherwise could not count his balls twice and
come up with the same number. But, the act sells to the intended
audience, largely the same people who watch Jon Stewart and Bill Maher.
These are people who want to hear the old time religion.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.vox.com/2014/8/4/5964509/the-false-choice-between-equality-and-globalization"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this was posted on MR</a> and
you see a couple of gags these guys like to play on their audience. The
first is the false dichotomy.

*In a July 19 New York Times column, conservative economist Tyler Cowen
scolded the egalitarian left for not recognizing that on a global basis
inequality has been falling thanks to growth in China and other Asian
countries even as it’s risen inside almost all rich countries. In a
followup dialogue with Eduardo Porter on whether inequality is really a
big problem, Cowen returned to the point that “the biggest inequalities
are those across borders” so a laxer attitude toward immigration “should
be the number one priority for anyone concerned about income
inequality.”*

*Meanwhile, late Friday night House Republicans passed a bill to strip
about 580,000 immigrants of their work permits while President Obama
ponders executive action to reduce the pace of deportations and
conservative columnist Ross Douthat preemptively slams the illegality of
the as-yet-unknown measure.*

*Which is to say that while Cowen’s point about the global picture is
both interesting and correct, his political stance is backwards. It’s
not fans of Capital in the 21st Century who are pushing nationalism as
an alternative to plutocracy, but its detractors. And though the recent
politics in the US Congress have been driven by the somewhat odd
sequence of events around the arrival of unaccompanied minors from
Central America, the underlying pattern runs much deeper than that.*

Yglesias imagines a world of only two options, either have inequality or
utopia. We either have xenophobic isolationism or borderless
one-worldism. There’s never a third option or gradations between the two
poles. The hive minded are obsessed with the boundaries between their
team and the other team, which is defined as those not on their team.
That leads them to see the world in absolutes, black and white.

*In the United Kingdom where the transient political factors are
entirely different, the ruling Conservative Party runs on a platform of
Capping Welfare and Reducing Immigration. Inside the United States, a
major debate has taken place inside GOP circles as to what to do after
consecutive Republican Party losses in presidential elections. An
initially popular idea, especially in business circles, was that the GOP
should moderate its stance on immigration and seek Latino votes. This
was, of course, countered by the party’s most retrograde elements — the
Michele Bachmanns and the Steve Kings. But more importantly, the
pro-immigration impulse was also opposed by the most forward-thinking
elements in American conservative politics. Douthat, David Frum, Reihan
Salam, and other “reform conservatives” have positioned themselves as
leading opponents of a compromise with the White House on immigration.*

This bifurcated view of the world leads to another error. That is the
belief that all issues are moral. Immigration, for example, should be a
public policy issue like zoning bills or utility rates. The people,
through their representatives, express their preferred polices and those
are made law. As opinions change and new experiences raise new
objections, the laws change.

Immigration is not a moral dilemma. It is a debate about how many people
from foreign lands we would like to permit into our lands. As citizens
everywhere, it is our right to set these limits for whatever reason we
like. These choices will turn up in the political math of the parties.
For a guy who pitches himself as a statistics maven, he sure seems to
struggle understanding the simple political calculus. Foreigners vote
for Democrats so Republicans will want fewer foreigners.

The hive minded can never accept that. They lose track of where their
identity ends and the issue begins. Rejecting their preferred solution
is a personal affront, the equivalent of telling them their kids are
ugly. It is why they are so emotional and angry. You can’t be in a mass
movement without being outraged.

*It is this reformicon ideological tendency, not mainstream liberalism,
that has embraced egalitarian nationalism.*

*And the cause of its rise is not left-wing worries about inequality,
but the failure of traditional supply-side economics. Reagan-era
conservatives could be for welfare state rollback and broadly
pro-immigration because they promised a rising tide that would lift all
boats. Now that we’re decades into an era of wage stagnation, those kind
of easy promises ring hollow. So for Cameron and the reformicons, a tilt
against immigrants is the new answer. On this view, the big problem with
trickle-down economics is that the bucket is too leaky. Let the rich get
richer, but prevent them from hiring maids from Latin America, and soon
enough wages for native-born maids will rise.*

*The moral math whereby this policy becomes more attractive than the
win/win/win alternative of broadly freer movement of people paired with
progressive taxation and more provision of public services has always
escaped me somewhat. It appears to involve putting a negative value on
the interests of foreign-born people. But it is a real movement. But
it’s a movement on the right of politics in the United States and other
English-speaking countries. Progressives, rightly, see no need to chose
between equality and cosmopolitanism.*

Finally, this is why Yglesias is an *intellect*. Tired old ideas about
progressive taxation, the metastasizing welfare state and free lunch
economics pretty much have no audience outside the hive. That’s been
true for three decades now. Instead, the Left clutches at its skirts and
bellows about the moral defects of their adversaries. Ezra Klein’s brand
of data journalism is nothing more than yelling “those other guys are
bad because science” over and over so no one notices he has nothing much
to offer.
