---
title: "Responding to Criticism"
date: "2014-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1607"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1607"
---

Art Deco writes:

*Neither the 13th (abolition of slavery) nor the 15th Amendment
(suffrage for freedmen) have proved problematic. It’s a few phrases in
the 14th Amendment which are the problem, and mostly because of the
intellectual and moral fraud abroad in the appellate judiciary and legal
professoriate.*

*It’s fashionable to attribute all sorts of trouble to the 17th
Amendment, but that complaint is nonsense. The effect of that amendment
in the contemporary context is to alter the balance of skill sets in
Congress. Absent the amendment, you would get more people adept at
building relationships in state legislatures and fewer at running
fund-raising and publicity campaigns. Sen. Dede Scozzafava would have
her seat for life. Public policy would be little improved.*

*As for the 16th Amendment, the trouble is that legislature have
discretion to determine the dimensions of the tax base, and that
discretion is used to confer bon bons on clientele like the oil and real
estate industry.*

*I will wager the schemes in the 25th Amendment will prove unworkable in
a true crisis.*

*The 26th, 24th, and 23d Amendments consisted of some modest adjustments
to the suffrage. Not sure why you’re hostile to that. I am not sure why
the 19th Amendment (women’s suffrage) counts as a ‘silly fad’. The 20th
Amendment was a housekeeping measure. Not sure why that bothers you
either.*

*You want term limits, but the 22d amendment is a ‘silly fad’. You did
not give much clear thought to this before you posted, I take it.*

First off, I think he misses the problems in the 13th and 14th
Amendments. The purpose of a negative constitution is to do three
things. One is it puts hard limits on the resulting government. It does
this by clearly listing the limits of the state. That means it details
the power of the state, while everything else is assumed to be
prohibited. The first two items in the Bill of Rights are good examples.
Then it establishes the organization of the new government.

The 13th Amendment does something different. It places limits on what
citizens of the states can do by prohibiting a specific type of legal
arrangement. This is never something we want to see from a national
government in a country this size. Much of what ails us these days stems
from this belief that the national government has a duty to boss around
the people. Enshrining the concept as we do in the 13th Amendments is
asking for trouble and I think we got it and are living with it.

As for the 14th, it is an example of not being able to see far enough
down stream. The abuses stemming from this amendment are legion. More
important, this eats away at the supporting structure of the
Constitution. The organizing principle is to balance the power of the
states against that of the national government. Once you make the
national government superior, that relationship collapses. The goals of
the 14th could be accomplished without undermining the rest.

This leads me to the 17th Amendment. American is a big country. The
regions are very different from one another. Therefore, the natural
governmental unit is the states. The people of Alabama, within the broad
framework of the Constitution, should be free to organize their laws as
their distinct culture dictates. The only way we can ensure that is to
limit the national government, thus giving the people the freedom to
organize their state and local government to their tastes.

A lesson learned the hard way is that ambitious men seek a national
platform. By making the Senate the stronghold of the states, the
ambitious men of Alabama and Oregon will have a national stage from
which they can *safeguard the interests of their states*. That was the
point of having the state legislatures pick the senators. The Senate was
designed to be the brake on House. The 17th Amendment turned the Senate
into the national government’s bulwark against the states.

As to the amendments on suffrage, I think Aristophanes was right. Giving
women the franchise was a terrible mistake. Putting that aside, the
states should be in charge of figuring out who can vote. I think an
allowance can be made for the House of Representatives. A clause to
define the franchise for that office is necessary, but not very
complicated. Any citizen over 25 should have the vote. Adulthood has
been pushed back and it should be reflected in the law. If you want to
make an exception for military people, that’s probably a good idea.
