---
title: "Another Day in the Madhouse"
date: "2014-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1519"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1519"
---

Every once in a while you see a story that illustrates the madness of
our times. <a
href="http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2014/04/15/l-i-high-school-students-suspended-for-displaying-confederate-flag/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is a good example</a>.

*Two Long Island high school students have been suspended for allegedly
bringing a Confederate flag to school.*

*Brother Gary Cregan, principal of St. Anthony’s High School in South
Huntington, said the two seniors walked in with a Confederate flag
draped around their shoulders during an after-hours sporting event at
the school.*

*As CBS 2′s Kathryn Brown reported, there is outrage and disgust on Long
Island.*

Outrage? Disgust? Really?

*“The African-American students who immediately saw it really exercised
heroic restraint and fortunately a teacher immediately confiscated the
flag and took the students out of the gym,” Cregan said.*

The unintended racism at work here is amusing. Blacks, like feral
animals, immediately fly into a rage upon seeing a flag. No one every
stops to think about this. You see this assertion all over left-wing
media. They believe blacks are so incapable of controlling themselves
that they immediately go crazy when seeing a flag. In fact, they cheer
when blacks go berserk over these things.

*The students were initially suspended for 10 days, but Cregan decided
Tuesday they won’t be allowed back, Brown reported.*

*Cregan wrote a letter to parents saying the use of any symbols
“designed to revive past injustices or to inflame discrimination or
racial intolerance, is completely unacceptable and profoundly
offensive,” Newsday reported.*

*Cregan said he sees the flag as a symbol of hate.*

*“I find it just very hard to even imagine why any student in 2014 would
even consider or think that a Confederate flag would be anything other
than a symbol of hate,” Cregan said.*

He is right. The flag does symbolize hatred. It is the hatred of
southern whites by northern whites. Up until 25 years ago, displaying
the Confederate flag was a non-event. As the South began to prosper,
northern whites decided that southern whites were getting too uppity so
they had to put them in their place. A big part of the new anti-white
wave is the fact that the old confederate states are now the
destination.

*“It’s absolutely absurd, I don’t understand why you would bring up
things from the past that are hateful,” student Jessica Flynn said.*

Of course, asking the students is out of the question. They are hateful
haters and must be banished from society. Ignorance is the price of
freedom or something.

*“It represents slavery to us. It represents racism and prejudice to
us,” parent JuJu Quinnonez added. “Believe me, I am all for freedom of
speech but to have someone come in to school with that flag draped
around their shoulder – I’m not really sure what the intent was.”*

This is ridiculous on a few levels. For starters, “JuJu” does not get a
say in the matter, as his people clearly have no dog in the fight. Note
the nonsensical statement from young JuJu.  He is for freedom of speech,
but not if he does not understand it. In other words, his ignorance is a
veto on speech. That’s probably not what he meant, but that’s what he is
saying. He’s all for free speech maybe. Who knows?

*“I certainly think this particular symbol of hate falls in the category
of something that should be excised from our culture,” Cregan said.*

“Symbol of hate” is one of those magical phrases that means “forbidden
for reasons no one understands.” People are trained to think the symbol
is evil and they go along with it, because they think that’;s what is
required. In another age, they would have accused these boys of
cavorting with the devil Today, the devil is white.

*The students haven’t explained why they did it. St. Anthony’s is a
private Catholic school and isn’t bound by the First Amendment right to
free speech.*

*Still, the New York Civil Liberties Union said all people should be
able to express their views freely, even the offensive ones.*

*“Our motto is more speech, not censorship or punishment,” NYCLU
director Donna Lieberman told Brown. “Helping children understand the
impact of this patently offensive expressive activity.”*

*Tensions are so high among students at St. Anthony’s that the principal
said he has security concerns once the suspension is over. He’s made the
decision that the students involved aren’t coming back at all.*

This is where the madness of these adults is dangerous. In some weird
attempt to take a silly prank and make it into a public act of piety,
they are encouraging very bad behavior among their students. If these
adults had any sense or self-respect and cared about their students,
they would stop this nonsense. You take the flag from the kids and carry
on like it was no big deal. In an age of madhouse superstition and
irrational fear of the unseen, carrying on like a teenage age girls is
the highest virtue.
