---
title: "Bitcoin Is Not Money"
date: "2014-03-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1346"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1346"
---

One of the ways to spot a fanatic is the old line about their inability
to change their mind or change the subject. The first part is the key.
No amount of evidence can get them to question their beliefs. This is
something you see it with Bitcoin. The believers, despite the mountain
of bad news, are still hoping and praying their Utopian fantasy will
come true. <a
href="http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/03/25/i-r-s-says-bitcoin-should-be-considered-property-not-currency/?_php=true&amp;_type=blogs&amp;hp&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This latest set back</a>
could, however, make the fantasy more expensive.

*The Internal Revenue Service may have just taken some of the fun out of
Bitcoin. But that may mean that the virtual currency is growing up.*

*The I.R.S. announced on Tuesday that it would treat Bitcoin, the
computer-driven online money system, as property rather than currency
for tax purposes, a move that forces users who have grown accustomed to
operating under the government’s radar to deal with new tax issues and
reporting requirements.*

*While that may seem like an expensive headache, some financial experts
view the move as a way to push Bitcoin further away from the fringes and
into the mainstream financial system.*

*“It’s getting legitimacy, which it didn’t have previously,” said Ajay
Vinze, the associate dean at at Arizona State University‘s business
school. The ruling, he said, “puts Bitcoin on a track to becoming a true
financial asset.”*

This was always going to be a problem for Bitcoin. No government on
earth is going to treat it as a currency. It will always be property.
That means the guys who bought ten grand in Bitcoin when it was trading
at $50 will now owe taxes on their windfall. If you go into a pawn shop
and sell a million dollars in gold coin the pawn shop is reporting the
sale to the IRS and you have to report the gain or loss on your taxes.

In most states, gold is not hit with sales tax, but that is not the case
with Bitcoin or any other digital currency. That means Bitcoin dealers
will now be hit with sales tax audits, assuming states are savvy enough
to do it. That’s the real story of Bitcoin. To this point, government
have not had a need or desire to address it, so Bitcoin and other
digital schemes have been able to flourish. When that stops, the
flourishing stops.

The flaw in the Bitcoin plan has always been obvious to anyone familiar
with how countries work. To be a country, you must control your borders,
your currency and your central authority. Puerto Rico is not a country.
It has a defined border, but Washington runs its currency and most of
its government. Puerto Ricans can be as proud of their people as they
like, but the remain a property of America.

The US government guards the dollar better than it guards the border.
They know the key to keeping the American ruling elite in power is the
dollar. If the world went to different money, say backed by energy, the
current arrangements in Washington would unravel quickly. When you can
no longer print away your mistakes, thus transferring the cost to some
other place in the world economy, you have to act differently.
