---
title: "Fear of a White Planet"
date: "2014-04-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - IQ
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1386"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1386"
---

The word “alarm” is supposed to imply concern and even fear. You can be
alarmed about a child molester moving into town. You can be alarmed
about your kid hanging out with the potheads. One is not typically
alarmed about gettting a bonus at Christmastime. Words have meaning and
their use says a lot of about what’s on the writer’s mind. No one is
alarmed about something they welcome. Alarm is supposed to imply fear
and dread of something unwanted.

<a
href="http://www.nationaljournal.com/next-america/education/not-a-single-girl-took-the-ap-computer-science-test-in-mississippi-montana-20140114"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">In this story</a> from
National Journal, the headline is, “Tech Pipeline Is Alarmingly White”
with a subhead of “No African-Americans, Hispanics or girls took the AP
computer science exam in some states, meaning a majority of The Next
America has little familiarity with tech.” Presumably, the publication
thinks too many white people, however that is defined, is a bad thing.
After all, one cannot be alarmed by too much good news. Something must
be done!

*The pipeline of students who will be tomorrow’s tech leaders is
alarmingly vanilla.*

*According to a
<a href="http://home.cc.gatech.edu/ice-gt/556" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="external">new analysis</a> of test-takers, not a single girl,
African-American or Hispanic student took the computer science Advanced
Placement test in Mississippi or Montana last year. More than a third of
the population in Mississippi is black.*

*In other words, a hugely disproportionate bunch of white guys took the
test.*

*The lack of diversity is disconcerting because computer science is an
industry hurting for qualified workers. That’s not to say that a student
must take AP computer science to pursue a computer science career, but
it’s an indicator of which young people have a degree of familiarity
with the field. Tech companies have long lamented that they’ve had to
look outside the domestic pool of students to find employees.
Encouraging largely untapped demographics—girls, African-Americans and
Hispanics—in high school to enter the field would only help.*

*But that’s not happening, at least successfully, right now.*

*There are 11 states where not a single African-American took the test,
and eight states where no Hispanics sat for the exam.*

*We’re not talking here about people who passed or didn’t pass, either.
We’re talking about people who simply took the test, which means
African-Americans, Hispanics and girls aren’t enrolling in AP computer
science classes in the first place.*

*Of the approximately 30,000 students who took the exam in 2013, only
around 20 percent were female, according to the analysis, and a tiny 3
percent were African-American. Just 8 percent were Hispanic.*

Notice the magically thinking. It is not about passing or failing the AP
exam. It is about taking the exam. There’s an assumption that passing
the exam is just a matter of joining the process and ticking the right
boxes. If you dump more blacks into the AP courses, then they will just
pass and become smart STEM people. The possibility that this is not
possible is never considered. Of course, biology can’t possibly be the
reason.

*One reason there are so few students enrolling in the class and taking
the test is that AP computer science courses are more common in suburban
and private schools, Barbara Ericson, a senior research scientist with
Georgia Tech who compiled the data, told the blog <a
href="http://blogs.edweek.org/edweek/curriculum/2014/01/girls_african_americans_and_hi.html?cmp=ENL-EU-NEWS2"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="external">Education Week</a>, and
those schools tend to be less diverse than urban and public schools.*

*Another potential reason is that there are so few women,
African-American and Hispanic instructors teaching computer science and
so few working in the computer science field. Students are <a
href="http://fusion.net/american_dream/story/student-diversity-teachers-white-11783"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="external">more likely</a> to pursue a
course of study if they have mentors with similar backgrounds to
emulate.*

*College Board, which oversees the AP tests, has <a
href="http://fusion.net/american_dream/story/plan-poor-students-selective-colleges-100765"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="external">made diversity a
priority</a> in recent months, but clearly, there’s still a long way to
go. And diversifying the pool of students taking the exam will require
more than a push from College Board. Families, schools and community
organizations will also play a crucial role in encouraging and guiding
more girls and minority students toward computer science.*

It is tempting to assume that the people making these claims know they
are speaking nonsense, but that’s probably not the case. They really do
believe in the blank slate and egalitarianism. The possibility of
biology preventing their preferred outcome is just never considered,
because that’s not a possibility. It’s like blaming Big Foot of
leprechauns fo the problem. As usual, <a
href="http://isteve.blogspot.com/2014/03/national-journal-tech-pipeline-is.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer was all over
it</a> and has some handy numbers.

*Here are the [pass rates](http://home.cc.gatech.edu/ice-gt/556) (3 out
of 5 or higher, equivalent to a C or better in a college 101-level intro
course):*

*All test takers: 67%*  
*Males: 68%*  
*Females: 62%*  
*Blacks: 36%*  
*Black males: 38%*  
*Black females: 27%*  
*Hispanics: 45%*  
*Hispanic Males: 49%*  
*Hispanic Females: 31%*  
*Whites: 66%*  
*White Males: NA*  
*White Females: NA*  
*Asians: 70%*  
*Asian Males: NA*  
*Asian Females: NA*

America has spent roughly a trillion dollars since the 1960’s on trying
to fix the race gap is income, education, crime and so on. It’s hard to
know, as the accounting for some of it is impossible to figure. How does
one cost the affirmative action or laws against private discrimination?
Still a trillion is a good figure. Yet, the gaps in all of these areas
have no changed much. When it comes to education gaps, the data is
overwhelming that environment plays no role in the overall outcomes.
It’s biology.

That said, one cannot help but think that the real driver of stories
like this is not the denial of biological reality. The real issue is a
hatred of white people. Whether it is self-loathing or ethnocentric
forces that flow under the surface of society, maybe a combination of
both, the ruling class culture is shaped by a general hatred of normal
white people. That’s why the headline writer is alarmed at the white
people in tech.
