---
title: "The Stupidity of Fanatics"
date: "2014-06-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2055"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2055"
---

For many people, the last decade or so has been a transition away from
conventional politics into something outside of that narrow realm of
Left versus Right. Whatever one wants to call the new sort of politics
emerging outside conventional politics, it is largely driven by the
fanaticism of both Left and Right. Both of those camps are convinced
they can solve the problems of the human condition. <a
href="https://nypost.com/2014/06/14/the-conservative-case-for-legalizing-americas-illegal-immigrants/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The result is this</a>.

*The electoral upset of Eric Cantor last week — partially blamed on his
squishiness about immigration, along with stories of immigrant children
streaming across the US-Mexican border — have seriously dimmed the
prospects of legislating immigration reform anytime soon.*

*That’s a shame, because normalizing the status of our millions of
illegal immigrants, while clearly benefiting them, is also essential to
the economic and social welfare of the country as a whole.*

The writer claims to be a conservative. He is a senior fellow at the
<a href="http://www.manhattan-institute.org/html/salins.htm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Manhattan Institute</a>, which
bills itself as right-wing, but in the current context that simple means
slightly to the Right the Left. Regardless of ideology, you would think
someone sporting the title “senior fellow” could get the facts right.
Cantor lost because he favored amnesty and open borders. That’s not a
fact in dispute by people who pay attention to these things.

Calling amnesty “normalizing the status of our millions of illegal
immigrants” is dishonest even by the standards of the usual suspects. Of
course, the fanatic first deceives himself, which is why he can so
shamelessly try to deceive others. That’s what makes “conservative” an
useless label these days. This guy calls himself a conservative, yet he
is every bit as deluded and fanatical as a lefty.

*Let’s start with what is not going to happen — no matter who is the
House majority leader. Most illegal immigrants will not be leaving the
country, either voluntarily through “self-deportation” as suggested by
Mitt Romney, or involuntarily through actual deportation,
notwithstanding the current administration’s aggressive efforts in this
direction.*

*So, we have only two options in dealing with these 11 million American
residents: We can keep them in their current marginal status with all
the negative effects that entails for them and their communities or
acknowledge their ongoing presence among us and legalize it.*

Peter Salins is an unbalanced fanatic. Unless he has been in a coma for
the last decade, waking up only to pen this column, he most certainly
has heard the many other suggestions to deal with the invasion from the
south. We have lots of options, but open borders fanatics like Peter
Salins are incapable of hearing them. That’s the nature of fanatics.
They see only that which feeds their fanaticism.

*Both they and the country will be much better off if we pursue the
latter course.*

*For the opponents of immigration reform, there appear to be three major
concerns. Illegal immigrants: 1) broke the law, and thus shouldn’t be
rewarded with “amnesty”; 2) are harming the American economy by
displacing American workers and burdening American taxpayers; and 3) are
a threat to American culture and values.*

There are two other reasons why many Americans would like to pull the
plug on immigration. One is we simply don’t want a bunch of foreigners
in our towns. As citizens, that is our right. The other is men like
Salins made these same arguments in the 1960’s and the 1980’s. In both
cases, they were all wrong. Prudent people will wisely suspect that the
third time is not the charm. Gis arguments are the same well-rehearsed
nonsense we have heard for years.  He concludes with this bit:

*If congressional politicians in both parties can craft a tough and
realistic “grand bargain” on these terms, they would be unleashing a
human capital windfall not only for the affected immigrants but for all
of American society.*

Well, if we can conjure leprechauns riding unicorns with gold bars
flying out of their butts, we can solve all of our problems! My
goodness. How can you make it to old age and still have such silly
nonsense in your head?
