---
title: "How Stupid Spreads"
date: "2014-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1029"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1029"
---

I finished up the Haldane book last night. One of the concluding bits
was his view that humanity was on the decline. By any reasonable
measure, humanity is doing better than ever. The health of a species is
measured in its numbers, its fertility and its longevity. Humans are
more numerous than ever, live longer than ever and fertility is holding
up in most places. That last bit is the canary in the coal mine. We seem
to be heading toward a great die out in a generation or two. Still,
things look pretty good.

On the other hand, you can make the case that the stupid fraction is
finally beginning to swamp the smart fraction. <a
href="http://www.nationaljournal.com/washington-inside-out/how-giving-1-000-to-every-baby-in-america-could-reduce-income-inequality-20140212"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Proof is right here in this
article</a>.

*It is called KidSave, and it was devised in the 1990s by then-Sen. Bob
Kerrey of Nebraska, with then-Sen. Joe Lieberman as cosponsor. The first
iteration of KidSave, in simple terms, was this: Each year, for every
one of the 4 million newborns in America, the federal government would
put $1,000 in a designated savings account. The payment would be
financed by using 1 percent of annual payroll-tax revenues. Then, for
the first five years of a child’s life, the $500 child tax credit would
be added to that account, with a subsidy for poor people who pay no
income. The accounts would be administered the same way as the federal
employees’ Thrift Savings Plan, with three options—low-, medium-, and
high-risk—using broad-based stock and bond funds. Under the initial
KidSave proposal, the funds could not be withdrawn until age 65, when,
through the miracle of compound interest, they would represent a hefty
nest egg. At 5 percent annual growth, an individual would have almost
**$700,000**.*

Basic math says the final number is off by 90%. The initial investment
of $3500 earning 5% over 60 years is $65,377.15, not $700,000.00. This
is math they used to teach in grammar school, but perhaps that is no
longer true. The author cannot claim a typo as he goes on and on about
how wonderful it is to give people this huge pile of cash. The author,
Norm Ornstein, has the following bio:

*He spent 30 years as an election-eve analyst for CBS News, until he
moved to be the on-air analyst for BBC News in 2012. For two decades,
prior to joining National Journal, he wrote a weekly column called
“Congress Inside Out” for Roll Call. He has written for The New York
Times, The Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, Foreign Affairs, and
other major publications, and regularly appears on television programs
like The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, Nightline, and Charlie Rose. At the
30th Anniversary party for The NewsHour, he was recognized as the most
frequent guest over the thirty years.*

Norm Ornstein is probably a great guy, a pillar of his community, but he
is not very good at math apparently. He has no credentials in economics
or finance. Sadly, he is unfamiliar with basic mathematical concepts
like compound interest calculations. Many people are bad at math and
struggle with basic concepts of economics and finance. I would assume
one of them is his editor. They have no business speaking publicly about
these subjects, but here he is doing just that.

The communications revolution has made it so the stupid can reach a wide
audience. TV is full of dimwits reading from a teleprompter things they
can never under stand. Much of that is written by people who are just as
dimwitted, but less telegenic. When most of the nation is getting their
information from the left side of the bell curve, the results will
eventually reflect that fact.
