---
title: "Unnatural Selection"
date: "2014-04-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1565"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1565"
---

In another post I mentioned the nuisance fraction. That’s the portion of
humanity, who mostly interfere with the orderly operation of society.
They are not criminals. They are merely dimwitted, reckless, careless,
inconsiderate and so forth. The ghetto has a high number of these
people. Go to a fast food joint near the ghetto and you find vibrant
people in line *not* ordering off the menu. They also require a separate
bag for each item and one of every free item available.

Anyway, there’s a lot of overlap with <a
href="http://minnesota.cbslocal.com/2014/04/21/put-down-the-phone-parents-it-could-be-affecting-your-kids/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this group</a>, the people who
are perpetually yapping on the phone. Probably 99% of cellular
communication is between two competing dimwits with nothing of value to
impart to the other. They just jibber-jabber at one another like
simpletons all day, every day. Look around when you are out in a public
and you see zombies staggering around either looking at their phone or
talking to another zombie about useless nonsense.

*Schutta says parents spend, on average, 11 hours a day using electronic
devices. All that time takes away from face to face communication, which
helps kids learn behavior.*

*“Kids in preschool and kindergarten are no longer as able to read
social cues from other human beings,” Schutta said. “That’s in part
because of their own media use and it’s in part because of their
parents’ media use, they’re just not getting that training.”*

*Too much time on technology can also leave an emotional impact on your
child, if you’re missing life moments for email.*

A popular item in the news is the person walking into traffic while
yapping on a mobile or texting on it. Putting aside the walking into
traffic stuff, people are paying $100 a month for the phone. That’s
$1200 a year after taxes. As the article points out, it also makes them
socially awkward. When you spend your life interacting with digital
representations of people, rather than real people, you lose the skill
to deal with real people in real life. Kids never develop it.

For most of human history, making it to adulthood was a big deal. Even
into relatively docile times like the middle ages, women lost a third of
their off-spring by adulthood. Into the industrial age, losing a kid or
two was not unusual. Therefore, the least physically fit rarely made it
long enough to breed. Even then, not having some value to society was a
good way to remain a bachelor. In other words, for men at least, you had
to have some status in order to pass on your DNA to the next generation.

Today, the stupid fat woman wandering into the street is saved by those
of us who know better. Even if she was hit, a smart team of doctors
would probably patch her up. A smart lawyer would get her a big
settlement from the insurance company. In a world in which labor is less
necessary, increasing the supply of
<a href="http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=epsilon"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">epsilons</a> will have
negative consequences. On the other hand, giving the state the power to
murder those they deem useless is never a good idea so I don’t think
there’s much to be done about it.

Regardless, we may have found a way to short-circuit a vital natural
process. Spend any time on Diversity Street and you see the challenge
straight away. It’s not that the stupid are breeding. It’s that a basket
full of traits antithetical to human progress are celebrated in a way
that turns natural selection on its head. If you are a woman adept at
turning generosity into a vice by scamming the welfare system, you can
have ten kids and live well. If you are a male with high violence
capital and a complete lack of social intelligence, you rise in status
and therefore breed like a rabbit.

If you want a glimpse of the future, head on down to Diversity Street
and imagine the folks you see wandering around your town, wearing Google
Glass or whatever wearable devise emerges in the next decade. That’s the
future. Millions of jabbering nitwits doing nothing more than planning
their next crime or their next opportunity to breed new nitwits. That
assumes, of course, that we are not eventually overwhelmed by stupid
people and foreign invaders.
