---
title: "Shit Ain’t Free"
date: "2014-08-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2530"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2530"
---

Stop if you heard this one before.  <a
href="http://bigstory.ap.org/article/have-insurers-found-new-ways-avoid-sick"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Stupid woman is shocked to
learn there is no free ride</a> – even from the government.

Ending insurance discrimination against the sick was a central goal of
the nation’s health care overhaul, but leading patient groups say that
promise is being undermined by new barriers from insurers.

First off, you cannot insure the sick. Insurance is a gamble. The
customer buys a policy believing they will use more health services than
they will pay in health insurance premiums. The other side of the
insurance bet is the insurance company. They are betting they will
charge you more than you cost them over the life of the policy. The
insurance company is almost always right about that bet. Otherwise, they
lose money and go out of business.

When you force them to insure people with known illnesses, they bake
those known costs into the premium. If they cannot, then they find other
ways to mitigate the costs, like not selling you a policy or jacking up
the rates on the healthy. Like all gambling propositions, the losers pay
the winners, while the house takes a piece.

*The insurance industry responds that critics are confusing legitimate
cost-control with bias. Some state regulators, however, say there’s
reason to be concerned about policies that shift costs to patients and
narrow their choices of hospitals and doctors.*

*With open enrollment for 2015 three months away, the Obama
administration is being pressed to enforce the Affordable Care Act’s
anti-discrimination provisions. Some regulations have been issued;
others are pending after more than four years.*

*More than 300 patient advocacy groups recently wrote Health and Human
Services Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell to complain about some insurer
tactics that “are highly discriminatory against patients with chronic
health conditions and may … violate the (law’s) nondiscrimination
provisions.”*

*Among the groups were the AIDS Institute, the American Lung
Association, Easter Seals, the Epilepsy Foundation, the Leukemia &
Lymphoma Society, the National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National
Kidney Foundation and United Cerebral Palsy. All supported the law.*

*Coverage of expensive drugs tops their concerns.*

Sure it is. People like free stuff. Men who spend their weekends in
bathroom stalls with strange men, contracting an incurable disease,
would love it if the rest of us had to pay for their treatments. People
who engage in risky behavior are more expensive to insure than people
who play it safe. In a sane world, the risky pay more while the prudent
pay less, but that’s not America. At the end of the piece we have this
gem.

*“People who have high cost health conditions are still having a problem
accessing care,” said law professor Timothy Jost of Washington and Lee
University in Virginia. “We are in the early stages of trying to figure
out what the problems are, and to what extent they are based on
insurance company discrimination, or inherent in the structure of the
program.”*

No, they have plenty of access to care. They are having trouble getting
someone else to pay for it.  When you believe you can defy the laws of
nature, deny the realities of the physical world and force everyone to
pretend your fantasies are reality, you are a probably insane. Many of
these people are insane or just stupid, but many are liars, who make
money getting us to pretend that fantasy is real.

Many of these people truly believe their is an unlimited, inexhaustible
supply of health care in the world. The only reason everyone is not
dipping their cup into the well of health care is the mean old health
insurance companies are guarding it. Like the hero who slays the dragon,
these people imagine themselves slaying the reality of health care so
everyone gets free medicine.
