---
title: "Racial Politics"
date: "2014-09-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2640"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2640"
---

In the 1970’s, Nixon began to win over southern whites to the GOP by
appealing to middle-class, suburban voters. The Left called the
“Southern Strategy” racist because that’s what they do, but it was
really just a strong defense of whites. In the face of the liberal
onslaught on whites, those southern whites out in the burbs started to
reconsider their long relationship with the Democrat Party. The Left
squealed about “code words” and racism, as they just assume all whites
in the South are racists. The fact is those early converts to the GOP
were the southern whites looking to close the books on segregation and
racial strife.

This argument carried on through the 80’s as the transformation of the
South from Democrat to Republican was completed. If you know your
Faulkner, Nixon converted the Compsons, while Reagan brought over the
Snopes clan.

In fairness, race did play a role. After the 60’s, urban blacks rioting
and looting became the face of disorder, the great enemy of the suburban
burghers who fled the city for the suburbs. In the 1970’s, many of those
people living in suburbia were there because their city neighborhoods
collapsed in the 1960’s. The liberal enthusiasm for mayhem was amplified
when they backed groups like the Panthers and the Nation of Islam.
Nixon’s appeals to law and order naturally carried with them the image
of the black rioter. He did not have to mention any of this. It was
simply understood.

The thing about the Left is they tend to go craziest when applying their
faults to their enemies. No one has cynically used race as a political
weapon like the American Left. LBJ built his career long before the
Civil Rights Movement on the back of race. He would appeal to blacks for
votes and then use that support to lever support from the Texas elite.
His cynical use of race as President still casts a shadow over the
nation. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was as much about funneling tax
money into the Democratic Party as anything else. It also made blacks a
reliable voting black that the party could take for granted.

<a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/dems-try-to-ride-ferguson-pogrom-to-senate-victory/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer</a> links to and
comments upon a <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/31/us/politics/at-risk-in-senate-democrats-seek-to-rally-blacks.html?hpw&amp;rref=us&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;version=HpHedThumbWell&amp;module=well-region&amp;region=bottom-well&amp;WT.nav=bottom-well&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">story in the NYTimes</a> about
how the Left is trying to use the Ferguson riot as a get out the vote
tool. It says something about our times when the Times can report on
something like this without bothering to notice the evil of it. The
banality of the report is what’s shocking.

*With their Senate majority imperiled, Democrats are trying to mobilize
African-Americans outraged by the shooting in Ferguson, Mo., to help
them retain control of at least one chamber of Congress for President
Obama’s final two years in office.*

*In black churches and on black talk radio, African-American civic
leaders have begun invoking the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson,
along with conservative calls to impeach Mr. Obama, as they urge black
voters to channel their anger by voting Democratic in the midterm
elections, in which minority turnout is typically lower.*

*“Ferguson has made it crystal clear to the African-American community
and others that we’ve got to go to the polls,” said Representative John
Lewis, Democrat of Georgia and a civil-rights leader. “You participate
and vote, and you can have some control over what happens to your child
and your country.”*

*The push is an attempt to counter Republicans’ many advantages in this
year’s races, including polls that show Republican voters are much more
engaged in the elections at this point — an important predictor of
turnout.*

What the Left is doing is encouraging blacks to riot. Think about that
for a second. Appealing to voters on the basis of civil order can be
racist, but it is not racist in itself. Order is what you must have in a
civil and sane society. The Left is turning this on its head and telling
their constituents that only through mayhem can they attain a civil and
sane society. “Burn baby, burn” is fine when you’re sacking the village.
It’s madness when it is *your* village.

*Mr. Lewis is headlining efforts to mobilize black voters in several
states with competitive Senate races, including Arkansas, Louisiana and
North Carolina. The drive is being organized by the Congressional Black
Caucus, in coordination with the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee. Other steps, such as recruiting N.B.A. players to help
register more African-Americans, are also underway.*

Anyone who has read and understands *Invisible Man* will be reminded of
the scene where the narrator examines the paper doll Clifton is selling.
The Sambo doll is a metaphor for the life of the narrator and for blacks
in America, maybe even the world. <a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CCAQFjAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FKwame_Nkrumah&amp;ei=O5EEVLD2CMfPggSeiIL4Bg&amp;usg=AFQjCNFuvWGRQF5EpS2aZ0TM0gMin7dsKA&amp;sig2=DEyvxMEAFWVeaTpfeVlPAg&amp;bvm=bv.74115972,d.eXY"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Kwame Nkrumah</a> was a fan of
the book and the metaphor. Specifically, whites manipulate blacks in the
same way a puppeteer manipulates the puppet. The point is to entertain
the patrons of the puppeteer. Mr. Lewis has volunteered to be the puppet
for this latest drive by SWPL-ville to keep their enemies at bay.

*While Democrats always seek to increase African-American turnout, that
they are taking such aggressive steps to rally their most loyal
constituency reflects the increasingly difficult landscape they face. In
recent weeks, seats in Colorado, Iowa and New Hampshire, once expected
to tilt toward the Democrats, have become more competitive. Mr. Obama’s
approval rating has tumbled below 40 percent in states with some of the
most competitive races, and Republicans already seem assured to win at
least three of the six seats they need to take back the Senate.*

*And the terrain is tricky: Many of the states where the black vote
could be most crucial are also those where Mr. Obama is deeply unpopular
among many white voters. So Democratic senators in places like Arkansas,
Louisiana and North Carolina must distance themselves from the nation’s
first African-American president while trying to motivate the black
voters who are his most loyal constituents.*

One of the fascinating things about the Left is the urge to commit
suicide. In the 1990’s, they looked at the Clinton model and rejected
it. The Clinton model was an old fashioned blend of agrarian populism
and high brow elitism. Clinton could mix it up with the ruling class,
but also hang out with the servant class. Reagan had this same quality,
but without the seedy grubbiness we got with the Clintons. Bubba was a
dirtbag who cleaned up well. Reagan was an aristocrat with the common
touch.

The Left hated this and worked to destroy it, even as it put the GOP in
the majority from 1994 through 2006. Obama was dumb luck. His team was
great at running two campaigns, but they got lucky with the perfect
candidate for the moment. Hillary would have won in 2008, but would have
lost in 2012. She would have been a better president than Obama, but she
lacks the unique appeal of Obama. Obama motivated the black vote in ways
no one else will do and he got the SWPL vote out writing checks.

The thing is, the Obama approach works once. It’s why his vote fell off
in 2012. You can only be the first black President one time. You can
only be the Progressive Messiah once. It’s not that the coalition that
supported Obama is temporary. It’s that its natural size is not enough
to win elections. Without some way to get these people infuriated enough
to vote in bulk, it is a loser hand. 2010 was a GOP blowout, despite the
fact even the most loyal Republican thinks the party is run by idiots.
2014 is looking like another blowout, even though the GOP is just a
little more popular than cancer.
