---
title: "A Bad Breakup?"
date: "2014-09-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2694"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2694"
---

It is wise to be skeptical about the Scottish independence stuff. One is
the polling showed the “No” vote winning handily. The funny thing about
polls is the first ones tend to be right or at least close to right. The
other reason is that it is hard to leave and there’s no obvious benefit.
If sticking with the UK keeps the welfare checks coming, that vote’s not
changing. If sticking with the UK secures the business interests, then
nationalism is not changing those minds either.

But, here we are a little over a week out and <a
href="http://www.scotsman.com/news/uk/scottish-independence-poll-puts-yes-in-lead-1-3533686"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">they say the “Yes” vote is now
in the lead</a>.

*THE YES CAMPAIGN is ahead in the Scottish referendum battle for the
first time, according to a poll, amid signs of infighting among senior
figures backing the union.*

*The YouGov research for the Sunday Times found 51% supported
independence, compared to 49% who wanted to remain in the UK.*

*The results are the latest evidence of a dramatic surge for the Yes
Scotland campaign, which has seen the gap between the sides – once
regularly in double digits – vanish in a matter of months.*

*The YouGov poll showed the Yes vote increasing by four points, while No
dropped by the same number.*

*The headline figures exclude those who would not vote or are undecided.
With those groups included independence was backed by 47% and staying in
the UK 45%.*

*The two point gap is within the margin of error for such polls, meaning
the contest, which climaxes on September 18, is effectively too close to
call.*

That’s not a big lead or even a lead, given the nature of polling, but
it has the elites worried all of a sudden. <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-09-06/scottish-independence-poll-puts-separatists-ahead-at-51-.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This Bloomberg story</a> says
the Brits are now offering bribes to swing the vote their way.

*Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said a program to hand more
powers to the Scottish Parliament if Scots vote No, offering Edinburgh
more control over taxes, public spending and social policy, will be
announced in the “next few days” as the London government responds to
the shift in the polls. Talks are still ongoing on the detail of the
proposal, his office said.*

*“It’s clear that Scotland wants more control over the decisions that
affect Scotland,” Osborne said in a televised BBC interview. “The
timetable for delivering that will be put into effect the moment there
is a ‘no’ vote in the referendum. Then Scotland will have the best of
both worlds. They will both avoid the risks of separation but have more
control over their own destiny, which is where I think many Scots want
to be.”*

Just in case that’s not enough, the increasingly ridiculous Prime
Minister says <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-09-05/cameron-warns-of-terrorist-threat-if-scotland-backs-independence.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the Scots will be killed by
Muslims</a> if they vote for independence.

*Scotland will be more vulnerable to terrorist attacks in a “very
dangerous and insecure world” if it votes for independence on Sept. 18,
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said.*

*Being part of a union gives Scots the protective benefits of being part
of a larger country, Cameron told reporters at the end of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s summit in Newport, Wales, yesterday.*

*“With terrorist threats and other threats, isn’t it better to be part
of a United Kingdom that has a top-five defense budget, some of the best
intelligence and security services anywhere in the world, that is part
of every single alliance that really matters in the world in terms of
NATO, the G-8, the G-20, the European Union, a member of the security
council of the UN?” Cameron said. “All those networks and abilities to
work with allies to keep us safe. Isn’t it better to have those things
than separate yourself from them?”*

It’s oddly comforting to know that it is not just America with the
idiotic scare mongering about Jihadis. It is a safe bet that ISIS does
not give a damn about Scotland. They have bigger fish to fry. Further,
the civilized world is not going to tell the Scots to pound sand if they
ask for help with rooting terrorists out of their golf courses.

The best argument for hoping the Scots vote for independence is all the
worst people are against it. The cult of economics swears the gods will
reign terror upon us if the Scots vote for independence. All of the
major parties in Britain are against it. The kleptocrats in Brussels are
against it. When just about every loathsome creature on earth is against
something, it is tempting to be for it. Admittedly, that’s not a great
reason to be in favor of something.
