---
title: "Ivan Getting Smarter"
date: "2014-04-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1550"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1550"
---

There’s an old saying about the military always preparing to fight the
last war. Usually when you hear it is from a retired military guy on TV
criticizing something. If only the military had listened to guys like
him they would not be in whatever mess they are current in at the
moment. There’s another side to it, of course. Sometimes, a nation will
learn from a war they were not involved. <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/apr/20/tactical-advantage-russian-military-shows-off-impr/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">We see that with the
Russians</a>.

*Elite Russian troops are displaying a new arsenal of body armor,
individual weapons, armor-piercing ammunition and collar radios — a menu
of essential gear that gives them a big tactical advantage against a
lesser-equipped [Ukrainian
army](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/ukrainian-army/).*

*If President [Vladimir
Putin](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/vladimir-putin/) orders an
invasion, the new-generation body armor, in particular, would provide
exceptional protection against small arms if Russian troops go street by
street to capture Kiev and other cities.*

*“What we saw and what was dangled in front of the West was a clear
indication that
[Putin](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/vladimir-putin/) is on a
roll,” retired U.S. Army [Maj. Gen. Robert
Scales](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-scales/) said. “It
just seems to me from watching the films that their arrows are pointing
up and ours are sadly pointing down.”Weapons specialists such as [Gen.
Scales](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-scales/) have been
studying images of Spetsnaz, Russia’s ubiquitous special forces, and
airborne troops since they conquered the Crimea region and mobilized to
strike eastern
[Ukraine](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/ukraine/).*

*What they see are the fruits of a modernization plan begun in 2008, not
just in tanks and vehicles but all the way down to the individual
warrior. Russia now has the world’s third-highest defense budget, at
over $70 billion.*

*“They’ve got better equipment than they had five years ago,” said
[Scott Traudt](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/scott-traudt/), an
executive with Green Mountain, a Vermont gun manufacturer. “They’ve got
new grenade launchers that are awesome. The helmets are better than our
helmets. The body armor is better than our body armor. They’re doing a
lot of things right. I’m pretty amazed at it.”*

The Russians watched how American forces were able to overcome
insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan. Superior equipment allowed for
superior tactics. Instead of hunting bad guys from choppers as the
Russians did in Afghanistan, the Americans could get up close and
personal. Having body armor, advanced electronics and coordinated
assets, the superior warrior could go right at the insurgents, without
getting into a war of attrition. In Fallujah the kill ratio was 50:1.

Russian military tactics have always been a reflection of their history.
The <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soviet_deep_battle"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">deep battle</a> philosophy
developed by the Soviets was a sort of punch-counter-punch approach to
war. Big sweeping victories were not the aim. Rather, the premium was on
holding territory, while putting pressure on the enemy. For a country
that always looked at their people as a surplus, it made some sense. In
modern mobile warfare where holding strategic assets is the key to
victory, this is not a useful strategy.

[*Mr. Traudt*](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/scott-traudt/) *is
paying special attention to the body armor because it presents a big
challenge to rifle and munition makers. It might be able to deflect
NATO’s basic 5.56 mm rifle round. If so, Ukrainian soldiers face a
daunting task because their AK-74 assault rifles fire a similar
munition.*

*The Russians, in their new 6B43 model body armor, issued chest and back
plates made of titanium and hard carbide boron ceramics.*

*“The stuff they have is impervious to 5.56, whereas our body armor is
not completely proven against their weapons,” [Gen.
Scales](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-scales/) said.[Gen.
Scales](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-scales/) said the
Russians carry AK-74s whose magazine is loaded with 5.45 “steel core”
ammunition — a round that on April 8 the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives banned from importation because the agency
deemed it armor-piercing.*

*[Gen. Scales](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-scales/)
described the 5.45 as “extremely lethal against any kind of body
armor.”*

*While some national leaders focus on big defense issues, [Mr.
Putin](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/vladimir-putin/) has taken
a personal interest in one of the smallest: the rifle. Last year, his
government consolidated rifle manufacturing into one new firm, the
Kalashnikov Corp., named after the AK’s famous inventor, Mikhail
Kalashnikov.*

*“[Putin](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/vladimir-putin/)
actually goes out and shoots these things,” [Gen.
Scales](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/robert-scales/) said.*

*U.S. soldiers have complained that their main rifle and round, the M4
carbine and its 5.56, lacked lethality in Afghanistan against a Taliban
enemy that does not often wear body armor. Without a shot to the head,
the enemy could take several 5.56 hits and keep going, soldiers said in
surveys.*

*“If the Russians are coming across mechanized, with airborne and
infantry units wearing their body armor, it basically means the
Ukrainian rifles have no ability to penetrate the body armor worn by the
Russian troops, meaning you’re talking about having to shoot somebody
six, seven, eight times, in the chest,” [Mr.
Traudt](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/scott-traudt/) said.
“They’re going to get bumped, but there’s no lethality involved.”*

I think it is far to assume Ivan has been watching the Americans and
learning for the last decade. Instead of rolling in tanks and blowing
stuff up to intimidate the enemy, they will be looking to seize
strategic assets and neutralize the enemy fighters. Given the
ideological drift, the goal will not be the conquest of Ukraine, but
neutralization. If they can provoke a conflict, they can seize the
Russian speaking regions and then gut the Ukrainian military. That
effectively ends this drama.
