---
title: "Preemptive Strike Against The Race Charge"
date: "2014-03-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1273"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1273"
---

Kevin Williamson is not an honest person. At least he is not an honest
writer, which does not make him extraordinary. Honestly in professional
writing is a sure way to become an amateur writer. Publications like
National Review are hoping to persuade people to a particular position.
They are most concerned with rich people, who give them money for
writing the things rich people like reading. As a result, the writers
there are forced to make up <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/373474/asian-american-vs-african-american-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">nonsense like this</a>.

*A lefty friend once asked me whether **I thought I held any
subconsciously racist opinions**. One should always be on the lookout
for one’s own intellectual and moral defects, so I’ve been thinking
about it, and I have a possible candidate: As I suggest in my NRO piece
today, “Asian-American” seems to me to be an obviously nonsensical
category, because it includes people of origins ranging from Pakistani
to Japanese. But “African-American” has never seemed immediately
nonsensical to me in the same way. This may be because I know a little
bit more about Asia than I do about Africa, or it may be because Indians
and Koreans strike my white American eye as obviously and visibly
different in a way that is not true of members of many African groups.
**It should go without saying that I detest racism**, and it is also the
case that racial and ethnic feeling, even of the benign, St. Patrick’s
Day variety, seems to me atavistic and primitive. My self-analysis here
is not meant to be taken as normative, but rather an examination of the
semi-subconscious impressions of what I believe to be a fairly typical
middle-class white guy from Texas.*

The new religion has made race awareness into mortal moral sin. if you
notice anything about racial or ethnic differences, even the most
innocuous things, you will be marked as a racist, and no one wants that.
The ridiculous bit of squid ink in the first paragraph is a good
example. It is absurd to think that Kevin Williamson is losing any sleep
over his “subconscious racism.” In fact, even people who are dedicated
anti-racists are not worrying about their subconscious racism. It’s just
an act.

***While I don’t buy the race-as-a-social-construct position entirely**,
there is a great deal of cultural specificity to racial perception.
Surely I am not the only white American guy in the history of the world
to meet a Somali or an Ethiopian and have his brain simultaneously
register “black” and “not black.” And I believe that that is the real
psychological fault line for white Americans: not white vs. not-white
but black vs. not-black. Ethiopia, Wikipedia informs me, recognizes more
than 80 different ethnic groups on its census and, for whatever reason,
members of some of those groups only push some of the buttons of
perception associated in my particular brain with “black.” I think it
probably says something about the culture that at some level my mind
really wants to make that distinction in absolute terms. We all know
that Barack Obama has one black parent and one white parent, but my
impression is that people generally look at him and see black, rather
than biracial.*

This is akin to saying “I don’t buy this gravity-as-a-social-construct
position entirely” while tossing a ball into the air. In fact, the
concept of the “social construct” is really just hand waving. The term
was invented by people who no longer wanted to deal with facts and
reason. Regardless, race is real.There is a reason we can use a mouth
swab and tell the origin of your ancestors. In some cases, their origin
can be plotted on a map with great accuracy. This says race and
ethnicity are in your DNA.

*The fundamental fact, I think, is that when a white American sees a
black American, he sees history, and that history looms far more
significantly over black Americans than it does over Hispanics or Asian
immigrants or other minority groups. Conservatives see that history and
generally don’t want to think about it; progressives see that history
and want to use it for their own political ends. And I don’t have the
imaginative capacity to guess what the view looks like from the black
perspective. In that sense, it’s hard for me to believe that black-white
relations in the United States will ever be normalized, as much as I
wish it were otherwise. The fact that “black” exists in my internal
taxonomy as a unitary and exclusive category — even though at some
rational level I know better — suggests to me that while “Asian” maybe
be only a geographic term in the American political mind, “African” is a
very different kind of term, one that has more to do with realities on
this continent than realities in Africa.*

This is the least ridiculous portion of the post. He is right that
people with a long history with one another tend to remember that long
history with one another. This is true in the same way that people who
have evolved here on earth tend to look like us. Armenians and Turks
will forever have opinions about one another that outsiders will never
fully appreciate, because of their long history together. The same is
true of Jews and Europeans, but not true of Jews and Samoans.

Of course, the whole post is made up nonsense. It is an effort to
inoculate himself against future changes of bad think. He’s not the
smartest guy in the world, but he is a not a dullard, so he sure knows
the truth about race and biology. Instead of writing that, he makes up
this stuff that no doubt makes the donors happy and lets his masters on
the Left know he is not having unapproved thoughts. The fact that this
stuff never works is not what’s important. he thinks it works and that’s
what counts.
