---
title: "The Pod People"
date: "2014-03-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1310"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1310"
---

One of my themes is how the people ruling America look like Americans,
make noises like Americans, but are nothing like Americans. Our rulers
are act like how aliens would think human rulers would act. They studied
our television broadcasts and made some visits, before training
themselves to play the part of human rulers. As a result, everyday on
earth, some starts noticing things and it goes like this.

Now, I don’t think aliens have taken over the country. Aliens would not
be so foolish and stupid. If you can master interstellar travel, you’re
going to have no trouble running a currency or negotiating with Putin.
No, our rulers are human. They just work extra hard to be nothing like
those over whom they rule. As Pat Buchanan noted decades ago, we may be
the first country in history whose ruling elites hate the nation over
whom they rule. A good example of it is in <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/03/21/White-House-Leads-Liberal-Media-In-Matt-Drudge-Attack"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this hilarious Drudge
story</a>.

*A White House aide set off a stampede of liberal media criticism for
Internet news pioneer Matt Drudge over Obamacare – but his critics don’t
seem to understand how small businesses pay taxes.*

*The brouhaha started when Drudge tweeted, “Just paid the Obamacare
penalty for not ‘getting covered’… I’M CALLING IT A LIBERTY TAX.”*

*Jesse Lee, the Director of Progressive Media at Barack Obama’s White
House, responded that that was a “Flat lie, no fee for previous year,”
adding, “Scary how much influence he once had.”*

*Lee’s response to Drudge set off a firestorm in the liberal media, with
many mainstream media and left-wing reporters countering him on Twitter
and in their own articles to claim he does not have to pay Obamacare’s
Individual Mandate tax until next year. The individual mandate went into
effect Jan. 1 of this year, and most people paying their taxes right now
are paying taxes for 2013.*

*“Dude, there’s no penalty until next yr,” Sahil Kapur of the leftwing
Talking Points Memo tweeted.*

*Kapur’s colleague at TPM Dylan Scott wrote a full story with a headline
alleging Drudge was “probably lying.”*

*“Americans don’t pay a penalty for not having health insurance until
they file their 2014 taxes — in 2015,” Scott wrote. “So either Drudge is
lying or he paid a huge penalty a year earlier than he needed to.”*

*“Penalty isn’t collected until 2015,” Sam Baker of National Journal
tweeted at Drudge.*

*The Huffington Post’s Jeffrey Young wrote a full article in which he
described Drudge’s tweet as “weird” and a “little head-scratching”
because the Obamacare tax does not kick in until the 2014 tax year.*

*Drudge indicated in his followup tweets that since he is self-employed
as the proprietor of The Drudge Report, he files as a small business.
According to the IRS’s website for self-employed individuals, they are
required to pay taxes quarterly.*

*“As a self-employed individual, generally you are required to file an
annual return and pay estimated tax quarterly,” the IRS website reads.*

*So, when they file and pay those 2014 first quarter taxes, such
individuals have to pay the Obamacare Individual Mandate tax if they
opted to not have health insurance—like Drudge just did.*

These people going after Drudge not only have never signed the front of
a paycheck, they have no idea how taxes even work. They take their
“stuff” to an accountant, who does all the work. It is not just the hard
core liberals. It’s the whole ruling class. After all, if they want to
know something about taxes, they will call a buddy from the BLS or Cato
to give them something clever sounding to say on the issue. The mundane
task of actually <a
href="http://images.nymag.com/images/2/daily/2010/09/20100903_geithner_250x375.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">complying with the tax code is
for the little people</a>.

Up until the last couple of generations, all but the idle rich
experienced real work in the private sector and they had experiences
with the other classes. Maybe it was public schools or a stint in the
military. Even playing sports gave kids a chance to rub elbows with
other classes. Most upper middle-class kids got summer jobs, which was
another way to mix it up with people outside their daily experience. the
result was a somewhat classless society, in that people were united
culturally.

That started to change when the Baby Boomer kids hit their teenage
years. The upper middle-class kids stopped getting summer jobs and
instead took trips to Europe or maybe interned somewhere swanky. Then
this trickled down to the middle classes, as the migrants took up the
jobs kids use to do. Of course, the segregation of public schools along
class lines and the demographics of the military have made it more
unusual for the classes to mix together.

The result, over the last few decades, is a ruling elite with little
knowledge of what Americans do every day. How could they? They’ve never
done any of these things. The people in the media prove their worth by
displaying their cultural ignorance. Like braying asses, they make lots
of noise in order to get the attention of their masters, not the
audience for whom they allegedly work. Mainstream news organizations
live entirely on charity,
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carlos_Slim"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">either the largess of
patrons</a> or through the cable bill.

We are now ruled by stranger that hate us.
