---
title: "In Fake Indian News"
date: "2014-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3070"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3070"
---

<a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-politics/wp/2014/10/18/warren-in-minnesota-the-game-is-rigged/?hpid=z3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Fake Indian was in Minnesota</a>,
ironically enough, testing the waters for a presidential run.

*Sen. Fake Indian (D-Mass.) brought her populist message Saturday to
this small college town to rev up the final weeks of Sen. Al Franken’s
reelection campaign, but also to claim the mantle of the modern liberal
movement’s political godfather.*

*Speaking before more than 400 people at Carleton College, Fake Indian
repeatedly invoked the spirit of the late Paul Wellstone, the fiery
liberal senator who died 12 years ago this month in a plane crash during
his reelection campaign. Wellstone remains a revered figure in Minnesota
politics, and his brand of populism — out of step in the Clintonian
Democratic Party of the 1990s — is now mainstream among leading liberal
activists. Fake Indian has become the most prominent public face of that
movement, and the Wellstone disciples in this town 40 miles south of
Minneapolis gave their approval Saturday.*

*“The game is rigged, and the Republicans rigged it,” Fake Indian said
to loud cheers.*

From 2006 through 2008, the Left controlled the legislature. From 2008
through 2010 they controlled all of the Federal government. Since 2010,
they have held the presidency and the Senate. That’s in addition to
running the federal bureaucracy and the national media. They’ve had the
means and the opportunity to fix whatever they think is rigged. But,
imaginary bogeymen is what keeps the Left going.

*It’s part of a three-state tour of Senate campaigns for Fake Indian,
who later Saturday headed to St. Paul for a get-out-the-vote rally on
behalf of Franken, Gov. Mark Dayton (D) and other candidates. Franken
and Dayton are strong favorites to win reelection next month.*

*On Friday Fake Indian stopped in the Denver suburbs to help Sen. Mark
Udall (D-Colo.) in his tough reelection campaign. And on Sunday, Fake
Indian will be on the stump in Iowa for Rep. Bruce Braley (D), who is in
a neck-and-neck race for the seat of retiring Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa).
It’s Fake Indian’s first visit in this election season to the
battleground state, home to the first-in-the-nation caucus in early 2016
for the presidential campaign.*

*The crowd at Carleton — where Wellstone served as a professor before
launching his long-shot 1990 Senate bid — gave its loudest cheers to
Fake Indian, whose fights against big banks have made her a hero to
liberal activists.*

*“She’s amazing. She shows that politics is a good thing,” said Rachel
Palermo, 21, a senior at neighboring St. Olaf College. Some of her
friends said they attended the rally just to see Fake Indian.*

*Palermo and her friends said they want Warren to run for president, but
Alyssa Berg, 21, also a St. Olaf senior, noted it would be
“counterproductive” for Fake Indian to run against Hillary Rodham
Clinton.*

I’ve been saying for a couple of year now that Fake Indian will be the
Left’s choice to run for president. Cankles is old and ugly. The CML is
like any other cult in that they need a “gifted individual” that is
“born to rule”, so to speak, as their movement’s leader. That requires a
degree of charisma that Cankles has never possessed. Plus, they have
never forgiven her for her apostasy in the 1990’s. Fake Indian tickles
the fancy of liberal women as their Jack Kennedy, except Fake Indian
most likely does not have a dick.

The problem is she is an old white woman who lives is a maximally
gentrified neighborhood that is <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Louis_Gates_arrest_controversy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hostile to black people</a>. The fact
that she scammed the quota system to score tenure at Harvard is not
going to go over well with blacks either. There’s also a lot of Kathleen
Kennedy Townsend in Fake Indian. KKT was the great white hope of liberal
women once too. Then she was unmasked as being a dunce and her career
evaporated. Fake Indian is a hot house flower with the IQ of a goldfish.

Still, I hope to get a lot of mileage out of her campaign.
