---
title: "America’s Colonial Class"
date: "2014-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2268"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2268"
---

I’m fond of saying that America has been colonized by pod people. They
look like us and they make noises that sound like us, but they are not
us. They are, at the minimum, foreign and alien. They don’t want what we
want. They don’t love what we love and they don’t see the world as we
see it. Our political class may as well be from Kenya or Indonesia. They
look at us like foreigners in our own lands. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/13/opinion/sunday/congress-must-act-to-help-children-crossing-the-border.html?ref=opinion&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This editorial from the
Times</a> is a good example.

*There is a reasonable way to confront the influx of Central American
children at the southern border, and the White House is getting it
mostly right.*

No rational person believes this. You have to be divorced from reality
to think the White House is handling this well. Yet, the lunatics at the
NYTimes print such nonsense without even bothering to acknowledge the
alternative.

*It has asked Congress for $3.7 billion in emergency funds to pay for
more immigration judges, for legal assistance to children and parents,
and to help care for tens of thousands of children in shelters in Texas
and elsewhere.*

*The request seeks more money for the Border Patrol, and for speedier
prosecutions and deportations of adults with children, repatriating
migrants and addressing causes fueling the exodus in El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras. And it includes an ad campaign to urge parents
there to keep their children at home.*

*The request would be a good step toward tackling the problem, though it
should have included much more for immigration lawyers and humanitarian
aid, and less for agents and drones at the border. Congress should
swiftly approve it, since it contains pretty much everything that
lawmakers — even President Obama’s Republican critics — have been
demanding.*

*But instead of supporting the package, Republicans are throwing up
roadblocks. And through dangerous overreaction, some are urging actions
that would make the situation worse. They want to make the children’s
deportations speedier by amending or repealing the Trafficking Victims
Protection Reauthorization Act, a 2008 law signed by President George W.
Bush that gave new legal and humanitarian protections to unaccompanied
migrant children from countries other than Mexico or Canada.*

If this were posted to the Onion, you would not have to change a word of
it. These people really believe this stuff. In order to believe such
nonsense, you cannot be living in America and keeping tabs on the news.
That, or you are suffering from mental illness. Yet, these people are in
charge of our country. How is this different from the attitudes of the
French royal class during the reign of Louis XVI?

The Red Team keeps chanting about how the solution to immigration begins
with securing the border. That’s self-delusion. We face the dilemma
colonized people have always faced. The solution begins with buying the
wood for the gallows to be built on the Mall in Washington. It’s only
then that we have truly faced up to what we have to do to fix our
country.
