---
title: "The Madness of Jim Geraghty"
date: "2014-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3004"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3004"
---

Jim Geraghty is one of the many grifters who posts at NRO. He has a
special place on the site, which suggests a quid pro quo of some sort.
His blog is lightly read and rarely commented upon so I can’t believe
they are paying him. But, someone is paying him, unless he married a
rich women. He has been banging the drum for conservatives to stop
“sulking” and come out to support the various bowls of mush GOP Inc. is
offering up this November. He’s been peddling the old lines from the
70’s like the “Buckley Rule” which dates back to the 60’s.

William F. Buckley was asked, in 1967, whom he would support in 1968 for
U.S. president. Buckley responded with what would late be called the
‘Buckley Rule” for ***primary voting***: “The wisest choice would be the
one who would win. No sense running Mona Lisa in a beauty contest. I’d
be for the most right, viable candidate who could win. If you could
convince me that Barry Goldwater could win, I’d vote for him.”

You’ll note his aphorism is about the primaries. I’ll note that no one
bothered to quote this line until the Bush years. That’s when GOP Inc
started labeling their bowls of mush “Bill Buckley Approved” and
repeating this line, omitting the bit about the primary. Buckley never
advocated merely voting for the least liberal option in the general. I
have no recollection of him addressing it. If one party offered up a
rapist who is a communist and the other party offered up a child
molester who was a libertarian, I doubt Bill Buckley would have argued
you had a duty to support the child molester.

Anyway, Jim seems to have figured out these old lines about voting for
the least awful option were not convincing anyone. He has been given <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/campaign-spot/389976/do-conservatives-fear-winning-elections-wont-make-real-difference-jim-geraghty"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">new instructions</a>. Now, not voting
means the terrorists have won.

*Take your pick; there’s no shortage of things to be outraged about.
Hundreds of millions wasted on state insurance exchanges that don’t
work. The IRS abuses. Lois Lerner, refusing to answer questions from
Congress. No one at the State Department getting fired over the security
decisions leading up to Benghazi. Assurances about Ebola that don’t pan
out.*

*Republicans are ‘blah’ about the midterms because they’ve lost faith
that winning them will make a difference. Obama’s contempt for Congress,
and lack of interest in working with it on his true priorities, is
obvious. He’s pledged to unilaterally rewrite immigration enforcement to
suit his needs. Large chunks of Obamacare are adjusted, nullified,
improvised, and revised on the fly with no change to the written law.
The president begins wars without waiting for any authorization for the
use of military force. The U.S. attorney general is held in contempt of
Congress with no real consequence.*

*No one can blame conservatives for being frustrated to the point of
fury. But if American rank-and-file conservatives and Republicans
conclude that the game is rigged, that it’s not worth playing, and
withdraw from political life . . . then that will be the ultimate
triumph of this president.*

Got that? if you accept reality for what it is, the bad guys win.
Therefore, the only moral choice is to keep marching off to support a
political party that despises you and wants you dead. The only thing
missing in these missives is “or else” thrown in to make the point.

I’ll grant that Jim is never going to bite the hand that feeds him. He
makes his living carrying water for the GOP. But, there comes a point
when the sales pitch is not working and further attempts crass into
insult. This post is insulting. The GOP’s troubles are the fault of the
GOP, not Obama or the system. Even M<a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2014/10/09/huckabee-threatens-to-leave-gop-over-gay-marriage-abortion/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ike Huckleberry has lost patience</a>
with his party and he is probably going to run for the nomination.

Meanwhile over in England <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/politics/blog/live/2014/oct/10/ukip-wins-clacton-byelection-and-comes-close-second-in-heywood-reaction-politics-live-blog"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">UKIP keeps gaining ground</a>…
