---
title: "The Soviet States of America"
date: "2014-04-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1424"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1424"
---

Way back in my youth, I got a close up look at Progressivism. This was
back in the early Reagan years when I was a part time employee for a
Congressman. I was just a kid and a nobody, but the wife of the rep took
a liking to me and that gave me the run of the place, so to speak. I
used to have lunch with the Congressman two or three days a week. He was
a nice man, but about as interesting as vanilla ice cream. That’s true
of every elected official I met in Washington. privately, they were very
dull.

The interesting people were the aides and activists. The ones on the
Right were full of excitement about finally turning back the liberal
tide. Even as a kid, I thought they were delusional, but they were fun.
On the other hand, the old liberals defending the status quo were scary.
They were deadly serious and ideology was everything. These were not
people interested in free and open debate. They wanted to win and they
were not interested in free-thinkers or critics in their midst.

The lesson I have carried with me ever since is this. Unless and until
the Right comes to terms with what they are facing, America is doomed.
These are not people with whom you can reason or compromise. They are
fanatics. More important, their fanaticism transcends any sense of
propriety. They will use any means necessary to destroy anyone who is
seen as an obstacle. These are evil people who exist to undermines their
host societies, which they loath and detest with all of their being.

The Bush years cured me of any hope for the American Right. Nice people
in many cases. The problem is they are all like Jonah Goldberg. They
make wonderful arguments in defense of civilization. They are often very
good at warding off the zombie attacks from the Left. Their defect is
they think the Left is just a bunch of people mistaken on matters of
fact or reason. That’s not the case. The Left is a cult of lunatics no
different from Islam. There’s no reasoning with them.

Until civilized people take the same view of the cult that sprung up on
Rue Saint-Jacques, civilization is doomed. Maybe that’s starting to
happen. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/375138/liberal-gulag-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This column by Kevin
Williamson on NRO</a>, of all places, takes an unvarnished view of the
death cult running the culture.

*The convocation of clowns on the left screeched with one semi-literate
and inchoate voice when my colleague Jonah Goldberg, borrowing the
precise words of one of their own, titled a book [Liberal
Fascism](http://www.nationalreview.com/redirect/amazon.p?j=0385511841).
Most of them didn’t read it, but the ones who did apparently took what
was intended as criticism and read it as a blueprint for political
action.*

*Welcome to the Liberal Gulag.*

*That term may be perverse, but it is not an exaggeration. Mr. Weinstein
specifically called for political activists, ranging from commentators
to think-tank researchers, to be locked in cages as punishment for their
political beliefs. “Those denialists should face jail,” he wrote. “You
still can’t” — banality alert! — “yell ‘fire’ in a crowded theater. You
shouldn’t be able to yell ‘balderdash’ at 10,883 scientific journal
articles a year.” “Balderdash” — a felony. At the risk of being
repetitious, let’s dwell on that for a minute: The Left is calling on
people to be prosecuted for speaking their minds regarding their beliefs
on an important public-policy question that is, as a political matter,
the subject of hot dispute. That is the stuff of Soviet repression.*

*But then Soviet-style repression has long been a dream of the American
Left. Consider the abuses of psychiatry that were the great hallmark of
the Soviet way, and then consider that there is a cottage industry today
among [left-wing
psychiatrists](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Altemeyer) arguing that
conservative political views represent a form of mental disorder. That
psychiatric approach to suppressing dissent has spread quickly through
the intellectual sewers of the Left, with writers everywhere from Daily
Kos to Salon diagnosing instances of “RWA” — right-wing authoritarian —
disorder among their political rivals. Robert Altemeyer, the father of
this asinine school of so-called thought,  denies that there exists such
a thing as a left-wing authoritarian.*

*If Mr. Weinstein’s preferred method of enforcing intellectual
conformity — coercion through state violence — seems extreme, consider
that the jihad against Brendan Eich of Mozilla was no simple exercise in
the operations of civil society. (Even if it were, it still would have
been wrong; it is not as though social pressure cannot be put to
illiberal and contemptible ends, something that gay-rights activists, of
all people, should appreciate.) Mr. Weinstein’s victims of state
repression are only hypothetical; Mr. Eich is a victim of state
suppression in fact. His donation of $1,000 to a Proposition 8 group was
made public through the commission of a crime by political powers —
namely, the leaking of confidential IRS data to left-wing groups by
their sympathizers within the agency. The leak was not intended to
destroy Mr. Eich but rather to destroy Mitt Romney’s presidential
campaign; Mr. Eich is nonetheless entitled to expect justice from the
Department of Justice. Congress believes that it knows [who the leaker
is](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/362667/investigation-ids-irs-leaker-eliana-johnson);
but he has not been, and almost certainly will not be, prosecuted for
his crimes. The reason for that is that the current management of the
Department of Justice sympathizes with his political positions and does
not wish to intervene to prevent the abuse — at the hands of government
officials — of those it regards as its political enemies.*

I’ve mentioned a few times that the Obama administration has been doing,
with reckless abandon, what Nixon was merely accused of doing, in the
<a href="http://watergate.info/impeachment/articles-of-impeachment"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">articles of impeachment</a>
drawn up by Congress. If you want to measure how far down the pit we
have fallen, ponder that for a second. Nixon was forced out because he
contemplated doing that which we associated with authoritarianism.
Today, the mass media celebrates a President using the IRS as a
political weapon, conducting political prosecutions, spying on the
citizens and refusing to enforce the people’s laws.

Williamson is mostly a faker, so no one should think he is anything but
posing here or that the Right is starting wise up. The only way to dig
out the fanatics from the culture is through the rough methods of
revolution. I don’t see that happening. Instead, we will stagger on
toward a soft, feminine authoritarianism. Heretics will be exiled to the
fringes of life, but not thrown into camps. A sort or weird and
semi-violent Shakerism among whites will eventually give way to a Latin
authoritarianism as the white population is over run my Hispanic
peasants from the south.
