---
title: "Cop Land"
date: "2014-09-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2677"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2677"
---

Suburban white people tend to think criticisms of cops are either
suicidal liberalism or libertarian idealism. The reason is suburban
white people tend to have a vastly different experience with the cops
than downscale whites and minorities. That’s a changing reality as more
and more suburbanites have their dogs shot by storm troopers raiding the
wrong house, but there’s always a lag in these things.

The Conventional Right tends to side with the cops, but the libertarian
insurgency may be changing that a little. The Ferguson shooting was
remarkable not in how the Left cynically tried to exploit it, but in how
many on the Right jumped to criticize the warrior cop stuff. The thing
is, the Right really should not be so quick to side with the cops, as 
cops and their unions are constantly agitating for more money, less
work, more benefits, more protections, etc.

The worst aspect of it is the cops work hard to avoid accountability. <a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-many-americans-the-police-kill-each-year/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> in 538 is a
good example of how the cops undermine their credibility.

*Efforts to keep track of “justifiable police homicides” are beset by
systemic problems. “Nobody that knows anything about the SHR puts
credence in the numbers that they call ‘justifiable homicides,’” when
used as a proxy for police killings, said David Klinger, an associate
professor of criminology and criminal justice at the University of
Missouri who specializes in policing and the use of deadly force. And
there’s no governmental effort at all to record the number of
unjustifiable homicides by police. If Brown’s homicide is found to be
unjustifiable, it won’t show up in these statistics.*

Not counting how often cops shoot people is inexcusable. Forty years ago
every round fired from a state issued firearm was logged. It was
standard operating procedure for police departments to have cops check
their firearms in at the station when their shift was over each day. A
cop discharging his firearm could expect to fill out a lot of reports
and answer a lot of questions. Today, when we have much better tools for
documenting this stuff, we do less of it. The ATF, of all people,
routinely <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/02/stray-dogs-how-atf-agents-lose-their-guns/284106/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">lose their own service
weapons</a>.

Like so much of what haunts our age, the cop problem is not staying in
the ghetto. The news has a stories every day about cops doing something
nuts in the suburbs. Whether or not that will change the politics of the
issue is a mystery to me. My sense is it will not as the suburbs are now
littered with traffic cameras and soon will have drones buzzing around.
Having a fat mental defect pushing around soccer moms in the burbs is
probably going to face little resistance.
