---
title: "Chav Ball Ratings"
date: "2014-07-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2235"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2235"
---

<a
href="http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/live-feed/world-cup-ratings-265-million-718324?"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The ratings for the Chav Ball
Final</a> are in for the US market.

*The full global tally is still a ways off, but the World Cup finished
strong with U.S. viewers.*

*Capping off a record-breaking run for the FIFA tournament’s 2014 stay
in Brazil, Sunday’s final between Germany and Argentina averaged 17.3
million viewers on ABC. Compared to the network’s total for the 2010
final in South Africa, the match was up 1.8 million viewers.*

*ABC, carrying ESPN’s coverage, was not the only network to air the
game. Univision’s Spanish-language coverage also boasted a considerable
showing with 9.2 million viewers. That’s up a shade from the 2010
final.*

*Looking at just the ABC-ESPN combo, the game stands as the
third-most-watched soccer game in U.S. TV history. The U.S. match with
Portugal set a new record several weeks ago with 18.2 million viewers,
edging past No. 2: the the 1999 FIFA Women’s World Cup final  at 17.98
million viewers.*

*For a final, this marks the most watched men’s World Cup championship
game with U.S. viewers. And all told, ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC improved their
combined World Cup showing by 39 percent over 2010, bringing in an
average 4.6 million viewers during the 64 matches.*

*Online, the WatchESPN app generated 1.8 million live unique viewers.*

One of the important aspects of Chav Ball in America is talking about
how popular it is with fans. The games are so horribly dull, the TV
coverage spends a lot of time showing images of “passionate” fans
looking passionate. Passionate is always assumed to be a good thing,
especially for women. Of course, Pol Pot was passionate about killing
people so there’s that.

Anyway, how does that hold compared to other quadrennial events?

<a
href="http://variety.com/2014/tv/news/nbc-averages-21-4-million-for-sochi-olympics-down-from-vancouver-but-up-from-torino-1201118839/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">About the same.</a>

*NBC and Nielsen were expected to release more detailed ratings
information on Tuesday, but preliminary estimates show the 2014 Sochi
Winter Olympics averaging a strong 21.4 million viewers in primetime.*

*While down 12% from the 24.4 million who watched on average during the
more time zone-friendly Vancouver Games of 2010, it’s up 6% from the
20.2 million average for the last European Winter Games in Torino in
2006.*

*The Closing Ceremony from Sochi on Sunday averaged about 15.1 million
viewers, well below the 21.4 million who watched the final night from
Vancouver (following that afternoon’s Team USA-Canada men’s gold medal
game). It was up slightly from the 2006 Torino closer (14.8 million).*

*From a competitive standpoint, the Olympics have never been more
dominant. For the first complete week of the Games (Feb. 10-16), NBC
logged its most lopsided primetime victory in network history.*

*And the Olympics have helped NBC in other dayparts, including news.
“Today” beat “Good Morning America” both complete weeks during the
Games, while the Brian Williams-hosted “NBC Nightly News” had its
most-watched week in eight years.*

*NBC paid $4.4 billion in 2011 for every Olympics through the 2020 Tokyo
Summer Games. The Peacock and its networks aired a record 1,539 hours
over its 18 days from Sochi, Russia, including 230 on NBC Sports
Network, 185 on the broadcaster and 45 on MSNBC.*

*Facebook released data on Monday for the Games, during which roughly 45
million people chatted about the Winter Olympics on the social media
website — for a total of about 120 million combined posts, comments and
“likes.”*

It looks like soccer remains as popular as figure skating and
interpretive dance, despite the endless hype.
