---
title: "The Left’s Galileo Moment"
date: "2014-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1748"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1748"
---

Imagine if tomorrow the Chinese announce they have discovered some
protein that causes criminality. That’s very unlikely, but let’s just
pretend. Further, a simple test can determine if an individual has this
protein and therefore is criminally inclined. That would certainly
change how we go about fighting crime. The sci-fi concept of pre-crime
would become a reality. Everyone could be tested and those with the
protein would be flagged in some way. Suspects could be tested to
eliminate the innocent. It is an amazing breakthrough that radically
changes policing.

Now, suppose in addition to finding this magic protein, they also find a
remedy. A person with the crime protein could be given a drug that
mitigates the action of the protein. Not only can criminals be found
with a blood test, they can be “rehabilitated” with drug therapy. That
way, once a criminal is found, they can be repaired. Recidivism rates
would fall to zero and there would be no need for a lot of the
infrastructure we have in place to monitor ex-cons.

Think about how much human society would change after such a discovery.
No need for prisons is the most obvious benefit. That alone is $100
billion in savings to society. Certainly an equal amount would be saved,
probably double, in policing. Most crime is committed by repeat
offenders. Depending upon who is counting, the number is as high as
80%.  Police forces could be slashed to a fraction of their current
size, along with the courts and the whole massive edifice of criminal
justice in America.

It sounds pretty good. Now, imagine that conservatives start howling
with protest over this new test and the new drug. They start with the
invasion of privacy and then move onto the moral issue of not punishing
offenders when they are caught. In Congress they try to block this new
science and take to the airwaves proselytizing against it. Of course,
they are joined by police unions, prison guard unions, lawyers,
bureaucrats and everyone else living off the criminal industrial
complex.

With that in mind, consider [this
post](http://noahpinionblog.blogspot.com/2014/05/academic-racism-has-kn-problem.html)
by a famous Progressive blog.

*Let’s use the term “academic racism” to mean “a belief that race is the
primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial
differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race”
(the Merriam-Webster “full definition” of “racism”), in order to
differentiate it from bigotry (the common-use definition).*

*Anyway, science writer Nicholas Wade has a new book out making the
standard case for academic racism. Andrew Gelman, a statistician, has a
review of that book in Slate. The review is good, and you should read
it, but I thought I’d try to restate Gelman’s point in a slightly more
compact way.*

*Basically, academic racism has a problem, and that problem is
overfitting.*

*Here’s how academic racism generally works. Suppose you see two groups
that have an observable difference: for example, suppose you note that
Hungary has a higher per capita income than Romania. Now you have a data
point. To explain that data point, you come up with a theory: the
Hungarian race is more industrious than the Romanian race. But suppose
you notice that Romanians generally do better at gymnastics than
Hungarians. To explain that second data point, you come up with a new
piece of theory: The Romanian race must have some genes for gymnastics
that the Hungarian race lacks.*

*You can keep doing this. Any time you see different average outcomes
between two different groups, you can assume that there is a genetic
basis for the difference. You can also tell “just-so stories” to back up
each new assumption – for example, you might talk about how Hungarians
are descended from steppe nomads who had to be industrious to survive,
etc. etc. As new data arrive, you make more assumptions and more stories
to explain them. Irish people used to be poor and are now rich? They
must have been breeding for richness genes! Korea used to be poorer than
Japan and is now just as rich? Their genes must be more suited to the
modern economy! For every racial outcome, there is a just-so story about
why it happened. Read an academic-racist blog, like Steve Sailer’s, and
you will very quickly see that this kind of thinking is pervasive and
rampant.*

*There’s just one little problem with this strategy. Each new assumption
that you make adds a parameter to your model. You’re overfitting the
data – building a theory that can explain everything but predict
nothing. Another way to put this is that your model has a “K=N” problem
– the number of parameters in your model is equal to the number of
observations. If you use some sort of goodness-of-fit criterion that
penalizes you for adding more parameters, you’ll find that your model is
useless (no matter how true or false it happens to be!). This is one
form of a more general scientific error known as “testing hypotheses
suggested by the data”, or “post-hoc reasoning”. It’s a mistake that is
by no means unique to academic racism, but instead is common in many
scientific disciplines (cough cough, sociobiology, cough cough).*

If you don’t know much about population genetics and the current state
of the science, you might be inclined to accept this as a valid
critique. The trouble is the science described by Wade makes no such
claims. In fact, few in the HBD world make these sorts of claims. There
certainly is speculation about behavioral traits across groups and their
possible genetic sources, but nothing definitive.

The fact is, it is very hard to tease out causal relationships when
discussing human behavior. Even the most basic of behavioral traits
involve an enormous number of factors, including genes. At this stage of
the game, the best anyone can do is catalog group differences and then
consider the possibility of genetic sources. Just as we have lots of
diversity in dogs, bears and birds, we have lots of diversity in people
because people are subject to evolutionary pressures.

The Left now finds itself at odds with science. The 19th century Left,
focused exclusively on economics, is long gone. The post-war Left has
blended culture, socials science, public policy and the law into a
secular religion. Just as the Church could not disentangle theology from
science, the modern Left cannot separate science from its ideology.
Religion, secular or otherwise, are totalitarian. Therefore anything
that contradicts the faith is the enemy of the faith and must be
destroyed.

The Left’s war on evolution and population genetics is the only possible
response to the growing body of evidence contradicting the blank slate
and egalitarianism. Otherwise, the foundation stones of their faith
crumble. If man is not a lump of clay that can be molded by the
enlightened, then the justification for most of what the Left has
advocated for centuries falls apart. That’s something they understand
much better than the people plowing forward in the human sciences.

There’s another angle, one that I think haunts the Left and one that the
HBD crowd fails to appreciate. Going back to my example that started
this long post, there’s another option. Instead of “rehabilitating” the
criminal with drug therapy, the people known to carry this trait can be
sterilized at birth. In a couple of generations, the trait could be
eliminated from the population or at least greatly diminished. The
remaining people with the gene would be ostracized and unable to find
mates.

What the sterilizers missed, natural selection would address. This is
not unfamiliar turf for the Left. Prior to World War II, eugenics was
very popular with Progressives in America. The man who coined the term
was a Socialist. Margaret Sanger, the founder of Planned Parenthood, was
a motivated by the eugenics movement. Progressives in America thought
they could engineer a better society by limited reproduction of the
undesirable and promoting among the elite.

That’s probably part of the panic. They know that if they cannot talk
people into behaving they way they wish, the choice is.abandon the
Utopian dream or start culling the herd. In a way, the war on science
that is emerging is an effort by the Left to keep them from going down a
very dark road. The Left always warns about what it is plotting to do to
society. If they fear the new science will be used for eugenics, it
means they will one day use it for eugenics. They hate that.
