---
title: "The Next Turn of the Ratchet"
date: "2014-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2721"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2721"
---

Creeping up on little cat feet is the war on access to the internet. The
rulers don’t like that people can speak to other people freely on-line.
They really hate that people can talk about the rulers on-line, without
fear of prosecution. So, they want to <a
href="http://www.nationaljournal.com/tech/nancy-pelosi-backs-controversial-internet-powers-to-save-net-neutrality-20140908"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">regulate the Internet</a>, which means
shitting down open debate.

*House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi wants to give federal regulators
sweeping new powers over Internet access.*

*The move is necessary, she said Monday, to save net neutrality and
protect Internet users. But Republicans and business groups warn that
applying utility-style regulations to the Internet would strangle
economic growth and ultimately mean worse Internet service.*

*“I oppose special Internet fast lanes, only open to those firms large
enough to pay big money or fraught enough to give up big stakes in their
company,” the California Democrat wrote in a <a
href="http://www.democraticleader.gov/newsroom/pelosi-sends-letter-fcc-net-neutrality/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">letter</a> to Federal
Communications Commission Chairman Tom Wheeler, urging him to classify
broadband as a “telecommunications service” under Title II of the
Communications Act.*

*Pelosi is the latest—and highest-ranking—Democrat to back the
controversial regulatory maneuver. Her position puts more political
pressure on Wheeler and the other commission Democrats to invoke the
powers.*

*Supporters argue that using Title II is the only way to enact
net-neutrality rules that can hold up in court. In January, a federal
court struck down the old net-neutrality rules, which were based on
weaker authority under Title I of the law.*

*Net neutrality is the principle that all Internet traffic should be
treated equally. Wheeler prompted a major backlash earlier this year by
proposing new rules that would allow broadband providers to charge
websites for faster service in certain cases.*

As soon as you tell providers that they cannot discriminate as to who
they allow on their networks, the Feds can start telling them who they
*can* allow on their networks. The Left can hoot and holler all they
like about equal access, but what they seek is something like the
Fairness Doctrine for the Internet. Regulators can then tax speech they
don’t like by telling ISP’s they have too much or too little of certain
content.

*Virtually all Democrats support net neutrality, but only some of them
have explicitly called for the FCC to reclassify Internet providers. So
far, 14 senators and 37 House members have backed the controversial
option.*

*Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has vowed to defend the agency’s
rules, but he hasn’t taken a position on which regulatory provision the
agency should use. President Obama has said he opposes Internet fast
lanes, but has also been silent on Title II.*

*Republicans and broadband providers, however, have promised to do
everything they can to stop the FCC from using its Title II powers on
the Internet. In a May <a
href="http://www.speaker.gov/sites/speaker.house.gov/files/5-14-14-Net-Neutrality-Letter.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">letter</a> to the FCC, House
GOP leaders warned that applying “antiquated regulation on the Internet”
would “needlessly inhibit the creation of American private-sector jobs,
limit economic freedom and innovation, and threaten to derail one of our
economy’s most vibrant sectors.”*

You see the classic recipe for a break of the walls. All of the
Democrats are for it and the Republicans are mounting a disorganized
defense. That’s probably why the Left is feeling cocky enough to offer
up an <a
href="https://beta.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/19/text"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">amendment to the Constitution
that repeals the First Amendment</a>.

*Section 1. To advance democratic self-government and political*  
*equality, and to protect the integrity of government and the
electoral*  
*process, Congress and the States may regulate and set reasonable
limits*  
*on the raising and spending of money by candidates and others to*  
*influence elections.*

The Citizen’s United case has sent the Left bonkers because it breaks
their lock on campaign financing. If you look at the
<a href="https://www.opensecrets.org/orgs/list.php"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">big money operations</a> in
politics, they tilt Left. A little math shows they get 72% of the money
from the top-10 donors. The Democrats have been the party of plutocrats
for decades, despite rhetoric to the contrary. Citizens United lets the
GOP target rich individuals and corporations to try and even the playing
field, which is why the Left is going crazy trying to repeal the First
Amendment.

*Section 2. Congress and the States shall have power to implement*  
*and enforce this article by appropriate legislation, and may*  
*distinguish between natural persons and corporations or other*  
*artificial entities created by law, including by prohibiting such*  
*entities from spending money to influence elections.*

The last part, “influence elections” is where the real mischief lies.
Limiting how much a candidate can spend or how much someone can give to
a candidate is odious, but not lethal. Once you allow the regulation of
influence, you have a licensing regime for political participation.
Since just about anyone could influence an election, everyone will need
permission from the state to participate in politics. This would extend
to the media, even though they say it does not.

*Section 3. Nothing in this article shall be construed to grant*  
*Congress or the States the power to abridge the freedom of the*  
*press.*

News companies are corporations and the people who work there are
natural persons. If you can pass a law banning corporations from
influencing elections, then you have effectively banned the New York
Times from editorializing about campaign or endorsing candidates. Since
I’m a human and this blog is written by me, Harry Reid could ban me from
blogging about the campaigns. If you don’t think that’s how it works,
just consider how the court has pretended the health care mandate is a
tax.

Harry Reid will not live to see this pass, but that does not mean it
will die with him. This time it will fail but they will come back with
something else. They will keep trying until they find some way to get
greater control political speech. Today it sounds absurd, but a
generation ago it was absurd to think bakers would be forced at gun
point to make cakes for homosexuals. Yet, here we are.
