---
title: "The Vice Economy"
date: "2014-06-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2080"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2080"
---

Casino gambling is going to make for a good book one day. I’m sure lots
of books have been written on the subject from all angles, but the one
containing the epitaph is still unwritten. Way back in the olden thymes,
Las Vegas was the one place to legally gamble. That meant that most
people did their gambling illegally.

Now we are up to our eyeballs in legal casinos, often run by the state.
The argument being that it raises money from a bad thing to be used for
a good thing and it cuts down on crime. Whether any of that is true is
debatable, but what is certainly true is the casino business is in
trouble. This story from Atlantic City is a pretty good example.

*The Revel Casino Hotel warned its staff Thursday that it will shut down
this summer if a buyer can’t be found in bankruptcy court.*

*In warning letters given to employees and obtained by the Associated
Press, Revel said it is seeking a buyer for the struggling $2.4 billion
casino, but can’t guarantee one will be found. If not, employees could
be terminated as soon as Aug. 18, Revel said in the letter.*

*“If Revel is unable to complete such a sale promptly, Revel expects to
close its entire facility,” the letters read. The company also said it
plans to stay open while it searches for a buyer.*

*Shortly after distributing the letters, Revel filed a Chapter 11
petition in federal bankruptcy court, its second in as many years. Revel
said it hopes to find a buyer quickly.*

*“We will work to reach an agreement with a new owner who will help
ensure Revel’s long-term financial stability and who shares our
commitment to providing Revel’s guests and players an exceptional
experience,” said Scott Kreeger, Revel’s president and chief operating
officer.*

*He said the casino has obtained a $125 million loan from one of its
existing financiers so it can operate during its stay in bankruptcy
court.*

If you have never been to Atlantic City, here’s a quick primer. Imagine
a bombed out ghetto city like Detroit or Newark. Place it next to a
decent beach with a boardwalk and then plop some tacky casinos and you
have Atlantic City. This particular casino was built far from the
massive ghettos that bound the boardwalk area. In theory, it should be
thriving, but it is not. In fact, all of the casinos in AC struggle.

One reason is the surrounding area. The big mistake was not pushing out
the locals when they built the casinos in the 1970’s. But, that was
before liberals figured out how to use gays and Mexicans to clear out a
neighborhood and gentrify it. Back then they still thought they could
fix the ghetto. The other reason for the failure of AC is the casino
boom. In fact, <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/articles/casino-boom-pinches-northeastern-states-1403220428"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">we may be reaching peak
casino</a>.

*Racetrack casinos used to contribute as much as $240 million a year to
Delaware’s tax coffers. But as the Northeast becomes saturated with
gambling venues, the state’s casino revenue has tumbled, prompting a new
industry request—for a tax break.*

*“It’s a different world for the Delaware casinos,” said Democratic Gov.
Jack Markell, who supports reducing the tax burden on casinos by $20
million a year to help them compete.*

*More casinos have opened in the Northeast over the past decade than in
any other part of the country, and the expansion is causing upheaval in
the region. States that adopted gambling earlier than their neighbors,
such as Delaware, New Jersey and West Virginia, are watching dollars
drain away, and new projects have some wondering how many facilities the
area can support.*

*Twenty-six casinos have opened since 2004, fueling a 39% increase in
total annual gambling revenue in the mid-Atlantic and New England,
according to a study by the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Within 100
miles of Philadelphia, there now are 24 casinos, a big shift from the
early 1990s, when Atlantic City, N.J., enjoyed an East Coast monopoly.
At least a dozen more gambling spots are in the pipeline from
Massachusetts to Maryland, raising fears in states such as Rhode Island
that their casino tax windfall is at risk.*

This is a familiar pattern. A truly new product pops up creating a new
industry. Once it is clearly a winner, others rush in to get a bite of
the apple. Supply shoots up, prices collapse and the product becomes a
commodity. That’s followed by a culling of the supply herd. Cheap money
fuels consolidation so eventually you end up with a handful of suppliers
of the product, who can make low margin businesses work on volume.

The question is what comes next. In every other business a few operators
emerge as the apex predators to gobble up the rest. That can’t happen
with state run gambling parlors. Some will go this route where private
operators run the casinos and pay a special tax to the state. That
either means the state takes a smaller cut or they find a way to turn
the operator into a utility, which seems unlikely.

There are two other models that could be the end game. One is the
nationalized business model. In the old days it was popular in Europe
for the state to take control of whole industries like steel and energy.
By the 1970’s these industries were money losing disasters threatening
to bankrupt the state. They were privatized and in many cases sent
overseas. Decades from now states will probably be unloading these white
elephants for pennies on a dollar.

The other model is pornography, which has followed an interesting path.
The Internet gave new life to an industry largely run by degenerates and
gangsters. It suddenly got cool and it got rich. But, the same tools
that opened it up to professional business people opened it up to global
competition. Revenues collapsed as amateurs started giving away their
porn on the Internet. The “adult bookstore” followed Blockbuster Video
into the great abyss.

Gambling can be done on-line. Not all of it, but poker, sports books and
other, as yet uninvented, games can be done effectively on-line.
Prohibitions against on-line gambling will work for a while, but getting
around these limits is getting easier. I know poker players who belong
to private on-like clubs, using gaming consoles. It will not be long
before a clever guy figures out how to “monetize” this.

Gambling has been a part of human societies since at least settlement.
The thing is, there’s little value added opportunities in it. You can
build a four-star hotel on a beach and make big money. Other than
offering drinks, safety and volume, a casino is not offering a lot to
the gambler. They are not there for the shows or the atmosphere. They
are there for the action. That means these state gambling parlors will
see their margins drop to the absolute minimum, with many going bust in
the next decade.

There’s always been something dodgy about government running the vice
rackets. In America, the Federal government runs the alcohol business.
They make more from it than the private players. Alcohol is taxed at
over $20 per gallon. The states run the cigarettes business and are now
getting into the drug rackets. They own the gambling rackets in most
places. The only thing left is prostitution and porn. Making money from
vice makes you a pimp, no matter what you do with the money. Seeing the
state fail at it is pleasing at some level.

More important, it underscores a criticism from the old right that has
long been dismissed. That is, you cannot have an economy based on doing
each others laundry. You have to make thinks and you have to invent
things. That creates real jobs directly through employment in factories.
It does so indirectly for all of the support services. It also props up
the tertiary economy, like gambling and entertainment, as people use
their surplus on leisure. You can’t have a real economy very long when
it is based on selling off your assets to pay for leisure.

 
