---
title: "The Poverty of the Hive"
date: "2014-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2685"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2685"
---

Probably the last place you want to go for information about the causes
of poverty is the New York Times. You can lump every liberal rag in
there and just call it the ruling class propaganda organ. It’s not that
they don’t know anything useful about poverty. It’s that they are
obsessed with jamming everything into the preferred, self-serving
narrative about white racism and white privilege. After all, the focus
of their life is jostling for status amongst their peers about hating
white people. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/03/opinion/what-makes-people-poor.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Example.</a>

*Let’s imagine for a moment that there are no political pressures
distorting our discussion of poverty and that we can look at it as a
technical problem, not a moral one.*

*Maybe we would find that most explanations – left, right and center –
are not mutually exclusive but mutually reinforcing.*

*Before we take this thought experiment further, we should consider the
ramifications of new research that provides insight into urban social
disorder, worklessness, the rising salience of education and the
shortcomings of government policy.*

In ruling class circles, being non-ideological is sort of like wearing
glasses without lenses. In both cases, it is a pose. No one seriously
wants bad vision and no one seriously wants to abandon the one true
faith or put it on equal footing with the mongrel faiths. It’s what
drives the fake nerd fad and you see the signaling in the first graph.

He also gives the game a way a bit by assuming it is impossible to
escape political pressure when discussing anything. That’s an
identifying characteristic of every radical cult. For them, it is always
about who? whom? so that means politics infuses every aspect of their
lives. The author just assumes this is true of everyone.

*David Autor, an economist at M.I.T. best known for exploring the costs
to American workers of automation and trade with China, has recently
expanded the scope of his research on unemployment to look at the
consequences for men who grow up in a fatherless household.*

*In a paper published last year, Autor, working in collaboration with a
fellow M.I.T. economist, Melanie Wasserman, found that “the labor market
trajectory of males in the U.S. has turned downward along four
dimensions: skills acquisition; employment rates; occupational stature;
and real wage levels.” The trends have been much worse for men than
women because “the absence of stable fathers from children’s lives has
particularly significant adverse consequences for boys’ psychosocial
development and educational achievement.”*

*Autor and Wasserman cite data showing that “after controlling for a
host of individual and family characteristics, growing up in a
single-parent home appears to significantly decrease the probability of
college attendance for boys, yet has no similar effect for girls.” The
authors add that when raised with a nonresidential father, “boys perform
less well academically than girls.”*

*Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins whose book “Labor’s Love
Lost: The Rise and Fall of the Working-Class Family in America,” will be
published later this year, looks at much the same problem as Autor, but
from a different vantage point.*

*For the non-college educated, Cherlin wrote to me by email, “the
majority of their births will occur outside of marriage, often in
fragile cohabiting unions that have high break-up rates.” Conversely,
the overwhelming majority of men and women with college degrees marry
before they have children, have experienced a drop in their divorce rate
and have seen their incomes rise as both husband and wife work.*

*The result, Cherlin points out, is that a “bachelor’s degree is the
closest thing to a class boundary that exists today.”*

There are a few things worth pointing out here. One is how the Left
tends to look at humans as an alien species. If you wanted to learn
something about France, for example, you would go to France. If
possible, you would quiz someone with knowledge of France. Our
Progressive overlords talk long about the value of personal experience
as a spiritual enhancer, yet they chuck it for the quackery of social
science when it comes to dealing with their fellow humans.

Then we have the amnesia. Since forever, the ruling class has been
pushing things like no fault divorce, non-traditional coupling,
consequence free sex, drugs, etc. In the 60’s and 70’s these ideas blew
through the lower classes like a tornado. The moral obligation of the
ruling class is to espouse and enforce the unwritten rules that maintain
order amongst the lower classes. The ruling class not only failed at
this, they encouraged that which has done nothing but sow disorder
amongst the people.

Finally, we have the self-congratulations. Class has been a part of
human society since the beginning. The four year degree is not a class
boundary. It is one of many class *symbols*. Thomas B. Edsall, like
every old liberal warhorse has used credentials to attach himself to the
ruling class like a barnacle. His employer requires a degree for
secretarial jobs so they can avoid being in the same room with the
riff-raff. If college is a class barrier, it is because guys like Thomas
B. Edsall insist on it.

*The emergence of a rough ideological consensus on the causes of poverty
and inequality would increase the likelihood of, but by no means
guarantee, agreement on such initiatives as raising the minimum wage,
increasing and expanding the scope of the earned-income tax credit,
programs promoting marriage and paternal involvement, as well as
stronger efforts to improve the quality of education, especially in poor
neighborhoods.*

This is classic hive thinking. “If only those idiots outside the hive
would come around to our way of thinking we can do all the stuff we
want.” The fact that his hive has been in charge of poverty programs for
70 years and has tried all of these things over and over for decades,
has no bearing on his outlook.

Poor people are poor for three reasons. One is they are on the left side
of the bell curve, in general. There are plenty of exceptions, but not
being very bright is a hard thing to overcome and it always has been.
Unless you plan to euthanize the stupid, the poor will always be with
us.

Second, poor people make poor decisions. They are impulsive and want
what they want when they want it. A poor person comes into money and
buys a car, new clothes and drinks at the bar. Mr. Edsall comes into
money and he calls his broker. Delayed gratification is punishment in
the ghetto. In SWPL-ville, it is a virtue and one of the highest ones.
You can never fix this, but you can mitigate it by not promoting ghetto
parasites like the hip-hop community.

Finally, a lot of people like being working class. This is something the
Hive never understands nor tolerates. They hate poor people and they
really hate working class people. The poor are a constant reminder of
their failure to reach Utopia. The working class are a rebuke to the
Hive. These are people who could embrace the culture of the hive, but
choose not too. They could watch the English Premier League, but prefer
the NFL and NASCAR. That’s why the Left hates them.
