---
title: "The Toad is a Rat"
date: "2014-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1437"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1437"
---

“A dog that will bring a bone will carry a bone” is one of those old
time aphorisms that does not make a lot of sense to people today. it was
a pithy way to say, “Someone who will steal for you will steal from
you.” More generally, it means that people of low character are low
character in all of their dealings. Like so much of our cultural
inheritance, this sense of character has been mostly lost, but the
reality of it is a fixture of the human condition. <a
href="http://www.thesmokinggun.com/documents/investigation/al-sharpton-764312"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s an example</a> from the
news.

*The former mob snitch has become a regular in the White House, where he
has met with the 44th president in the East Room, the Roosevelt Room,
and the Oval Office. He has also attended Obama Christmas parties,
speeches, policy announcements, and even watched a Super Bowl with the
First Family (an evening the man has called “one of the highlights of my
life”). During these gatherings, he has mingled with cabinet members,
top Obama aides, military leaders, business executives, and members of
Congress. His former confederates were a decidedly dicier lot:
ex-convicts, extortionists, heroin traffickers, and mob henchmen. The
man’s surreptitious recordings, FBI records show, aided his government
handlers in the successful targeting of powerful Mafia figures with
nicknames like Benny Eggs, Chin, Fritzy, Corky, and Baldy Dom.*

*Later this week, Obama will travel to New York and appear in a
Manhattan hotel ballroom at the side of the man whom FBI agents
primarily referred to as “CI-7”–short for confidential informant \#7–in
secret court filings. In those documents, investigators vouched for him
as a reliable, productive, and accurate source of information about
underworld figures.*

*The ex-informant has been one of Obama’s most unwavering backers, a
cheerleader who has nightly bludgeoned the president’s Republican
opponents in televised broadsides. For his part, Obama has sought the
man’s counsel, embraced him publicly, and saluted his “commitment to
fight injustice and inequality.” The president has even commented
favorably on his friend’s svelte figure, the physical manifestation of a
rehabilitation effort that coincided with Obama’s ascension to the White
House. This radical makeover has brought the man wealth, a daily TV
show, bespoke suits, a luxury Upper West Side apartment, and a spot on
best seller lists.*

*Most importantly, he has the ear of the President of the United States,
an equally remarkable and perplexing achievement for the former FBI
asset known as “CI-7,” the Rev. Al Sharpton.*

Of course, Sharpton was always a hustler. he figured out that the
quickest route a high paying, but low effort life was as a black
agitator. He does not care about black people, other than as aprop in
his act. That’s why he had not trouble operating as a fink. For a guy
like Sharpton, everything has a price, as he values nothing but his own
base appetites, which are ample. Amusingly, this also makes Sharpton an
Uncle Tom, which suggests the good Lord has a sense of humor.

*A lengthy investigation by The Smoking Gun has uncovered remarkable
details about Sharpton’s past work as an informant for a joint organized
crime task force comprised of FBI agents and NYPD detectives, as well as
his dealings with an assortment of wiseguys.*

*Beginning in the mid-1980s and spanning several years, Sharpton’s
cooperation was fraught with danger since the FBI’s principal targets
were leaders of the Genovese crime family, the country’s largest and
most feared Mafia outfit. In addition to aiding the FBI/NYPD task force,
which was known as the “Genovese squad,” Sharpton’s cooperation extended
to several other investigative agencies.*

*TSG’s account of Sharpton’s secret life as “CI-7” is based on hundreds
of pages of confidential FBI affidavits, documents released by the
bureau in response to Freedom of Information Act requests, court
records, and extensive interviews with six members of the Genovese
squad, as well as other law enforcement officials to whom the activist
provided assistance.*

*Like almost every other FBI informant, Sharpton was solely an
information source. The parameters of his cooperation did not include
Sharpton ever surfacing publicly or testifying on a witness stand.*

*Genovese squad investigators–representing both the FBI and
NYPD–recalled how Sharpton, now 59, deftly extracted information from
wiseguys. In fact, one Gambino crime family figure became so comfortable
with the protest leader that he spoke openly–during ten wired
face-to-face meetings–about a wide range of mob business, from
shylocking and extortions to death threats and the sanity of Vincent
“Chin” Gigante, the Genovese boss who long feigned mental illness in a
bid to deflect law enforcement scrutiny. As the mafioso expounded on
these topics, Sharpton’s briefcase–a specially customized Hartman
model–recorded his every word.*

In all seriousness, it took some balls to wear a wire. It may make him a
dirt bag, but he was a dirt bag long before he became a rat so I’m not
sure this matters a whole lot. The fact that Obama pals around with this
odious toad is the bigger issue. It undermines everything Obama has said
about race in America. When it gets down to it, racial solidarity trumps
everything if you are black. In fact, it pretty trumps everything no
matter your race. That’s a reality of the human existence.
