---
title: "Now That He Is No Longer Useful"
date: "2014-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3225"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3225"
---

For a long time, Bill Cosby was the Left’s most celebrated ornament. He
checked all the boxes for the Left in the 80’s and 90’s. His TV show was
supposed to be the new model family for America. Cosby was the strong,
sensible father married to a a smart and independent woman. Bill Cosby
was Barak Obama when Barak was still Barry the African guy who sold
weed. In fairness, the show was funny and entertaining without being
preachy. Cosby made his money as a PG comic courting middle-class
Americans and his sitcom was more of the same.

Then in the 2000’s Cosby went off the reservation and started saying bad
things about black people. I would assume Cosby’s politics are to the
left, but he is clearly from the other side of the culture divide. Cosby
comes from the Booker T. Washington tradition in black America. That’s
the belief that blacks get their place at the table by being so good
whites have no choice but to acknowledge them. Cosby never played the
victim card and often railed against those who did play that card. That
made the Cult very uncomfortable in the 2000’s and Cosby fell out of
favor.

That I think is why they have decided it is time to <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/style-blog/wp/2014/11/15/bill-cosby-stays-silent-on-npr-interview-will-no-longer-on-appear-on-david-lettermans-show/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">run the rape stories about him</a>. Cosby
is old and mostly retired now. He has become particularly ornery about
his politics, which makes him a bigger problem. I have no idea if any of
it is true. I’m naturally skeptical about this stuff. But, the story as
presented suggests there’s something to it.

*Bill Cosby, in the midst of a serious PR crisis as accusations about
him sexually assaulting women make headlines around the world, has
decided to stay silent.*

*In an interview on NPR’s “Weekend Edition” that aired Saturday (where
Cosby and his wife appeared to talk about loaning works to the National
Museum of African Art), Cosby, 77, didn’t say a word when host Scott
Simon asked him about the allegations. In the past, Cosby has repeatedly
denied these claims.*

*“This question gives me no pleasure, Mr. Cosby, but there have been
serious allegations raised about you in recent days,” Simon said,
without specifically saying what the allegations in question were.*

*There’s a long a pause. “You’re shaking your head no. I’m in the news
business, I have to ask the question: Do you have any response to those
charges?” Simon said.*

*Another long pause. “Shaking your head no,” Simon continued,
and said again: “There are people who love you who might like to hear
from you about this — I want to give you the chance.” And again, no
response. (Listen to the audio here.)*

*The interview comes a couple days after Cosby’s name quietly
disappeared from the “Late Show With David Letterman” guest line-up for
next week. Cosby was supposed to appear on the show on Wednesday. Then,
late this week, his name was gone and replaced with talk show host Regis
Philbin.*

*There’s no word on whether the cancellation was Cosby’s idea or the
show’s. Letterman’s publicist told the Associated Press that “We can’t
comment on the guest booking process.”*

Letterman remains in good standing with the Left, despite his own habit
of assaulting female interns and coming retirement. It’s perfectly
plausible that word is out that Cosby is on the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proscription" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">proscribed list</a>. The degree of cooperation within
the Left across media companies is well documented so this is probably a
coordinated attack on the Cos.

It’s why I’m skeptical about Cankles running for president. The Left
never forgets and they never forgive. Like Nixon she may outmaneuver
them to win the primary, but like Nixon she will learn that there is no
beating the Left in the log run. If they are willing to take out a
revered figure like Bill Cosby, they will have no qualms about taking
down a bitter old hag at the end of her career.
