---
title: "Ivy Day in the Committee Room"
date: "2014-11-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3161"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3161"
---

I recall John Derbyshire discussing his fondness for Anglican Hymns,
despite not being an Anglican. He related a story from a friend who
continued to attend regular services, despite no longer believing in
God. The friend said it was out of loyalty to the old tribe. Similarly,
Derb has a fondness for the Christian rituals of his people out of a
loyalty to and fondness for the tradition. That, I suspect, is something
all of us have for something or another in our lives. Maybe it is a
holiday tradition or family tradition that no longer makes much sense or
possibly never made any sense.

An example in my own life is the making of chipped beef on toast over
Thanksgiving. My father loved that breakfast. It is classic enlisted man
food that carried into the American working class after World War II. I
have few fond memories of my father, but it reminds me of better times
for some reason. It is a tradition I have upheld to this day. Again,
there’s nothing rational about it, but there’s an emotional tug that is
impossible to resist.

I’ve been thinking about that today as the election draws near. I have
voted since I was able to vote. I’ve voted in off-year elections and
municipal elections, even when the stakes were so low that barely anyone
else bothered to vote. I voted in the 1990’s when it was clear to me the
GOP was rejecting every lesson learned in the Reagan years and were
sprinting to catch the Liberal Democrats. I voted when that stone stupid
sock puppet George Bush was president. I even voted in 2008 when the
choice was between a dimwitted neophyte with nothing more than race on
his side and an insane old man who barely knows where he is most of the
time.

In 2012 I went to my polling place with the enthusiasm of a man heading
for the gallows. Romney was not much of an upgrade to Obama in my view,
but I’ve had to select between worse choices. I once had Ted Kennedy as
my senator and Joe Kennedy as my Congressman. Imagine that. Plus, the
chance to maybe get rid of the execrable Barak Obama was something.

As I was walking in I spotted a school bus unloading a bunch of Aztecs
and Mayans. An old white woman was handing them instructions and
speaking to them in bad Spanish. Clearly the Democrat GOTV effort was
set to eleven. Bussing in illegal aliens in a district with 99% Democrat
electorate is going the extra mile.

Inside I got in-line behind a chubby white girl with a fuchsia afro and
a tackle box full of metal in her face. She was furiously tapping on her
phone to some other dimwit. Behind me the Mayans were filing in,
jibber-jabbering to one another in
[Mam](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mam_language). The poll workers were
shuffling around from station to station, doing something. Every once in
a while one of them would bark out a command. The pointlessness of it
was overwhelming. The nitwit in front of me and the Mayans behind would
surely cancel my vote many times over. I walked out without voting.

That was the first election I had skipped as an adult and I felt bad
about it, but I was done voting. It is one thing to hang with an old
pointless custom out of sentimentality. It is quite another to infuriate
yourself doing something you vaguely sense is doing you harm. I skipped
the last primary, despite some nagging sense of obligation creeping in
on me. The lack of contested races made it easier. I live in a one party
state so not voting is a bit easier, but the old sense of obligation was
creeping in on me again.

Still, that old sense of obligation is there. It is not that my vote
counts or that I really care who wins. That’s not my fault. Forces
beyond my control have made my citizenship worthless. What I can control
is how I discharge my duties and obligations. That means I’ll probably
stop at my polling place in the morning and cast my ballot. The choices
may be awful and I may hate having to vote for any of them, but at least
I will have done my duty. My country may not care much for me and
citizenship may mean nothing, but I still can be a good citizen. At
least I’ll have that.
