---
title: "Me and Make Believe"
date: "2014-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3104"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3104"
---

In science, a lot of time and effort is put into framing a problem. You
have to have an agreed upon set of rules before you can investigate the
natural world. Those rules need constant updating as new information is
discovered. You can’t test something unless you know what you are
testing and how to evaluate the possible outcomes. In the gum-flapping
game, an old rhetorical trick is to frame your argument in such a way
that the only good conclusions just happen to be those you are
asserting. The point here is that framing an issue is a big part of
understanding it, or not understanding it as the case may be.

That’s what we see here with <a
href="http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/10/23/the-missing-right-of-center-media/?_php=true&amp;_type=blogs&amp;_php=true&amp;_type=blogs&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this column by Ross Douthat</a>. Since
I’m prone to saying horrible things about people I don’t like, let me
just say I have no opinion of Mr. Douthat. For some reason he is widely
read by the commentariat. There are a lot of writers out there and I
can’t know all of them. What got my attention is the cornucopia of
incorrect premises in this one piece.

*Some years ago now, when the conservative media group Newsmax put in a
bid to buy the limping, failing Newsweek, I wrote a post arguing that
trying to reinvent one of the newsweeklies as a (moderately)
right-of-center publication was as good a bet as any. Here was the nub
of my argument:*

What’s “right-of-center”? This expression gets used a lot, but no one
ever bothers to define it. It seems to be a label for non-liberals the
Cult does not want to murder. Otherwise, right-of-center is the Bigfoot
of political positions.

*I thought back to that piece when I read this week’s [big Pew report on
media and political
polarization](http://www.journalism.org/2014/10/21/political-polarization-media-habits/).
The report includes lots of fun tidbits (conservatives have more friends
who share their views, but liberals are more likely to break off a
friendship over politics), but like a lot of people I was most struck by
[this
chart](http://www.journalism.org/files/2014/10/PJ_14.10.21_mediaPolarization-08.png),
showing where, roughly, on the ideological spectrum different
publications and channels find their audiences. You’ll see that the
overwhelming majority of the media properties surveyed had audiences
clustered somewhere on the left-of-center, with Yahoo! News and the Wall
Street Journal claiming audiences closest to the political middle.
Meanwhile, exactly one property, Fox News, had an audience that was more
conservative but within hailing distance of the center, and then there
was a small cluster of shows and programs with audiences to Fox’s right
(Breitbart, Drudge, Limbaugh, The Blaze, etc.).*

What’s a “conservative”? The term liberal is easy as they make the
boundaries clear. Throwing the Reason Magazine crowd in with the
National Review types and then sprinkling in The Weekly Standard people
is the definition most liberals give, when pressed. That still leaves a
vast area of political thought outside the Hive that does not fall into
the conservative bucket.

Then we have the mythological political spectrum, upon which all of us
my reside somewhere – or else. Liberals claim Hitler is the extreme
right so that puts him right next to Thomas Sowell somehow. The fact
that neither man have a thing in common does not seem to matter. Putting
that aside, how can someone be sort of a Stalinist? That’s what
left-of-center must mean, if the commies are over on the left end of
this spectrum. Therefore, being left of center means you want to starve
some Ukrainians, but not all of them, I guess.

As I’ve grown older, I’ve found it tough to pay much attention to people
who play along with the Left’s bifurcated view of the world. Putting
Steve Sailer in the same bucket as Jonah Goldberg is useless if you are
trying to understand the ideological map of the country. The reason this
is popular with the Left is they are only interested in who is and who
is not in their movement. If that’s not obvious to you, I’m not sure if
you have anything to contribute to the debate. That and it is simply
boring. A lifetime of watching guys like Mr. Douthat try to fit the
world into the fantasy map of the Left has just been done to death.

What tries my patience even more than that is the insistence that there
are two morally equivalent ideological forces battling it out for the
soul of the people. No one in the ruling class has any serious thoughts
about changing things. Why should they? It’s a good deal for them. What
we have is a jostling for minor status points amongst the political
parties. No matter who wins, nothing will change. Both parties talk big
in the same way beer companies subtly promise you their product will get
you laid. Carrying on like there’s a real ideological battle being waged
with real consequences just makes the writer a sales rep for the status
quo.
