---
title: "Inside the Left"
date: "2014-05-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1649"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1649"
---

It’s always good to search around the websites of the fringe Left. It is
like watching a homeless man soil himself. You’re disgusted, but you
can’t help but feel sorry for the wretch. The hard thumping wackos that
write for these sites are nutty as fruitcakes, but you can’t help but
wish there was a cure for their mental disease. There isn’t and it is
important to remember that guys like
<a href="https://www.dailykos.com/staff/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Markos Moulitsas</a> would gladly hustle you off to the
death camps if possible. <a
href="https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2014/05/02/1296001/-Cartoon-NRA-Hypnosis"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s an example</a>.

*I had already been planning on cartooning the National Rifle
Association’s <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/apr/28/nra-war-on-america-wayne-lapierre-indianapolis"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ridiculous annual</a> meeting
when my nephew’s <a
href="http://missoulian.com/news/local/charging-document-missoula-man-waited-up-to-shoot-kid/article_f7551102-cf0e-11e3-9619-001a4bcf887a.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">unarmed friend got killed</a>
in what is shaping up to be another “Stand Your Ground” case.  The
circumstances surrounding this shooting may make things a little more
difficult for the shooter, who was basically laying in wait to murder
someone.  The shooter’s defense attorney has already said his client is
going to use a <a
href="http://missoulian.com/news/local/castle-doctrine-may-apply-in-missoula-teen-s-killing-author/article_4732de74-cf01-11e3-981a-0019bb2963f4.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Castle Doctrine</a>/Stand Your
Ground defense.*

The Left has a long list of abracadabra phrases. A popular one these
days is “stand your ground.” They have disconnected it from any real
meaning as we see here. In no state does someone in their home have a
duty to retreat. Therefore, “stand your ground” laws would never apply.
Further, castle doctrine laws have been common since Blackstone.
Self-defense is the most sacred human right.

*Regardless of what the circumstances are in this particular case that
happened to strike close to my family, it is perfectly clear that the
NRA is <a
href="http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2014/04/28/preparing-for-war-in-indianapolis-inside-the-nra-plot-to-terrify-america.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">stoking the fires</a> of
paranoia and fear in order to pass legislation, sell more guns and make
more money.  All you have to do is listen to the <a
href="http://home.nra.org/home/video/2014-nra-members-meeting-wayne-lapierre/list/good-guys"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">apocalyptic, conspiratorial
speech</a> made by the NRA’s Wayne LaPierre to get so scared you
probably will rush right out and buy a couple AR-15s.  (Which were
conveniently available at the time of the speech in an adjoining gun
showroom that <a
href="http://www.guns.com/2014/04/25/nra-annual-meeting-kicks-off-in-indianapolis-video/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">covered nine (9) acres</a>.)*

The NRA does not sell guns. They certainly have seen a  boom in
membership. That’s exclusively due to lunatics like Mark Fiore out
banging their pots and pans on the street in favor of gun confiscation.
People tend to notice things and they noticed that these crazies keep
saying they want to gut the 2nd Amendment. They do the sensible thing
and organize a defense.

*It is baffling to me that members of Congress speak at the NRA’s annual
gun fest, an orgy of military hardware marketed to civilians, while the
head of the gun lobby group essentially <a
href="http://talkingpointsmemo.com/muckraker/lapierre-nra-annual-meeting-speech"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">trumpets</a> the need for
armed revolt.  (Join now, buy now!)  As a bonus, the NRA held a “<a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/apr/27/nra-children-membership-youth-day-guns"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Youth Day</a>” last Sunday,
which coincidentally was the day my nephew’s unarmed 17-year-old friend
was killed.  Ugh.  While you’re watching the cartoon, see if you can
pick out which lines are direct quotes from Wayne LaPierre, and which
are my interpretation.*

A common trick with these people is insisting ignorance furthers their
argument. His bafflement is presented as proof that his opinion is
valid. This is absurd. His bafflement actually tells us we should
discount his opinion because he obviously fails to grasp some basic
elements. It is a byproduct of the totalitarian mind. Ideas, opinions
and facts outside of those acknowledged by the Left don’t exist.
Therefore, placing anything in the set of items that is unknown means
they are irrational. It’s a passive-aggressive way of declaring
something off-limits.

The puzzling thing is how is it Western society has produced so many
crazy people like Mark Fiore? These people are generally smart and
usually educated. What is it that has gone wrong with Mark Fiore and his
coreligionists on the Left? Why would they join a movement hell bent on
collective suicide? It’s as if some outside group has found a way to
turn up the volume on crazy people in the west, while turning down the
volume on the normal people. it looks like a plot by people who hate us.
