---
title: "Never Put Bitter Weirdos In Charge"
date: "2014-12-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3345"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3345"
---

For a very long time now, the Left has been telling us that the most
wonderful thing possible is to be the first member of a fringe group to
do something. The phrase “first black…” has been so heavily used it has
lost all meaning. The Left now tacks on adjectives to sweeten the pot so
we get combinations like “first black transgendered amputee….” but they
have added in other groups to keep the racket going. Now that we have
had the first black president, they want the first <a
href="http://talkingpointsmemo.com/dc/elizabeth-warren-challenge-hillary-clinton-2016"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">fake Indian president</a>.

The thing is, we used to know that it was a bad idea to put weirdos in
charge of anything. In this context, weirdo means anyone outside the
core group. The British used to know that it was a bad idea to have a
Catholic as prime minister. A major company would not appoint a
confirmed bachelor as CEO. The French would never have a heterosexual as
a general. In America, Nixon is a great example of how a bitter outsider
cannot function in leadership.

Group hatred has always been an issue, but common sense was at play too.
A distinct minority group was going to nurse a lot of grudges against
the majority. If they ever got control of the levers of power, it was
assumed they would exact some revenge. This is still well understood in
the Middle East. Keeping the fringe out of power is a top priority.
Examples of why are Iraq and Syria, where motivated and pissed off
minority sects have killed a lot of people.

In America, we’re learning this with Obama. There was a lot of effort
put into convincing us that even though he was black, he was not *that
black*. [Joe Biden called him clean and
articulate](http://www.cnn.com/2007/POLITICS/01/31/biden.obama/), which
was a way of saying he was not Jesse Jackson. Harry Reid mentioned that
he was not a [shuffling
negro](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/01/09/harry-reid-negro-comment-_n_417406.html).
In other words, he was not a black guy nursing a laundry list of
grievances.

Of course, that has turned out to be total nonsense. Obama is a typical
black guy and that means he is obsessed with race. All of his friends
are black and all of his key advisers are black. All of those friends
and advisers nurse the typical grievances we have come to expect from
blacks in America. One of [Obama’s closest
friends](http://politics.suntimes.com/article/springfield/prosecutors-will-not-call-obama-friend-eric-whitaker-stand/mon-12082014-831pm)
is using race to dodge a trial of Obama cronies in Illinois.

Similarly, the Left is finding out that a taste for penis is not the
only thing wrong with Chris Hughes. This nasty piece of work destroyed
one of the Left’s great properties out of a fit of pique. Normal people
who have had dealings with homosexuals knows that sexual inversion is
just the bit of the iceberg we see with them. Under the waterline is a
mass of crazy that makes dealing with them impossible. There are
exceptions, of course, but prudence says you assume the worst and never
put them in charge.

We’re going to find this out with Hispanics in the not so distant
future. The Left is preparing the <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/16/us/politics/texas-twins-campaign-but-they-arent-sure-for-what.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Castro Twins</a> to be the next leaders.
Both have managed to grow up in Texas, with a raging hatred of Texas and
Texans. Putting them in charge makes as much sense as putting a foreign
born Muslim in the White House so we can be sure it will happen. That’s
life in post-reality America. Everything we used to know is forgotten
and then painfully relearned.
