---
title: "Muslims"
date: "2014-05-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1724"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1724"
---

In the latest Radio Derb, <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2623860/Now-halal-sneaks-schools-Parents-angered-councils-ban-pork-sausages-bacon-replace-ritually-slaughtered-meat.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">he mentioned this story</a>
from Britain. The short version of it is Britain is slowly going halal.
The natives are allowing Muslim fanatics to colonize the place and add
it to the caliphate. That’s an exaggeration, sort of. For reasons no one
knows, they have imported millions of Muslim crazies, who now make up 4%
of the population. The results are predictable. Bombings, consanguineous
marriages resulting in a rash of pinheads and, of course, demands for
special rights.

Then there is <a
href="http://www.newstatesman.com/politics/politics/2012/05/halal-hysteria"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story.</a> It is easy to
get sucked into believing things that you want to believe, so it is a
good idea to seek out contrary opinion. In this case, the New Statesman
is a left-wing site, which in this context means they will be in favor
of unlimited immigration and cosmopolitanism. The headlines promises the
counter argument to the resistance to open borders.

*I am sitting in one of London’s finest Indian restaurants, Benares, in
the heart of Mayfair. I’ve just placed an order for the “Tandoori Ratan”
mixed-grill appetiser – a trio of fennel lamb chop, chicken cutlet and
king prawn.*

*I’ll be honest with you: I’m pretty excited. Most of the upmarket
restaurants in London do not cater for the city’s burgeoning Muslim
population. Benares is one of the few exceptions: all of the lamb and
chicken dishes on its menu are halal.*

*The restaurant opened in 2003 and its owner, Atul Kochhar, is a
Michelin-starred chef. “Right from day one, we’ve kept our lamb and
chicken halal,” Kochhar says. “It was a very conscious decision because
I grew up in India, a secular country, where I was taught to have
respect for all religions.” Kochhar, who is a Hindu, says Muslims make
up “easily between 10 and 20 per cent” of his regular diners. It isn’t
just a taste for religious pluralism that has dictated the contents of
his menu; serving halal meat makes commercial, as well as cultural,
sense.*

At this point, the B.S. detector is flashing. One of the oldest gags the
Left employs is to conjure the too good to be true example that just
happens to prove their point. In this case, the choice of this *one*
restaurant is supposed to be emblematic of the market at work. If the
market resulted in a refusal to go hala, the author would have an
entirely different view of the market. That’s always how the Left views
the market.

*To other, perhaps less tolerant types, however, the rise and rise of
halal meat in the west and here in the UK, in particular, is a source of
tension, controversy, fear and loathing. British Muslims are living
through a period of halal hysteria, a moral panic over our meat. First
there came 9/11, 7/7 and the “Islamic” terror threat; then there was the
row over the niqab (face veil) and hijab (headscarf); now,
astonishingly, it’s the frenzy over halal meat.*

Now the B.S. detector is flashing so much it is starting to smoke. The
fake outrage is an old standard from lefty. If you want to know when he
is about to slather on a layer of bravo sierra, look for the mock
outrage. That’s the tell. Of coruse, once we learn about Mehdi Hasan it
comes into perspective. The brief bio says he is a regular around Fleet
Street. Then there is <a
href="http://blogs.spectator.co.uk/nick-cohen/2013/10/who-is-the-greater-hypocrite-mehdi-hasan-or-the-british-left/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this bit from the
Spectator</a>.

*As displays of duplicity go, Mehdi Hasan’s performance on the BBC
discussion show Question Time seemed hard to beat. Hasan delighted
leftists by hounding the Daily Mail. Who really “hated Britain”? he
asked. Not Ed Miliband’s father, as the Mail had claimed, but the
“immigrant-bashing, women-hating, Muslim-smearing, NHS-undermining,
gay-baiting Daily Mail.”*

*How the audience clapped and cheered. How they loved the sight of a
principled left-wing journalist taking on the “Daily Hate” without fear
of the consequences. Unfortunately for everyone concerned, the Mail
showed within a day that Hasan’s outrage was phoney: a piece of cynical
crowd-pleasing by a manipulative hack. He had sent Paul Dacre a
<a href="http://order-order.com/2013/10/04/dear-mr-dacre/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">begging letter</a> asking for
work. Although he was on the left, Hasan said, he admired the paper’s*

*“passion, rigour, boldness and, of course, news values. I believe the
Mail has a vitally important role to play in the national debate, and I
admire your relentless focus on the need for integrity and morality in
public life, and your outspoken defence of faith, and Christian culture,
in the face of attacks from militant atheists and secularists.”*

*The Mail attracts writers, who ought to oppose it, because it pays them
top rates on one condition only: they say exactly what the editor wants
them to say. You can get at least £1,000 for a morning’s work, and Dacre
will fill your pockets even if he decides not to use your piece. Writers
will bark like a performing seal for money as easy as that. My colleague
Polly Toynbee once <a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/an-everyday-story-of-how-the-daily-mail-digs-its-dirt--and-how-to-throw-it-back-1335620.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">revealed</a> that Geoffrey
Wheatcroft, an author she regarded as a friend, produced a “stinking”
attack on her at the Mail’s behest. He then “had the nerve to write me a
cringing \[private\] letter claiming his copy had been doctored and,
anyway, he had a lot of little Wheatcrofts to keep in shoe leather”.*

*Wheatcroft was being too modest. If you obey orders at the Mail, you
can keep them in Louboutins.*

*But leftists should pause before denouncing Hasan as a charlatan and a
sell-out. They are the purer hypocrites and greater fools. Hasan is from
the Islamist religious right. He <a
href="http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/mehdi-hasan/anatomy-of-a-hitchens-hatchet-job_b_1742497.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">disputes</a> how closely he
has pushed up against the extremes – ever the politician, he says that
old clips of him denouncing non-Muslims as “cattle” have been “taken out
of context”. But he was being sincere when he told Dacre he was*

*“attracted by the Mail’s social conservatism on issues like marriage,
the family, abortion and teenage pregnancies”.*

*Of course he was attracted. He is a religious reactionary. I have no
doubt either that if Dacre had offered him work, he would have taken it
and the opprobrium that would have followed, not only for the money but
for the love as well.*

Just when it looked like Mehdi was nothing more than a liberal crank, we
learn he is something worse. He was born in Britain and lives there now.
He passes himself off as a moderate Muslim adapting well to life in a
civilized country. In reality he is loyal to Islam above all else.
According to his Wiki, he has been caught, in unguarded moments, saying
the sorts of things one expected from Muslim lunatics.

It is why no civilized country should permit the entrance of citizens
from Muslim countries, outside of diplomatic delegations and narrow
business reasons. Allowing any settlement of Muslims in your lands is
asking for trouble. They simply refuse to adapt or get along with
non-Muslims. What they believe, what Mehdi Hasan believes, is
incompatible with Western liberal democracy. Why on earth would sane
people is a western democracy invite these people to settle in their
lands?
