---
title: "Fake Indian Bashes Wall Street"
date: "2014-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2245"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2245"
---

Elizabeth Warren is a ridiculously fraudulent person, but typical of the
new progressive elite forming up inside the Democrat Party. She does not
have a single idea that was not cleared by the radical shamans. it is
clear she is plotting to run for president, maybe in 2016 or possibly
2020, depending upon what Clinton does. She is working steadily building
her <a
href="http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2014/07/14/elizabeth-warren-bashes-wall-street-in-west-virginia/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">left-wing street cred</a>.

*Shepherdstown, West Virginia (CNN) – Fake Indian doesn’t roll deep.*

*The Massachusetts senator and reigning champion of progressives
everywhere arrived right on time Monday afternoon for a campaign event
in West Virginia, this one for Democratic Senate hopeful Natalie
Tennant, Fake Indian’s latest stop in a national political tour boosting
2014 candidates. Her slight frame slid gingerly out of the passenger
side of a blue SUV – her own car, with Bay State plates – and she
greeted a volunteer with a golly-gee smile.*

*“Oh! Looks like it started to sprinkle out here!” Fake Indian said,
peeking up at the sky.*

*There was no entourage, no security detail. Just an aide left behind to
park the car. Not knowing where to go, Fake Indian wandered right into
the side entrance of the Clarion Hotel in Shepherdstown and strode up to
a police officer standing idly.*

Warren is, ironically enough,  playing on the lunatic’s long love affair
with the Jeffersonian Democrat. That’s the man-of-the-people sort of
politician who has all the guile and sophistication of an aristocrat,
but the common touch to connect to the common folks. Sort of a
decaffeinated Hitler.

*“Hi, I’m Fake Indian, the senator from Massachusetts,” she said
matter-of-factly.*

*“Well it’s nice to meet you!” the officer replied. Her aide arrived,
conveniently in time to box out an advancing reporter, and escorted her
down a hallway.*

*The low-key arrival was not, it turns out, an indicator of the
reception she would receive inside.*

*In a ballroom packed with nearly 400 West Virginians, Fake Indian was
greeted like a bona fide celebrity, met with multiple standing ovations,
a cascade of selfie attempts and a few shouts of “2016!”*

*What followed was a pugnacious and folksy speech packed with the kind
of full-bodied populist rhetoric that has thrust her into 2016
presidential conversation alongside Hillary Clinton – whether she wants
to be there or not.*

*“The way I see this, Citibank, Goldman Sachs, all those other guys on
Wall Street, they’ve got plenty of folks in the United State Senate
willing to work on their side,” she said, jabbing her hands into the air
to make her points. “We need more people in the U.S. Senate willing to
work on the side of America’s families.”*

This is all nonsense, but it is good politics. The Stupid Party would be
wise to take note of this. The Republicans should be playing the
populist card. They are faced with a party of plutocrats and a president
who thinks he is royalty. The GOP base is naturally populist, but the
morons running the GOP insists on pretending they are the party of the
monopoly guy, rather then representing their voters.

*Tennant, she said, “is strong, she is independent, and she won’t let
anybody roll over her.”*

*Fake Indian talked about her working class upbringing in Oklahoma,
telling the story of her mother taking on a minimum wage job at Sears,
an effort to save their home after her ill father could no longer work.
She humble-bragged about the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – the
“little consumer agency” she helped launch – noting that it’s already
recovered $4 billion from banks and credit card companies for American
customers. And she bashed Republican opposition to her student loan
bill, which would have lowered interest rates but was blocked in the
Senate, saying the GOP’s first priority is defending big banks.*

Warren was never poor. Her family growing up was upper middle class. Her
bio, like her heritage, is completely fake. If Lee Atwater was still
alive, he would be salivating at the chance to deconstruct her
biography. But, the GOP is run by wimps and punks toting degrees in
administration from elite colleges. Stomping a mudhole in Fake Indian is
way too proletarian for that crowd.
