---
title: "The End of Citizenship"
date: "2014-11-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3257"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3257"
---

Reading Maggie’s Farm I see a link to a <a
href="http://reason.com/blog/2014/11/19/opposition-to-state-sanctioned-marriage"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">religious site’s article on marriage</a>.
My first thought was that it still amazes me how fanatics see only that
which confirms their fanaticism. I have a lunatic acquaintance who will
be out in the streets waving around the latest global warming report. He
will not bother to notice that it is 30 degrees below normal or that
most of the country is setting records for cold. That’s just weather.
The Reason crowd does the same thing with weed and buggery.

My second thought was just how effective mass movements are at winning
culture fights. The singular focus on ridding the nation of the white
middle class has resulted in some very clever tactics. Homosexual
marriage is a good example. By redefining marriage to something like a
casual roommate agreement, marriage ceases to exist. Normal marriage is
one of the foundation stones of an independent middle class. Get rid of
it and you further weaken opposition to the Cult of Modern Liberalism’s
jihad on the American middle.

When something means everything, it means nothing.

<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/americas-demographic-cuckolding/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This post at Sailer’s shop</a> is another
example, but from another angle. The point of mass immigration is to get
rid of citizenship. Citizenship is the foundation stone of nationalism.
We take nationalism for granted, but it is relatively new in human
affairs. Most historians place the birth of nationalism with the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hundred_Years%27_War"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Hundred Years War</a>. At the start,
armies composed of soldiers from all over fought one another in what we
now call France. By the end, the armies were ethnically pure, English on
one side and French on the other. Both sides fought for God and country,
not loot.

The Europeans intellectuals, particularly Jews, blame nationalism for
World War II. That’s the main lesson European Jews took from the
Holocaust. It’s why American Jews have a lukewarm relationship with
Israel. To American and European Jews, Zionism looks uncomfortably like
the sort of blood and soil nationalism that gave the world Hitler and
National Socialism.

The European Union is a direct response to nationalism. The reason the
continental intellectual elite seem berserk about obliterating national
borders is because they are berserk about obliterating national borders.
It is the sole objective of their efforts. Everything else plays a
supporting role to the main project. If the Greeks have to live in
squalor or Italians lose the right to vote for their leaders, so be it.
The elimination of nationalism and everything that comes with it is all
that matters.

As is always the case, American intellectuals look over the sea and try
to ape what’s going on in Europe. That means we get a defective form of
the whatever trends are popular there. In America, where nationalism has
always been mild and directed toward bland ends, the intellectual class
is feverishly working to make US citizenship worthless. By flinging open
the borders and bestowing special privileges on non-citizens, being an
American suddenly becomes a sucker’s play.

Consider what the Emperor has decreed the other day. Foreigners who
break American laws get treated different from Americans who break
American law. An American who lies on a government form faces jail time.
Foreigners now get to lie on those forms without consequence. As <a
href="http://www.vdare.com/articles/the-truth-about-obamas-temporary-ebola-amnesty"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Michelle Malkin points out</a>, this is
not exactly new. Special rights for foreigners have been going on for
decades. Why would anyone want to be an American when that means abiding
by a whole bunch of laws?

This is not just the immigration rackets. At the local level, illegal
aliens get to <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/nov/11/illegal-immigrants-with-old-dui-id-theft-charges-s/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">drive drunk, assault citizens</a> and
commit theft through identity fraud. The states cannot deport these
people and the Feds refuse to deport them. So why arrest them? If you
are a local cop why would you invite all of these troubles into your
life? You’re better off just letting the guy walk and never reporting
it.

What’s going on here is what we see from the Cult and marriage. By
scrambling the definition, they are rendering the concept of citizenship
meaningless. Once something loses its meaning it ceases to exist. In a
world without nations there’s no longer a need for national government.
You still have men with guns enforcing the rules for the rulers, but
they no longer have any loyalty to the people at whom they are pointing
those guns. Like the soldiers in the early years of the Hundred Years
War, their loyalty is to themselves and the plunder to be gained by
membership in their war band.

For the rest of us, you just have to hope you never come to the
attention of whatever warlord is running your area.
