---
title: "The Breakdown of Order"
date: "2014-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2711"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2711"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, bankers went crazy and we ended up with
the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Savings_and_loan_crisis"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">S&amp;L Crisis</a>. Bank
fraud, bubbles, busts and system collapse are regular features of
banking. The reason is simple. Banks attract bank robbers. The role of
government is to police the banks, arrest the robbers when they find
them and then make examples of those bank robbers by putting them in
cages for long periods. It is not perfect, but it keeps the banking
system of a nation working in an orderly fashion.

In the Clinton years, that all changed. We stopped putting bankers in
jail. In fact, we stopped arresting them entirely. Instead, it is a
free-for-all in finance. <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-09-08/cftc-said-to-alert-justice-department-of-criminal-rate-rigging.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s yet another story</a>
of systematic bank fraud that will result in no action by the
government.

*Derivatives regulators told the U.S. Justice Department they’ve found
evidence of criminal behavior following an investigation into banks’
alleged manipulation of ISDAfix, a benchmark used to set rates for
trillions of dollars of financial products.*

*The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which first sent
subpoenas to the world’s largest banks in November 2012 to determine
whether ISDAfix was rigged, has flagged its findings to prosecutors,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The CFTC’s enforcement
powers are confined to bringing civil, not criminal, cases. It isn’t
clear who the CFTC suspects broke the law.*

*Benchmarks like ISDAfix, which is used to track prices on interest-rate
swaps, serve as the foundation of global finance, helping pension funds
determine their future obligations and lenders decide how much to charge
borrowers. Regulators around the world are probing allegations that
measures used to set prices in gold, oil, interest rates and currencies
were rigged by banks and brokers wanting to pad their profits while
cheating their clients and other investors.*

*Last week, the Alaska Electrical Pension Fund accused 13 banks
including Barclays Plc (BARC), Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.
(C) as well as broker ICAP Plc (IAP) of conspiring to manipulate
ISDAfix. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority is also looking into
allegations of wrongdoing involving the benchmark.*

*Representatives of the Justice Department, CFTC, Barclays, Bank of
America, Citigroup and ICAP declined to comment.*

This is not just a few guys stealing. This is systematic theft of public
monies by the world’s largest banks. This does not happen without the
top level managers knowing and directing it. None of these people can
plead ignorance or say that this is an unexpected and un intend
consequence. It’s done on purpose.

*Bloomberg News, citing a person with knowledge of the matter, was the
first to report last year that the CFTC found evidence traders at Wall
Street banks instructed ICAP brokers to buy or sell as many
interest-rate swaps as necessary to rig ISDAfix by moving it to a
predetermined level. Doing so helped banks reap millions of dollars in
trading profits, costing companies and pension funds, the person said at
the time.*

*Brokers on the ICAP desk, nicknamed “Treasure Island” because of the
large salaries and bonuses they were paid, negotiate swaps trades on
behalf of banks. Until this year, the dollar-denominated version of the
ISDAfix rate was set daily by ICAP based on data submissions from banks.
Amid the CFTC investigation, ICAP lost that central role. The
International Swaps & Derivatives Association Inc., or ISDA, picked
Thomson Reuters Corp. to take over that job this year.*

*Deferred prosecution settlements between regulators and banks including
UBS AG and Barclays related to London interbank offered rate rigging
have compelled firms to hand over information in the ISDAfix and
currency probes to avoid criminal prosecution in the Libor case.*

The term “deferred prosecution” is a neologism that means no
prosecution. If you are a young gun working your way up in finance, you
see no risk to this behavior. If you get caught, your bosses cover it
up, you keep the money and maybe you have to change firms as a
“punishment.” Start putting these guys on
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louisiana_State_Penitentiary"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Farm</a> and we suddenly
get a new respect not only for the law, but the spirit of the law.
