---
title: "2014: The Amazon War"
date: "2014-05-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1844"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1844"
---

A popular joke is that in the future, people will identify based on
their loyalty to one of the global corporations dominating society.
People will self-identify as Google or Apple or Amazon. If you are a
reader, Amazon is the default bookstore. Google has your email and
personal information, which they share with the state. Apple is a weird
cult of people who fashion themselves tech-savvy so they insist on
products requiring zero technical skill. Brand loyalty is now personal
identity.

Anyway, lost in it all is <a
href="http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/05/23/amazon-escalates-its-battle-against-hachette/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Amazon is not a healthy
business</a>. By the standards of finance, the stock is over priced by a
factor of 24. That’s right. They have a P/E of 487 as of right now. For
a bio-tech startup, that’s OK, but for a mature business it is
staggeringly high, unless they have some new invention in the works.
That stock price would have to fall to $13 for the stock to be prized at
a typical P/E. But, nothing about modern finance makes much sense, based
on the old economics.

*Amazon’s power over the publishing and bookselling industries is
unrivaled in the modern era. Now it has started wielding its might in a
more brazen way than ever before.*

***Seeking ever-higher payments from publishers to bolster its anemic
bottom line**, Amazon is holding books and authors hostage on two
continents by delaying shipments and raising prices. The literary
community is fearful and outraged — and practically begging for
government intervention.*

This is the sort of thing a business does when they have run out of
other options. They have squeezed every cent from their supply chain.
They have automated everything that can be automated. They have baffled
the markets with their drone stuff, but no one is buying that much
longer. They either start posting better results or there will be a rush
for the exists. That does not mean they are the new Enraon, but it
suggests they need to find a new thing to keep the plates spinning.

*“How is this not extortion? You know, the thing that is illegal when
the Mafia does it,” asked Dennis Loy Johnson of Melville House, echoing
remarks being made across social media.*

*Amazon is, as usual, staying mum. “We talk when we have something to
say,” Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder and chief executive, said at the
company’s annual meeting this week.*

*The battle is being waged largely over physical books. In the United
States, Amazon has been discouraging customers from buying titles from
Hachette, the fourth-largest publisher by market share. Late Thursday,
it escalated the dispute by making it impossible to order Hachette
titles being issued this summer and fall. It is using some of the same
tactics against the Bonnier Media Group in Germany.*

One of the under discussed facts about the “new” economy is these tech
giants are mostly skimming operations and rentiers. A book from Amazon
is the same as a book from Fred’s book shop. You’re not saving money on
the production of the book or getting anything extra from Amazon. They
make their money from convenience and that has a small premium. Much of
their success depends on using networks developed by other firms, for
which Amazon pays nothing.

That could be what’s coming next for Amazon and NetFlix. The ISP’s will
begin throttling their services unless they pay for their usage. Those
costs will be passed to the customers of these services instead of
financed by everyone else. That’s the theory, but these giant firms have
a lot of power, so they can probably avoid it. Money may not buy
happiness, but it can buy a lot of politcal power.

*But the real prize is control of e-books, the future of publishing.*

*Publishers tried to rein in Amazon once, and got slapped with a federal
antitrust suit for their efforts. Amazon was not directly a party to the
case but has reaped the rewards in increased market power. Now it wants
to increase its share of the digital proceeds. The publishers, weighing
a slide into irrelevance if not nonexistence, are trying to hold the
line.*

*Late Friday afternoon, Hachette made by far its strongest comment on
the conflict.*

*“We are determined to protect the value of our authors’ books and our
own work in editing, distributing and marketing them,” said Sophie
Cottrell, a Hachette senior vice president. “We hope this difficult
situation will not last a long time, but we are sparing no effort and
exploring all options.”*

*The Authors Guild accused the retailer of acting illegally.*

*“Amazon clearly has substantial market power and is abusing that market
power to maintain and increase its dominance, which likely violates
Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act,” said Jan Constantine, the
Guild’s general counsel.*

The trouble for Amazon is they have a monopoly on things that can be
duplicated, to some degree, by smaller players. Producing book, digital
or analog, is not an art exclusive to Amazon. Further, Amazon does not
do much to promote book sales on their platform. Further, the rest of
supply chain is becoming easier to replicate on the small scale. Small
business can ship just as cheap as Amazon. In other words, lots of
people can start selling books on-line if Amazon becomes a problem.
