---
title: "Coaching While Black"
date: "2014-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=754"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=754"
---

Charlie Strong, the head football coach at Louisville, will be the next
head football coach at University of Texas. The Longhorns are part of
college sports royalty, maybe even the top of the list of elite
programs. They generate more revenue than any other school. They have
the biggest facilities, the biggest fan base and the biggest egos. Other
big state schools like Ohio State and Michigan can claim to be the top
of the list, but most people consider Texas the NY Yankees of college
sports.

Their decision to hire a black guy obviously has cultural meaning,
mostly because the mass media is obsessed with race. In fact, the media
will care more about the race angle than the fact Strong has a very good
resume and is actually qualified for the job. Coaches tend to kick
around for 20 years as assistants and head coaches at small programs.
Eventually, they get a shot at a major, but not elite, program to show
they can compete with the best. <span style="line-height: 1.625;">If
they win, they get a shot to man one of the elite programs. </span>

<span style="line-height: 1.625;">Strong has done all of those things.
The fact that he is black should be an enormous asset to him, but that
has not been the case. Instead, he struggled to get his first head
coaching job.  The rumor was college presidents fretted over his race,
thinking the fans would not embrace a black man as coach. Even after he
got the job at Louisville and there were no white riots, the attitude
among college
presidents </span>persisted<span style="line-height: 1.625;">. They were
sure their racist fans would burn the school down if they dared hire a
black to coach the football team.</span>

In fact, that’s been the argument for decades now. There’s no evidence
the fans care about the race of the coach. They just want to win.
Boosters, who fund a lot of this stuff, would embrace a space alien if
he could win games. If Strong was a bisexual, transvestite black Nazi,
the Louisville fans would cheer him anyway. It’s fair to say sports are
why America has as much racial peace as it does. White sports fans care
more about winning than the realities of race, so they overlook it in
order to have their sports.

Despite this, white college presidents still think their fans hate
blacks. There are a growing number of black athletic directors, who
would be eager to hire black coaches, but the number of black coaches
remains very low. The fans actually think black coaches are a benefit
dealing with black players. Again, the boosters just want to win so that
leaves the school presidents as the primary obstacle to hiring clack
coaches. That and the fact it is a long apprenticeship and blacks tend
to have very high time preference.

These presidents are overwhelmingly white and liberal. They live and
work in the least diverse parts of America. Anyone thinking the campus
is diverse has never been to a McDonalds in the South. They also live
and work in the most radically left-wing parts of America. Yet, they
walk around thinking they are the friend of the black man and those
others, those rowdies in the stands, black and white, are the bigots. It
is a remarkable bit of cognitive dissidence. These people are strangely
delusional.

It should also be noted that it is the southern schools that are leading
the way with the hiring of black coaches. Here is where winning trumps
all else. Vanderbilt is paying their black coach $3 million a year.
Mississippi State had a black coach a decade ago. Charlie Strong started
in the SEC and then went to Louisville. Miami had a black coach a few
years back. The assistant ranks are ghostly white the further north you
go, while the sidelines in the South have much more vibrancy.

Of course, the cognitive dissidence is not limited to the lily white
leadership of American colleges and universities. When the Left sees all
of these black coaches at southern schools, they believe it due to their
heroic efforts to fix those bad whites in the south, even though the
schools in the north remain ghostly white. It’s a reminder that for bad
whites, race is a real issue to be dealt with in a serious way. For good
whites, race is entirely about moral posturing in juxtaposition with the
bad whites they detest.
