---
title: "Unitary Cult Theory"
date: "2014-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2745"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2745"
---

Steve Sailer has been wondering why the <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/a-cynical-take-on-the-endless-ferguson-hoopla/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Left is obsessing over
Ferguson</a>. We keep seeing non-stories getting more coverage than
stories one would assume have greater public interest. The increasingly
dangerous situation in Ukraine, for example, generates little coverage,
for example, despite the <a
href="http://www.cbsnews.com/news/leaked-putin-remarks-on-ukraine-enrage-russia/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ugly showdown</a> with Russia.
The domestic economy, staggering along in ways not seen in a generation,
generates no news coverage, because Obama, of course.

Then we have this berserk obsession with some football player who hit
his old lady. Everyone knew when the story first hit the wires that the
player punched his old lady in the elevator. Unless you’re missing a
chromosome, you could figure out how the women ended up unconscious.
That and the player’s confession solved that mystery months ago. Now, a
video comes out showing the incident, as the normally inert <a
href="http://espn.go.com/nfl/story/_/id/11507478/sixteen-female-senators-send-letter-roger-goodell-calling-zero-tolerance"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">US Senate is moved to get
involved</a> in what the state prosecutor thought was a nothing
incident.

The lunatic sporting press has been treating this like Watergate for two
weeks now. Meanwhile, real scandals like the IRS systematically
harassing citizen on behalf of the White House goes unmentioned. The
White House attempt to declare Obama dictator so he rewrite laws as he
sees fit is treated like a zoning board hearing in Poughkeepsie.
Whenever this is pointed out, the lunatic press claims they merely chase
the stories of interest to the public.

But, public reaction to the Rice story looks more like mockery of the
lunatics than real interest. Last night the Ravens played Pittsburgh and
the <a
href="http://www.myfoxdc.com/story/26512888/ravens-fans-men-and-women-wear-ray-rice-jerseys-at-thursday-night-game"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Baltimore fans were wearing
Ray Rice jerseys</a>. It seems clear they were not doing this to support
wide beating. Most of the people wearing the jerseys were women. They
were doing it to protest the lunacy they see from the Cult on this
issue.

*Music blared from the purple bus, and Baltimore Ravens fan Racquel
Bailey stood with drink in hand amid her usual tailgate buddies while
making a bold fashion statement: a black, rhinestone-decorated jersey
with the white No. 27.*

*A Ray Rice jersey.*

*“There’s two sides to every story,” said the 23-year-old waitress from
Baltimore. “I saw the video. That’s their personal business, and it
shouldn’t have affected his career. I don’t agree with domestic
violence, but she’s still with him, so obviously it wasn’t that big of a
deal. Everyone should just drop it.”*

*Ravens fans male and female, young and old, arrived for Thursday
night’s game against the Pittsburgh Steelers debating the events that
have affected their team over the last few days. Their once beloved
running back has been kicked off the team and banned by the NFL after a
video surfaced that showed him punching his then-fiancee — and now wife
— inside an Atlantic City hotel elevator.*

*All condemned Rice’s actions, but there was little consensus as to what
his punishment should be. The NFL did the right thing by suspending him,
some said, but the Ravens shouldn’t have terminated his contract as
well. Or maybe the suspension should have remained at two games, where
it stood before the punch video became public.*

The question is why does the Cult become obsessed on nothing stories
like this or hoax stories like the Ferguson riots?

My offering is the **Unitary Cult Theory**. This is when members of a
mass movement, always jostling with one another for status within the
movement, close the information loop, excluding information from people
outside the movement regarding a topic. The result is a *piety contest*
where members of the movement stand up and commit increasingly extreme
acts of public piety.  As more and more members jump into the ring, the
contest quickly spirals out of control resulting in these absurd public
displays.

Because the country is run by the Cult of Modern Liberalism, these piety
wheels get maximum attention. The public is often sucked into the the
false drama in the same way people get caught up in a TV serial. That’s
gasoline on the fire. With Ferguson, the public has seen that drama too
many times to stay interested for very long. The <a
href="http://cowboysblog.dallasnews.com/2014/09/michael-sam-doing-a-good-job-in-practice-rod-marinelli-i-like-his-quickness-and-his-instincts.html/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Gay Gayington</a> story is too
disgusting. This Ray Rice story gets more interest because the NFL is so
popular and everyone can relate the story at the center of it.

The other piece of this, of course, is why the focus on trivia and
hoaxes? We’ve had so many race hoaxes, the default assumption now is the
next one will be a hoax as well. Part of it is how the mind of the
fanatic operates. They see only that which confirms their fanaticism.
When a white cop shoots a black giant, the fanatics in the Cult process
that as yet another bit of data confirming the narrative. When a black
cop shoots a white guy, it is filtered out and ignored.

At the macro level, the Cult, like any mass movement, will collectively
focus away from dis-confirmation. The Cult has been in charge of
American cities for 70 years. The problems of the black ghetto are the
responsibility of the Cult. They cannot admit it or even acknowledge it,
so they look to places like Ferguson. Given the times, the Cult is
desperate to focus on news stories that have nothing to do with politics
because then they have to face up to the failings of their idol, Barry
Obama.

Finally, this story has something extra for the Cult. They love to
destroy that which is popular with normal people. The NFL is very
popular with typical white people. It is the typical white person sport.
That means the Cult must hate it with all their worth. The Ray Rice
story gives them a chance to land some blows on what is for the Cult, a
proxy for middle America.
