---
title: "Corporate Bullshit"
date: "2014-06-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2002"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2002"
---

A long ago, there was a movement called the “[Plain English
Campaign](http://www.plainenglish.co.uk/).” It is still around, as you
can see by their website, but I don’t know if they have had any effect
in the UK. Here is the colonies, things have gone horribly wrong, in
terms of plan language. Corporate jargon is the most obvious. Clever
guys have made corporate jargon generators like [this
one](http://www.atrixnet.com/bs-generator.html) to mock the bizarre
pseudo-language popping from B-schools and HR departments.

Yesterday, I got en e-mail for a job opening. I’m on so many
distribution lists for corporate announcements I have a separate e-mail
account for them. I usually just delete this crap, but this one is a
classic. The abundance of bullshit is amazing. This is for a Senior Vice
President:

*Overall Accountabilities:*

*Your mandate as Senior Vice-President, Application Support will be
aligned with the Chief Information Officer’s objectives of developing
and integrating the IT strategy with IFDS. organizational-wide
objectives, including exploring new business opportunities, defining a
viable and effective technology road map and establishing priorities for
fundamental organizational transformation to sustain competitive
advantage.*

What does “aligned with the Chief Information Officer’s objectives”
mean? My guess is it means you will be told what to do by your boss,
like every other employee. I like “viable and effective” as a goal.
Having tried doomed and ineffective a few times, it all makes perfect
sense. A big part of corporate jargon is restating the obvious in
neologisms and inventive word salad. It’s passive aggressive pandering.

 *As a critical member of the IT Senior Leadership team, you will play
a*

*key role in aligning IT programs to corporate goals and strategies. You
will be accountable for oversight and quality of all facets necessary to
the successful delivery and sustaining activities required to provision
and support integrated, sustainable, and secure software applications in
addition to development or enhancement of IFDS systems and products on a
global level.*

More aligning! You will be aligned!!

*You will have meaningful impact, leading transformational change and
leveraging talent through creation of a global, innovative,
high-performing team, focused on delivering quality solutions that
facilitates business success. Your technical aptitude, business acumen
and experience at the senior management level, will empower you to
articulate this technical vision and influence business leaders to*

*ensure exceptional client centric solutions and future growth.*

A guy shooting up the place will make a meaningful impact too. It’s
weird how modern managerial types think these emotive words are always
good. Transformational could mean burning the place to the ground.
Focused? Hitler was focused! Pol Pot was hyper-focused. How’d that work
out?

 *Competencies: Behavioral & Functional:*

*Strategic & Systems Thinking: Understand the connections across
functions/enterprise and look at issues from multiple perspectives.
Anticipate and look at downstream and cross-functional implications,
articulating how technology can transform the business*

I dare anyone to explain what the hell that means.

*Results Focus & Team Leadership: Drive organizational initiatives
beyond delivering the IT project component. Set and adjust priorities
effectively; remove barriers and act with an appropriate sense of
urgency. Infuse the team with a sense of purpose and create clear
accountabilities and metrics. Energize team to excel, continuously
improve and develop hi-potentials.*

Another magic word is “beyond.” You know, like when Stalin went beyond
collective farming and starved millions of Ukrainians. I suppose
“energizing the team” has something to do with cattle prods and the
lash.

*Business Acumen and Intellectually Curiosity: Use financial and
technical data to accurately diagnose business strengths and
opportunities. Pick up cues from around the organization to be able to
raise awareness, simplify and solve complex business and technical
issues.*

Look, I’ve hired a lot of people in my life and I never wanted any of
them to be intellectually curious. That type goes through your briefcase
when you’re in the restroom. They tend to waste time doing things other
than their job.

*Leading Change: Champion change in self and others, build a compelling
vision and act with urgency to drive change across the enterprise.*

Another magic word. Change is not always good. For instance, if the new
guy “champions” the idea of working in the nude, that’s not a change
anyone would welcome. The hilarious thing about these ads is they are
all lies. This firm wants a female to run customer service. That’s what
all the emotive bullshit is signaling. The fact that the word “diverse”
is not used says they are not hiring a black guy this time.
