---
title: "Those Hitler Loving Frogs"
date: "2014-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1332"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1332"
---

The new brings news that <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/far-expects-surge-french-local-elections-172631351.html;_ylt=AwrTWVXmmi9TCAcAo3vQtDMD"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">French voters have gone big
for the fascists</a> in their recent elections. They don’t call them
fascists these days, but we know what they mean by “far right.” After
all, anyone who is not 100% committed to post-national globalism must be
Hitler or at least Mussolini. Of course, as soon as they get control of
the state, they will suspend democracy and impose a dictatorship, so it
is critical that the fascists never win an elections. This news sounds
ominous.

*France’s far-right National Front party dealt a major blow to the
ruling Socialists Sunday after several of its candidates took prime
position in the first round of local elections.*

*The main centre-right opposition UMP party also hailed a “big victory”
as initial estimates showed it came out trumps in the elections, as
President Francois Hollande suffers record unpopularity against a
backdrop of near-zero growth and high unemployment.*

*According to preliminary results from the interior ministry, the UMP
and allies took 47 percent of the vote nationwide while the Socialist
party and allies took 38 percent, and the FN five percent — far higher
than its 0.9 percent result in the first round of 2008 municipal polls.*

That’s strange. That headline was a bit misleading. Both 47% and 38% are
larger than 5%, at least for all known values of five. Maybe democracy
works differently in France but here in America, you don’t win much of
anything with five percent of the vote. The panic seems a bit out of
line, given that fringe parties are always a part of European politics,
most polling in the single digits.

*Applauding what she said was “an exceptional vintage for the FN”,
Marine Le Pen — head of the anti-immigration, anti-EU party — said the
polls marked the “end of the bipolarisation of the political scene”.*

*Although the FN had been expected to do well, the first round results
were far better than expected.*

*Far-right candidates came ahead in several key towns and cities that
will put them in pole position in the second round on March 30.*

*<img
src="http://l.yimg.com/bt/api/res/1.2/uK2oPK7hxjF9mTtKkrd2uw--/YXBwaWQ9eW5ld3M7Zmk9ZmlsbDtoPTMxNjtxPTc1O3c9MzAw/http://media.zenfs.com/en_us/News/afp.com/524a0b5a951e5ff3ad07a4b85f258b4a7dcbb2f4.jpg"
data-src-2x="" decoding="async" width="300" height="316"
alt="France&amp;#39;s local elections" />*

*In the former coal-mining town of Henin-Beaumont in northern France,
Steeve Briois went a step further and achieved 50.3 percent, an absolute
majority which made him the outright winner and mayor.*

*Under municipal election rules in France, any candidate who gets more
than 50 percent is declared the winner and there is no need for a second
round.*

*The FN hopes to claim the mayorship of 10 to 15 mid-sized town after
the second round, and if it achieves that, it will have beaten its
previous record in 1997 when it had four mayors.*

OK, it looks like the FN did well in rural areas while the Slightly Less
Socialist Than The Socialists (UMP) did well in the major urban areas.
Still, five percent is five percent, so the hyperventilating is a bit
ridiculous. It reveals the paranoia and insecurity of the globalists
despite their total control of the world. Maybe they know something that
is not obvious to the rest of us. Alternatively, maybe they just need a
bogeyman to keep everyone from noticing what’s happening in the West.

For Americans, this is a glimpse of what’s on the way. The FN is mostly
what the Democratic Party looked like in the 1950’s. That’s populist,
patriotic and protectionist. In France today, being patriotic is like
being a Klansman in New York City. Populism is about as tasteful as a
septic tank. Of course, protectionism is considered on par with
witchcraft. The idea that the government should put the interest of
citizens ahead of foreigners is a banned concept in France. In a
generation, that will be true of America.
