---
title: "Naomi Wolf is a Dolt"
date: "2014-04-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1393"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1393"
---

The last time anyone had any reason to care about the thoughts of Naomi
Wolf, she was trying to explain how Clinton’s over-the-top womanizing
was consistent with feminist principles. No one really cared all that
much about hat she was saying, but she was amusing in a weird way, so
she got media attention. Here you had Bill Clinton carrying on like the
male chauvinist pig of feminist lore and everyone of these women were
excusing him. There’s hypocrisy and then there is American feminism.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/naomi-wolf-examines-the-rise-of-women-to-leadership-positions-in-major-far-right-european-political-parties"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this was in the news</a>
recently. The Left seems to be entering the paranoid stage as this wave
ebbs. Whenever they are up to something, they start howling about
fascism. That usually means they are plotting some anti-democratic
shenanigans. It also ties into the on schism within the Left between
national socialism and international socialism. Naomi Wolf could be
nothing, but it probably means the Left is feeling threatened by
enemies, real or imagined.

*Western feminism has made some memorable theoretical mistakes; a major
one is the frequent assumption that, if women held the decision-making
power in society, they would be “kinder and gentler” (a phrase devised
for George H.W. Bush in 1988 to appeal to the female vote). Indeed,
so-called “second-wave” feminist theory abounds in assertions that war,
racism, love of hierarchy, and general repressiveness belong to
“patriarchy”; women’s leadership, by contrast, would naturally create a
more inclusive, collaborative world.*

*The problem is that it has never worked out that way, as the rise of
women to leadership positions in Western Europe’s far-right parties
should remind us. Leaders such as Marine Le Pen of France’s National
Front, Pia Kjaersgaard of Denmark’s People’s Party, and Siv Jensen of
Norway’s Progress Party reflect the enduring appeal of neofascist
movements to many modern women in egalitarian, inclusive liberal
democracies.*

*The past is prologue: Wendy Lower’s recent book <a
href="http://books.google.com/books?id=oVpg8X-dxmYC&amp;printsec=frontcover&amp;dq=Hitler%E2%80%99s+Furies:+German+Women+in+the+Nazi+Killing+Fields&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=hU85U_3bH4SUhQf75YAI&amp;redir_esc=y"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Hitler’s Furies: German Women
in the Nazi Killing Fields</a> adds more data to the long record of
women embracing violent right-wing movements. And the rise of far-right
movements in Europe – often with women in charge – confronts us with the
fact that the heirs to the fascism of the 1930’s have their own
gender-based appeal.*

One obvious reason for the success of women like Le Pen, Kjaersgaard,
and Jensen is their value for packaging and marketing their parties.
Europe’s far-right parties today must appeal to citizens by not seeming
dangerously extreme and marginal. How dangerous can the movement be,
after all, if women are speaking for it? Such parties come to be seen as
more mainstream, and their appeal to traditionally harder-to-win women
supporters receives a boost. It’s just marketing in a modern democracy.

In the last couple of years as the Obama show staggers to a conclusion,
Progressives like Wolf have been wringing their hands over the rise of
fascism again. The 1950’s were allegedly a revival of fascism, according
to the Left, because Americans were happy, prosperous and being
fruitful. For American Liberalism, everything is upside down. They spent
the sixties allegedly fighting fascism, which was just an excuse to
swing a wrecking ball through the traditional American life of their
parents.

Fascism took a holiday in the 1970’s, but it came back in the 1980’s
only to go back on holiday in the 1990’s. But, the fear of Hitler was
back in full for the Bush years. The core of what these people believe
starts with the end of the Constitution, yet they expect people to take
seriously their concerns for liberty. They lack any capacity to
self-examine, so they start howling about fascist threats to democracy,
whenever their plans to undermine the normal functioning of democracy is
impaired.

This deranged lack of self-awareness is tough to grasp at times, because
it is so unlike what normal people experience. All of us are
self-conscious to some degree. The Left is thoroughly and completely
elitist. It is the religion of the ruling elite. You sure as hell are
not going to hear a debate about third wave feminism in the ghetto or on
the job site among working men. You are not going to hear Rotary Club
Republicans advocating euthanasia or forced sterilization of the unfit.
Those are topics discussed by Progressive in the faculty lounge. Yet,
they think they are fighting those things.

That’s a big reason why Progressives have made fascism  their eternal
bogeyman. It’s a form of projection. They hate this truth about
themselves, but cannot face up to it without blowing the whole religion
up in the process. It gets deeply internalized to the point they can no
longer recognize it in themselves. The fear and hatred are still there
so when they go looking for a scapegoat or a bogeyman, they inevitably
call it a fascist.

That’s the other part of this. As this Progressive wave ebbs and the
people notice the garbage left behind from the flood, the Left seeks to
cast the spotlight on some other. It has already started, for example,
with health care. The law passed by the Left is a disaster. Instead of
defending it, they are out attacking various bogeymen for failing to fix
it. That sounds insane – and it is -but it is not intended to convince.
It is intended to distract the people on the Left, so they don’t notice
their own failures.
