---
title: "Uber Rape"
date: "2014-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3397"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3397"
---

I’m old and I hate change so naturally I think the kids, with their
smartphones and sharing economy, are just a bunch of addled-minded
commies, high on stupid. After all, what was wrong with hailing a cab
and paying the fare? Now I’m supposed to hop in with some weirdo who
drives strangers around town because he finds livery work
self-actualizing? Fiddlesticks to that!

In all seriousness, I’ve been skeptical of Uber from the start. It has
that slippery con-man vibe to it. Like everything else about the
“sharing economy” it is real good at sharing the costs, but even better
at privatizing the profits. Apparently, <a
href="http://boston.cbslocal.com/2014/12/17/boston-uber-driver-arraigned-on-rape-charges/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">they are not very good at screening their
drivers</a>.

*A man who works as a driver for the ride-sharing service Uber is
accused of raping a woman he picked up in Boston.*

*The suspect, 46-year-old Alejandro Done of Boston, was arraigned
Wednesday on charges of rape, assault to rape and assault and battery.*

*Authorities say on December 6, the victim was waiting for a
ride-sharing driver at a residence on Tremont Street in Boston.*

*When the victim got into the car, the driver told her that he would
need a cash payment for the ride, so he brought her to an ATM.*

*The driver then allegedly drove to a location the passenger was not
familiar with, pulled over in a secluded area and jumped in the backseat
where she was sitting.*

*“He allegedly struck her with his hands, strangled her, locked the car
doors so that she could not escape and covered her mouth so she could
not scream,” according to the Middlesex County District Attorney’s
office. “During an ensuing physical struggle, the defendant allegedly
sexually assaulted the woman.”*

*Uber says Done was not the driver the victim contacted to pick her up.*

*“This is a despicable crime and our thoughts and prayers are with the
victim during her recovery,” Uber spokesperson Kaitlin Durkosh said.
“Uber has been working closely with law enforcement and will continue to
do everything we can to assist their investigation.”*

*Uber says Done passed a background check prior to becoming an
independent contractor with the company. He is being held pending a
dangerousness hearing scheduled for December 24 in Cambridge District
Court.*

Uber strikes me as one of the pet rock businesses of post-reality
America. By that, I mean it is is a fun fad that people get rich from,
but otherwise is not a real business with staying power. The reason is
they are basically making money by deception. Part of that deception is
cost shifting. They shift the operating costs of a taxi company onto the
drivers, cell phone carriers and general society.

Let me explain that last part. On their site they say you <a
href="https://get.uber.com/drive-uber/baltimore/p2p/?utm_source=AdWords_Brand&amp;utm_campaign=search%7Cdesktop%7Cdrivers%7Cbaltimore%7Ccountry-1%7Ccity-35%7Ckeyword_Uber%7Cmatchtype_b%7Cad_66351228280%7Ccampaign_brand%7Cgroup_uber%3Ebroad%7Cgetlandingnew&amp;utm_content=kenid_d06c4ac7-4e27-4329-9741-36b00fff03fc&amp;utm_medium=kenid_d06c4ac7-4e27-4329-9741-36b00fff03fc&amp;gclid=CjwKEAiA2dSkBRCX8KmK5YrFviwSJACeYweCB4tK8Z9Kmze27ldYPBavcgObckfw-8Ow4RS2qnyMeBoCIrfw_wcB"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">don’t need extra insurance</a> to be one
of their drivers. That’s not exactly true. My insurance policy
explicitly says I am not covered as a for-hire driver and my car will
not be covered as a commercial vehicle. Uber says they cover you while
you are on a trip, but
<a href="http://blog.uber.com/ridesharinginsurance" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the limits are the bare minimum</a> and it is unclear if
they are the primary or secondary carrier.

That’s just one piece of the cost shifted to the driver. If your fare
spills their coffee, tears a seat of some other common occurrence, Uber
is not paying for it. Uber is not getting your oil changed or your tires
rotated. Basically, Uber is dodging the costs taxi companies face in
fleet expenses, by suckering people into working for them under the
table, in effect. What Uber is doing is no different than what
landscapers do with illegal alien labor.

The old school taxi company they are “disrupting” is required to comply
with a long list of laws, regulation, and insurance requirements. Those
have costs which show up in the fare. No one is getting rich driving a
taxi. Uber either shirks those costs or shifts them to the rest of us.
That let’s them undercut the taxi companies and make money.

The argument from libertarians is that Uber is forcing changes to those
regulation, taxes and so forth, by functioning as an above ground black
market. We’ll see. It may be easier just to put Uber out of business.
Either way, Uber is not magically making taxis cheaper. They are just
hiding the costs. When you factor back in the cost of being raped by the
Uber driver, a taxi starts looking pretty good again.
