---
title: "Modern Witchcraft"
date: "2014-01-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=767"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=767"
---

One of the fun parts of reading old books is that you run into things
that everyone knew to be true, but was completely false. Medicine is a
great example. The worst thing that could happen to a sick person 200
years ago was that they doctor arrived. Up until very recent, medicine
killed more people than it cured. Their medicine looks more like
witchcraft than science. Strapping people to a gurney and hitting them
with high voltage is pretty much barbarism. In its day, however,
everyone was sure it was the peak of scientific reasoning.

That said, much of what gets labeled science today will be looked upon
as nutty superstition in not so long. It’s not actually science, of
course, but the term is so abused that future people will probably
assume everyone agreed that things like sociology and economics were
science. Most people have always known that psychology, for example, was
quackery, but will future people know we knew that? Or will they just
read the old books and assume we were that silly?  Will they know <a
href="https://www.nationalaffairs.com/blog/detail/findings-a-daily-roundup/reigning-men"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this</a> was considered
nonsense?

*Within American gender norms is the expectation that women should be
modest. We argue that violating this “modesty norm” by boasting about
one’s accomplishments causes women to experience uncomfortable
situational arousal that leads to lower motivation for and performance
on a self-promotion task. We hypothesized that such negative effects
could be offset when an external source for their situational arousal
was made available. To test hypotheses, 78 women students from a U.S.
Northwestern university wrote a scholarship application essay to promote
the merits of either the self (modesty norm violated) or another person
as a letter of reference (modesty norm not violated). Half were randomly
assigned to hear information about a (fake) subliminal noise generator
in the room that might cause “discomfort” (misattribution available) and
half were told nothing about the generator (normal condition:
misattribution not available). Participants rated the task and 44 new
naive participants judged how much scholarship money to award each
essay. Results confirmed predictions: under normal conditions, violating
the modesty norm led to decreased motivation and performance. However,
those who violated the modesty norm with a misattribution source
reported increased interest, adopted fewer performance-avoidance goals,
perceived their own work to be of higher quality, and produced higher
quality work. Results suggest that when a situation helps women to
escape the discomfort of defying the modesty norm, self-promotion
motivation and performance improve. Further implications for enhancing
women’s academic and workplace experiences are discussed.*

First off, biology makes women modest. There’s a reason we don’t have
cultures on this planet where the women are aggressive and rowdy.
Humans, like all life, have a primary purpose baked into the software
and that’s reproduction. Males and females of our species have different
reproduction strategies based in large part on our different roles in
reproduction. This has nothing to do with “gender norms” made up by the
ridiculous people in the oogily-boogily departments of modern colleges
and universities..

Second, this nonsense is funded by tax payer and rate payers. Those
future historians will no doubt know this and assume that the people of
earth in this age really thought this nonsense was real and worth
funding it. The reason we have those old books was because rich people
were willing to bankroll their production. What that means is the answer
to the question about how we will be viewed by future people is probably
the same as we view past people. Future man will wonder why we did not
progress very much.
