---
title: "Black versus White"
date: "2014-12-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3424"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3424"
---

When Barry Soetoro was elevated to Primate of the Cult of Modern
Liberalism, many people outside the faith thought it was a good sign.
Maybe putting a black guy in the White House would close the books on
America’s race history. After all, how could guys like Al Sharpton and
Jesse Jackson get any traction when the leader of the free world was a
living rebuke to their agitations? [Jacksons
discomfort](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2008/07/16/jesse-jackson-caught-on-m_n_111732.html)
with Obama winning election seemed like proof of the concept.

I was always skeptical of it. I remembered the last Chocolate Jesus to
come along and that guy was brighter and more sensible than Obama. If
[Kurt Schmoke could not resist the call of the
past](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3301), this jug-eared clodhopper
from the academy was not going to do it. I know too many black people to
think that most do not harbor a fair number of revenge fantasies. I also
know a fair bit about post-colonial African history. If blacks can think
that the [CIA invented
crack](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/drugs/special/cia.html),
they can certainly believe there is a conspiracy to kill black people.

My hope for Obama was that he would be a dreary scold that largely
followed the policies set in place by his predecessors. While not a big
fan of the Bush-Clinton policy, I could live with it for another decade.
Letting a nitwit like Obama try his hand at public policy sounded like a
bad idea, but Obama seemed like a guy perfectly willing to do nothing
but give speeches. That and I was sure the Cult knew it was insane to
try and start a race war. That failed in the 60’s and nearly ended their
cult, making “liberal” an epithet for two decades.

But, here we are. [The Cult has black mobs harassing white people at
suburban
malls](http://news.yahoo.com/police-brutality-protesters-rally-mall-america-213959479.html).
They have [members of the Black Guerilla
Family](http://news.yahoo.com/two-york-police-officers-killed-gunman-dead-nyt-001338194.html)
“executing pigs” on the streets. The Black Guerilla Family, by the way,
is a creation of the New Left forty years ago. [Fay
Stender](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fay_Stender), a radial lawyer,
helped create the BGF while she was working for the Black Panthers. The
BGF rewarded her efforts by shooting her five times in front of her son.
That should have been the lesson all of them learned from the last
liberal awakening. Radicalizing blacks leads to death and the monster
will always destroy its creator.

It’s natural, of course, to look the other way and just hope this is a
temporary fit of madness. I suspect that’s why bright guys like Ross
Douthat put so much effort into looking away from the truth that is
staring them in the face – [even while they are writing about
it](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/30/opinion/sunday/ross-douthat-the-retreat-to-identity.html?_r=0).
There’s fear of losing a way to earn a living, but there’s also the hope
that things are not what they appear to be, even when the facts are so
clear.

*For a while the media has assumed that this kind of identity-based
politics inevitably favors the left, because 21st-century America is
getting less white every day.*

*But that’s too simplistic, in part because the definitions of “white”
and “minority” are historically elastic. If a “white party” seems
sufficiently clueless and reactionary, it will lose ground to a
multicultural coalition. But as African-Americans know from bitter
experience, “whiteness” has sustained itself by the inclusion of
immigrants as well as by the exclusion and oppression of blacks. That
history suggests that a “multicultural party” may always be at risk of
being redefined as a grievance-based “party of minorities” that many
minorities would prefer to leave behind. (And leadership matters, too: A
protean figure like Barack Obama can put together a genuine rainbow
coalition, but it’s not clear how many other politicians can do the
same.)*

The fact is you can’t built a political party around black identity.
Everywhere it has been tried the result has been a bloodbath. If you’re
going to build a party out of the dispossessed and disaffected, that
party has to preach revolution and it has to promise vengeance. You can
pretend otherwise, but the servants will never forgive their masters and
the master will never trust their former servants. One side has to win
completely, which is why violence is the logical end of what Obama and
Democrats are doing.

The fact that the party of opposition, the White Party in Douthat’s
parlance, is unwilling to face this reality just guarantees the result.
The Black Party may hold delusions about a peaceful revolution of the
fringe, but they seem perfectly willing to accept a violent result. The
White Party just refuses to accept those choices. To the Black Party, it
is a sign of weakness and that’s what guarantees the violent conclusion.

We need someone willing to speak to and for the silent majority or we
will end up in the same place we landed the last time this lunacy was
allowed to play out.
