---
title: "Conservative Inc."
date: "2014-04-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1610"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1610"
---

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/376776/taking-our-green-eyeshades-henry-olsen"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I saw this post on National
Review</a> and could not help but laugh. Through the Bush years,
National Review was just a clearing house for the GOP. Whatever crackpot
idea the Bushies cooked up, NR would brand it “conservative approved”
and peddle it to the masses. In fairness, the caterwauling by the Left
made it easy to fall into this trap. Every left-winger was constantly
chanting “Bush Lied”, making it impossible for anyone to think straight.
It was one big swindle on all of us.

By 2006 most sensible people threw in the towel on Bush and the GOP. His
ratings fell into the high 20’s exclusively due to the Right walking
away from him. It turned out that the paleocons were right and Bush was
just neocon. Professional conservatives still struggle with their
full-throated support of Bush and the GOP. Even today they struggle to
separate themselves from the Republican Party. I guess this post over at
NRO should be viewed as a positive development.

*Jack Kemp famously called for the GOP to “take off its green eyeshades”
in the late 1970s. By this he meant that the GOP needed to stop focusing
primarily on balancing budgets and start focusing on how to grow the
economy and improve the lives of average Americans. After its brief,
unsuccessful detour into modern greeneyeshadism by nominating venture
capitalist and business consultant extraordinaire Mitt Romney, most
nationally serious Republicans are back to talking less about numbers
and more about middle-class people. But if [this
map](http://www.arcgis.com/home/webmap/viewer.html?useExisting=1&layers=da76de09076b4959ad005e1dc2c48049) is
any indication, even this effort still views America through a lens of
green eyeshades.*

*This map shows household income for every county, town, and
neighborhood in America. Wealthy and upper-middle-class areas are
colored green, while the rest of America is colored in orange. As you
can see, most of America is some shade of brown, while most of the
eastern seaboard is colored in some shade of green.*

*This small detail on a map makes a world of difference to conservative
and GOP chances to run the country. Virtually every major national
consultant, analyst, staffer, and journalist lives in the green areas in
and around Washington D.C., America’s [Emerald
City](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emerald_City). This is a land where
families making $100,000 a year struggle to buy a decent house, where
everyone has a college degree, and the major health-care struggle is
finding a doctor who takes your insurance.*

*This problem is compounded by the rise of super-donor-driven super
PACs. Virtually all of the large donors who give to super PACs and GOP
campaigns live in local versions of the Emerald City. They see highly
educated people who get ahead by working hard, lots of prosperity and
wealth, and think this is what America looks like. The major political
problem they see is that some of their neighbors and friends vote
Democratic, so they naturally think a national majority can be crafted
by persuading those people to vote more on their self-interest and less
on social and other issues. That view makes sense within the walls of
the Emerald City, but outside of that realm America is [a horse of a
different color.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GkeNEvwq7A0)*

Pat Buchanan said a long time ago that the problem with the GOP is that
people get sent to Washington to represent their people back home. They
start out okay, but before long they go native. They forget where they
are from and start thinking they are Washington’s representative to
their home state or district. If given enough time, they no longer
remember where they are from. They are just members of the ruling class.

*<span style="font-size: 1em; letter-spacing: 0px; line-height: 1.5em;">Contrast
that with the vast bulk of the country, especially in the swing states
needed to retake the presidency. Ohio has very few green counties;
Florida, Wisconsin, and Iowa have virtually none. In those states,
making $100,000 is rare and enables you to live a very comfortable life.
Most people make between $25,000 and $75,000 a year, with many more on
the low end of that range than the high. In most of these counties, more
people get by on less than $25,000 a year than earn more than $75,000.
In these places, “decent home” means something much more humble, very
few people have college degrees, and the major health-care struggle is
getting or keeping private health insurance at all.</span>*

*<span style="font-size: 1em; letter-spacing: 0px; line-height: 1.5em;">People
with high-school degrees making $40,000 a year face problems very
different from those of college-educated folks making $80,000. Their
economic future is much more unstable, their job opportunities more
limited, and their family finances more precarious. There are many more
families in these circumstances among the growing Hispanic populations
of the Southwest or the vast plains of the Midwest than one would guess
living in the Emerald Cities. Republicans are right to focus on the
needs of the middle class, but they must better understand who the
middle class is if they are to succeed.</span>*

That sounds great, but I wonder if the gap between the typical American
and the ruling class is too broad to cross.  Our rulers live lives that
are so estranged from what the typical American experiences, they may as
well be foreigners. America, the country with a people, a culture and a
shared history, has been colonized by pod-people. They make noises that
sound familiar and they sort of look like us, but they are alien to us
in all the ways that matter. <a
href="http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/102d71fc-cebe-11e3-8e62-00144feabdc0.html#axzz30JWu3RQ3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story in the Financial
Times</a> touches on it.

*<span class="firstletter">T</span>he UK Independence party does not
represent the [start of a
revolt](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dc007520-be5d-11e3-961f-00144feabdc0.html "Ukip supporters to stay loyal to party for general election - FT.com")
but the culmination of it. A spirit of anti-politics began permeating
the country around the turn of the millennium when Tony Blair, the last
politician the British allowed themselves to love, broke their hearts by
turning out to be a prime minister and not a miracle worker. The
disillusion intensified after the Iraq war, a work of naive
over-ambition forever remembered as an act of heinous deceit. Then came
the crash, the expenses scandal and much more immigration than voters
were told to expect.*

*Cynicism verging on nihilism is the closest thing modern Britain has to
a national ideology. It has become common sense to assume the worst of
anyone in public authority. [Nigel
Farage](http://www.ft.com/topics/people/Nigel_Farage "Nigel Farage related stories - FT.com"),
Ukip’s leader, profits from this foul zeitgeist, not because he is a
manipulative genius but because he is the nearest populist to hand. If
it were not him, it would be some other jobbing demagogue with the dumb
luck to be here now.*

*It is not obvious how to take him on. But it is increasingly obvious
how not to. Hounded by the mood of anti-politics, [Britain’s political
class](http://www.ft.com/world/uk/politics "UK Politics & Policy news headlines - FT.com")
has become self-loathing and scared of its own shadow. Mainstream
politicians ape the language and manner of populists. They vie to disown
a “metropolitan elite” that they themselves constitute. They hope that
nodding along as voters express their scorn for them will somehow spare
them from it.*

*Politicians used to wound each other with accusations of incompetence,
immorality or intellectual wrongness – all slurs grounded in substance.
Now they try to define each other as “out of touch”. When David Cameron,
the Conservative prime minister, attacks Labour for indulging dependency
culture or withholding a referendum on EU membership, he points to the
party’s estrangement from public opinion. When Ed Miliband, the Labour
leader, attacks the Tories for overseeing a [fall in living
standards](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/8aa167c0-af71-11e3-bea5-00144feab7de.html "Budget 2014: Miliband comes out fighting with attack on Osborne’s record - FT.com"),
his point is that millionaires cannot care about the plight of the
ordinary.*

*The measure of a politician’s worth is how much he is like “us” and not
like “them”. Mr Farage’s real achievement is not electoral – his party
has no MPs and runs no councils – but cultural. He has spooked the
mainstream into emulating the values and priorities of its own
tormentors.*

*As a ploy to neutralise Mr Farage, this self-abasement gets nowhere
because it concedes his basic point – that Britain is run by a
conspiracy of malign people – and radiates the most lethal weakness in
politics: inauthenticity. Mr Cameron is the highest-born prime minister
since Alec Douglas-Home half a century ago. Mr Miliband is a professor’s
son whose main detour from north London’s cognoscenti was a year
teaching at Harvard. They stand for major parties. When they or their
similarly rarefied lieutenants play at being the man in the street, it
looks craven and affected.*

This is certainly true. When John Kerry was running for president, he
tried to pass himself off us a regular guy. They kitted him out in an
Elmer Fudd costume and sent him into a gun shop to buy a hunting
license. It may very well have cost him the election, as normal men
could not stop laughing at this effete over-class pansy. They would have
been better off putting him in a sun-dress and having him sing duets
with RuPaul.

*The political classes believe they are unpopular because of something
they have done. Certainly,
[expense-fiddling](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/fd67ea86-bc0f-11e3-831f-00144feabdc0.html "Expenses furore deals a blow to Cameron - FT.com")
compounded their scuzzy reputation. And their sheer narrowness is
alienating, too. Parliament has become a job guarantee for apparatchiks
and activists who relax by watching television dramas set in other
political capitals. In Britain politics is not just showbiz for ugly
people but for weirdly obsessive people too.*

*The rise of populism, however, is not primarily the fault of any person
– even Mr Blair – or any event. It is powered by structural trends that
have been in train for decades. Prime among these is the fragmentation
of class loyalty, which has cut the vote share commanded by the two main
parties from 97 per cent in the 1951 election to 65 per cent in 2010.
More votes are up for grabs, giving rebel parties a look-in.*

People do not like being ruled by foreigners. That’s what it feels like
in many Western countries today. In Britain, the major parties are more
concerned about the Continentals and their European project than the
needs and wants of the native Brits. In the US, our politicians and
their toadies make noises that sound like American English, but it is
all gibberish. The technical term for it is echolalic babbling. The
press serves as the interpreter. We are ruled by pod people.
