---
title: "The Left Versus The CIA"
date: "2014-03-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1201"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1201"
---

<a
href="http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2014/03/05/220273/senate-staffers-slipped-secret.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is a curious story</a>
about the security state and the political class. Following World War
II, a permanent professional spy agency was created with the National
Security Act of 1947. After some fits and starts, it has been a
permanent feature in Washington for five decades. Presidents come and
go, senators come and go, but the CIA is always there. That’s not a
small thing. These semi-independent agencies that sort of report to the
executive tend to take on a life of their own.

*Congressional aides involved in preparing the Senate Intelligence
Committee’s unreleased study of the CIA’s secret interrogation and
detention program walked out of the spy agency’s fortress-like
headquarters with classified documents that the CIA contended they
weren’t authorized to have, McClatchy has learned.*

*After the CIA confronted the panel in January about the removal of the
material last fall, panel staff concluded that the agency had monitored
computers they’d been given to use in a high-security research room at
the CIA campus in Langley, Va., a McClatchy investigation found.*

*It remained unclear Wednesday if the monitoring, the unauthorized
removal of classified material or another matter were the subject of a
recent CIA request to the Justice Department for an investigation into
alleged malfeasance in connection with the committee’s top-secret
study.*

*The documents removed from the agency included a draft of an internal
CIA review that at least one lawmaker has publicly said showed that
agency leaders misled the Intelligence Committee in disputing some of
the committee report’s findings, according to a knowledgeable person who
requested anonymity because of the matter’s extraordinary sensitivity.*

*In a combative statement issued Wednesday evening, CIA Director John
Brennan chastised unidentified senators for making “spurious allegations
about CIA actions that are wholly unsupported by the facts.”*

*“I am very confident that the appropriate authorities reviewing this
matter will determine where wrongdoing, if any, occurred in either the
executive branch or legislative branch,” he said in an apparent
reference to the request for a Justice Department investigation. “Until
then, I would encourage others to refrain from outbursts that do a
disservice to the important relationship that needs to be maintained
between intelligence officials and congressional overseers.”*

*The removal of the documents is the focus of an intense legal dispute
between the CIA and its congressional overseers, said several people who
also cited the matter’s sensitivity in asking to remain anonymous.*

*Some committee members regard the monitoring as a possible violation of
the law and contend that their oversight powers give them the right to
the documents that were removed. On the other hand, the CIA considers
the removal as a massive security breach because the agency doesn’t
believe that the committee had a right to those particular materials.*

Most people probably think Congress can get whatever they want from any
government agency, but that’s not true. In fact, some agencies routinely
ignore Congress. People also think the CIA would not be spying on
Congress, but that they do.

*“Even if the agency is technically correct on the legalities, it’s a
real asinine thing to pick a fight with your oversight committee like
this,” said a U.S. official who was among those who spoke to McClatchy.
“You’ve got to be asking yourself why the agency would be willing to
take such a risk. The documents must be so damned loaded.”*

*White House officials have held at least one closed-door meeting with
committee members about the monitoring and the removal of the documents,
said the first knowledgeable person.*

*White House officials were trying to determine how the materials that
were taken from CIA headquarters found their way into a database into
which millions of pages of top-secret reports, emails and other
documents were made available to panel staff after being vetted by CIA
officials and contractors, said the knowledgeable person.*

*The extraordinary battle has created an unprecedented breakdown in
relations between the spy agency and its congressional overseers and
raises significant implications for the separation of powers between the
legislative and executive branches of the government. It also has fueled
uncertainty over how much of the committee’s report will ever be made
public.*

*“The CIA has gone to just about any lengths you can imagine to make
sure that the detention and interrogation report won’t be released,”
said Sen. Mark Heinrich, D-N.M., a Senate Intelligence Committee member
who has pushed hard for the release of the report.*

*“As furious as I am about these allegations, I want to keep focused on
getting that report out to the people so that they can read the truth
and make up their own minds as to who made those decisions and why,” he
said.*

One of the fascinating aspects of the Left is they never forget a slight
– ever. Here we are years after the Bush people were chasing jihadis
around the desert and liberals are still pressing claims about alleged
abuses. It was only after most of the principles were dead that the Left
forgot about Nixon. Even death is not enough sometimes. Obama’s Russia
policy was largely a rebuke of Reagan’s policies. The whole “reset”
nonsense  and the decision to kill missile defense was the long delayed
answer to Reaganism.
