---
title: "Eat The Poor"
date: "2014-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1440"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1440"
---

One of the truths of the modern liberal societies is that helping the
poor is a lucrative way to make a living. America spend tends of
billions on poverty programs, but most of the money ends up in the hands
of middle-class bureaucrats and the wealthy interests who back these
policies. The fact is, there’s a lot of money to be made in the ghetto,
mostly by people who never set foot in the ghetto. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/catherine-rampell-the-safety-net-catches-the-middle-class-more-than-the-poor/2014/04/07/a7473c68-be87-11e3-bcec-b71ee10e9bc3_story.html?hpid=z6"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This was posted</a> over at
Marginal Review and it provides some interesting facts about
anti-poverty programs.

*Liberals are shocked (shocked!) that Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and his
co-partisans would consider cutting Medicaid, food stamps, Pell grants
and other programs that serve the neediest Americans. They have accused
Ryan of trying to balance the budget on the backs of the poor.*

*But long before Ryan unveiled his “<a
href="http://apps.washingtonpost.com/g/page/politics/house-budget-committee-chairman-paul-ryans-fy-2015-budget-blueprint/905/"
data-xslt="_http">Path to Prosperity</a>,” politicians of both parties
had been redistributing government spending away from the truly
destitute and toward everyone else.*

*In the past few decades, the federal social safety net has gotten
lusher and, on its face, more generous. Spending on the major safety-net
programs nearly quadrupled between 1970 and 2010, and that’s after
adjusting for inflation and population growth, according to <a
href="http://www.econ2.jhu.edu/people/Moffitt/moffitt%20annals%204-26-2013.pdf"
data-xslt="_http" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">calculations
by Robert A. Moffitt</a>, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins
University. He included both “means-tested” programs that are explicitly
intended to combat poverty (such as food stamps, Medicaid, housing aid,
Head Start, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and the
earned-income tax credit) and social insurance programs (Medicare,
Social Security, disability insurance, workers’ compensation and
unemployment insurance).*

*There have been, however, winners and losers during that massive
expansion.*

*Since the mid-1990s, the biggest increases in spending have gone to
those who were middle class or hovering around the poverty line.
Meanwhile, Americans in deep poverty — that is, with household earnings
of less than 50 percent of the official poverty line — saw no change in
their benefits in the decade leading up to the housing bubble. In fact,
if you strip out Medicare and Medicaid,
<a href="http://www.econ2.jhu.edu/people/Moffitt/nber_w15488.pdf"
data-xslt="_http" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">federal
social spending on those in extreme poverty fell</a> between 1993 and
2004.*

That’s right, the hero of the 1990’s actually reduced spending on the
poor. It’s not mentioned in the article, but the Clinton years were a
decade of greed, at least as it is defined by the Left. The worst abuses
in finance, government and politics have their roots in the Clinton Era.
The Boomers ran wild through the institutions of government as soon as
they gained control. That included shifting money from the poor to their
friends on Wall Street. It was a bust-out.

*Since the early 1990s, politicians have deliberately shifted funds away
from those perceived to be the most needy and toward those perceived to
be the most deserving. The bipartisan 1996 welfare reform — like the
multiple expansions of the earned-income tax credit — was explicit about
rewarding the working poor rather than the non-working poor. As a
result, total spending per capita on “welfare” slid by about two-thirds
over the past two decades, even as the <a
href="https://www.census.gov/hhes/www/poverty/data/historical/families.html"
data-xslt="_http">poverty rate for families</a> has stayed about the
same. Many welfare reformers would consider this a triumph. If you
believe many of the poorest families are not out of work by choice,
though, you might have a more nuanced view.*

*Meanwhile, there is probably greater political cover for expanding the
safety net for the middle class (that is, the non-destitute). As
mid-skill, mid-wage jobs have disappeared — what’s known as the <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/31/business/majority-of-new-jobs-pay-low-wages-study-finds.html"
data-xslt="_http">hollowing-out of the labor market</a> — middle-class
families have lost ground and are demanding more government help. These
middle-class families, alongside the elderly, are also <a
href="https://www.census.gov/hhes/www/socdemo/voting/publications/p20/2012/tables.html"
data-xslt="_http">substantially more likely to vote</a> than are the
poor. The feds have whittled away at welfare, and (almost) nobody has
said boo; touch programs that the middle class relies on, and electoral
retribution may be fierce.*

What the blogger fails to understand is the welfare system has nothing
to do with addressing poverty. It never has and it never will. At one
level, it is riot insurance, keeping the populace in a city like
Baltimore from burning the place to the ground. It is job number one for
state government. The city government is just a criminal enterprise run
by the locals as a skimming operation. The state, however, treats them
as camp guards for a massive reservation. Welfare is just a part of the
defense network.

Welfare is never sold this way. Americans want to believe they are
special and that’s how the ruling class exploits them. Welfare is sold
as a way to uplift the poor and give them opportunities to have the
American dream. A great many middle and upper class people like getting
some grace on the cheap through social welfare programs. That way, they
can pretend they are doing something. It takes less work than charity
and they can have more time to watch TV or shop for more crap on-line.

The welfare system is also a massive jobs program. Local government gets
money for patronage jobs. Hiring an army of case workers, who just
happen to be related to the ruling clan is good for business. State
government gets money to run their patronage operations, which can often
be testing grounds for the latest social engineering schemes. RomneyCare
was just such an example. Of course, the massive bureaucracy at the
Federal level is also another patronage racket.

That is the main attraction of
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guaranteed_minimum_income"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">guaranteed minimum income
schemes</a> is that they eliminate the need for a vast army of patronage
workers. It also eliminates the ability of Congress to buy votes and
bribes with the programs. The math does not make any sense, but it will
be a way for the ruling class to trim the vast bureaucracy, when they no
longer want to support it. They can sell it as a raise for the
recipients and cost cutting measure for the tax payers.

<a
href="http://www.pbs.org/newshour/making-sense/will-guaranteed-income-ever-come-america/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s a PBS version</a> of
the argument and here is a <a
href="http://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/12/10/rethinking-the-idea-of-a-basic-income-for-all/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">NYTimes version</a>. The Left
has some minor people out promoting it as the start of a campaign to
make it their top issue next decade. Destroying health care started with
a trial run in the 1980’s and three decades later they were finally able
to swing the wrecking ball. In the near future, a minor candidate will
run fro president on UBI. Then the next cycle a major candidate will run
on it. Finally, it will be pushed through by the Left.

 
