---
title: "When I lived in a Real Country"
date: "2014-05-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1841"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1841"
---

When you live in a real country, the government is a reflection of the
people. It is also an extension of the people. Discussions about
democracy and representative government are all fine and dandy, but they
are worthless unless the government actually represents the people. On
the one hand it must attack those who wish to harm the people and defend
against those who attack the people. Otherwise, it is not a government.
It is just a way to keep people occupied with busy work.

Consider Finland. In 1939, the Soviet Union attempted to invade Finland.
The Finnish government organized a defense, despite being grossly
outnumbered. The Finns faced both the 9th and 14th Soviet Armies, and at
one point were fighting against as many as 12 divisions— about 160,000
soldiers. Also at one point in the same area, there were only 32 Finns
fighting against over 4,000 Soviets. Imagine that.

The Finns were ferocious and brilliant fighters. The Soviets were not
well organized and the soldiers spoke many different languages. That’s
what you get when you are not a real country. The Finns, being greatly
outnumbered, employed a strategy they called “Motti.” This was a form of
guerrilla warfare, taking advantage of the weather and their knowledge
of the local terrain. Simo Häyhä killed over 500 men in the winter
campaign, the Soviets called him the “white death” for his prowess at
killing Soviets in the snow.

Now, since this is Memorial Day weekend, consider Belleau Wood. This is
a part of France made famous by the United States Marine Corp. On June
1, 1918 the Germans mounted an offensive against French and American
lines in France. The French fled, as they had no reason to fight
anymore. The Americans refused to flee. When ordered to retreat, Marine
Captain Lloyd W. Williams of the 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines uttered the
now-famous retort “Retreat? Hell, we just got here.”

Over the next two days, despite being outnumbered, the Marines held
their ground, repelling the German advance. The next month proved to be
one of the most ferocious battles fought by American soldiers since
Appomattox. The Marines eventually pushed the Germans out of the forest,
earning the nickname “Devil Dogs” for their ferocity and courage. The
French, once they came out of hiding, renamed the wood “Bois de la
Brigade de Marine” in honor of their defenders.

Real countries not only defend their borders, they have the will and
energy to take the fight to the other guy. The Finns were outnumbered
and out-armed. They fought heroically in defense of their lands. Those
Marines at Belleau Wood, swelling with the pride that comes from being
citizens of a great country, made the ground shake. Their French
counterparts could barely be moved to defend their own lands, because
they no long had a reason to cared who ruled the land.

Now, let’s look at [something from today’s
news](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2637789/Threatening-cartel-billboards-warning-police-choose-silver-lead-come-complete-hanging-mannequins-appearing-Texas.html).

*Two frightening incidents of vandalism in El Paso near the Mexican
border in Texas have been interpreted as warnings from drug cartels.*

*In both instances, a mannequin wearing a suit and tie was tied to a
billboard with a noose and messages were scrawled over the placards.*

*Local station KHOU reports that one of the signs reads ‘Plata o Plombo’
which translates to ‘silver or lead’, a threat used commonly against
police officers effectively warning that if they do not accept the
cartel’s bribes then they will be shot.*

*‘This symbol has historically been used by Mexican drug cartels to
threaten or intimidate Mexican citizens, business owners and government
officials; however, we have never experienced this in El Paso,’ local
police said in a press release about the vandalism.*

Our ruling class has been working overtime to keep these problems from
the American people, because they know their polices toward mexico are
without support. The claim that this is something new is nonsense.
Mexico has been exporting their problems to America for decades. They
dump their excess people into America and with those people come all the
problems. Those problems include drug cartels.

*The fear now for many is that the ‘warnings’ shows that the drug
cartels- which have not been identified by name- are willing to bring
the violence from Mexican border towns into Texas.*

*‘Maybe the problems in Juarez are coming over here,’ El Paso resident
Javier Padilla told KHOU.*

*Mr Padilla and his wife Maria Ramos know the terror of drug cartels on
a personal level after two relatives were murdered in the area of Juarez
in 2009.*

*The second instance of vandalism had a more obtuse warning, but the
theme ran through since the message was written on an existing Drug
Enforcement Agency billboard.*

*The message was different this time, as the paint read: ‘Dying for
drugs’ was written over a wanted poster calling for the capture of drug
lord Rafael Caro Quintero.*

*This second mannequin was dressed in jeans rather than the suit and tie
from the other instance.*

*The mannequins were a particularly jarring image for many familiar with
the drug war, as some of the most violent drug lords south of the border
regularly hang offenders off highway overpasses.*

*While a warning from drug lords seems like one of the most likely
prospects, KHOU reports that prosecutors have another theory that the
vandalism also could have been caused by activist groups working against
the war on drugs.*

Let’s not consider the obvious. Instead, let’s launch a manhunt for
elves and leprechauns. This is why America is no longer a real country.
In the 1950’s, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Wetback"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the government rounded up
170,000 illegals</a> in one summer and shipped them back to their home
country. They had nothing like the technology we have today. The
government had to drive around and pick people up. Today, we can’t even
throw one guy out after he went <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2014/01/02/justice/california-immigrant-lawyer/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">on TV and proclaimed he is
here illegally</a>

 
