---
title: "Mexifornication"
date: "2014-05-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1716"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1716"
---

One bit of vibrancy around the Imperial Capital is the massive number of
Spanish speaking peasants that have crowded into the area. Hyattsville
Maryland, for example, looks like Tijuana. The store signs are all in
Spanish and the streets are littered with little brown people who look
like extras from a documentary on the Mayans. Any large parking lot
features numbers of loitering men, waiting for day work. Contractors
will pull up in trucks and a few men will jump in the back.

Another feature of our new vibrantly diverse future is organized crime.
In Northern Virginia, MS-13 has setup a base camp. Like all major
businesses, they feel the need to be near the center of world power. If
the Fortune 500 can keep offices in DC, MS-13 can keep space in Northern
Virginia. They were, after all, created by the US government. Our tax
dollars trained them in El Salvador and then our rulers imported them
into Los Angeles as part of our open borders policy.

This new vibrantly diverse future is not without some small downsides.
Take, for example, <a
href="http://latino.foxnews.com/latino/news/2014/05/06/mexican-cartel-allegedly-hired-ms-13-to-carry-out-torture-operation-in/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story out of
Minnesota</a>.

*The Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area is a long way away from the
home turf of Mexico’s Sinaloa drug cartel, but that didn’t stop three
cartel enforcers from making their way up the region in an attempt to
hunt down two teenagers they accused of stealing drugs and money from a
stash house.*

*The three enforcers were allegedly sent from Los Angeles to St. Paul on
orders from the Sinaloa cartel to find the people who stole 30 pounds of
methamphetamine and $200,000 from a stash house in St. Paul. The two
teens that the cartel hit men snagged were tortured, had their lives and
that that of their families threatened and were told to find the missing
drugs or come up with $300,000 to compensate the cartel, according to
court documents obtained by the (Minneapolis) Star Tribune newspaper<img
src="http://global.fncstatic.com/static/v/all/img/external-link.png"
style="margin: 4px 0px 0px 4px;" decoding="async" />.*

*“The kidnappers told \[the 19-year-old\] that if he didn’t return the
drugs or come up with the money, he and his entire family would be
killed,” according to court documents.*

In case you are curious, this is what diversity looks like:

<img
src="http://global.fncstatic.com/static/managed/img/fn-latino/news/ms-13.jpg"
class="aligncenter" decoding="async" width="660" height="371" />

Here’s something else to get used to:

*Despite indictments pending and two of three enforcers taken into
custody, the story has people in the Twin Cities area shocked and
worried as law enforcement deals with a spike in drug trafficking and
heroin overdoses.*

*Federal authorities told the Star Tribune that they are not shocked
that the Sinaloa cartel would go to such lengths to retrieve their money
and drugs, especially in the lucrative Midwest heroin market. What
worries them is that instead of using their own people, the cartel
apparently hired the hit men from the feared Mara Salvatrucha 13 street
gang (MS-13).*

The phrase “not shocked” means “thinks it is hilarious” in federal law
enforcement language. This is the sort of thing that makes their work
interesting. Properly enforcing the borders and sensibly dealing with
drug gangs is hum-drum stuff. Chasing down murder-torture around the
country, while giving interviews to the press is fun. It makes their
work fulfilling, which is the only reason our betters hold jobs these
days.
