---
title: "The Coming Collapse"
date: "2014-03-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1222"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1222"
---

On the excitement scale, pension reform is down there with Swedish land
reform and women’s basketball. Even for accountants, it is considered
dull. It is the small boring things that tend to bring down society. The
best example is the Yersinia pestis, which was carried by the fleas on
mice. Christendom was nearly wiped out by a tiny pest carrying an even
tinier pest. Anyway, <a
href="http://www.nola.com/opinions/index.ssf/2014/02/pension_reform_cowards_james_v.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post</a> about pension
reform is an example of the small boring stuff that will turn out to be
quite important.

*The regular session of the Louisiana Legislature is right around the
corner and one of the most depressing aspects of it is what won’t be
discussed. Pension reform isn’t going to be a prominent topic.*

*In fact, what could happen is lawmakers will make things worse. That’s
because bills to give retired state workers a 1.5 percent cost of living
raise have not only been filed but, according to the early handicapping,
are likely to pass.*

*It’s been eight years since the last raise, which is a long time in any
context other than one in which the private sector is enduring stagnant
wages and chronically high unemployment for years. That is to say, like
now.*

*Under the bookkeeping formulas kept by the state, the money is there
for the COLA boost. Now. It may be better to give than to receive, but a
pension increase, like a raise, is a gift that keeps on giving for the
recipients. This is no bonus forun a job well done, it’s something that
stays on the books and has to be met going forward even if balances
cause that accounting formula to change.*

When economists talk about public debt, they seldom mention the mountain
of promises to government employees. If I promise you a job and regular
raises for the next 30 years, that’s a debt I owe you. It is no
different than borrowing the money and handing it to you. Those promises
by state and local government to pay people long into the future cannot
be discharged in court in most states, either due to the state
constitution or the fact states cannot declare bankruptcy.

*Furthermore, it’s no secret that state and municipal governments face
few if any looming financial crises greater than pensions. Some
governments have taken piecemeal steps to address this, largely copying
moves made by the private sector.*

*More specifically, defined contributions plans like 401ks are now
recognized as far more sensible than the rich defined benefits schemes
that were once the norm.*

*Nevertheless, whether the fiscal bombshells created by defined benefit
plans — which guarantee a certain payment for life — can be defused
remains an open question. By no means is this all the workers’ fault.
Lawmakers in states across this great land have frequently underfunded
pensions, and states have stuck to a very respectable and probably
outdated “anticipated” rate of return of 8.5 percent.*

I can provide the answer here. They cannot be defused. They will explode
when the cash runs out in the next decade. No one should shed any tears
for the workers. They knew, or at least they should have known, that
these lavish benefit packages were out of line. They live in the same
world as the rest of us. They also knew the money for those lavish pay
and benefit plans comes out of their neighbors paycheck. To put it
bluntly, they have been screwing the rest of us for decades so too bad
for them..

*Translated, that means not enough money has been poured into the
pension systems and investment returns will have to be forever rosy.*

*But the relationship between unions – whose power is increasingly
concentrated in the public sector – and lawmakers means handsome deals
have been struck between decidedly non-adversarial parties. Besides, it
all involves other people’s money, and the unions have always provided
handsome returns to friendly politicians’ campaign war chests.*

*Taxpayers are now looking at the monstrous bill produced by such cozy
extravagance.*

*Louisiana, fortunately, doesn’t have as gigantic a burden as states
like Connecticut face. That doesn’t mean it isn’t a huge problem in the
Pelican State – to the tune of somewhere between $20 billion or nearly
$75 billion, depending on which alarming report you consider more
accurate.*

*Louisiana hasn’t adopted sensible reforms like raising the retirement
age and moving to defined contribution plans. Louisiana taxpayers are
still stuck with an antiquated and expensive arrangement where the
defined benefit plan rules supreme.*

*In 2012 the Legislature did pass a law requiring future state hires to
enroll in defined contribution plans, but led by the teachers’ unions
and other interested parties – staffers, boards, lobbyists, investment
salespeople, accountants, lawyers and the rest who ride like remoras on
this bloated whale – the law was repealed.*

Of course. Letting public employees unionize was never about the state
employees. It was about the democrat politicians hoovering off billions
in tax dollars through the unions. The hacks running the unions funnel
money to the politicians, who play ball with the unions. The union
leaders also keep a nice share for themselves.

*It’s hard to predict how deeply we must dip the gourd into the magic
fountain of other people’s money to make good on the state’s current
obligations. What is clear is regardless of whether one goes with the
rosy estimates floated by those in the pension business or the much
scarier numbers arguably more objective analysts reach, it would take
tens of thousands out of Louisiana wallets just to plug the existing
gap.*

*In other words, what Louisiana and practically every other state across
this great land faces is a system that is — all together now —
unsustainable.*

*It is beyond belief everyone doesn’t see this, which means everyone
does. The state workers drawing these handsome pensions want them. They
fight like cornered tigers over having to contribute another dollar to
what they regard not as some extraordinarily generous entitlement paid
for by folks who have no such protected eggs themselves, but as some
kind of right, confined to them, as sacred as free speech.*

There is no magic solution. Detroit is the example states may follow.
Over the next decades services will be reduced and budgets cut in areas
like public recreation and road maintenance. As the crisis grinds on,
bond holders will be hit with demand from states to forgive some debt to
avoid defaults. Eventually they will come back to pension plans and
force cuts on them. The unions will sue, <a
href="http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2014-03-03/news/chi-illinois-pension-lawsuits-will-be-combined-heard-in-springfield-20140303_1_illinois-supreme-court-retired-teachers-pension"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">like they are in Illinois</a>,
but you can’t get blood from a stone. When the money runs out, the party
is over.
