---
title: "The Prog Jester"
date: "2014-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1818"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1818"
---

The court jester is a familiar image in western culture, serving a
specific role in both politics and the culture. He’s the guy dressed in
the weird leotard, juggling while telling jokes at the local Renaissance
fair. Historically, the jester would tell jokes about the ruler, the
people in charge. Maybe he would do it in the public square or maybe he
would do it in court. In court, his role was, in part, was to bring a
bit of reality, in the form of popular sarcasm, to the self-serious
couriers.

Modern times brings us the Prog jester. This is a person, who says and
writes foolish things that flatter the Left. The modern fool fool is the
comedian or satirist. Jon Stewart, Steven Colbert and Bill Maher are
examples of guys, who pass themselves off as clowns mocking greater
society, but they are really selling flattery to the Left. Similarly,
the satirist does not mock the ruling class, but rather his job is to
flatter them by mocking the common people and enemies of the elite.

The licensed fool is a different thing. These are the people hired by
the big propaganda organs of the Left. Thomas Friedman is an example.
His career is all about ingratiating himself to elites. He passes
himself off as a intellectual, writing books on big topics and columns
on hard topics. Yet, it is clear he has only a cursory understanding of
the material. It is a balancing act. He reports detailed findings from
experts and then ruminates in broad generalities about the implications.
The latter is always a pitch for some fad popular with his keepers. As a
result, his work is perpetually sophomoric.

David Brooks is a slightly different take on this role. He holds the
William Safire Chair at the NYTimes. The Times likes to keep a
“conservative” around to maintain the facade of objectivity. It is never
a flame-thrower like Mark Steyn or Ann Coulter. Instead they prefer the
refined musings of non-threatening guys who happen to hold a few
unconventional opinions. Brooks, like Safire, is first and foremost an
elitist. That’s never in doubt. That means his eccentricities on a
narrow range of public policy debates can be <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/20/opinion/brooks-the-big-debate.html?hp&amp;rref=opinion&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">safely broadcast</a>.

*It’s now clear that the end of the Soviet Union heralded an era of
democratic complacency. Without a rival system to test them, democratic
governments have decayed across the globe. In the U.S., Washington is
polarized, stagnant and dysfunctional; a pathetic 26 percent of
Americans trust their government to do the right thing. In Europe,
elected officials have grown remote from voters, responding poorly to
the euro crisis and contributing to massive unemployment.*

*According to measures by Freedom House, freedom has been in retreat
around the world for the past eight years. New democracies like South
Africa are decaying; the number of nations that the Bertelsmann
Foundation now classifies as “defective democracies” (rigged elections
and so on) has risen to 52. As John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge
write in their book, “The Fourth Revolution,” “so far, the 21st century
has been a rotten one for the Western model.”*

At first blush, this seems reasonable, but the cultivated lament is
distinctly elitist and progressive. The failure to ram through more and
more regulation and the public failure to love the state fully is what
has Brooks sad. It’s a form and humble bragging, in that he is saying
things are a mess because his side has not done more to impose their
will on the little people. What looks like criticism is really back
handed flattery of the friends and neighbors of David Brooks.

*The events of the past several years have exposed democracy’s
structural flaws. Democracies tend to have a tough time with long-range
planning. Voters tend to want more government services than they are
willing to pay for. The system of checks and balances can slide into
paralysis, as more interest groups acquire veto power over legislation.*

*Across the Western world, people are disgusted with their governments.
There is a widening gap between the pace of social and economic change,
and the pace of government change. In Britain, for example, productivity
in the private service sector increased by 14 percent between 1999 and
2013, while productivity in the government sector fell by 1 percent
between 1999 and 2010.*

*These trends have sparked a sprawling debate in the small policy
journals: Is democracy in long-run decline?*

This is where the poseur makes his appearance. Again, to the untrained
it sounds like Brooks is up on the serious intellectual debates. Yet, he
provides no evidence, other than he maybe read a review of the book,
*The Fourth Revolution*, by two reporters from The Economist. That’s
called signaling. He’s letting his tony readers that he hangs with the
swells who read The Economist.

*A new charismatic rival is gaining strength: the Guardian State. In
their book, Micklethwait and Wooldridge do an outstanding job of
describing Asia’s modernizing autocracies. In some ways, these
governments look more progressive than the Western model; in some ways,
more conservative.*

*In places like Singapore and China, the best students are ruthlessly
culled for government service. The technocratic elites play a bigger
role in designing economic life. The safety net is smaller and less
forgiving. In Singapore, 90 percent of what you get out of the key
pension is what you put in. Work is rewarded. People are expected to
look after their own.*

Actually, there’s nothing new about any of this. China’s “iron rice
bowl” has been with us for seven decades now. In the West. corporatism
has been kicking around for a century.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positive_liberty"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Positive Liberty</a>, embraced
by the American ruling elite, has been with us since the fifties.
Outside the cloistered places Brooks travels, the Custodial State has
been a hot topic for two decades. My goodness. It is as if the man has
been living in a cave.

*These Guardian States have some disadvantages compared with Western
democracies. They are more corrupt. Because the systems are top-down,
local government tends to be worse. But they have advantages. They are
better at long-range thinking and can move fast because they limit
democratic feedback and don’t face NIMBY-style impediments.*

*Most important, they are more innovative than Western democracies right
now. If you wanted to find a model for your national schools, would you
go to South Korea or America? If you wanted a model for your pension
system, would you go to Singapore or the U.S.? “These are not hard
questions to answer,” Micklethwait and Wooldridge write, “and they do
not reflect well on the West.”*

*So how should Western democracies respond to this competition? What’s
needed is not so much a vision of the proper role for the state as a
strategy to make democracy dynamic again.*

*The answer is to use Lee Kuan Yew means to achieve Jeffersonian ends —
to become less democratic at the national level in order to become more
democratic at the local level. At the national level, American politics
has become neurotically democratic. Politicians are campaigning all the
time and can scarcely think beyond the news cycle. Legislators are
terrified of offending this or that industry lobby, activist group or
donor faction. Unrepresentative groups have disproportionate power in
primary elections.*

As we always see with the Prog Jester, they always end up flattering
their keepers. Our ruling class would love to transform our societies
into a neo-feudal one like we see in Asia and South America.

*The quickest way around all this is to use elite Simpson-Bowles-type
commissions to push populist reforms.*

*The process of change would be unapologetically elitist. Gather small
groups of the great and the good together to hammer out bipartisan
reforms — on immigration, entitlement reform, a social mobility agenda,
etc. — and then rally establishment opinion to browbeat the plans
through. But the substance would be anything but elitist. Democracy’s
great advantage over autocratic states is that information and change
flow more freely from the bottom up. Those with local knowledge have
more responsibility.*

Finally, hilarity ensues when even his keepers realize Brook has the IQ
of a goldfish. What he proposes has never worked, but it has been tried
many times in many places. The results have either been laughable
failure of monstrous bloodbath. An elect working for the *volk* is an
old tune Herr Brooks.
