---
title: "The War on the Middle Gets Interesting"
date: "2014-07-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2345"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2345"
---

For years, the assertion from the plutocrats that we needed more cheap
STEM labor went unchallenged. Both political parties gushed about how
wonderful it is to bring in scads of foreigners to work in technology.
They would trot out the old canards about how foreigners founded most of
the new businesses and so on. The truly strange part of this romantic
narrative is how no one ever considered the implications. That is, the
natives are too stupid and lazy to do these jobs.

It was always nonsense. There never has been a shortage of STEM workers.
Certain segments in certain areas will experience shortages and
overages. That’s how labor markets work. People  move around chasing
demand and wages eventually reach equilibrium. Importing vast numbers of
new labor is the economic equivalent of price fixing, which is what
makes libertarians just another type of central planner. They love free
markets until those markets result in things they don’t like or want.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2014/07/27/bill-gates-tech-worker-wages-reforms-employment-column/13243305/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this being posted on a
mainstream news site</a> looks like a big change. The anti-immigration
sentiment is growing and the pop culture chattering skulls are trying to
get in on it.

*Business executives and politicians endlessly complain that there is a
“shortage” of qualified Americans and that the U.S. must admit more
high-skilled guest workers to fill jobs in STEM fields: science,
technology, engineering and math. This claim is echoed by everyone from
President Obama and [Rupert
Murdoch](http://online.wsj.com/articles/rupert-murdoch-immigration-reform-cant-wait-1403134311)
to [Mark
Zuckerberg](http://www.cnet.com/news/zuckerbergs-fwd-us-targets-california-leaders-for-immigration-reform/)
and [Bill
Gates](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/11/opinion/sheldon-adelson-warren-buffett-and-bill-gates-on-immigration-reform.html).*

*Yet within the past month, two odd things occurred: [Census
reported](https://www.census.gov/newsroom/releases/archives/employment_occupations/cb14-130.html)
that only one in four STEM degree holders is in a STEM job, and
[Microsoft announced plans to
downsize](http://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2014/07/17/microsoft-job-cuts/12772901/)
its workforce by 18,000 jobs. Even so, the [House is considering
legislation](http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/just-facts/what%E2%80%99s-menu-immigration-bills-pending-house-representatives-2014)
that, like the Senate immigration bill before it, would increase to
unprecedented levels the supply of high-skill guest workers and
automatic green cards to foreign STEM students.*

*As longtime researchers of the STEM workforce and immigration who have
separately done in-depth [analyses on these
issues](http://press.princeton.edu/titles/10208.html), and having no
self-interest in the outcomes of the legislative debate, we feel
compelled to report that none of us has been able to find any credible
evidence to support the IT [industry’s assertions of labor
shortages](http://www.cjr.org/reports/what_scientist_shortage.php?page=all).*

***Stagnant wages***

*If a shortage did exist, wages would be rising as companies tried to
attract scarce workers. Instead, legislation that expanded visas for IT
personnel during the 1990s has [kept average wages flat over the past 16
years](http://www.pbs.org/newshour/making-sense/the-bogus-high-tech-worker-sho/).
Indeed, guest workers have become the [predominant source of new
hires](http://www.epi.org/publication/current-proposed-high-skilled-guestworker/)
in these fields.*

*Those supporting even greater expansion seem to have forgotten about
the hundreds of thousands of American high-tech workers who are being
shortchanged — by wages stuck at 1998 levels, by diminished career
prospects and by repeated rounds of layoffs.*

*The facts are that, excluding [advocacy
studies](http://press.princeton.edu/titles/10208.html) by those with
industry funding, there is a remarkable concurrence among a wide range
of researchers that there is an [ample supply of American
workers](http://policy.rutgers.edu/faculty/salzman/science/What%20Shortages-Issues%20S&T-Summer2013-Salzman-Final.pdf)
(native and immigrant, citizen and permanent resident) who are willing
and
[qualified](http://www.epi.org/publication/bp356-foreign-students-best-brightest-immigration-policy/)
to fill the high-skill jobs in this country. The only real disagreement
is whether supply is two or three times larger than the demand.*

*Unfortunately, companies are exploiting the large existing flow of
guest workers to deny American workers access to STEM careers and the
middle-class security that should come with them. Imagine, then, how
many more Americans would be frozen out of the middle class if
politicians and tech moguls succeeded in doubling or tripling the flow
of guest workers into STEM occupations.*

***Redundant reforms***

*Another major, yet often overlooked, provision in the pending
legislation would grant automatic green cards to any foreign student who
earns a [graduate degree in a STEM
field](http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/just-facts/what%E2%80%99s-menu-immigration-bills-pending-house-representatives-2014),
based on assertions that foreign graduates of U.S. universities are
routinely being forced to leave. Such claims are incompatible with the
evidence that such graduates have many paths to stay and work, and
indeed the “stay rates” for visiting international students are very
high and have shown [no sign of
decline](http://orise.orau.gov/science-education/difference/stay-rates-impact.aspx).
The most [recent
study](http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2013/01/21/the-effects-of-chinas-push-for-education/luring-back-the-chinese-who-study-abroad)
finds that 92% of Chinese Ph.D. students stay in the U.S. to work after
graduation.*

*The tech industry’s promotion of expanded temporary visas (such as the
H-1B) and green cards is driven by its desire for
[cheap](http://www.epi.org/publication/bp356-foreign-students-best-brightest-immigration-policy/),
young and [immobile](http://www.tsalaw.com/DavidSwaimEmployment.htm)
labor. It is well documented that loopholes enable firms to legally pay
H-1Bs [below their market
value](http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9215405/H_1B_pay_and_its_impact_on_U.S._workers_is_aired_by_Congress)
and to continue the widespread age
[discrimination](http://www.businessweek.com/stories/2008-01-15/high-tech-hiring-youth-mattersbusinessweek-business-news-stock-market-and-financial-advice)
acknowledged by many in the tech industry.*

*When considering the credibility of the industry’s repetitive claims of
“shortages,” it is worth recalling its history of
[misbehavior](http://www.justice.gov/atr/cases/f3800/msjudgex.htm) in
hiring and employment. The most recent example was the proposed $300
million legal settlement of a class action against companies such as
Google, Apple, Intel and Adobe for [anti-competitive
collusion](http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/06/19/us-apple-google-settlement-idUSKBN0EU2OP20140619)
to suppress the pay of highly skilled employees, including unlawful
agreements to not recruit each others’ workers.*

*IT industry leaders have [spent lavishly on
lobbying](http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2013/04/29/tech-companies-lobbying-immigration-facebook-family-visas/2121179/)
to promote their STEM shortage claims among legislators. The only
problem is that the evidence contradicts their self-interested claims.*

What we have today is a modern form of resource extraction. These big
tech firms are not inventing anything or creating anything. Mostly, they
are harvesting ideas at a discount and commoditizing them. They can do
this because they have the backing of the government. Microsoft would
have gone bankrupt a decade ago without their monopoly power. In fact,
they never would have become a dominant firm without monopolistic
tactics. Google is deeply in bed with governments around the world.

Most likely, this is one of those brief mentions that allows the media
to pretend they are open to all sides of the debate. They do this with
conservatives. They have on one right-winger and ten left-wingers and
call it balance. In this case, one story critical of immigration in a
sea of cheerleading for open borders. It’s all part of the propaganda
effort to keep the public asleep as what is happening.
