---
title: "A Glimpse of the Future"
date: "2014-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1630"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1630"
---

One of the things that is never discussed, as it is not permitted, is
how non=white tribes here in America feud with one another. It is just
assumed that since whites are evil, all non-whites get along in order to
defend against the evil white man. That’s not true in the least, as
non-whites are much more tribal than whites. As a result, they tend to
dislike everyone outside their tribe, not just white people.

For example, here in Lagos on the Chesapeake, Indians and Koreans own
the cash businesses in the ghetto. There are some Nepalese in there, but
most people assume they are Indians. The Koreans have their own
off-the-books financing system to help new comers get a start. They
still do the old school sponsorship thing with immigrants that used to
be common in the US. The newcomer is sponsored by someone who helps they
get started, in exchange for a little interest on the investment.

According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, 28 percent of
Korean-American men and 20 percent of Korean-American women own their
own business—the highest rate of entrepreneurship in the country.
Indians have something similar, but it is more kin-based. It’s why you
see clusters of Indians in an area and they have similar last names.
There names mean something. If you know a little bit about the surnames,
you can get a sense of where they came from in India.

Regardless, the result is Koreans and Indians own a lot of small retail
business in and around the ghetto. These are businesses that are not
high margin, like liquor, convenience stores and smoke shops. They are
high risk. It takes balls of stone to own a liquor store in the ghetto.
Running a gas station in or even near the ghetto is almost a death wish.
That’s why they can be had for cheap and that’s why immigrants take
these businesses. They have more guts than cash.

There used to be a Palestinian guy, who owned a C-store near the ghetto.
He was missing an arm, having had it blown off back in the territories.
Compared to dodging terrorists and Jews in a refuge camp, selling smokes
and skittles in the ghetto was a good deal. He did all of his business
from behind bullet proof glass. Cameras watched the perimeter for locals
plotting an assault on the business.

This, in part, why blacks hate foreigners so much. From their
perspective, the people exploiting them in their community are all the
same. They seem them as proxies or maybe tools of the white majority.
Blacks don’t like Jews very much, because blacks are not that dumb. They
know the Jews are the most powerful tribe in the country, so they are
not fooled by the effort to make Jews intersectional. The Koreans and
Indians serving this “community” are just another face of the man.

As a result, the blacks hate Koreans and Indians. The Koreans and
Indians are not all that fond of the blacks. East Asians treat blacks
with utter contempt, as if they are just talking moneys. South Asians,
on the other hand, play the skins game, claiming they too are victims of
whitey, despite being well off. Look around and you see a lot of social
just types coming from the south Asian community. In time, we’ll learn
that dumb browns are better than smart browns.

Tribal conflict will only get worse as the nation becomes
majority-minority. When one ethnic group can dominate the rest, the
minorities tend to band together. For most of American history, WASP
culture dominated American culture and everyone else fell in line with
it. The “everyone else” was mostly Catholics and blacks. When no one
group dominates, then it becomes a free-for-all. Everyone has a reason
to distrust everyone else. Balkanization soon follows.

Suspicion and distrust of those outside the group is a behavioral trait
that most likely pre-dates all others. Our own history of race tells us
that this is not a behavior that is easily modified. President Obama,
who is multi-racial, wears his racial suspicion like a medallion. His
attorney general, from Barbados, is proudly hostile to whites. If
reaching the peak of society is not tempering these traits, it’s not
happening at the other end of society either. Throw in a bunch of of new
groups with their own grievances and the result will be a lot of public
shouting.

This is the future. America will be a country where everyone gets
frustrated with everyone outside their group. The public space, where
groups intersect, will be a 24×7 shouting match about who owes what to
whom. History provides no examples of a country dominated by a grievance
culture. Up until now, people have been smart enough to keep their
distance from one another whenever possible. Maybe everything will work
out just fine. Or, maybe not. Time will tell.
