---
title: "Crotch Warriors"
date: "2014-12-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3374"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3374"
---

The Atlantic used to be a great journal. Now it just a forum for
addle-brained nitwits to have a tantrum about the latest outrages. Steve
Sailer is convinced it is done on purpose, as an elaborate goof on
multiculturalism, but that seems unlikely. Too many people truly believe
this nonsense. <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2014/12/how-self-tracking-apps-exclude-women/383673/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">If a piece like this</a> is a
sophisticated send-up of the crotch warriors, the writer should be
working in Hollywood, not free lancing between shifts at the local bar.

*On September 9, a parade of men marched across the stage at Flint
Center in Cupertino, California, outlining a variety of new products in
the Apple lineage. After the iPhone, Apple Pay, and, the doll of the
party, the Apple Watch, Apple CEO Tim Cook took the stage to give some
more details about Apple Health, an app that had been announced back in
June and will eventually integrate with the Apple Watch. In that June
announcement, Apple’s Senior Vice President of Software Engineering
Craig Federighi bragged that the app would let users “monitor all of
your metrics that you’re most interested in.”*

*As promised, Health is a powerful app. It allows users to track
everything from calories to electrodermal activity to heart rate to
blood alcohol content to respiratory rate to daily intake of chromium.
But there’s a notable exception. Apple Health doesn’t track
menstruation, an omission that was quickly seized upon by many tech
writers as, well, ridiculous. [The Verge
asked](http://www.theverge.com/2014/9/25/6844021/apple-promised-an-expansive-health-app-so-why-cant-i-track)
“is it really too much to ask that Apple treat women, and their health,
with as much care as they’ve treated humanity’s sodium intake?” How
could Apple release a health-tracking app without the ability to monitor
what is likely one of the earliest types of quantified-self tracking?*

The most obvious answer here is that if you can’t count to 28, you
probably can’t master the device. That and the fact menstrual cycles
have nothing to do with the purpose of these gizmos. The people who buy
them mostly want to signal that they obsess about their health. That
most likely means indulging in useless fads like pill-popping, weird
diets and fake exercise like cross-fit.

But, to the crotch warrior, everything is about their crotch. Therefore
health must be defined in terms of the crotch. A normal person with an
interest in bettering their fitness would look for a way to count
calories, measure their heart rate and so on. Crotch warriors want a
devise that lets them count to 28 so they can spend even more time
thinking about their lady-parts.

The comments, as always, are the best. The top comment is a great
satire. But, the rest have great example of the insanely unaware.
Commenter “Laura” reminds me of a friend named Laura. She is a hair on
fire feminist convinced the conspiracy of the pale penis people is out
to get her. Come to think of it, every woman I’ve known named Laura has
been nuts.
