---
title: "Fake Wine"
date: "2014-08-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2428"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2428"
---

Early in my work life, I was at a dinner with company executives. The
head guy, feeling like a king, started ordering wine for the table. I
was a young man and wine was alien to me. At least the culture of it. I
knew nothing about it and I had no interest in learning about it. The
waiter brought over a magnum sized bottle of wine and did the wine
ritual for the big boss. He told me the wine was $1500 a bottle. It
tasted like every other red wine I’d tasted to that point.

Later in life I came to understand that
<a href="http://io9.com/wine-tasting-is-bullshit-heres-why-496098276"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">wine is mostly bullshit</a>. 
A small group of people decide what is and what is not trendy and the
prices are set accordingly. I actually got to know a guy, who is a
member of the
<a href="http://www.mastersommeliers.org/pages.aspx/membership"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Court of Masters</a>. His
membership is all about making money in the wine business. I never
believed for a second he knew anymore about the taste of wine than
anyone else. He just knew all of the proper jargon that was used to
impress people out of their money.

The thing is, people look at the price tag above all else. For years now
I have bought my office manager a bottle of wine at Christmas. She likes
to entertain over the holidays, so I go into the wine store and ask the
clerk to give me a $100 bottle of French or Italian wine. I accidentally
leave a price tag on it. Every year she tells me her guests love the
wine.

There’s also the priest/expert factor. In spiritual matters, we rely on
holy men to tell us right from wrong. There are rituals they conduct to
instruct us on morality, absolve us of sin and bear us up under the
weight of life. In practical matters, we look to experts to cut through
the thicket of details and tell us that we need to plug the red wire
into the blue socket. The wine business rolls the two together making
the wine expert the arbiter of good taste and good character.

<a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11020363/California-wine-collector-jailed-for-10-years-for-fraud.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from America’s
Paper of Record shows how high end wine is just high end bullshit.

*An international wine dealer has been jailed for 10 years for fraud
after selling fake vintages and cheating fellow connoisseurs out of tens
of millions of dollars.*

*Rudy Kurniawan, 37, an Indonesian-born businessman, had been considered
one of the top wine collectors in the world, becoming famed for his
palate and ability to identify fine wines.*

*But it emerged he had been blending the contents of cheap bottles in
the kitchen of the home he shared with his mother.*

*He then placed the blends in old bottles, stuck fake labels on them and
claimed they were rare vintages, selling them for vast sums.*

*While selling the fake wines he lived a luxury lifestyle driving
expensive cars and collecting modern art.*

It is not hard to see how this worked. He is foreign so Americans
naturally assumed he was exotic and international. He used the lingo so
he must be an expert. His lavish lifestyle confirmed he was an
international man. He presented himself as these people wished to view
themselves. A classic con.

*A judge in New York ordered Kurniawan to forfeit $20 million (£11
million) and pay $28.4 million in restitution to his victims.*

*US District Judge Richard M. Berman said: “The public at large needs to
know our food and drinks are safe and not some potentially unsafe
homemade witch’s brew.*

*“This was a very serious economic fraud, a manipulation of US and
international markets.”*

*Prosecutors said Kurniawan had seven main victims, one of whom was the
billionaire businessman and financier William Koch, who gave evidence in
the trial.*

*After being sentenced Kurniawan said: “I’m very sorry for what I have
done.”*

*Kurniawan had moved to the US at the age of 16 and will be deported
after completing his jail sentence.*

*Jerome H Mooney, his lawyer, told the court Kurniawan had wanted to mix
with rich people in California, where he had lived with his mother.*

*The lawyer said: “He was insecure, very insecure. He wanted to be them.
He wanted to be part of it. Nobody died. Nobody lost their savings.
Nobody lost their job.”*

*Kurniawan had become known as “Dr Conti” because of his expertise in
the wines of the Domaine de la Romanée-Conti vineyard in Burgundy.*

*He was found out and arrested by the FBI after trying to sell 78 fake
bottles of wines for around $700,000 at an auction in London in 2012.
Other experts spotted mistakes including missing French accents on
labels.*

I’ll just note that no one ever *tasted* one of his wines and said it
was fake. He was caught because he got sloppy with his label making.
I’ll grant that much of his product was sold to people who collect wine.
Still, an expert somewhere popped the cork on one of his brews and was
fooled. But, they are always fooled. There is simply no evidence to
support the claims of wine and food tasters, it is a fraud.
