---
title: "Sincerity Versus Piety"
date: "2014-09-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2382"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2382"
---

A fact of the human condition that baffles most people is that humans
are believing machines. Belief is a vital part of human existence. In
fact, you can’t have human society without the human trait of belief. It
allows for the building of cultural institutions, which are the
storehouse of human knowledge.

The natural tendency of humans to accept, on faith, what is told to them
by their parents, other adults and even their peers is what allows us to
advance in a material and evolve in a cultural sense. If everything your
parents told you, for example, had to be proved to you before you would
accept it, humans would not have got past hunter gatherer stage. We
would never have climbed down from the trees.

Norse mythology developed over a long period of time, probably a 1000
years before the runic alphabet. Throughout human settlement, there is a
similarity of belief. You have a pantheon of gods, creation myths,
codes, explanations of the natural world and so on. It’s easy to see why
these people believed in this stuff, but it is hard to figure why they
settled on this specific stuff. Yet, they did and did so just about
everywhere.

In modern times, belief is most on display when it comes to politics and
culture. For example, Liberals believe the Red Team is evil. So much so,
they oppose everything the Red Team supports. Liberals believe
Christians and Southerners are evil too. That’s why they refuse to go to
Chick-fil-A and WalMart. Lefty women were visibly spooked by images of
Sarah Palin.

You see some of this on the Right, but it is less clear. Lots of
non-Liberals watch ESPN and 60 minutes, despite the fact these outfits
are run by lunatics. Still, you have a lot of non-Liberals convinced the
GOP is the only answer, despite a mountain of evidence to the contrary.
Americans outside the liberal hive tend to be into conventional
religions so maybe that’s why their political intensity is much lower.

Anyway, <a
href="http://gregmankiw.blogspot.com/2014/08/wisdom-from-thomas-sowell.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this was posted on MR</a>  the
other day. This bit from Thomas Sowell is is the inspiration for this
post.

*Sincerity is so central to the unconstrained vision that it is not
readily conceded to adversaries, who are often depicted as apologists,
if not venal. It is not uncommon in this tradition to find references to
their adversaries’ “real” reasons, which must be “unmasked.” Even where
sincerity is conceded to adversaries, it is often accompanied by
references to those adversaries’ “blindness,” “prejudice,” or narrow
inability to transcend the status quo. Within the unconstrained vision,
sincerity is a great concession to make, while those with the
constrained vision can more readily make that concession, since it means
so much less to them. Nor need adversaries be depicted as stupid by
those with the constrained vision, for they conceive of the social
process as so complex that it is easy, even for wise and moral
individuals, to be mistaken — and dangerously so. They ‘may do the worst
of things without being the worst of man,’ according to Burke. (pg
59-60)*

This is why it is best to look at our political tribes in terms of
religion, rather than conscious philosophical outlook. What Sowell sees
as a ranking of character traits, is best viewed as in-group/out-group
signaling. The hive minded always assign the worst imaginable traits to
those outside the hive or anyone they see as a threat. Paul Krugman’s
hive puts purity of faith above all us, therefore those outside the hive
*lack* faith or sincerity.

It’s why the concept of indifference is alien to the Left. Everyone is
either inside or outside the walls. Everyone has had that weird
conversation with a lefty about something like homosexual marriage.
Shrugging your shoulders and saying you don’t care is not enough. You
have to be either for or against. In the old days abortion was this
subject. You could easily have lost friends over it.

For the hive minded, people are not just wrong; they are a mortal threat
because they oppose that which gives the adherent a reason to exist.
Early Greek generals started to figure this out while observing how
their men fought differently on their home turf than on the road.
Additionally, Greeks fighting other Greeks could feel empathy for their
enemies when they saw how they defended their lands and families.

The remedy to this was to find ways to convince the fighters that the
enemy was evil in some way that made them undeserving of sympathy.
Plunder was simply not enough to motivate men to kill their neighbors.
The solution developed over time was small unit training to build
loyalty within the ranks. When the men saw one another as blood
brothers, those opposed were blood enemies. It is why trench socialism
is still a part of Progressive proselytizing, despite their own social
chauvinism.

What is passed off as sincerity, is actually an obsession with piety.
Inside the hive, public displays of piety are critical to reinforcing
one’s place in the hive. Those who fail in their devotions are, in
effect, personally rejecting the group. Pretending to be pious, but
secretly rejecting the group is crime because it undermines the very
foundation of the group. Therefore, assigning this quality to the
enemies of the group is not a lot different than ancient soldiers
hurling curses at their enemy before battle. It reinforces reasons for
the group and motivates the adherents to make war on their enemies.

 

 
