---
title: "Where’s This President’s Howard Baker?"
date: "2014-06-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2122"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2122"
---

The news brings word that <a
href="http://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/us-sen-howard-baker-jr-dies-24318528"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Howard Baker has died</a>. He
is probably best remembered for posing the most famous question in
American politics. That was, “What did the president know and when did
he know it?” It clarified the Watergate scandal for the public, but it
also drew a line in the sand among Republicans. He was willing to fink
on Nixon in order to make sure the GOP remained respectable in the eyes
of the Left.

*Repeated over and again in the senator’s mild Tennessee drawl, those
words guided Americans through the tangle of Watergate characters and
charges playing daily on TV to focus squarely on Richard Nixon and his
role in the cover-up.*

*Baker’s famous question has been dusted off for potential White House
scandals big and small ever since.*

*Baker, who later became Senate majority leader, chief of staff to
President Ronald Reagan and one of the GOP’s elder statesmen, died
Thursday at his Tennessee home of complications from a stroke suffered
days earlier, according to an email distributed at the law firm where
Baker was senior counsel. He was 88.*

*Baker emerged as an unlikely star of the Watergate hearings in the
summer of 1973.*

*When chosen as vice chairman — and therefore leading Republican — of
the Senate special committee, he was a Nixon ally who thought the
allegations couldn’t possibly be true. Democrats feared he would serve
as the White House’s “mole” in the investigation of the break-in at
Democratic headquarters and other crimes perpetrated in service to
Nixon’s re-election.*

*“I believed that it was a political ploy of the Democrats, that it
would come to nothing,” Baker told The Associated Press in 1992. “But a
few weeks into that, it began to dawn on me that there was more to it
than I thought, and more to it than I liked.”*

*He said Watergate became “the greatest disillusionment” of his
political career.*

*Baker’s intense but restrained style of interrogating former White
House aides played well on camera. A youthful-looking, side-burned
47-year-old, his brainy charm inspired a raft of love notes sent to his
Senate office; a women’s magazine proclaimed him “studly.” He was
mentioned frequently as presidential material.*

*By the time Nixon resigned in 1974, Baker was a household name with a
reputation for fairness and smarts that stuck throughout a long
political career.*

In the 1970’s, Republicans were faced with a choice. They could go to
war with the Left, including the major media, or turn on their own man.
They chose the latter. In the 1980’s, they faced a similar challenge,
even though Reagan was never implicated in Iran-Contra, which was
largely a non-scandal. Still, there were Republicans and Conservatives
that went after guys like Oliver North.

The Democratic Party will never turn on their guy. They defended Clinton
and they are defending Obama, despite abuses of power that make Nixon
look like piker. They will defend the thing to the last man, no matter
what evidence comes to light. They will never produce a Howard baker,
who reasons that it is better to be respected by the enemy than loyal to
the party. It’s also why the Left always wins.
