---
title: "Election Night"
date: "2014-11-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3163"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3163"
---

Back in the 70’s, the argument for supporting Nixon was that he could
win. He was a schemer and he was on the Left economically. Unlike the
doves on the Left, he was a hard headed realist when it came to foreign
policy, particularly with the Soviets. In the 40’s and 50’s, Nixon was a
staunch red hunter so no one could question his commitment to fighting
the commies. Goldwater getting crushed in ’64 made winning in 1968 the
number one priority.

Amazingly, the same arguments were used to defend Ford against the
Reagan challenge in 1976. Mild, stable Jerry Ford was what the country
needed, not the rash Goldwater conservative. Much like we have seen
recently, the party elders stepped in to put their guy on the ticket
instead of Reagan. Ford lost to Carter and the nation dipped further
into the dark funk known as the 70’s.

The point of this miserable walk down memory lane is that the old line
about electability is not new. The party brass protecting their guys
from the wrath of the voters is also nothing new. This has been a
dilemma facing sensible voters since the Great Depression. The guys they
want to support are thwarted by the party and they are left with two
options that they don’t like. The argument is you have to support the
least odious choice. Sounds familiar right now, I’m sure.

The old Buckley line was that you should vote for the most rightward
leaning candidate that can win in the primary and then vote for the most
rightward leaning candidate in the general. That sounds good and you
hear a lot of sensible people saying it in this election cycle.
“Candidate X may be an open borders fanatic but they are better than the
Liberal Democrat! If you are holding out for the perfectly pure
candidate, the bad guys will win!” I’ve had this said to me a few times
of late when I point out that most of the Republican offerings are just
slightly less liberal than their opponent.

The Democrats march further into lunacy while the Republicans trudge
along behind them, like the retarded little brother tagging along behind
his older brother. Ted Cruz, for example, is now considered a way out on
the fringe conservative. Liberal tourettes includes the uncontrolled
shouting of “Ted Cruz” along with “Koch Brothers” and “Tea Party.” Yet,
in the 1980’s, Ted Cruz would have been a moderate Democrat. That’s how
far things have gone in three decades.

If you look at Federal spending in 1968 (circling back to Nixon), adjust
for inflation and population to arrive at a spending per capita number
in today’s dollars, the leviathan was between a quarter and a third the
size it is today.

<img
src="http://wmbriggs.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/budget_2013.jpg"
class="aligncenter" decoding="async" width="500" height="600" />

In the Nixon era, the EPA was created along with OSHA. Outside of the
IRS, no federal department has done more damage to the freedom of
Americans than the EPA. OSHA is a close second. Of course, the money
printing robbed millions of their savings. Watergate looks mild by
comparison, but it was the cherry on top of the compromise sundae
foisted on us.

The point of all this is that the preferred strategy of the Republican
Party and Conservative Inc. has resulted in a steady destruction of self
government in favor a corporatist, custodial state. The success of these
guys tonight promises to keep that line on the graph heading north until
it runs off the page. Our elections have become a perverse game where
heads you lose-tails they win.

As I write this the chattering loons on MSNBC are fighting over who gets
to hang themselves from the light boom. I’m not going to lie and say I’m
not enjoying the site of the heavily sedated lesbian trying to keep it
together. Still, I’m not inclined to think this election will make any
difference. The long slow walk to the cliff will go on unabated. I will
probably live long enough to see Republicans glowingly quoting Obama as
a model for their brand of sensible conservatism.

 
