---
title: "The Blood Of The Innocent"
date: "2014-05-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1665"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1665"
---

People have often asked my how I look so youthful. I’m pushing 50, but
most people think I am in my thirties. I jokingly tell them that I drink
the blood of the innocent, after sacrificing them to Baal. Normally,
they laugh, uncomfortably, and assume I’m weirdly telling them to fuck
off. On occasion someone will press me and I just say it is genes. No
one wants to believe drinking the blood of unbaptized infants is a real
thing, but <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/science-news/10807478/Vampire-therapy-could-reverse-ageing-scientists-find.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">now the wider world is finding
out about my secret</a>.

*It may seem the stuff of gothic horror novels, but transfusions of
young blood could reverse the ageing process and even cure Alzheimer’s
Disease, scientists believe.*

*Throughout history, cultures across the globe have extolled the
properties of youthful blood, with children sacrificed and the blood of
young warriors drunk by the victors.*

*It was even rumoured that the North Korean dictator Kim Jong-il
injected himself with blood from healthy young virgins to slow the
ageing process.*

*Now scientists have found that young blood actually ‘recharges’ the
brain, forms new blood vessels and improves memory and learning.*

*In parallel research, scientists at Harvard University also discovered
that a ‘youth protein’ which circulates in the blood is responsible for
keeping the brain and muscles young and strong.*

*The protein, known as ‘GDF11’, is present in the bloodstream in large
quantities when we are young but peters out as we age.*

*Although both the discoveries were made in mice, researchers are hoping
to begin human trials in the next two to three years, in studies which
could bring rapid improvements for human longevity and health.*

*“This should give us all hope for a healthier future,” said Prof Doug
Melton, of Harvard’s Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology.*

*“We all wonder why we were stronger and mentally more agile when young,
and these two unusually exciting papers actually point to a possible
answer.*

*“There seems to be little question that, GDF11 has an amazing capacity
to restore aging muscle and brain function.”*

*Last year the team discovered that the protein could repair damaged
hearts. But the new study showed that that raising the levels of the
GDF11 protein in older mice improved the function of every organ in the
body.*

*Harvard stem cell biologist Prof Lee Rubin added: “We do think that, at
least in principal, there will be a way to reverse some of the decline
of aging with a single protein.*

*“It isn’t out of question that GDF11, or a drug developed from it,
might be worthwhile in Alzheimer’s Disease.”*

*It is likely that the protein is at least partly responsible for the
parallel finding by Stanford University that young blood can reverse the
signs of ageing.*

*In the study, the blood of three-month-old mice was repeatedly injected
into 18-month-old mice near the end of their natural life span.*

*The “vampire therapy” improved the performance of the elderly mice in
memory and learning tasks.*

*Structural, molecular and functional changes were also seen in their
brains, the study published in the journal Science found.*

*If the same were seem in humans, it could lead to new therapies for
recharging our aging brains and novel drugs for treating dementias such
as Alzheimer’s disease.*

*“We’ve shown that at least some age-related impairments in brain
function are reversible. They’re not final,” said Dr Saul Villeda, of
Stanford’s School of Medicine.*

*Ageing mice given eight infusions of young blood over three weeks
improved their performance in mental tests of fear condition and
locating a hidden platform in a water maze.*

*Evidence was seen of new connections forming in the hippocampus, a
brain region vital to memory and sensitive to ageing.*

*Dendritic spines – finger-like extensions from the branches of neurons
that are thought to play a role in memory formation – also became more
dense.*

*Infusions of blood from other elderly mice had no effect, the study,
published in the journal Nature, found.*

*“This could have been done 20 years ago,” said lead researcher Dr Tony
Wyss-Coray of Stanford.*

*“You don’t need to know anything about how the brain works. You just
give an old mouse young blood and see if the animal is smarter than
before. It’s just that nobody did it.”*

*“Our data indicate that exposure of aged mice to young blood late in
life is capable of rejuvenating synaptic plasticity and improving
cognitive function.*

*“Future studies are warranted in aged humans and potentially those
suffering from age-related neurodegenerative disorders.”*

*Dr Eric Karran, from the dementia charity Alzheimer’s Research UK,
said: “This technically complex study looks at the effects of exposing
old mice to blood-borne factors from young mice on age-related cognitive
decline.*

*“Although the treatments tested here rejuvenate certain aspects of
learning and memory in mice, these studies are of unknown significance
to humans.*

*“This research, while very interesting, does not investigate the type
of cognitive impairment that is seen in Alzheimer’s disease, which is
not an inevitable consequence of ageing.”*

Given the fear of age hammered into American society, starting with the
baby Boomers, I will not be shocked if this gets a lot of support. The
success of the little blue pill proves that generations of
indoctrination have made us fear age more than anything other than death
by old age. Anything that promises to extend vitality will get explored
and marketed to a people who can’t be bothered to have children, but
wish to live like them for eternity. Human sacrifice is not unrealistic.
