---
title: "Or Maybe They’re Just Cool Looking Rocks"
date: "2014-05-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1750"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1750"
---

Archaeology is a fun subject, but there’s a decent amount of
unsubstantiated claims in the field. For example, we know a lot about
the people living in New England in the 18th century, because they left
lots of written records and physical evidence. A lot has been lost over
time, but science has gotten better so we can look at old bones and old
artifacts and learn things missing from the written.

The people in 8th century New England are a different story. They left
little evidence, far fewer bones and not much of a record, written or
otherwise. The further you go back, they less evidence we have to go on
and that means lots of speculation. There’s nothing wrong with
speculation as it can lead to discovery. A good narrative that
incorporates the available evidence can lead researchers to troves of
new evidence, but it can also be complete nonsense. <a
href="http://www.newsleader.com/article/20140511/NEWS01/305110011/1002/rss?nclick_check=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s an example</a>.

*Concentric stone circles near rocks weighing more than a ton —
apparently aligned to mark solar events — are believed to be part of a
Paleo-Indian site in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Clarke County that an
expert has dated to about 10,000 B.C.*

*The complex along Spout Run has 15 above-ground stone features. Though
still under study, it could be one of the oldest man-made structures in
North America still in existence and twice as old as England’s
Stonehenge.*

*Christ and Rene White, who own the property near Bluemont and made the
initial discovery, credit their Native American heritage for the
finding.*

*When Chris White, who is of Cherokee descent, was building a home for
himself and his wife — who is a Lumbee Indian — on the wooded land, he
said he often took a break to walk by Spout Run, which tumbles downhill
in its rocky bed across his land.*

*Something told him that the area was important, and he decided to
create a stone medicine wheel on the 20-acre property below Bears Den
Trail Center — a lodge owned by the Appalachian Trail Conservancy.*

*To his surprise, he realized the area across the stream already had a
stone circle. In fact, it had several concentric stone circles.*

The first red flag is the Indian heritage stuff. We’re supposed to
believe that Indians just know how to recognize Indian stuff. He is
Cherokee, of course. They always pick the cool tribes. The
<a href="http://www.warren.senate.gov/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Fake Indian</a> from Massachusetts, who is really a
WASP, claims to be Cherokee. I bet if we learn that the Cherokee were
cannibals the number of people claiming to be Cherokee would suddenly
plummet. Anyway, the medicine wheel nonsense is a nice touch.

*For a professional opinion, the Whites contacted retired archaeologist
Jack Hranicky of Alexandria, who had investigated five other
Paleo-Indian sites in Virginia.*

*It was Hranicky who realized that the rocks in and outside the circles
aligned with special features on the Blue Ridge.*

*A line from a center rock, over a specific boundary rock, intersects
the feature called Bears Den Rocks on the mountain. Standing on that
center rock, looking northeast, a viewer can see the sun rise over Bears
Den on the day of the summer solstice in June.*

*Moving around the circle, another set of rocks points to Eagle Rock on
the Blue Ridge, and also to sunrise on the day of the spring and fall
equinox in March and September.*

*Yet a third points to a saddle in the mountain, where the sun rises at
the winter solstice in December.*

This could be true or it could be nonsense. Almost everything we “know”
about Amerind people is speculative. We take what we know about Native
Americans and work backward, trying to explain the fossil record and
archaeological evidence. Genetic evidence confirms the very broad
outlines of how and when people entered North America from Eurasia. The
mass of knowledge that is confirmed is a drop in the ocean of what is
speculative. Again, nothing wrong with it, but this news story makes it
sound like we know that these people had a high level of sophistication.

*To date the age of the site, Hranicky excavated an area of five square
feet, carefully numbering every rock and setting it aside, to be
replaced later. He wanted to create as little disturbance as possible in
hopes that future technology will have better methods of studying the
site. His digging exposed three artifacts — a thin blade of quartzite, a
small piece of jasper and another piece of the rock that had been shaped
to be used as a small scraper.*

*Hranicky believes the jasper ties the Spout Run site to the Thunderbird
Archaeological District, an intensely excavated Paleo-Indian site on the
Shenandoah River in Warren County.*

*There, 9,000 years ago, Paleo-Indians — who Hranicky calls Virginia’s
first engineers — quarried jasper from the river’s west bank to make
tools.*

*Hranicky suggests that after quarrying jasper for tools at Thunderbird,
Native Americans walked down the Shenandoah River and held some sort of
cultural ceremonies at the Spout Run site. Rock engravings in the shape
of footprints could be intended to mark where to stand to observe an
equinox.*

*To get some idea of the site’s age, a section of jasper from the Spout
Run site was sent to James Feathers, who runs the Luminescence Dating
Laboratory at the University of Washington in Seattle.*

*This, said Feathers, is a dating method based on solid-state physics.
Materials absorb energy from natural processes and can store that energy
for indefinite periods of time. Exposure to heat can release energy.*

*According to Feathers, the piece of jasper found along Spout Run was
heated, perhaps in a campfire, and it’s possible to determine by the
proportion of luminescence when that occurred.*

*“The method has been in use for more than 30 years,” Feathers
explained, “and has been shown to be accurate against independent dating
evidence. Precision is usually 10 percent or better.”*

*The date when that piece of jasper was burned on the Blue Ridge, Chris
White said, is about 10,470 B.C.*

This is consistent with other evidence. Humans entered North America
roughly 10,000 years ago. The dating method is reliable and the types of
tools would be consistent with hunter-gatherer populations. There are
still some big holes, as genetics is revealing some populations in South
America who are closer related to pacific islanders than the rest of the
native people. How that happened is a mystery.

This is interesting stuff, but the desire to deify the Native Americans
gets the better of the people reporting on it. The truth is the Amerind
people were not very advanced, even by the standards of the world 10,000
years ago. These stones could very well just be cool looking stones.
Anyone who has spent time in the wild has run across some amazing
looking stuff created by Mother Nature.
