---
title: "The Sex Rackets"
date: "2014-03-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1203"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1203"
---

A popular way for campus degenerates to get attention to host a workshop
of festival celebrating a depraved sexual act. Sometimes these are part
of a whole week of degenerates performing from the public. On the one
hand, the left-wing media loves pushing this stuff in the face of white
people. On the other the left gets to pretend they are edgy outsiders
challenging orthodoxy. <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/rutgers-hosts-female-orgasm-workshop-alec-torres/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> posted on
National Review is about a recent one of these events at Rutgers
University.

*University of Michigan had a BDSM class. University of Arizona had the
Condom Olympics. Many more have Sex Weeks, or some variant of that sort.
Now Rutgers, a public university, has jumped into the fray.*

*On Tuesday, Rutgers hosted a female orgasm workshop as part of a
week-long event called “Sexapalooza.” Sex educators Marshall Miller and
Maggie Keenan-Bolger conducted the Tuesday night event for “orgasm
aficionados and beginners of all genders.” Participants came to “learn
about everything from multiple orgasm to that mysterious G-spot.”*

*The event was particularly marketed to struggling boyfriends who want
to help their girlfriends to orgasm.*

*Other events at Sexapalooza, which ends on March 12, include a Sex Toy
Workshop, complete with a sex-toy raffle,  a lecture called “Having
Great Sex,” and a Sex Fair with “condom races, condom lollipops, and
education tables.”*

*Sex Discuss Here!, the organization that ran the event, describes the
female orgasm workshop as “our most popular program.”*

It’s always fun to look up
<a href="http://www.sexualityeducation.com/bios.php"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the bios</a> of the people
involved in these things.

***Kate Weinberg***  
*Kate graduated from DePaul University in Chicago. She describes a
“lightbulb moment” she had while taking an intensive HIV/AIDS course in
college, when she realized how sexuality “is a thing so intimately
connected to politics, religion, guilt, expectation, the ways in which
we live and are allowed to live. It’s one of those things that seems to
explain the world around it.” Little did she know at that moment, but
she had begun her journey toward becoming a sex educator.*

***Dorian Solot***  
*Dorian co-founded Sex Discussed Here!, co-created all its programs, and
trains and supervises our fantastic team of sex educators. She has
presented over 500 programs around the country at colleges and
universities, businesses, churches, regional and national conferences,
and adult education centers, and continues to present a small number of
programs each year. However, these days you’re more likely to work with
Dorian during the planning process for your event: she is the person who
answers our phone and emails, guiding hundreds of students and staff
people through the process of making each event a success.*

*As a breast cancer survivor who discovered a lump in her own breast at
age 26, Dorian knows that being comfortable with her own body may have
saved her life. As a result, she is passionate about increasing people’s
knowledge and comfort with their own bodies. Trained as a sexuality
educator at Brown University, Dorian has authored several articles about
the scientific study of female orgasm. In addition, she is a certified
birth doula, providing professional labor support to women and their
partners during childbirth. (As she jokes, “If I’m gonna teach how
babies get in there, the least I can do is help women get them out of
there, too.”)*

One of the fascinating things about this age is that the Jews seem to be
trying very hard to prove the anti-Semites are correct. Every single
time one of these degeneracy festivals turns up, the people behind it
are Jewish. The counter is that it is just a coincidence that two
percent of the population is so wildly over-represented in anti-Western
and anti-white activity. Maybe, but string together enough coincidences
and you have what experts call a pattern.

These women put a lot of importance of “being passionate” about stuff.
Hitler was passionate too. At least that’s the claim from the
professional anti-fascists, but that is not something they ever
consider. For them, passion is always good, while things they don’t like
are extremists. Now, the “doula” is a new one. This is not something
that comes up in these stories.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doula" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Wiki provides an interesting story</a>.

*A doula also known as a labour coachand originating from the Ancient
Greek word δούλη meaning female slave),is a nonmedical person who
assists a woman before, during, or after childbirth, as well as her
partner and/or family, by providing physical assistance, and emotional
support.<sup> </sup> The provision of continuous support during labour
by doulas (as well as nurses, family, or friends) is associated with
improved maternal and fetal health and a variety of other benefits.*

<a href="http://www.usacor.org/biographies/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Dana Raphael</a> is credited with inventing the term.

*Dr. Dana Raphael is a medical anthropologist, writer and lecturer. Her
interest in breastfeeding inspired her to found The Human Lactation
Center in 1975 with Margaret Mead, an institute devoted to researching
patterns of lactation worldwide. The Center is now a Non-Governmental
Organization (NGO) that has consultative status with the Economic and
Social Council of the United Nations. She is also the Executive Director
of the Eleventh Commandment Foundation, a NGO that researches the
long-term effects of childhood sexual abuse on women’s experience of
pregnancy, labor, childbirth and lactation.*

*She is credited with initiating the role of the modern doula, a
supportive person who pairs up with women during their labor and
delivery and helps the new mother to assure her success with
breastfeeding.*

*Dr. Raphael has served as an adjunct professor at Yale University,
School of Medicine, and as an invited lecturer in the United States,
China, India and Japan. She has received two Fulbright awards, chaired
or participated in more than fifty conferences and symposiums, written
or edited five books and over 50 articles.*

She is not obviously a lesbian, but no mention of children is usually a
tell. Even feminist women include the names of their children on the
resumes and official bios. It is their signature accomplishment. When
you get into the earth goddess type feminism, the children are an even
more important totem. Despite the oogily-boogily from feminists about
“gender roles” they cannot escape the gravitational pull of biology.

There’s been a theory kicking around for years that the expansion of the
state has been about putting people to work in nonsense jobs to keep
them busy.  The collapse of the manufacturing base meant millions of
idle people looking for work. Putting them into government jobs, where
they have something to so was the answer. Walk into any government
office and you see lots of people siting around looking busy. Maybe
that’s true, but the permission state does result in a high number of
grifters.

These people in the sex education rackets are entirely dependent on
government and it appears their primary target is the public schools.
They are flush with tax dollars to spend on this stuff. They most likely
ride the grant rackets too. Billions are funneled to semi-employed
social science majors through the grant system. Without it, many of
these people are stocking shelves at Target. Instead, they get to fill
your kid’s head minds with agit-prop intended to make them hate
themselves and their ancestors.
