---
title: "Modern Sophistry"
date: "2014-03-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Dark Enlightenment
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1374"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1374"
---

One of the things you always see with reformers and left-wing critics is
the phenomenon of Chesterton’s fence. That’s the principle that reforms
should not be made until the reasoning behind the existing state of
affairs is understood. The reformer and liberal critic never bothers to
understand why the current state of affairs. They just want it gone and
have no interest in why it exists. The reformer and radical is always
the jury of one, where their whims trump all evidence to the contrary.

Homosexual marriage is the most obvious example. The advocates never
asked why marriage has been boy-girl for ten thousand years. Instead
they mutter some nonsense about religion, but that’s as far as they go.
Libertarians are the worst offenders. When they start ranting about the
state licensing marriage, they act like it sprung from nothingness.
Their own ignorance is held up as if it were a mirror, reflecting a
newly discovered hole in conventional wisdom. A good example is in <a
href="http://www.thebigquestions.com/2013/10/28/questioning-the-fifth-amendment/#more-8966"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post</a>.

*I have a question that has only provoked a lot of confused righteous
indignation in other forums, and I wonder if TBQ readers might have more
thoughtful responses, if we phrase it as a logic puzzle.*

*My question: I don’t see why it’s good policy to give criminal
defendants a Fifth Amendment right to silence in their own trial, as
opposed to giving them the same rights and obligations as third-party
witnesses (who can be subpoenaed and required to answer questions).*

Notice how his ignorance of civics and the history behind this
priovision in the law is treated as an asset in his argument. That would
be fine if it were just an admission and a plea for help. Instead, it is
wrapped in indignation, as if it is the fault of the rest of us that
this guy does not know basic civics. The implication is that the Fifth
Amendment is illogical because the author does not understand why it
exists. The burden is now on everyone else to alleviate him of his
ignorance.

This is a common trick from radicals pushing some cause. They frame
their own ignorance as a sort of universal ignorance that they have just
stumbled upon. Having discovered this hitherto unobserved irrationality,
they offer up an alternative and then challenge everyone else to 1)
justify the current arrangements or 2) offer an alternative to their
proposal that *they* think is better. It’s rhetorical base stealing that
turns their novel idea into the default, while convention is the
novelty.

*However, every time I’ve asked this question, people have reacted as if
I was suggesting that the state should be allowed to torture people into
confessing. Obviously that’s not what I’m asking. I just don’t see a
principled reason why defendants can’t be required to answer a question
that is relevant, subject to the rules laid out in paragraph 3.*

Notice the claim that his innocent query has stumped the brightest minds
on earth. He has yet to get the answer he likes, so that means no answer
exists. The use of neutralized logic phrases is particularly annoying.
“Obviously that’s not what I’m asking” avoids the charge, without ever
addressing it. It also makes it appear the invisible audience to whom he
is referring is irrational. The poor guy is an island of rationality in
a sea of mean spirited loons!

The funny part is that he *is* suggesting the state torture people into
confessing. Maybe he knows that and that’s why he is shifting the focus
from what he is suggesting onto straw men. If the state can punish you
for lying to agents of the state and they can force you to answer
questions, the honest answering of which could lead to punishment, the
state is compelling you to bear witness against yourself. Anyway, the
comments are worth reading. Comment \#6 takes the author’s tactic and
turns it around on him.

*You’ve done a good job of comparing fifth amendment rights to the
ability of the state to subpoena third parties. It makes perfect sense
to me that if it’s acceptable for state to subpoena third parties, it
should also be acceptable to subpoena the accused. I hold the position
that the state should NOT be able to subpoena the accused OR third
parties though. To convince me, you’ll need to provide good reasons why
the state should have this particular coercive power in the first
place.*

I don’t think it is intentional. This sort of sophistry is so common,
people do it without even knowing it now. All logic expressions imply a
set of conditions that would make them false. For instance, all men are
human is a logical expression. To falsify this, we would need a man who
is not human. That does not mean it can be falsified. There are
scientific fast that cannot be falsified, because they are axioms.

What the modern sophist does is insert taste or opinion into the search
for truth. “Vanilla ice cream is the best” is not true statement.
Everyone knows that. All swans are white, however, is a logical
statement. Bolting on “you have to convince me that all swans are white”
invalidates the logical expression. Of course, it sets up a standard
that can never be met. The judge in this case can simply claim you have
to convinced him, no matter how much evidence is stacked up in your
favor.

Putting it together you get what looks like a deductive examination of
an existing rule, law or custom. What you really get is ignorance framed
as a question and a petulant demand from the questioner. It is not an
affirmative argument or even a logical expression. It’s a temper
tantrum, except the performance of it shifts the focus from the person
having the tantrum onto something self. It’s performance art.
