---
title: "Clinton 2016"
date: "2014-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1781"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1781"
---

I have no love for Karl Rove, but you have to respect his political
skills. He got George Bush elected twice and that was not small feat.
Bush was one of the worst politicians we’ve seen in decades. By that I
mean he lacks the sociopathic charm we prefer in our modern politicians.
That and he struggled to string a sentence together. Americans like
smooth talking fabulists, who lie on spec. Getting Bush into the White
House took extraordinary skills by his team.

That’s why it was fun watching Rove [launch of a
miss](http://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2014/may/14/karl-rove/rove-clinton-hospital-stay-and-glasses-point-traum/)ile
at the old battleship called Hillary Clinton. Politics is a dirty
business and Rove is a pro. He knows it is a good time to put that
thought out there. Clinton is only getting older and every time she
stumbles or looks dazed in public, the brain damage issue will come to
mind. Long after people forget about this, they will remember that
Clinton has brain damage.

Anyway, just for fun I thought I would look into who else will be
running on the Democrat side. Once the fall election is over, the battle
to line up donors, fixers and strategists will be on for both parties. A
weak Clinton should draw in some challengers with nothing to lose from
making a run at her. Plus, the crazy wing has never loved Clinton.
That’s why they backed Obama in 2008. It was mostly out of spite. They
will be looking for another horse to ride in 2016.

**Crazy Joe Biden:** It has long been assumed that Crazy Joe will
stagger off the stage in 2016 and that will be the end of his time in
politics. He’s no spring chicken and has a habit of saying insane things
in public. He is also well regarded among the party establishment. He
could challenge Clinton as the establishment candidate. His loyal
service to Obama has also won him a lot of friends among blacks. Vice
Presidents have enormous advantages when running in a primary. Odds:
2-to-1

**Fake Indian:** Every liberal woman I know loves Fake Indian. She is a
darling of the Left, many of whom think Obama let them down. She is a
throwback to the 1960’s Left in that she yaps a lot of about the poor
and disadvantaged. She is not young, but she is younger than Clinton and
Biden. The other thing she has going for her is she can pitch herself as
an outsider and a reformer. There’s enough distance between her and the
Obama administration to plausibly call her an “insurgent” candidate.
Odds: 5-to-1

**Knuckles O’Malley:** Martin O’Malley is a long way from his days of
threatening to punch Baltimore radio hosts. He is the quintessential
meritocratic climber. He’s also running the Democratic Governors
Association, which means he gets to run around the country raising money
and collecting favors. Like Bill Clinton, he comes from a terminally
corrupt state and that means he has baggage. He may have knocked up a
local news bunny at some point. But, he also has a disarming
presentation on the stump and he is a liberal. Odd: 20-to-1

**Brian “Nuts” Schweitzer:** The nut-roots types loved this guy and they
wanted him to take a shot at the open senate seat in Montana. The
crazies have this image in their head of the perfect candidate. He is a
combination Huey Long and FDR. They are convinced a populist appeal will
bring working class white males out to vote. They are right, but that
has no place in the party now. Odds: 50-to-1

**Mini-me:** Duval Patrick is term limited out and will have nothing to
so running for president is a good way to fill the time. It is also a
good way to audition for jobs. He is also deeply connected to the
Axelrod operation in Chicago and that means he will be able to tap into
the Obama money machine. As the only black guy in the field, he will get
a lot of support from his people in the primaries. Odds: 50-to-1

**Andrew Cuomo:** His old man never ran, probably because he was so
mobbed up, it would have got him killed. Andrew Cuomo does not have the
problem. He’s another guy who could cut into Clinton’s support with
establishment democrats. He probably does not run if Clinton runs. Plus
he knows this is most likely a GOP election to lose. He may be better of
waiting until 2020. Odds: 100-to-1

**Bottom Line**: Clinton runs and wins the nomination.
