---
title: "Democracy"
date: "2014-06-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1952"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1952"
---

<a
href="http://takimag.com/article/two_bad_answers_john_derbyshire/print#axzz340aRILnj"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">John Derbyshire has a
piece</a> up starting with the anniversary of Tiananmen Square, moving
into the strengths and weaknesses of the Chinese model and finishing
with this.

*Universal-suffrage democracy may have been a good idea 120 years ago,
when most adults did productive work into their sixties, then died. In
today’s top-heavy welfare states, it just empowers tax-eaters to loot
the national wealth.*

*Tomorrow’s politics will be the art of providing make-work for as many
as possible of the employable minority while pacifying the un-employable
majority with a state dole. In that world, universal-suffrage democracy
will be untenable.*

*Already, unconsciously, we are making appropriate adjustments. Our
universities, after a few aberrant decades of experimenting with open
inquiry and the advance of knowledge, have reverted to their medieval
purpose (the purpose that Chinese higher education always had): to train
an intellectual elite for the propagation and defense of the state
ideology. Then it was Christianity (in China, Confucianism); now it is
utopian egalitarianism—“political correctness,” the Narrative. The
advance of knowledge can go hang.*

*Since we are already making cultural adjustments to the inevitable
future, can the political adjustments be far behind?*

There’s a branch of the dissident that holds a view of the intermediate
future that is a mix of
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1136608/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">District 9</a>,
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1535108/?ref_=nv_sr_1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Elysium</a> and
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0088247/?ref_=fn_al_tt_1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Terminator</a>. They think
most of us will be thrown into camps without regard to race, sex, age or
ethnicity. We’ll live on garbage from the other group of humans, the
elites. The elites will rely on super smart robots to keep their
position and keep the rabble in their camps. Some small servant class
will exist to maintain the robots and tend to the elite.

Some put greater emphasis on the robots, while others underscore the
camps. There are surely others who have a combination of favorites, with
some other elements added into the mix. Either way, the future is Hell,
as they imagine it. Nordic people imagined Hell as barren and cold,
while south people imagined it hot and fiery. People’s sense of the
horrible future is a reflection of what they imagine to be a horrible
present. The future is what you fear now, not what you’ll fear tomorrow.

One common thread that runs through the various subcultures that make up
the dissident right is a rejection of democracy. Most people outside
conventional poltics styart with the assumption that democracy is a
terrible idea.  Seeing people you know are struggling with the basics of
living, in-line to vote makes plain that democracy turned
self-government into a lottery. The capable have to hope the incapable
tick the right box or they are tricked into it by the parties.

That said, you can’t argue with the results. Life in Europe and America
is vastly better now than 1900. People are healthier, better fed and we
live much longer. Outside of the urban reservations, violence is no
longer a factor. In 1900 a person traveling alone cross country needed
to be armed and prepared to kill. Today, a person traveling cross
country only has to worry about what sights to see on the way.

Rule by dimwit seems to be working out, despite it all.

On the other hand, to the people in a car heading for a cliff, the ride
may seem like it is going very well. Democracy in America is a
relatively new thing. The 19th Amendment was ratified in 1920. The
woman’s vote did not emerge as a force until after the second world war.
Minorities were prevented from voting until the 1960’s. Our experiment
in universal suffrage is only a couple of generations along. Maybe it
just takes  a few generations for democracy to nuke itself.

The real problem is what it does to the governing institutions and the
ruling class in  control them. In the 19th century, both political
parties catered to the property holders, business men and the educated
elite. That’s where the votes were so that’s where the politicians went
looking for votes. The result was the parties were representative of the
nation’s various interests, all of whom had the same general goals in
mind. As a result, national politics was regional, not tribal.

Once you flood the voting booths with millions of people lacking an
ownership stake in the country, politics becomes tribal. The parties
seek to assemble collection of tribes, even though they may not have
shared interests. This attracts a different class of politician. In
order to get white union guys to vote with black welfare queens, you
have to be cunning and persuasive. The appeal is emotional, not logical.
The result is what we see. Both parties are dominated by sociopaths.

Democracy has its place and it is a requirement of civilized governance.
It must be tempered and that’s what we lack. Returning the Senate to the
states, for example, would cripple the federal welfare system. States
would never tolerate the meddling in their affairs we see now. Of
course, the Senate would attract a different class of politician.
Low-life grifters like Chuck Schumer and John McCain would be of no use
to their respective state legislatures.

The conditions under which we re-apply the brakes to our run-away
democracy is the mystery. Maybe that’s where the doom and gloom set has
it right. History is not exactly full of successful reformers steering
their society away from the rocks. Instead, it is the story of one crash
after another. A societies are boon, prosper and then die. It is the
cycle of history that has been observed over and over. Maybe it is not
doom and gloom, but a fatalistic acceptance in the arc of history.
