---
title: "The Lack of Restraint"
date: "2014-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2778"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2778"
---

The primary reason certain groups struggle to accumulate wealth is the
lack of impulse control. Storing away the proceeds of today’s labor
requires an ability to say no to yourself in order to say yes in the
future. You come into some money and your greedy self wants to spend it
on stuff. That would be fun, but that other part of you, the part
looking down the road, steps in a says you have to save the money.
Instead of good times now you stash away for another time.

This ability to control your passion sis directly linked to intelligence
and this shows up in profiles of human populations. Dumb people can’t
think mlomg term, so they atc on how they feel in the moment. Some
people, <a
href="http://espn.go.com/college-football/story/_/id/11542412/florida-state-seminoles-qb-jameis-winston-suspended-first-half-game-clemson-tigers-shouting-obscene-phrase-public"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">like this person</a> for
example, lack the ability to say no to themselves. They get an idea in
their head and they act on it.

*Florida State quarterback Jameis Winston has been suspended for the
first half of Saturday’s game against Clemson after he was seen shouting
an obscene sexual phrase on campus Tuesday.*

*FSU interim president Dr. Garnett S. Stokes and athletic director Stan
Wilcox denounced Winston’s “offensive and vulgar” behavior in a
statement Wednesday to announce the punishment.*

*“As the university’s most visible ambassadors, student-athletes at
Florida State are expected to uphold at all times high standards of
integrity and behavior that reflect well upon themselves, their
families, coaches, teammates, the Department of Athletics and Florida
State University,” the joint statement said. “Student-athletes are
expected to act in a way that reflects dignity and respect for others.”*

*The joint statement also said Winston would undergo “internal
discipline.”*

*On Tuesday, Florida State students began flooding Twitter as several
witnessed the reigning Heisman Trophy winner allegedly stand on a table
in or in the immediate vicinity of the student union and yell
obscenities, mimicking a popular Internet video. The phrase is of a
sexual nature.*

*Winston apologized for his “selfish” act.*

*“First of all, I want to apologize to the university, my coaches and to
my teammates,” Winston said. “I’m not a ‘me’ person, but in that
situation, it was a selfish act, and that’s not how you do things around
here.*

*“I want to apologize to my teammates because I have now made a selfish
act for them. That’s all.”*

*Coach Jimbo Fisher, speaking during Wednesday’s ACC teleconference,
also showed his displeasure for what happened.*

*“It was not a good decision,” Fisher said. “You can’t make certain
statements that are derogatory or inflammatory to any person, race or
gender. You have to understand that. You have to be very intelligent
about what you say, \[because\] it matters.”*

Winston may very well be a sociopath. He was involved in at least one
act of sexual aggression. The local police appear to have covered it up
because he is famous. There are rumors he was involved in at least one
other sexual assault. He walked into  a grocery store and stole frozen
crab legs, of all things, similar to how the Gentle Giant of Ferguson
stole a box of cigars from a convenience store. Now this.

It’s possible he cannot truly understand right from wrong. The better
answer is he lacks self-restraint. He appears to be contrite after the
fact so he must know what he is doing is wrong. The lack of any
plausible reason for these acts is the tell. In some communities, they
have an expression about people from other communities who act in
random, self destructive ways. The lack of self-restraint, poor impulse
control, leads to unpredictable behavior.
