---
title: "Economic Nonsense"
date: "2014-02-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1015"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1015"
---

I’m fond of saying that economics is closer to tarot card reading than
physics on the empiricism scale.  It is not just a pithy put-down.
Economics is the one area of practical mathematics where getting the
wrong answer is of no consequence. The reason is no one ever gets the
right answer. I’m not talking about predicting the future. The future is
not written, at least we don’t think so, which means conditions can
change between the time you make a prediction and the point in the
future being predicted.

Economics, I’m talking macroeconomics, deals is loads of complexity. The
economy of the United States is the daily economic activity of 300
million people, plus every country with whom we conduct business. The
millions of variables in play makes forecasting problematic. Even long
after the fact it is hard to really know how much economic activity took
place in a certain place at a certain time. Despite this, economists act
as if they possess the ability to accurately forecast the future.

It is not quite superstition, but the guy with the bone in his nose is
within hailing distance of the town’s economist. The witch doctor thinks
he is tapping into some universal truth that transcend time and place.
That gives him the ability to diagnose the present and predict the
future. Economics takes the same view. Every human action has some
perfect model in the stars that only the economist can see. They can
therefore look at current activity and predict the future compared to
the world of forms.

Immigration is a great example. To the sane person, it is obvious that
the people of a nation hold the exclusive right to determine who can and
who cannot enter. To an economist, not such right exists. Any passing
opportunist must be free to set up camp because the economist believes
it will please the gods of efficiency. The fact that none of them would
let you borrow their pencil much less pitch a tent in their yard is
dismissed as irrelevant. Economics is modern
[shamanism](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamanism).

[Here’s a good
example](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/comment/10641240/Scottish-independence-is-economic-nonsense.html)
of how this weird religion has spread like kudzu across the West. The
Scots will decide if they will to remain a part of Great Britain or
become independent. From what I’ve read, they will not actually be
independent as London will continue to rule their foreign policy.
Scotland will become something like Puerto Rico without the rum and fine
weather.

To an uncultured ear, that sounds like a reasonable thing. Scotland has
been in Great Britain since 1707 and done pretty well as a consequence.
If they now think it is better to go it alone, that’s for them to
decide. Patriotism, tradition, nostalgia and mere taste are probably the
primary motivations for the voters. That’s what sane people should
expect. Instead, the smart set says things like this:

*I’m against Scottish independence because I’m horrified at the prospect
of our country being dismantled. I’d also argue that an independent
Scotland is an economic nonsense. I’m not saying a country of 5m people,
with a wealth of know-how, couldn’t survive. The problem is that the
cultural, historic and commercial ties that bind us are too tight to
safely be cut.*

*They can be symbolically severed, yes, with the creation of yet another
expensive layer of Scottish government, with all the special advisers,
civil servants and juicy public sector per diems that would bring to
Edinburgh’s already cosseted political elite. But as far as the rest of
the world is concerned, we’re one entity — a reality that’s prevailed
for centuries, long before the 2012 Olympics.*

*Crucially, Scotland’s still extremely precarious financial services
industry is viewed as UK-backed — and that means the Bank of England.
The Scottish commercial banks, with their vast liabilities, and still
unresolved off-balance-sheet losses, will always physically reside in
Britain.*

A perfectly good argument against this vote is based in history and
tradition. The English can argue that he likes his country the way it is
and will not go along with changing it. He may respect the Scots desire
for independence, but it is not in the best interest of the British, who
happen to be in charge, so they will not permit the vote or Scottish
independence. Put another way, the English answer to the Scottish demand
can be “No, because we said so. Discussion over.”

Instead, the writer feels it necessary to work through a bunch of
pseudo-scientific reasons as to why the maths say it is a bad idea.
Everyone in the West is petrified to stand up and say they want what
they want because they want it. Cultural pride is so taboo we have
otherwise reasonable people claiming the maths are on their side in the
same way Druids thought the gods were on their side. The West is
slipping into paganism and the economics profession is supplying the
shamans. Worse yet, we are slipping into a tyranny of shamans. At least
the old priesthoods knew their limits. I say if you see an economist,
beat him. He will know why.
