---
title: "Long Memories"
date: "2014-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1622"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1622"
---

When I was a kid, a former Nazi was caught with some regularity. Most
were small timers like camp officers or regional functionaries. Back in
the 1970’s, promoting the Holocaust mythology was still in the early
stages, so capturing a former Nazi was a chance to sell the story. Even
today, when the few remaining Nazis are octogenarians, <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2556784/Nazi-death-camp-monster-90-wanted-slaughtering-thousands-Jews-Auschwitz-tracked-river-flat-Croatia.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">they still hunt for them and
cheer when they find one somewhere</a>. Nazis remain good business for
the Jews running the Holocaust industry.

Vengeance is a part of human nature and no group hold a grudge like the
Jews, so Nazi hunting will be with us forever. Even after all the Nazis
are dead, Jews will go after their decedents and the companies they
claim benefited from the Nazis. Then they will go after the governments
and on and on. The Jews never forget an enemy and they run the world
now, so as long as that is true, the holocaust will be with us. The past
will be a nightmare from which we never awake.

Anyway, the same thing is playing out with the Irish. The Troubles are
long over, but there are still scores to settle. The one people who come
close to the Jews in terms of holding grudges are the Irish. That means
as long as there are Irish in Ireland, they will be holding grudges over
the troubles. <a
href="http://www.boston.com/news/world/europe/2014/04/30/sinn-fein-leader-arrested-over-ira-killing/5ZVhjQLSmJ1xJhoV2XmTkJ/story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Police in Northern Ireland
have arrested Gerry Adams</a> for the murder of a Belfast widow 40+
years ago.

*Police in Northern Ireland arrested Sinn Fein party leader Gerry Adams
on Wednesday on suspicion of involvement in the Irish Republican Army’s
1972 abduction, killing and secret burial of a Belfast widow.*

*Adams, 65, confirmed his own arrest in a prepared statement and
described it as a voluntary, prearranged interview.*

*Police long had been expected to question Adams about the 1972 killing
of Jean McConville, a 38-year-old mother of 10 whom the IRA executed as
an alleged spy. According to all authoritative histories of the Sinn
Fein-IRA movement, Adams served as an IRA commander for decades, but he
has always denied holding any position in the outlawed group.*

*‘‘I believe that the killing of Jean McConville and the secret burial
of her body was wrong and a grievous injustice to her and her family,’’
Adams said. ‘‘Well publicized, malicious allegations have been made
against me. I reject these. While I have never disassociated myself from
the IRA and I never will, I am innocent of any part in the abduction,
killing or burial of Mrs. McConville.’’*

*Reflecting the embarrassment associated with killing a single mother,
the IRA did not admit the killing until 1999, and her unmarked grave was
discovered only by accident near a Republic of Ireland beach in 2003.*

*Adams was implicated in the killing by two IRA veterans who gave taped
interviews to researchers for a Boston College history archive on the
four-decade Northern Ireland conflict. Belfast police took legal steps
to acquire the interviews, parts of which already were published after
the 2008 death of one IRA interviewee, Brendan Hughes. The researchers
fought unsuccessfully to avoid handover of the tapes of the second IRA
interviewee, Dolours Price, who died last year.*

*In his interview, Hughes, a reputed longtime deputy to Adams within the
Belfast IRA, said McConville was killed on Adams’ orders. Hughes said
Adams oversaw a special IRA unit committed to identifying, killing and
secretly burying Belfast Catholic civilians suspected of spying on
behalf of the police or British army. An independent investigation by
Northern Ireland’s police complaints watchdog in 2006 found no evidence
that McConville had been a spy.*

Adams was always a loathsome character. Every revolt has characters like
Adams, who see the unrest as a chance to profit. He was never much of a
fighter, but he was good at talking for those who did the fighting. He
was never much of a politician, but he was happy to stand in front of
cameras and take credit for the work of others. That said, he should get
credit for bringing about the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Good_Friday_Agreement"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Good Friday Agreements</a>.

What Adams was good at was seeing the American Empire plainly. If he
could get Americans on his side, he could put pressure on the British
government. Politicians like Peter King of New York became aggressive
advocates for the killing of women and children, even helping the IRA
raise money. Having a US congressmen on the payroll was worth a thousand
masked paddies holding clubs.

Anyway, the argument for going after him now, after all these years, is
that justice must be served. That sounds fine when you are a great
distance from the events, but it is a reminder to present and future
adversaries that you can never sleep as long as the other side lives.
Adams thought he put all of this behind him. Now he probably wonders if
he should have ever done business with the Protestants. Every future
rebel will draw the right lesson here.

The bigger issue is the fact the past, this part of the past anyway, is
heading down the memory hole. I recall when the battles in Ireland were
front page news. Today, hardly anyone remembers it. The modern Irish on
both sides have no interest in the struggles. They don’t go to church
and they don’t care about the past. Young Irish are not interested in
planting bombs. They want to get drunk and fornicate while listening to
hip-hop.

The Nazi hunters succeeded in keeping the past alive, but that’s a
different thing than this. The American Empire is largely run by Members
of the Tribe so keeping the Holocaust alive has real value to people
wholly unrelated to the events of 70 years ago. No offense to the Irish,
but even the Irish have lost interest in Irish history. I just don’t see
the point in trying to keep The Troubles alive. But, people have long
memories and an innate desire to kill their enemies.
