---
title: "Tortious Interference"
date: "2014-09-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2856"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2856"
---

Maybe it was here or maybe somewhere else, but I have wondered why
people don’t sue these nuts who organize campaigns to get people fired.
In the law, intentional interference with the contractual relationship
of another person is a tort. Commonly, causing someone to not fulfill
their contractual obligations is actionable. Going to customers or
vendors of a business, under false pretenses, in order to get those
customers and vendors to stop doing business with that business looks
like a slam dunk to me. <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2014/09/23/revealed-conspiracy-to-destroy-rush-limbaugh-is-small-organized-deceptive/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">When the tortfeasor admits in
public</a> to the act, it should be automatic.

*The recent campaign to silence conservative radio legend Rush Limbaugh
is led by ten liberal activists engaged in a more than four-year long
effort to destroy Limbaugh by targeting his advertisers, including a
Media Matters executive vice president.A former Kent State university
professor even targeted a small businessman advertising on Limbaugh’s
show using her official university email account.*

*Information compiled by Limbaugh’s team — and first provided to The
Daily Caller — demonstrates that nearly 70 percent of the tweets
targeting Limbaugh’s advertisers come from the same ten Twitter users,
all of whom are actively involved in the “Stop Rush” campaign, which
keeps a database of all of Limbaugh’s advertisers.*

Now, there’s a difference between a group of people posting their
complaints and a group of people conspiring to cause harm. I suppose the
argument, from a free speech perspective, is that these people are
conspiring to get the public to tune out Limbaugh by convincing the
public he is in error.

But, that’s not what we see here. These people are misrepresenting
themselves to one party of a business relationship. Their singular
purpose is to disrupt that business relationship. If Limbaugh was a
donut shop and these guys were claiming Limbaugh stirs the dough with
his junk, he could and certainly would sue their ass off.

*While the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) is
presenting its current anti-Rush campaign as a genuine repudiation of
out-of-context remarks Limbaugh made on his radio show (replete with a
fundraising email from Sandra Fluke), the Stop Rush effort is small,
organized and existed long before the most recent controversial Limbaugh
comments.*

*The activists even use technology to “machine-tweet” anti-Rush comments
in robotic fashion to ensure maximum Twitter exposure for their insular
group’s efforts.*

*“Angelo Carusone is the self acknowledged originator and head of the
StopRush protest, in his professional role as executive vice president
of Media Matters for America,” Limbaugh spokesman Brian Glicklich told
TheDC. “But since they prefer it look grassroots and made up of real
customers, he faded into the background long ago, reemerging only this
week as he senses the danger of this illicit scheme being exposed for
the fiction at it’s heart.”*

*Conrad Walton, owner of the emergency supplies company Survivor.com,
revealed in a blog post that he began receiving emails from the small
group “within 20 minutes” of his local advertisement airing during
Limbaugh’s show on the Los Angeles station KEIB.*

*“It seemed to be a very organized campaign, from people who don’t
listen to the show and know nothing about our company,” Walton wrote. “I
just checked and they put one of my responses on their site, with my
phone number.”*

*“Please stop advertising on Rush Limbaugh’s program,” former Kent State
University professor Nancy Padak wrote to Walton using her “kent.edu”
email address. “He stands for hatred and bigotry. Do you want customers/
potential customers associating your business with these values?”*

*Padak told TheDC that she has been retired from the university for four
years.*

Again, there’s nothing wrong with a pissed of person calling a business
and giving them what for. If the reason for being pissed off is the
business supports a heretic, that changes nothing. Getting your friends
together to pretend to be something you’re not in order to pressure a
business to end their business with another business is fraud, at the
minimum. That’s clearly what we have here and it should be actionable.

As an aside, I love how the Daily Caller does things like this. They put
the names and background out there, inviting people to let these idiots
know how they feel about it. It is a trick they borrowed from the Lefty
press.

*Here are the names of the Stop Rush Ten, as identified by Limbaugh’s
staff:*

*Angelo Carusone: Executive vice president of the George Soros-funded
liberal attack group Media Matters for America. “Stop Rush, I initially
rolled it out in late 2009 and early 2010,” Carusone told the Village
Voice in 2012. “At the time, the Beck work was doing well…I started Stop
Rush in 2009, 2010, and when I went to register the domain, I saw that
Rush owned StopRush.com.” Carusone also agreed with the Village Voice
that Sandra Fluke represented Limbaugh’s “Waterloo.” Carusone is
responsible for leading the Stop Rush efforts and then “handing off”
responsibilities to less well-known activists to create the appearance
of grassroots outrage, according to Limbaugh’s staff.*

*Matthew Mitchell: An Altamont Springs, Florida resident who tweets as
@CaptMurdock.*

*Nancy Padak: A former Kent State University education professor who
emails advertisers about Limbaugh from her official university email
account.*

*Jason Rey: Georgia resident who tweets as @FranticQuark.*

*Lauren Reynolds: Los Angeles resident who uses Internet rating systems
to downgrade companies for advertising on Limbaugh’s show.*

*Cherie Richards: Ohio resident and fellow Internet rating aficionado.*

*Sarah Smyea Rivers: California resident who actively tweets as
@eurekasue49.*

*Dennis William Rohner: Florida resident.*

*Linda Kotsenburg Swanholm: California resident responsible for creating
“target lists” of businesses linked to Limbaugh.*

*Carol Kernahan Wallin: California resident and anonymous Daily Kos
writer who tweets as @Flushfools and @hrhprincess.*
