---
title: "Data Collection"
date: "2014-09-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2708"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2708"
---

It is prudent to be skeptical about any claims from the government,
especially those about their capabilities. Scooping up the databases
from private companies, for example, is something government can do
quite easily. Sorting it into anything useful is quite another. The
volume is just too vast. Plus, a security apparatus so good that they
can scoop and read everyone’s e-mail is not getting bested by a high
school drop out like Snowden.

The reality is probably something a bit more crude. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/us-threatened-massive-fine-to-force-yahoo-to-release-data/2014/09/11/38a7f69e-39e8-11e4-9c9f-ebb47272e40e_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story the other day in
the Washington Post</a> is what I mean.

*The U.S. government threatened to fine Yahoo $250,000 a day in 2008 if
it failed to comply with a broad demand to hand over user communications
— a request the company believed was unconstitutional — according to
court documents unsealed Thursday that illuminate how federal officials
forced American tech companies to participate in the National Security
Agency’s controversial PRISM program.*

*The documents, roughly 1,500 pages worth, outline a secret and
ultimately unsuccessful legal battle by Yahoo to resist the government’s
demands. The company’s loss required Yahoo to become one of the first to
begin providing information to PRISM, a program that gave the NSA
extensive access to records of online com­munications by users of Yahoo
and other U.S.-based technology firms.*

*The ruling by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review
became a key moment in the development of PRISM, helping government
officials to convince other Silicon Valley companies that unprecedented
data demands had been tested in the courts and found constitutionally
sound. Eventually, most major U.S. tech companies, including Google,
Facebook, Apple and AOL, complied. Microsoft had joined earlier, before
the ruling, NSA documents have shown.*

Rather than covertly tapping into the root servers of the Internet or
sniffing the world’s firewalls, the Feds are busting down doors and
telling the big players to hand over their data. No doubt it is coming
over in a digital format and in bulk, but that’s like having tractor
trailers full of letters to Santa showing up ever day. Finding the one
letter from Mohamed in Detroit is not going to be easy and maybe not
even possible. Without a lot of other intelligence, having a big pile of
e-mails is a waste of resources.

But, there’s value in letting the world know you can read their e-mail
and listen to their calls. Even if it is not entirely true, it tilts the
playing field. It forces everyone else to take precautions they
otherwise might not take and maybe pushed them into forms of
communication that are easier to track. The e-mail and telephone data
also has use if you have other intel. If Abdul comes up on the radar and
you have Abdul’s cell data, you can begin to put together his circle of
friends, as it were.

Still it is important to remember that they have not caught anyone with
this data. The Feds run to the nearest TV camera every time they catch
<a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2014/09/10/justice/colorado-jihadist-guilty-plea/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">some dope trying to join
Jihad</a>. If they had something to justify what is a very unpopular
program, they would have made it public. It’s like gun registration. It
is only useful when you have a lot of other information about the crime.
In the case of gun crimes, the registration is useful after you have the
gun and the perp. In the case of terrorism, having cell phone data is
useful after you have the perp’s identity and location.
