---
title: "Going Left"
date: "2014-01-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=786"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=786"
---

Everyone agrees that America has moves steadily to the Left over the
last century or so. America in the 1950’s was not that much more liberal
than it was in the 1920’s, but it was clearly heading Left. Today’s
America is much further Left than it was in the middle of the last
century. In other words, the direction has remained the same, but the
pace has quickened. As the nation’s rulers have dropped Christianity as
their organizing morality, they have embraced the various fads on the
Left as a secular religion.

It has not been a steadily increasing shift. It has been in fits and
starts, with spasms of radicalism, followed by quiet periods. The period
from the assassination of JFK through the Nixon administration was spasm
that shifted the country way over to the left compared to the America of
1958. We are in the midst of one such spasm now, which can be dated to
the 2000 election. That seemed to radicalize or maybe energize the
radicals, who have been on the warpath ever since.

[An
example](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2014/01/arrived-in-my-pile-13.html)
is in the comments of a post on Marginal Revolution. Tyler Cowen
mentioned that Peter Schuck is “largely a Democrat.” That’s a subtle way
of saying he is a liberal, but not crazy like most of them. He still
retains the ability to criticize the actions of his ideological clan, if
not his ethnic tribe. That seemed to upset some of the readers, who went
into the full purity spiral. Here is a comment from someone calling
himself Matt that captures the fevered mind of the modern leftists.

*Schuck is “largely a Democrat” in the same way that Joe Liberman is
“largely a Democrat”, which is to say, not really. He’s most famous for
arguing that children of unauthorized immigrants born and raised in the
US should not be US citizens. He’s not conservative compared to, say,
the average state senate member from South Carolina, but he’s pretty far
outside of the mainstream of the Democratic party.*

Notice how Joe Lieberman, a liberal’s liberal for his entire Senate
career is now “outside of the mainstream” for the modern Left.  Matt and
his coreligionists are now so far Left that yesterday’s liberal is now a
reactionary. Cults always need a Trotsky and Lieberman continues to fill
that role for those radicalized in the Bush years. It’s not that his
position are really outside the acceptable, it’s that Lieberman was
willing to associate with the people the Left still considers the face
of evil. It’s guilt by association.

That is a feature with all radicals. Because there is no limiting
principle to things like anti-racism or opposition to war, they can
always out radical the most radical guy, but adopting an even more
extreme position. In this spasms of radicalism, the Left lurches further
to the extreme, which drags the center with them. The professional
Right, of course, chases after them, which only helps drag the center to
the Left. When this spasms burns itself out, the new center will be far
to the Left and conservatives will defend it as the new normal.

 
