---
title: "A Pathetic Waste of a Country"
date: "2014-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2766"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2766"
---

Multiculturalism is a suicide cult. The whole point of it is to destroy
the native culture but disguise it as an upgrade. The evidence is all
around us. Everything they touch is made worse or destroyed. The Brits
are a generation ahead of us, give or take, in setting fire to their
country and culture. <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2756140/Rotherham-child-abuse-victim-confronts-alleged-abuser-street-SHE-arrested-van-load-police.html#ixzz3DQipCeqG"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s what is coming to
America</a>.

*A victim of Rotherham’s child sex abuse scandal confronted a man she
says groomed her – but was left shocked when she was the one arrested.*

*The woman was shocked when she saw the man walking through the town’s
centre on Friday and decided to challenge him over the allegations.*

*But she was tackled by two police officers and pushed up against a wall
during her ‘thuggish’ arrest, a witness has said.*

*A damning report released last month detailed how 1,400 children were
sexually exploited in the area over a 16-year period.*

*The Times reported that a woman whose case is being investigated by
authorities – but has not yet been interviewed – was arrested after
tackling a man she says groomed her when she was 15.*

*A witness accused the police of ‘acting like insensitive thugs’,
telling the paper: ‘A police van came and six male officers piled out.*

*‘Two of them dragged her away, handcuffed her, put her against a wall
and then shoved her into the back of the van.’*

*South Yorkshire Police told today how they had been hoping to interview
the woman in the weeks before the arrest, after they were told of the
historic allegations by another organisation.*

*But they only realised that she was the woman they had been trying to
speak to after her arrest, and have now released her on bail.*

*After her treatment at the hands of officers, the woman has been
reluctant to talk to police and her complaint against the man is
therefore yet to be officially recorded.*

*The police force, which has come under fire in the wake of the recent
scandal, insists it does take sexual violence seriously and will
continue attempts to investigate the woman’s claims.*

*A spokesman said: ‘Specialist officers from South Yorkshire Police had
been making efforts to trace a 28-year-old woman who had made
allegations to a partner agency.*

*‘The allegations related to child sexual exploitation. Efforts to trace
the woman were unsuccessful.*

*‘Later that day, officers from a neighbouring force who were providing
support to South Yorkshire Police, were approached by a passerby who
made complaints about the behaviour of a woman who they believed had
been drinking.*

*‘The woman was arrested on suspicion of racially aggravated public
order offences.*

It is not enough to flood the country with barbarians from Pakistan.
Letting them rape the young English girls is not enough. Nope. The
fanatics are actively trying to silence the victims on behalf of the
barbarians.  At this point, a group of Pakistani men could be sodomizing
the Queen on the grounds of Buckingham Palace and the Brits would look
away, blaming it on bigots or the far right.

It is pathetic and disgusting. It will also be coming to American. The
suicidal lunatics in charge of America look at Europe as a model. It’s
not the architecture they admire or the high culture. Our lunatics hate
that as much as European lunatics. What our lunatics admire is the
ruthlessness of the European lunatics.

The sad truth is, the Brits would be better off importing millions more
from Pakistan and handing them all the weapons they need to finish off
the locals. Death is probably too good for the English, but at least it
would be over. <a
href="http://www.spectator.co.uk/features/9311032/please-scotland-stay-with-us/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Look at this pathetic
nonsense</a> from what passes for conservative in Britain these days.
“Please stay with us”??? A country with any self-respect would be
building a wall right now to shut the Scots out.
