---
title: "The Double Helix of Lunacy"
date: "2014-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2987"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2987"
---

One of my recurring themes is the suicidal nature of Rousseau-ist cults.
The double helix of the fanatic is composed of a desire to obliterate
their self by swapping their identity with that of the group. The other
side is the desire to get to the promised land by destroying the
present, which is seen as the cage that holds the followers from
reaching their goal. The nucleotides are the various fads that we see
bubbling up from time time like racism, minoritism, various economic
lunacies and so forth. The result is a movement that seeks to pull the
roof down on human civilization.

That, paradoxically, makes it reactionary. The modern Progressive looks
out at the world for that which is embraced by civilization and attacks
it. They also embrace those who attack these things. Homosexuals, for
example, are despised by Progressives, but they make a useful weapon
against those pesky recalcitrant Christians in the hinterlands.
Similarly, blacks have been a useful weapon in the assault on
traditional Anglo-Saxon organizational traditions.

Islam, the mirror of Liberalism, is another useful lever to use on the
foundation stones of civilization. Progressives have a tough time with
it, because Muslims have a habit of beheading people and posting the
videos on-line. So, the hunt for the moderate Muslim has been a
recurring motif. <a
href="http://freebeacon.com/national-security/state-department-endorses-handbook-calling-jihad-noble/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> is a good example of how
the natural impulse of the Left is to embrace anything that is at war
with Western Culture.

*The U.S. State Department endorsed on Wednesday a controversial
anti-terror handbook published by Canada’s Muslim community that refers
to jihad as “noble” and urges law enforcement to avoid using terms such
as “Islamic extremism.”*

*The handbook, published earlier this month by two Canadian Muslim
community organizations, was so controversial that the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police (RCMP) flatly rejected the manual and ordered its
officers not to use it.*

*Yet the State Department’s official anti-terrorism Twitter feed, called
Think Again Turn Away, appeared to endorse the controversial handbook on
Twitter and linked to a positive article about it.*

*The handbook, titled United Against Terrorism, has become a contentious
issue for the RCMP since its release. Several sections of the guide
instruct Muslim community members not to cooperate with police while
others claim jihad “is a noble concept.”*

*The RCMP ultimately decided to reject the book, citing its “adversarial
tone.”*

*“After a final review of the handbook, the RCMP could not support the
adversarial tone set by elements of the booklet and therefore directed
RCMP Manitoba not to proceed with this initiative,” the police force
said in a statement posted on its website.*

*The handbook itself recommends that “intelligence and law enforcement
officials” should “avoid terms such as ‘Islamist terrorism’,
‘Islamicism’, and ‘Islamic extremism’ in favor of more accurate terms
such as ‘al Qaeda inspired extremist,’” according to one section of the
handbook, which still bears RCMP’s official logo.*

*Law enforcement officials also are told to “discontinue any
inappropriate information gathering techniques including (but not
limited to) showing up at workplaces, intimidating newcomers,
questioning individuals religiosity, and discouraging legal
representation,” according to the handbook.*

*The term “jihad” also is not appropriate to use, according to the
handbook, a copy of which was first published by Canada’s CBC News.*

*“Do not refer to terrorists as ‘jihadis,’” the manual states. “This
only emboldens them and gives them a legitimate status in the eyes of
the vulnerable. Terrorism is not jihad. Jihad is a noble concept in
Islam.”*

*Other sections tell the Muslim community that they are under no
obligation to speak to the police about individuals who may be suspected
of having extremist ties.*

*“The  tweet you are referring to features a repost of information from
a Globe and Mail report on a new booklet produced by the RCMP and two
Islamic groups,” said State Department spokeswoman Carolyn Glassman.
“CSCC was simply sharing information about a new product related to
counterterrorism. Our reposting does not connote an endorsement.”*

*The State Department’s endorsement of the guidebook struck some Twitter
users as curious. This is not the first time that the State Department
has run into trouble as a result of it tweets.*

*The department’s Counterterrorism Bureau (CT Bureau) was forced to
issue multiple apologies earlier this year after it endorsed on Twitter
a radical Muslim cleric who backed a fatwa calling for the murder of
U.S. troops.*

*Terrorism analyst and reporter Patrick Poole said that the State
Department’s tweet of the controversial handbook is a sign of what he
called its disjointed policies.*

*“This is a testament to how absurd this administration’s
counter-terrorism policies have become—promoting a publication the
Canadian government has publicly rejected because they realized this
booklet would do more to radicalize than to actually deradicalize,” he
said.*

*“From letting members of designated terrorist groups into the White
House, backing the Muslim Brotherhood in the so-called ‘Arab Spring’,
responding to demands of Islamic groups to purge counter-terror training
materials, to endorsing extremist Islamic clerics like Sheikh Bin Bayyah
only then to have to apologize, and now this,” he said. “To describe it
as a series of missteps is a gross understatement. This is a coordinated
campaign of counter-terror catastrophe.”*
