---
title: "The Atheist’s God"
date: "2014-10-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3021"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3021"
---

Atheism is just another secular religion. Unlike the radical politics,
it has no Utopian aspects to it. There have been some atheists who
preached about how the end of religion, by which they mean Christianity,
will make the world a better place, but they always seemed to get
tripped up by their hatred of Christianity. That’s the peculiar aspect
to atheism. Other religions seek to crowd out the all other religions,
but atheists just have it in for Christianity. Anyway, <a
href="http://www.newrepublic.com/article/119596/appetite-wonder-review-closed-mind-richard-dawkins"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">it is good to see I’m not alone in this
view</a>.

*If an autobiography can ever contain a true reflection of the author,
it is nearly always found in a throwaway sentence. When the world’s most
celebrated atheist writes of the discovery of evolution, Richard Dawkins
unwittingly reveals his sense of his mission in the world. Toward the
end of An Appetite for Wonder, the first installment in what is meant to
be a two-volume memoir, Dawkins cites the opening lines of the first
chapter of the book that made him famous, The Selfish Gene, published in
1976:*

*Intelligent life on a planet comes of an age when it first works out
the reason for its own existence. If superior creatures from space ever
visit earth, the first question they will ask, in order to assess the
level of our civilisation, is: “Have they discovered evolution yet?”
Living organisms had existed on earth, without ever knowing why, for
over three thousand million years before the truth finally dawned on one
of them. His name was Charles Darwin.*

*Several of the traits that Dawkins displays in his campaign against
religion are on show here. There is his equation of superiority with
cleverness: the visiting aliens are more advanced creatures than humans
because they are smarter and know more than humans do. The theory of
evolution by natural selection is treated not as a fallible
theory<span class="em">—</span>the best account we have so far of how
life emerged and developed<span class="em">—</span>but as an unalterable
truth, which has been revealed to a single individual of transcendent
genius. There cannot be much doubt that Dawkins sees himself as a
Darwin-like figure, propagating the revelation that came to the
Victorian naturalist.*

Note how the author ties evolution into the cult like aspects of
atheism. The Darwin Fish people are a lot like liberals in that they
love science as long at it is a weapon against their enemies. Atheists
tend to get light headed when you explain the evolutionary importance of
religion and modern humans. They start fainting when you explain the
importance of teleology and Christianity to the growth of science.

*It is a different matter when those he sees as his intellectual
underlings<span class="em">—</span>religious believers and any who stray
from the strictest interpretation of
Darwinism<span class="em">—</span>refuse to follow his lead. Recalling
his years at boarding school, Dawkins winces at the memory of the
bullying suffered by a sensitive boy, “a precociously brilliant scholar”
who was reduced to “a state of whimpering, abject horror” when he was
stripped of his clothing and forced to take cold baths. Today, Dawkins
is baffled by the fact that he didn’t feel sympathy for the boy. “I
don’t recall feeling even secret pity for the victim of the bullying,”
he writes. Dawkins’s bafflement at his lack of empathy suggests a
deficiency in self-knowledge. As anyone who reads his sermons against
religion can attest, his attitude towards believers is one of bullying
and contempt reminiscent of the attitude of some of the more obtuse
colonial missionaries towards those they aimed to convert.*

You see this with atheists. Their new religion is always a tantrum
against their old religion. Penn Jillette never shuts up about his
atheism. On many occasions he has talked about how it arises from having
watched his mother suffer at the end of her life. His answer was that no
God could let people suffer like that so there must be no God. His
atheism is therefore a mix of narcissism, ignorance and self-pity.
Despite the self-absorption, atheists don’t seem to know themselves very
well. Maybe that’s why they declare themselves a God.
