---
title: "Or Else!"
date: "2014-10-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2970"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2970"
---

One of things most people learn early in life is the danger of finishing
a demand with the words “or else.” There’s always some chance the other
party calls your bluff. Most academics don’t understand this simple
reality. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/02/nyregion/labor-dispute-leaves-professors-jobless.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They especially don’t understand the
risks of saying it to your boss.</a>

*The General Theological Seminary in Manhattan, the nation’s oldest
Episcopal seminary, seemed to be regaining its footing after almost
having to seek bankruptcy protection in 2010. It sold off some valuable
real estate — its leafy campus in Chelsea is just steps from the High
Line — and hired a new dean and president, the Rev. Kurt H. Dunkle, who
promised to make the struggling institution a “joyful, thankful and
useful” place.*

*A year after his arrival, however, the seminary has fallen into
turmoil. Eight of its 10 full-time faculty members walked off the job on
Friday to protest what they described in letters to the school’s board
of trustees as Mr. Dunkle’s overly controlling management style, his
habit of making vulgar and offensive remarks, and his frequent threats
to demote or fire those who disagreed with him.*

*The work stoppage, faculty members said, was intended to force a
dialogue with the board and, ideally, to lead to the firing of Mr.
Dunkle. Instead, the tactic backfired. On Monday, the board dismissed
the eight faculty members, leaving the seminary’s roughly 140 students,
a month into their term, without professors to teach them.*

*“It’s a really difficult situation; it’s chaotic,” said Alexander
Barton, 26, who entered the seminary this fall. “And as a student, it’s
hard to see what is true and what is not.”*

*A note on Tuesday from Mr. Dunkle to the students, reprinted on
Episcopal Café, a blog, explained that about half of the classes were in
session as the school scrambled to find qualified personnel for the
other classes. Students have taken to social media to express their
dismay, often siding with the faculty. Dozens of faculty and clergy
members from other seminaries have signed a petition asking that the
professors be reinstated.*

*How an internal management dispute behind seminary walls turned into a
mass dismissal seems to be a tale of hardball negotiating tactics gone
awry, and mistrust between the faculty, the dean and the board of
trustees. The situation is being followed widely in the Episcopal world,
which has recently seen at least one other seminary, the Episcopal
Divinity School in Cambridge, Mass., mired in a similar controversy.*

*In Manhattan, the seminary faculty members are taking legal action to
keep their jobs, arguing that it is illegal to fire striking workers who
have made legitimate complaints. They also face potential eviction,
because most of them live on the seminary’s grounds. Mr. Dunkle declined
to comment.*

*Speaking at a meeting at their lawyer’s office on Tuesday night, the
eight professors said that problems began soon after the appointment of
Mr. Dunkle. One early rift came over his decision to end the daily
celebration of Mass, an age-old fixture of seminary life. This was done
over the unanimous objection of the faculty.*

*Last winter, students began sending letters to board members to
complain, both about the end of the daily Mass and other changes they
found disruptive, such as the decision to move morning prayers to 10
a.m. from 8. “We no longer begin our day in prayer. It’s now a
midmorning thing to do … like getting coffee,” wrote one student,
William L. Ogburn, who posted his letter online.*

*The faculty members also started to keep a list of offensive statements
they said Mr. Dunkle was making to them.*

*He once described Asian people as “slanty eyed,” the professors
reported to the board in a detailed letter on Sept. 17. At a meeting
last spring, Mr. Dunkle compared the technical side of theological
education to “looking up women’s skirts,” the letter said. He said that
he did not want the seminary to be known as the “gay seminary.” He once
commented to a female faculty member that he “loved vaginas,” according
to the letter.*

*He began micromanaging, keeping statistics, for example, on how often
faculty members attended lunch, the professors said. Instead of feeling
like a communal place of Christian living, “suddenly it has felt
progressively like I’m in junior high school, or maybe on a plantation,”
said David J. Hurd, a black professor of church music who has been on
the faculty since 1976.*

*Though the professors said they had alerted board members to the
brewing problems numerous times, the chairman of the board, Bishop Mark
S. Sisk, said that the board felt blindsided by the severity of the
Sept. 17 complaints.*

*Bishop Sisk said the board did not immediately schedule a meeting with
the faculty members, because in their letter, they had seemed to make a
series of untenable demands that trustees interpreted as preconditions
for a meeting. The professors asked that they be given immediate
oversight over the schedule and program at the school. They also wanted
to choose which board members they met with.*

*“If Dean Dunkle continues in his current position, then we will be
unable to continue in ours,” the eight faculty members wrote.*

*The board responded several days later that it would immediately begin
an investigation of the dean’s behavior. But the faculty members, acting
on the advice of their lawyer, Andrew Hoffmann, wrote back on Sept. 25
that they felt the investigation was beside the point, that they had
formed a union and that they were stopping work the next day unless
steps toward meeting their other requests were taken.*

*That incensed the board. “I think the trustees felt, who are these
people?” Bishop Sisk said. “They are using the students as pawns,
really, in a larger agenda that they have of raising their concerns.”*

*It was then that the board decided that the letters amounted to a
resignation, though the word resignation was never used. “They kept
saying, ‘If you don’t do these things, we can’t keep our position,’ ”
Bishop Sisk said. “Well, we thought, ‘We can’t do those things, so you
don’t have your position.’ ” On Sept. 30, the board wrote a public
letter saying the resignations had been accepted.*

Ooops!
