---
title: "The Great Divide"
date: "2014-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2776"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2776"
---

I’ve been reading Steve Sailer for a long time now. I enjoy his writing
and usually his choice of topics. I don’t always agree with him, but he
makes his case without a bunch of chanting and religious posturing. I
think his posts on crime and demographics are some of the best you can
find. Unlike anyone in the paid media, he actually supplies data in his
posts. That’s also why he is no longer paid media. You’re only permitted
to use data in support of the current narrative.

All that said, Steve Sailer is perfectly able to hold some nutty ideas.
We all are. <a
href="http://takimag.com/article/fair_play_to_scotland_steve_sailer/print#axzz3DamytbBn"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">His post</a> over at Takimag
on Scottish Independence finishes with what I would call a very wrong
and very strange opinion.

*The Scottish independence movement inevitably inspires the question of
secession in America. As John Derbyshire has pointed out, the United
States represents a vast expanse of territory, and people from distant
regions increasingly get on each other’s nerves. In an era of free trade
zones and military alliances, wouldn’t it be simplest for the U.S. to
break up like the SNP wants the U.K. to end?*

*I don’t think so, however. The big difference is that that the U.K. is
primarily a north-south country, while the U.S. is an east-west country.
Latitude divides people more than longitude. In America, the most
important political divide is distance from deep water, such as oceans
or the Great Lakes: what I call the Dirt Gap. San Francisco and
Manhattan, for example, are 2900 miles apart, but are similarly liberal
because family formation is equally unaffordable due to both being
similarly constrained from expansion by water. Hence, the “family
values” party is less relevant where family formation is prohibitively
expensive.*

Anyone who has spent time up and down the east coast of America knows
this is hilariously wrong. People in Maine have one thing in common with
the people of South Carolina. They both speak a version of American
English. That’s it. The great divide in America, if one wants to declare
one, is north and south as in Blue and Gray as in Roundhead versus
Cavalier. It drives our politics and it is what animates the Left. It is
the divide John Derbyshire calls the Cold Civil War.

But, he is correct to note there is a divide between the coasts and the
interior and the two coasts themselves. I’ve been to the West Coast many
times, but I know nothing about it, at least not in the way I know the
east coast. The people all seem weird to me, except the Mexicans, who
are pretty much like Mexicans everywhere. The whites are all a little
odd as I’m sure I would seem odd to them. Even Southerners find the west
coast aloofness strange and off-putting. To northeastern types, it’s
positively kooky.

Having been around the country quite a bit, I can make the case for all
sorts of regional divides. American is a big country with a lot of
different types of people. Local weirdness is everywhere. None of it is
like the Blue-Gray line. It is what drives the Cult of Modern
Liberalism. Their obsession with race, for example, is tied directly to
their mythological role in the Civil Rights Movement. The war on Walmart
is a war on Southerners. The absurd reaction to Paula Dean was a
visceral reaction to her overt “southerness.” The war on Christianity is
really a war on Evangelicals. Northern Catholics think the snake
handlers make religion look bad.

I can go issue by issue and tease out a Blue-Gray explanation. You can’t
do that with the other ways to divide the country. The Blue-Gray line is
not tied to geography. It is a culture line that has jumped its natural
boundaries. Look at Texas. Austin is the Progressive enclave in an
otherwise populist-conservative region. I know lots of NYC and DC based
Progressives who regularly go to Austin. They mock the rest of the state
as Red Neck Land. On the other hand, the people in Red Neck Land call
Austin the People’s Republic.

That’s why John Derbyshire’s argument does not work. The Blue-Gray line
is not based in geography. There’s some of it, but every Gray area has
pockets of Blue. On the other side, the Deepest Blue region, which is
New England, has a lot of Gray. New Hampshire holds a very popular
NASCAR race and Maine is full of white trash Acadians. There’s simply no
way to divide up the turf without localized blood baths as one tribe
purges the other. Maybe that’s the future, but in a feminized and timid
culture, it is not the way to bet. Instead, everyone will voluntarily
submit to an increasingly authoritarian custodial state.
