---
title: "Our Meaningless Constitution"
date: "2014-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=823"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=823"
---

Most people still think the courts are the defenders of the
Constitution. After the ACA ruling, it is impossible to hold that view.
Maybe Roberts was pressured into changing his opinion, but the fact that
such a thing is a possibility argues against the court being the great
defender of the law. On the other hand, if he simply changed his mind,
it says that these judges are not bound by an internal logic. They are
just as prone to follow the fads as follow the law. Either way, the law
is no longer a fixed thing that can be defended.

He could also just be a nut. We like to think it is impossible for crazy
people to make it to the top, but history says otherwise. Caligula is
the best example. He was obviously a homicidal madman from the start.
Ivan the Terrible is another good example. You can be a crazy and
ambitious and ambition can overcome just about any defect. Therefore,
Roberts could very well be a kook or suffer from some nervous condition.
Regardless, it just shows that the Constitution is what the court says,
not what is written on the paper.

With that in mind, <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/supreme-court-weighs-gun-rights-challenge"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this gun case</a> looks
ominous.

*Abramski bought the gun because he could get a discount, and checked a
box on the relevant form saying the gun was for him. But he sold it to
his uncle.*

*Abramski was later indicted under federal law for making a false
statement material to the lawfulness of a firearm sale — and for making
a false statement with respect to information required to be kept in the
records of a license firearm dealer.*

*But Abramski’s lawyers told the high court that since both he and his
uncle were legally allowed to own guns, the law shouldn’t have applied
to him.*

*His team argued that Congress never intended for a lawful buyer who
transfers a gun to another lawful owner to be prosecuted under this law
— and that the intent was all about making sure straw buyers don’t
purchase guns for people not allowed to have them, like certain
convicted criminals.*

*But the government argued that he violated the plain language of the
law, when he said on the form that the gun was for him. They argued he
never gave the seller any idea that he planned to essentially resell the
gun to someone else the dealer would have no opportunity to vet.*

*Much of Wednesday’s arguments centered on the question on the form —
prepared by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives —
and whether the agency’s decision to include the question gives it the
force of law, enough to make it a crime to answer untruthfully.*

In a sane society, a natural right of the citizen enshrined in the
founding documents would require the state to meet a very high bar
before it could infringe on that right. The acquisition of and
possession of arms is a fundamental right of a free citizen. The
Founders regularly said this. They put it in the Bill of Rights. They
were explicit that this is an inalienable right of the citizen. That’s
not a contestable point. Therefore, the state must meet a very high
burden before it can regulate the acquisition and possession of arms.

It gets worse. The Federal law against straw purchases was clearly meant
to end the practice of people buying guns in bulk and then selling them
to blacks in the ghetto. We can pretend otherwise, but that’s what the
law is designed to inhibit. It was never intended to stop private sales,
which is what the Feds are trying to do here. If owning a gun, in order
to defend against tyranny, is an inalienable right, then the state has
no role in the private sale and purchase of guns. That should be
obvious, but here we are anyway.
