---
title: "The Cult’s War on Football"
date: "2014-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3228"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3228"
---

The Left has it in for the NFL because it is a sport enjoyed by normal
America. They are now taking it to the next level by having <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/redskins/federal-drug-agents-launch-surprise-inspections-of-nfl-teams-following-games/2014/11/16/5545c84e-6da5-11e4-8808-afaa1e3a33ef_story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">their government get in on the act</a>.

*Federal drug agents conducted surprise inspections of National Football
League team medical staffs on Sunday as part of an ongoing investigation
into prescription drug abuse in the league. The inspections, which
entailed bag searches and questioning of team doctors by Drug
Enforcement Administration agents, were based on the suspicion that NFL
teams dispense drugs illegally to keep players on the field in violation
of the Controlled Substances Act, according to a senior law enforcement
official with knowledge of the investigation.*

*The medical staffs were part of travel parties whose teams were playing
at stadiums across the country. The law enforcement official said DEA
agents, working in cooperation with the Transportation Security
Administration, inspected multiple teams but would not specify which
ones were inspected or where.*

*The San Francisco 49ers confirmed they were inspected by federal agents
following their game against the New York Giants in New Jersey but did
not provide any details. “The San Francisco 49ers organization was asked
to participate in a random inspection with representatives from the DEA
Sunday night at MetLife Stadium,” team spokesman Bob Lange said in an
e-mailed statement. “The 49ers medical staff complied and the team
departed the stadium as scheduled.”*

*The Seattle Seahawks were subject to an inspection following their game
in Kansas City, and the DEA met with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at
Baltimore-Washington International airport following their win over the
Washington Redskins at FedEx Field. It didn’t appear a full inspection
took place, however.*

*“Authorities checked in w/our travel party @ BWI & after a 5 min.
delay, we proceeded onto our plane w/o incident,” a tweet by the team’s
media relations staff said.*

*An NFL official said multiple teams met with federal authorities on
Sunday. “Our teams cooperated with the DEA today and we have no
information to indicate that irregularities were found,” league
spokesman Brian McCarthy said in a statement.*

*The DEA had reason to look at the teams inspected Sunday in particular,
but the investigation is not restricted to them, according to the law
enforcement official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
probe is ongoing. The official said the investigation focuses on
practices across the 32-team league, including possible distribution of
drugs without prescriptions or labels and the dispensing of drugs by
trainers rather than physicians.*

They could go into any NBA locker room and arrest most of the players
for weed, but that’s never going to happen. They could bust up
professional wrestling and body building. That’s the lowest of long
hanging fruit in the steroid game. Every Gold’s Gym in the country has
at least one guy supplying steroids to the muscle-heads. Instead they go
after NFL teams, because that’s what the Left wants.
