---
title: "New Age Nonsense"
date: "2014-05-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1705"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1705"
---

<a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/monkey-cage/wp/2014/05/06/five-key-questions-and-answers-about-how-digital-culture-is-hurting-art/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This</a> was in the link list
post at Marginal Revolution. It is a wonderful example of authentic new
age gibberish. It is all emotive, synthetic language that is popular
with the managerial class these days. It’s the sort of therapeutic
language that is supposed to both validate the people using it and
establish them as insiders in whatever it is they are promoting. This
sort of gobbledygook is common now in corporate America, to the point
where there are websites fro generating it.

*Astra Taylor is the author of “The People’s Platform: Taking Back Power
and Culture in the Digital Age,” a new book on how information
technology and market changes are reshaping art and culture.*

Here is the bio of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astra_Taylor"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Astra Taylor</a>:

*Astra Taylor is a Canadian-American documentary filmmaker, writer, and
musician, best known for her 2005 film, Zizek!, about the Slovenian
philosopher Slavoj Žižek, and for her 2008 film, Examined Life.*

*Born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Taylor grew up in Athens,
Georgia,<sup>\[1\]</sup> and was unschooled until age
13.<sup>\[2\]</sup> She attended Brown University for a year and holds
an MA in Liberal Studies from the New School. She has taught sociology
at the University of Georgia and SUNY New Paltz. Her writings have
appeared in numerous magazines, and in 2006 Filmmaker Magazine listed
her as one of “25 new faces to watch.” She is the sister of painter and
disability activist Sunny Taylor,<sup>\[3\]</sup> and is married to Jeff
Mangum of Neutral Milk Hotel.<sup>\[4\]</sup> Taylor performed with
Neutral Milk Hotel during the band’s reunion tour of 2013/2014. She is
the author of the book The People’s Platform: Taking Back Power and
Culture in the Digital Age, published by Metropolitan Books.*

The “unschooled” bit is amusing, as it could only come Astra Taylor or
maybe fellow feminists. they like the pseudo-language stuff.  If you are
going to make up a nonsense biography, calling yourself “unschooled” is
a good start. The links in her Wiki page go nowhere so a little search
reveals <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LwIyy1Fi-4Q"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this video</a>. Mostly
third-wave feminist nonsense, bit we learn that “unschooled” means home
schooled. In her circles, “home schooled” is equated with Walmart and
gay bashing so they use a neologism.

Right out of the shoot, the interview takes on the vibe of a couple of
hens yapping at one another while waiting for their kids at the
Montessori school.

*HF – At many points in the book you suggest that new technologies, far
from leveling the playing field, are creating their own forms of
inequality. How can open technologies lead to very unequal outcomes?*

*AT – It’s true that our new communicative technologies can create space
for many voices, but the Internet also reflects and often amplifies
real-world inequities. It is open but also unequal.*

*Contrary to all the hype about the “long tail,” the cultural playing
field hasn’t been leveled so much as rearranged. What we are seeing is
the emergence of the “missing middle” (a phrase I’ve taken from the
political scientist Matthew Hindman). Online the bandwagon effect
intensifies: the big can get bigger than ever before, and there are lots
of tiny interesting things on the margin, but the in-between is
hollowing out. The Internet is a global distribution medium.*

Now, the Interwebs has been with us for two decades. The first browser
was dropped in the early 1990’s. Not many people were on-line back then
compared to now, but it was not a tiny community. When Astra was
discovering middle-school, adults were discovering the Internet. Now she
is “educating” the rest of us about how the Internet is changing the
world. This is a hilarious phenomenon that is popular with feminists for
some reason. maybe it is empowering.

*I try to highlight a contradiction in the contemporary media ecology.
On the one hand, a handful of businesses are rising to become new
info-monopolies. Google, Apple, Amazon, and Facebook are now among the
biggest companies in the world, siphoning revenue away from other local
economies to Silicon Valley or Seattle or wherever, concentrating wealth
in the process.*

*On the other, even as this remarkable concentration is playing out, our
relationship with media is becoming more personalized. No one can tell
you what to click on, Web sites reflect your preferences, and everyone
has a glowing screen of their own. Yet these catered services generally
rely on centralized vendors and services, like Amazon or Apple, that
control the hardware we are using and the content we consume. This
creates a kind of vertical integration behind the scenes. Certain
barriers to cultural participation have been removed, and we can all
post on social media or comment on articles, but massive asymmetries of
power persist. Individually we glean benefits that are orders of
magnitude smaller than the benefits for the platform owners who can
collect and harness the “big data” generated by our communications.*

There are certain buzzwords that are popular with these new age
hustlers. One of them is “ecology.” The reason is it conjures images in
the mind of plants and fuzzy cute animals. People like plants and fuzzy
animals. Then there’s the old standby, the false dilemma. The specter of
the global mega-corporation versus granny viewing pics of her grandkids
on Facebook.

Of course, we see the liberal use of neutralizing words. A “kind of”
vertical integration is, logically, no vertical integration, but the
point is to have it both ways. It is a way of taking both sides while
allowing the listener to assume whatever ever they find pleasing or
validating. Obama speeches are full of this sort of language. The text
is largely meaningless, so the listener can make it about themselves.
