---
title: "Never Play Chess With A Russian"
date: "2014-12-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3356"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3356"
---

Back in the Bush years, it was fairly obvious our ruling class had no
idea how Pashtuns, Tajiks, Hazaras, Uzbeks thought about the world.
America went into Afghanistan thinking Pakistan was an ally and that the
locals would treat the invaders different than all the other invaders
since Alexander the Great. The Bush people sort of understood that
nation building in Afghanistan was a waste of time, but they thought
they could be the baddest street gang on the block.

Then the parade of idiots known as the Obama Administration came along
and tried to win friends and influence bronze age people, wasting lives
and treasure for no earthly reason. Of course, this may be giving the
Bush people too much credit. They went blundering into Iraq fully
convinced they could turn Iraq into a democratic, multicultural
democratic paradise. Instead they unleashed decades of ethnic hatred,
resulting in a blood bath and a massive failed state.

It is one thing to have nutty ideas about backward people on the
periphery. That’s somewhat understandable, if not defensible, but it
appears our rulers have no idea how anything works anymore. The problems
in Ukraine are an obvious example. The Russians have always had a sense
of space that drives their national identity. Any threat to it,
particularly from the West, is going to get a response.

The problem is that our ruling class is very insular. There’s no longer
a bubbling up of talent based on merit. Instead we have a credentialed
elite that likes to pretend they are at the top of a meritocracy, but in
reality they just ticked off the right boxes in the secular exam system.
Everywhere you look you see Ivy League grads who rode the coattails of
other Ivy League grads. The American foreign policy establishment is
looking more like a priesthood than collection of seasoned realists.

<a
href="http://apnews.myway.com/article/20141213/eu--russia_reaches_out-314f993d1b.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Stories like this</a> are a good example
of the sloppy work that is the result of this insularity.

*A Russian loan to France’s National Front. Invitations to Moscow for
leaders of Austria’s Freedom Party. Praise for Vladimir Putin from the
head of Britain’s anti-European Union party.*

*As the diplomatic chill over Ukraine deepens, the Kremlin seems keener
than ever to enlist Europe’s far-right parties in its campaign for
influence in the West, seeking new relationships based largely on shared
concern over the growing clout of the EU.*

*Russia fears that the EU and NATO could spread to countries it
considers part of its sphere of influence. And it has repeatedly served
notice that it will not tolerate that scenario, most recently with its
Ukraine campaign.*

*Europe’s right-wing and populist parties, meanwhile, see a robust EU as
contrary to their vision of Europe as a loose union of strong national
states. And some regard the EU as a toady to America.*

*The fact that many of Moscow’s allies are right to far-right reflects
the Kremlin’s full turn. Under communism, xenophobic nationalist parties
were shunned.*

*Now they are embraced as partners who can help further Russia’s
interests and who share key views — advocacy of traditional family
values, belief in authoritarian leadership, a distrust of the U.S. and
support for strong law-and-order measures.*

*Statements by leading critics of the EU, or euroskeptics, reflect their
admiration of the Kremlin.*

This is obviously a planted story. The idea is to discredit the
dissenters in Europe and America, by connecting them to Hitler 3.0 or
whatever we’re up to now on the Hitler chain of existence. Of course,
<s>Hitler</s> Putin financing these dissenters is justification for
continuing the cold war on Russia. That’s all fair game, but this is so
ham-fisted and stupid it makes me wonder if it is not some sort of bad
joke. Later in the story they claim Gerhard Schroeder and Italy’s former
Premier Silvio Berlusconi were Putin clients.

That’s the insularity part. The true believers running American foreign
policy seem to lack any sense of self-awareness. This makes it
impossible for them to see the world through the eyes of their
competitors. It also has led to foolish fights with Putin over Ukraine,
an utterly worthless slab of land on the fringe of Europe. Their need
for a bogeyman to explain any resistance to their weird secular religion
has created enemies where none needed to exist.
