---
title: "Milo Yiannopoulos Is Not Very Interesting"
date: "2014-04-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1405"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1405"
---

Ours is an age of banality. Despite all the yammering about diversity
and cross-pollination of cultures, we live in a bland, uniform time. You
can see this when walking around the common areas of our life. The
modern American parking lot, for example,  looks like something an East
German planner would have imagined. Today, black and silver account for
half the car colors, followed by gray and white. Of course, because form
follows function in a sterile society, the cars are the same shape

In the 1960’s the most popular car colors were shades of green. One year
turquoise was the top color choice for car buyers. In 1972 the most
popular color choice for the Corvette was orange. Take a look at color
pictures of an American parking lot from that era, and it is not just a
circus of colors. It is a circus of shapes and sizes. Car makers were
coming up with every shape they could conjure, hoping to appeal to the
liveliness and spontaneity of the people. The cars matched the people.

Anyway, that is something to keep in mind while reading this <a
href="http://kernelmag.dailydot.com/comment/column/9497/why-i-rank-my-friends-by-income-iq-and-hotness/?curator=MediaREDEF#"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">very odd column</a>, by
someone calling himself Milo Yiannopoulos. He is what passes for clever
and interesting in London apparently. Of course, because America is so
bereft of anything interesting or even skeptical, those things are
imported from England. American just assume a British accent means smart
and clever. Yiannopoulos gets to be a avante garde as a result. Here’s
some of the post.

*You’ll think this is weird, but for three years now I’ve taken what
might be described as a “data-driven” approach to my social life.
Specifically, I’ve been maintaining a gigantic spreadsheet of friends
and business contacts, updated with columns such as “Hotness Index,”
“Income,” and “Strategic Value.” And I spend about four hours a week
keeping it up to date.*

*Why? Well, it’s not because I’m east London’s answer to Patrick
Bateman. At least, that’s not the only reason. No, the spreadsheet is
simply the best tool I’ve developed so far for managing an
ever-increasing contact list of interesting people I am anxious to
introduce to one another, or with whom I want to spend more time.*

*Of course, not everyone makes the cut. As I write this, there are only
746 people in the database out of a possible 4,500 entries in my address
book. Included and assessed on a variety of metrics are A-list
celebrities, board members of multinational corporations, investors in
my previous ventures, and people I went to school with. And, yeah, a few
randoms from 2009 I sort of maybe might consider calling at 2am.*

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milo_Yiannopoulos"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Reading his wiki entry</a>, he
passes himself off as some sort of taste maker and techno-culturalist.
The fact that he wastes four hours per week cataloging his relationships
on a spreadsheet certainly makes him uncommonly dull. Interesting people
don’t waste valuable time on mundane tasks. They have people for that.
For example, in the Imperial Capital, powerful people, the real movers
and shakers, don’t carry their own mobile phone. They have people for
that.

*Present and past relationships appear in the database, as do family
members and work colleagues; these days, most of us have heavily
overlapping constituencies of work and play.*

*I won’t pretend I don’t get a frisson of childish amusement from
“shorting” the “stock” of people who show up late for an appointment
(I’m hoping to commission a mobile app so I can do that on the fly) or
even demoting those who have annoyed me in some way.*

*But the primary objective of maintaining this information is to enable
me to quickly and easily filter and rank contacts before I send out
invitations for parties and suppers.*

*The image above gives you an indication of what the spreadsheet looks
like. I rank pretty much everyone I meet that I might want to see again
in a number of different ways: subjective cultural assessments,
estimates of income and intelligence, how much they like to party, how
much trouble they like to get into, and obviously, how physically
attractive they are.*

***The scores are normalised** across the whole group. This enables me
quickly and easily to drill down and generate lists from which I can
craft the perfect party. I can even engineer how the photos will look,
since I have a column that covers personal style. Politics is covered by
a simple “Pass” or “Fail.”*

There’s a term for the use and misuse of field-specific words in areas
outside the specific field. Today, everyone is trying to pass themselves
off as a quant, so they like to borrow language from math and science.
Milo has no science or math. He had some training in philosophy, but no
math or science. His misuse of the word “normalize” suggests he just
thinks it sounds cool. That’s the habit of the modern
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=381" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">fake nerd</a>. They pick up the jargon from statistics,
mostly, and fertilize their language with it.

*I’ve made some interesting discoveries about my social life. For
example, people ranked closer to me (with a “Tier” of A or B) are more
physically attractive, and have politics that align with mine. But
there’s no correlation between a person’s income and how highly I value
our relationship, unless there’s been romantic interest.*

*My close friends (Tier A) tend to have high IQs, but their partying,
troublemaking, and strategic values don’t follow any patterns. All of
which implies that I am attracted to pretty, smart people with sound
politics, but I don’t particularly care whether or not they are wealthy
or like to party.*

*Look, **I know all this is a bit odd. And it must sound terribly
calculating. I suppose there’s a reason I’m writing a book called The
Sociopaths of Silicon Valley. Perhaps it’s what jacket blurbs refer to
as “unique insight.”** But the truth is, this is simply the best tool I
have developed to help me navigate a complex environment.*

Actually, it just makes Milo sound like a shallow dullard. Odds are, his
“high IQ” friends are just slightly above average people like Milo, who
are similarly shallow. Posers like this guy tend to be quite average if
you can get past the act. His writing is clever enough, so maybe he is
not a dimwit. It’s not always fair to judge the character of someone
based on a small sampling of their writing, but he seems to be
determined to tick all of the boxes that are ticked by superficial
poseurs.

It speaks to the age that a flamboyant homosexual can attract an
audience of young males, based on his bitchiness about women. Back when
the car lots were full of color and creativity, young males looked up to
the rugged tough guy types as the epitome of male coolness. Steve
McQueen rather than Milo the Queen. The rise of homosexuals in social
status corresponds with the decline in normal male behavior. We live in
an age that is not just duller, but gayer. That can only end one way.
