---
title: "Our Progressive Future"
date: "2014-07-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2199"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2199"
---

Imagine it is the year 2050 and mobs of lunatics are pulling down the
Washington Monument on the grounds that Washington was a racist slave
holder. Earlier they had stormed the National Archive and burned the
Constitution, Declaration of Independence and Bill of Rights. These were
deemed to be unwelcome reminders of the nations patriarchal past and
violation of the new America. All around the country mobs are destroying
symbols of the evil past.

It sounds crazy, but erasing the past is a popular past time with the
lunatics. The Soviets would airbrush people in and out of the the past
whenever it suited them. The Nazis tried hard to recreate things like
Christmas to fit the official Aryan narrative. The 18th century has been
rewritten to read like a first draft of <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alex_Haley#Plagiarism_dispute_and_other_criticism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Roots</a>. Currently, our
lunatics are creating a mythological past where homosexuals were
enslaved on lavender plantation in the South, thus making them vicitms.

America is becoming a different type of Iran. Their lunatics believe in
flying carpets, invisible imams and <a
href="http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2014/07/05/iran-cleric-jews-use-sorcery-to-spy.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">sorcery</a>. Our lunatics
believe biology is a social construct, everyone can be above average and
humanity can be saved through mass extinction. The point of comparison
between various types of lunatics is their belief in utter nonsense and
their willingness to kill for it. That’s why the Left is obsessed with a
rapprochement with Iran. They see themselves in the eggplants.

The scenario above sounds crazy at the moment, but look at what <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2685923/Shocking-moment-ISIS-militants-sledgehammers-Mosul-tomb-Prophet-Jonah-50-blindfolded-bodies-massacred-south-Baghdad.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">lunatics will do if given the
chance.</a> These sites they are destroying are harmless to normal
people. They are important historical sites that help define the people
who live there. That’s what makes them so dangerous to the lunatic.
Anything that contradicts the narrative, the prevailing orthodoxy, must
be destroyed. If that sounds familiar, it should. Look at the list of
people destroyed by PC fanatics in the last few years.

It was not so long ago when Arabs were proud of their cultural history.
Western archaeologists and researchers were invited to these countries
to dig around and find stuff, even Christian stuff. That was one
generation ago, give or take. Most people reading this were alive when
that was common. Here’s a picture of Afghan women at university in the
1970’s:

<img
src="http://bsnews.info/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Afghan-women-in-the-1970s.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="512" height="324" />

In the 70’s, a whole lot of Muslims looked at the lunatics and thought
they would burn themselves out eventually. The more sophisticated
Muslims understood the threat, but were sure they could deal with it.
Others were convinced the people would never let the lunatics gain
dominion over them. Everyone had a reason to think it would all work out
in the end, even the lunatics. The difference is the lunatics had a plan
and everyone else had wishful thinking.
