---
title: "Glenn Beck"
date: "2014-11-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3199"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3199"
---

When Glenn Beck was on Fox I loved his show, despite never watching it.
What I loved about it is how he sent the Left into a frenzy. If you were
a room full of strangers and wanted to identify the lunatics, mention
Glenn Beck. The lunatics would suddenly begin convulsing and screeching.
Otherwise, I found Beck to be a bit of  a weirdo. He was a man on a
grail-quest. Having seen his ugliness in the bottom of a glass, he was
racing around looking for the antidote.

Religion, followed by slaying the Progressive dragon was his thing on
Fox. Then he left Fox and started his own network. I give him a ton of
credit for figuring out before everyone else where the future of media
lies. From what I gather The Blaze has made Beck a millionaire many
times over. Still, when I see him I get the sense he is still a man on a
mission that he is still trying to unravel. <a
href="http://www.theblaze.com/stories/2014/11/10/glenn-beck-reveals-the-life-changing-pivot-point-he-has-kept-hidden-from-almost-everyone-for-five-years/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This latest seems</a> to fit the pattern.

*Glenn Beck on Monday revealed the true extent of his health issues,
saying he can no longer keep what has happened a secret from his
friends, his staff or audience, whom he considers to be his family.*

*If you have sensed a change in Beck — maybe you even thought he was
losing interest in his program — Beck said it is because he was told he
may only have several functional years left, and his health conditions
were causing such excruciating pain that it was difficult to do live
programming.*

*“Tonight’s show is not for the casual fan or, really, anyone in the
press,” Beck said. “This is a one-on-one between friends. No one in the
media ever does a show like this, because it is crazy. … But I believe
that by not talking with you openly, it destroys everything of real
meaning and value — namely, our trust.”*

*“I have never lied to you, but I have omitted a few really important
facts because — they scared me,” Beck admitted, beginning to swallow
back tears. “I didn’t have any answers, and the answers I was being
given at the time meant … the end of our time together.”*

Not only is there a religious vibe to this, there’s a Jimmy Swaggart
vibe to it. That’s an old school preacher move. The personal testimony
has been a staple of the southern religious experience since forever.
The preacher reminds his flock that he is their shepherd. Then he tells
them he is not long for this world. Then the ushers pass the plate and
everyone kicks in what they can. The preacher recovers.

*Beck said that five years ago, around the time of his Restoring Honor
event in Washington, D.C., God began to tell him that he was standing in
the wrong place. At around the same time, his health issues began,
starting with vocal cord paralysis, eyesight problems and what doctors
at first believed was a painful form of neuropathy.*

*“While I was at Fox, the pain would get so bad that my camera crew, our
executive producer Tiffany and I, had worked out hand signals so they
would know when to take the camera off of me,” Beck revealed. “We didn’t
know at the time what was causing me to feel as though, out of nowhere,
my hands and feet, or arms and legs would feel like someone had just
crushed them, set them on fire or pushed broken glass into them.”*

*Beck said that while he was in intense pain, something unusual was
happening that he actually thought was an advantage in his business: he
only ever needed two to four hours of sleep a night.*

*“Doctors tell me that up until recently, I hadn’t had a real REM sleep
in maybe as long as a decade,” Beck said. “I didn’t have a dream that I
remember, except one in a decade. And quite honestly, this isn’t a
symptom you look to fix if you have a ton to do. But the first sign of
trouble I noticed was what I call a ‘time collapse.’ If we had met
before, I couldn’t tell you if it was a month ago, a year ago or when we
were in high school. I then began to lose names to faces and over time,
entire conversations would go away.”*

*Beck said doctors told him it was normal for someone processing as much
information as he was, and the phenomenon has been discussed by figures
like Winston Churchill.*

I guess we’re supposed to believe that Beck is a sort of stigmatic and a
medium of some sort, with massive amounts of data flowing through him,
to you, his followers. His suffering for you is, well, Christ-like,
isn’t it? Well, the modern version, least ways. It is sort of a
crucifixion-lite, where the savior nails himself to the cross
metaphorically.

Maybe I’m being mean-spirited, but I’m skeptical. Adrenal fatigue, for
example, is nonsense. It is not a real medical condition. It was cooked
up by snake oil salesman to trick middle-aged women into buying crystals
and colonics. My bet is the real doctors told him he was either faking
or suffering from some sort of psycho-somatic condition.

I know this makes me a stone-hearted villain, but I think he is faking.
