---
title: "Lunatic on Lunatic Violence"
date: "2014-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3245"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3245"
---

It appears a civil war is breaking out on the Left. The blacks are mad
at the SWPL’s and SJW’s for letting them down. The SWPL’s are mad at the
SJW’s for expecting them to practice what they preach. Everyone is mad
at the Hispanics for not showing up and playing their part in the
narrative. Of course, the war on white people is coming home as the
SJW’s attach the robber barons of Silicon Valley for not singing along
with the vagina monologue. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/uber-executive-stirs-up-privacy-controversy/2014/11/18/d0607836-6f61-11e4-ad12-3734c461eab6_story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It looks like it may get very nasty</a>.

*An Uber executive’s suggestion that the company should investigate the
private lives of journalists has sparked a backlash against the popular
car service, offering a potent reminder that tech companies are amassing
detailed — and potentially embarrassing — records of users’
communications, Internet traffic and even physical movements.*

*The controversy stemmed from remarks by Uber Senior Vice President Emil
Michael on Friday night as he spoke of his desire to spend $1 million to
dig up information on “your personal lives, your families,” referring to
journalists who write critically about the company, according to a
report published Monday night by Buzzfeed. The same story said a
different Uber executive once had examined the private travel records of
a Buzzfeed reporter during an e-mail exchange about an article without
seeking permission to access the data.*

*That combination of vindictiveness and willingness to tap into user
information provoked outrage Tuesday on social-media sites, spawning the
hashtag “#ubergate” on Twitter. Critics recounted a series of Uber
privacy missteps, including a 2012 blog post in which a company official
analyzed anonymous ridership data in Washington and several other cities
in an attempt to determine the frequency of overnight sexual liaisons by
customers — which Uber dubbed “Rides of Glory.”*

I’ll just note that “outrage on social media” now resembles something
like the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gb_qHP7VaZE" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">scene from Life of Brian</a> where Brian meets the
People’s Front of Judea.

*This week’s incident was the latest reminder about the potential for
abuse as intimate information accumulates on the servers of tech
companies that have widely varying approaches to user privacy and face
few legal barriers in how they use personal data.*

*“We have never in history been at a point where we were more
extortable,” said Chris Hoofnagle, a law professor at the University of
California at Berkeley who specializes in online privacy. “We have to
think about how the service provider itself can be a threat.”*

*Uber officials have sought to distance themselves from Michael’s
comments. Chief executive Travis Kalanick tweeted that they were
“terrible,” and Michael issued an apologetic statement calling the
remarks “wrong” and expressing regret.*

*On Tuesday, the company said in a blog post: “Uber has a strict policy
prohibiting all employees at every level from accessing a rider or
driver’s data. The only exception to this policy is for a limited set of
legitimate business purposes.”*

I think we begin to see much more of this sort of lunatic on lunatic
violence. Powerful people don’t like it when people say bad things about
them. For its part, the Left is “all in” on the war on the white people.
It has no choice. If they drop that the who thing falls apart and modern
liberalism begins to resemble a UFO cult. That means they have to press
forward with their war on tech companies who refuse to hire unqualified
women and minorities just to make the brochure look good to the Left.

http://youtu.be/tRJlo2WRDbw
