---
title: "Christian Blues"
date: "2014-08-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2503"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2503"
---

The collapse of Christianity as both a social force and a political
force in America has gone unnoticed. One reason for this is the Left
stick mocks Christians, despite their disappearance from the scene. The
other is the conditioning most people have from their youth, when it was
assumed Christians played an active role in politics. The fact is,
Christians are disappearing and that means the Christians, social
conservatives and Evangelicals may find themselves <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/some-evangelicals-in-republican-party-are-feeling-left-out-see-no-standard-bearer/2014/08/16/77c380e8-224e-11e4-958c-268a320a60ce_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">without a candidate in
2016</a>.

*Perched on the edge of his chair in a study overflowing with books,
Pastor Gino Geraci reels off the Republicans he no longer believes in.
His friend Mike Huckabee is an “odd bird” who couldn’t win a general
election. Sarah Palin doesn’t inspire him with her “cliched responses to
difficult questions.” Rand Paul is “fascinating but frustrating.”*

*Of all the Republicans weighing a bid for president in 2016, the only
one who puts a smile on Geraci’s face is
doctor-turned-conservative-media-darling Ben Carson. And yet, Geraci
concedes, Carson is “not in the mainstream” and has little chance of
ever being elected.*

*The assessment from Geraci, the founding pastor of Calvary South
Denver, a sprawling evangelical church with several thousand
congregants, reflects a broader sense of despair among white
evangelicals about the Republican Party many once considered their
comfortable home.*

*Many social conservatives say they feel politically isolated as the
country seems to be hurtling to the left, with marijuana now legal in
Colorado and gay marriage gaining ground across the nation. They feel
out of place in a GOP increasingly dominated by tea party activists and
libertarians who prefer to focus on taxes and the role of government and
often disagree with social conservatives on drugs or gay rights.*

Evangelicals have always it wrong, as far as how to engage in politics.
They think putting people who are from their sect in office is all
that’s needed to get their desired policy outcomes. That was never going
to work because big government is incompatible with religious liberty
and social conservatism. The liberal democratic state is always at war
with private association and private contract. The bigger the state, the
more hostile it is to these things.

*Meanwhile, the list of possible front-runners for the party’s 2016
presidential nomination includes New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who has
a limited relationship with evangelical activists, and the
libertarian-leaning Paul, the senator from Kentucky who only recently
began reaching out to social conservatives. One prominent establishment
favorite weighing a bid, Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), is a supporter of
legal same-sex marriage who claims his views on the issue could help him
and his party appeal to younger voters.*

This is where the Post shows itself to be blazingly ignorant of what’s
going on outside of Washington. Tubby is not getting elected to anything
and he is pro-life. Rand Paul has been playing the social conservative
side of the street for years, as did his old man as a the leader of
paleo-libertarianism. He’s not winning the nomination, but he is hardly
a typical libertarian. Rob Portman is a company man who has no chance in
the GOP primary, even assuming he runs.

*The disconnect between social conservatives and the GOP has become a
“chasm,” said Gary Bauer, who ran for the Republican presidential
nomination in 2000 and is now head of the Campaign for Working Families.
He pointed to the party’s two most recent presidential nominees, Sen.
John McCain (Ariz.) and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, as
examples of candidates who were touted initially as having broad appeal
to centrists in the general election but ultimately never inspired
evangelicals and lost.*

Neither McCain or Romney were centrists. McCain has always been a bit of
nut and hostile to Evangelicals. He went into Suffolk Virginia in the
2000 primary and told Evangelicals to shove it. Romney actually did well
with social conservatives, despite the fact no one believed a single
word that came out his mouth. His problem was not his positions. His
problem was no one believed him.

Fundamentally, that’s the problem facing the GOP. No one believes them.
If you are a social conservative serving the cause for the last
twenty-five years, you have to be discouraged. In 1990, there were
pro-life Democrats and no trace of gay marriage or tranny rights. The
DLC was advocating a more conciliatory tone with social conservatives.
Things were looking pretty good.

Today, even Republicans flinch at the mention of opposition to the most
extreme perversions. This garbage is jammed in your face everywhere you
look. The degenerates have been running wild now for a decade and the
damage is immeasurable. It seems that the hours has passed for
Evangelicals, at least as a political force in modern American
democracy.
