---
title: "The Wrong Side of History"
date: "2014-05-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1857"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1857"
---

Steve Sailer has a <a
href="http://isteve.blogspot.com/2014/05/who-is-on-wrong-side-of-history-now.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">snarky post</a> up about the
European elections. Everyone on the authentic Right, as opposed to
mainstream Right, is celebrating the results. For lack of a better way
of phrasing it, the authentic Right is the national populist types, who
reject post-modern cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism. The mainstream
Right are just libertarian cosmopolitans. They support the cultural
project of the Left, but would like to rig the market to achieve it.

The joy is understandable to some degree. On the one hand, it is clearly
a rejection of the open borders, white replacement strategy of the
elites. In France, a vote for National Front is a vote against
immigration. No Frenchman voted for National Front thinking they were
anything other than hostile to immigration. They are also hostile to
non-French people, as in those not biologically French. The National
Front rejects paper citizenship, as does all authentically right-wing
parties.

Then there is a strong anti-elite element too. Farage and UKIP are old
school populists as much as they are anti-immigrant. The Tories have
wandered off into some weird ideological place in search of a
constituency. Their old voters have no other place to go so they are
voting for Farage. UKIP is probably just the old Tory party bursting
forth from the dying husk of the new Tory party. Still, it says that old
populist instinct is still alive in the heart of the average Englishman.

It is easy to think the tide may be turning, but that is probably not
true. UKIP is the real deal, but the leadership lacks the sort of
professionalism needed to make them a legitimate mainstream party. They
are building a party from the ground up and will have the boots on the
ground to make noise in subsequent elections, but they have a lot of
weirdos and kooks as well. Those kooks and weirdos can easily topple
over the whole thing before the next election.

The Continent is a similar story. These elections were low-turnout
symbolic actions by the most highly motivated part of the anti-elite
electorate. There’s little evidence FN can build on to this and become a
player in French politics. Syriza is the real deal in Greece, but let’s
not kid ourselves about the importance of Greece. In Germany, the only
country that matters in Europe right now, anti-EU forces have not made
much noise at all. In short, one election does not mean much.

There’s something else. The march of human history is toward larger and
larger organizational units. For about 35,000 years, modern humans were
in groups no larger than about 150. That was the practical limit for a
hunter-gatherer people. Once the group got too big, it split up. We
can’t know for sure, of course, but the current science suggests trust
beyond kin was not well developed at this stage. Once you get beyond 150
people, you start having unrelated males thrown in together, which is
going to be trouble for obvious reasons.

Once humans began to settle, the organizational groups got bigger.
Farming naturally brings trading and property ownership. That requires
more complex relationships. It also requires trust between unrelated
males. The traits and customs allowing for unrelated males to trust one
another and adjudicate breeches in trust probably developed in tandem as
human settlements grew larger.

Hierarchical relationships also had to develop as someone had to be in
charge to enforce the rules. If you look at early British history, for
example, ruling families were the dominant hierarchical relationship.
The descendants of Ida ruled parts of Britain for generations. This was
not an ideal solution, but it was a solution that was workable for the
people at the time. Extended family rule was a solution to getting
distantly related people to cooperate and keep the peace.

Over time city-states developed and they were replaced by combinations
of cities that eventually became principalities. Most of the European
history we learn in school is the battle over the consolidation of lands
into nations. From the 100 Years War through World War Two, the people
of Europe battled to figure out the boundaries and relationships of the
nations of the continent. The end point of this was the nation-state as
we came to understand it in the 20th century.

Post-War Europe has been an extended debate over how to build a
Europe-wide organizational unit. Eliminating trade barriers eliminates a
key role of national government. The free flow of people eliminates a
reason for national borders and even national governments. Combining
currencies further erodes the rationale for national governments and the
very idea of a secular nation.

It is not just Europe. Relationships between countries over trade and
property are now managed through supranational organizations. When the
US has a dispute with China over trade, it goes to some international
body for adjudication. Congress has no say and the people are not
consulted. Treaty agreements are being crafted to get around pesky legal
problems like the US Constitution. The United Nations Arms Trade Treaty
is an attempt to junk the Second Amendment through international
agreement.

Then we have the interlocking central banks and shadowy financial
institutions that control the world’s financial system. The high level
of coordination between the main banks and the IMF very well may be the
main peace keeping organization now. Look at how they have been able to
keep Ukraine from turning hot. Russia is so tied into the financial
system, they cannot afford to get in a fight with the West.

If you’re wondering where the “right side of history” lies, history
seems to be saying it is bigger and bigger government. The argument
against all of this is language, culture and genetics. That’s a good
argument and we may have reached a natural limit of human organization.
But that’s not the way to bet. A Paleolithic Steve Sailer probably
thought human settlement or agriculture was a loser, too. The right side
of history has always been bigger and bigger organizational units. The
rise of nationalist parties in Europe could very well be a last gasp
effort to resist the inevitable.
