---
title: "Riot Prevention"
date: "2014-09-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2672"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2672"
---

In the 1960’s, blacks rioted all over the country. It is assumed now it
was in response to the assassination of MLK, but that was not always the
case. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watts_Riots"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Watts Ghetto Riot</a> was
over a traffic stop. No one says it, but our rulers have put a lot of
effort into riot prevention since the 1960’s. Generous welfare and
housing used to be called riot insurance by some snarky writers.it used
to be understood that the social welfare system was about keeping the
cities from burning to the ground.

Like the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1992_Los_Angeles_riots"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">1992 Los Angeles Ghetto
Riot</a>, Ferguson is a reminder that money is not always enough. The
rulers have to offer some blood. Not their blood, of course, but the
blood of a subject they can use as a proxy. In 1992, the courts needed
to send those cops to jail, maybe letting one of them get murdered in
prison. That’s what the ghetto wanted, so when they did not get it, they
rioted.

<a
href="http://www.mlive.com/news/detroit/index.ssf/2014/09/live_updates_sentencing_of_ren.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from Detroit is
how it is done.

*Theodore “Ted” Wafer, a 55-year-old Dearborn Heights man whom a jury
found guilty of second-degree murder Aug. 7 for the porch-killing of
19-year-old Renisha McBride of Detroit, has been sentenced to between 17
and 32 years in prison.*

*Wafer is accused of shooting McBride when she appeared on his front
porch last November. It was about 4:40 a.m. in the morning. McBride,
whom the medical examiner said had a .21 blood-alcohol level and
marijuana in her system, struck a parked car and fled the scene blocks
away nearly four hours earlier.*

*Wafer said McBride pounded violently on his front and side doors, he
feared it was multiple home invaders outside attempting to enter and
potentially kill him.*

*Wafer, armed with a shotgun, unlocked his front door, opened it and
shot McBride through the locked screen door when she appeared feet
away.*

*His attorney, Cheryl Carpenter, argued self defense.*

Of course, this is about race. The old white guy has to be punished or
the blacks could riot and no one wants that. The blood sacrifice to the
gods has been replaced by the blood sacrifice to the black. In a sane
world, this issue never sees a courtroom, because a drunk black pounding
on anyone’s door in the middle of the night is assumed to be a risk to
life and limb.

*Wafer was convicted of second-degree murder, meaning the jury believed
Wafer intentionally killed McBride or intentionally inflicted great
bodily harm resulting in her death; and manslaughter for aiming a
firearm at a person resulting in death.*

*He received a minimum 15 years for second-degree murder charge which
made his manslaughter punishment, 7 to 15 years, moot. Additionally,
Wafer will serve two years for felony use of a firearm.*

*Wafer claimed during trial he never meant to kill McBride and he and
didn’t know the shotgun was loaded.*

*Carpenter, who became emotional for a few minutes while arguing why the
judge should divert from the sentencing guidelines, said the full
minimum sentence is a veritable life sentence for Wafer, who would be 72
in 17 years.*

That’s the point. When an old white guy shoots a young black women in a
place like Detroit, the old white man must be killed, unless he was
under extraordinary danger from the young black person. That’s just the
way it is and the people in that courtroom knew it. No one wants to see
the old man die, but that beats a riot. Maybe his case gets appealed and
in five years he is quietly released for health reasons. Maybe he gets
shanked in the showers. All that matters now is the ghetto got their
blood.
