---
title: "Why Are Jews Liberal?"
date: "2014-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - IQ
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=649"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=649"
---

If you read <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Destructive-Generation-Second-Thoughts-Sixties/dp/1594030820"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Destructive Generation</a>,
something that leaps off the page is the fact that Jews are wildly
over-represented in radical politics. Just looking at the Weathermen,
about half the founding members were Jews. Huey Newton and the Black
Panthers were largely brought to life and sustained by Jews in
California. Of course, communism in America was very Jewish. You don’t
have to be Kevin McDonald to notice that Jews have an outsized influence
on American radicalism.

Even accounting for the fact Horowitz may have highlighted the Jews he
knew in the movement, it is impossible not to conclude that Jews were
way over represented in radical politics.  When one percent of the
population is 30% of anything, that’s a clue. It’s not just the number.
In Horowitz’s telling, Jews more often than not played the defining role
in these radical movements. After all, Barak Obama would still be fixing
parking tickets in Chicago without the Jewish radicals.

If you put “why are Jews liberal” into search engine out comes <a
href="https://www.google.com/search?q=wgy+are+jews+liberal&amp;ie=utf-8&amp;oe=utf-8&amp;aq=t&amp;rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&amp;client=firefox-a#q=why+are+jews+liberal&amp;rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&amp;spell=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this list of links</a>. When
you get 12 million links, it must be an oft-pondered query. It is not as
popular as that figure would suggest. Change “liberal’ to “midget” and
you get 47 million hits. Make of that what you will, but the fact
remains that Jews are over-represented in radical politics and lots of
people are curious about it. That’s why it turns up with millions of
links when you search the topic. people are curious about it.

Norman Podhoretz wrote about this in 2009. Podhoretz repeats the old
line, “Jews earn like Episcopalians and vote like Puerto Ricans.” It’s
one of those classically Jewish gags that seems to acknowledge the
truth, but subtly shifts the focus away from it. One the one hand you
have bourgeois people, the Episcopalians, and on the other hand you have
Puerto Ricans. No has strong feelings about Puerto Ricans nor are they
associated with subversion, espionage and communism.

Jewish Radicalism is one of those things that seems to only get
attention from anti-Semites, which is a shame. Jews don’t quite fit into
the anti-Semitics bucket, as they will support radicals who are
anti-Semites. In other words, the radicalism trumps the tribal
loyalty. Obama captured 78% of the Jewish vote, despite being mildly
anti-Semitic and hanging out
with<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeremiah_Wright"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank"> anti-Semites</a>.

*Most American Jews sincerely believe that their liberalism, together
with their commitment to the Democratic Party as its main political
vehicle, stems from the teachings of Judaism and reflects the heritage
of “Jewish values.” But if this theory were valid, the Orthodox would be
the most liberal sector of the Jewish community. After all, it is they
who are most familiar with the Jewish religious tradition and who shape
their lives around its commandments.*

*Yet the Orthodox enclaves are the only Jewish neighborhoods where
Republican candidates get any votes to speak of. Even more telling is
that on every single cultural issue, the Orthodox oppose the politically
correct liberal positions taken by most other American Jews precisely
because these positions conflict with Jewish law. To cite just a few
examples: Jewish law permits abortion only to protect the life of the
mother; it forbids sex between men; and it prohibits suicide (except
when the only alternatives are forced conversion or incest).*

*The upshot is that in virtually every instance of a clash between
Jewish law and contemporary liberalism, it is the liberal creed that
prevails for most American Jews. Which is to say that for them,
liberalism has become more than a political outlook. It has for all
practical purposes superseded Judaism and become a religion in its own
right. And to the dogmas and commandments of this religion they give the
kind of steadfast devotion their forefathers gave to the religion of the
Hebrew Bible. For many, moving to the right is invested with much the
same horror their forefathers felt about conversion to Christianity.*

The response to his query and the book that followed was predictable.
The NYTimes dragged out an old warhorse to defend the faith, so to
speak. First you discredit the man:

*Norman Podhoretz loves his people and loves his country, and I salute
him for it, since I love the same people and the same country. But this
is a dreary book. Its author has a completely axiomatic mind that is
quite content to maintain itself in a permanent condition of apocalyptic
excitation. His perspective is so settled, so confirmed, that it is a
wonder he is not too bored to write.*

Then dismiss the argument:

*The veracity of everything he believes is so overwhelmingly obvious to
him that he no longer troubles to argue for it. Instead there is only
bewilderment that others do not see it, too. “Why Are Jews Liberals?” is
a document of his bewilderment; and there is a Henry Higgins-­like
poignancy to his discovery that his brethren are not more like himself.
But the refusal of others to assent to his beliefs is portrayed by
Podhoretz not as a principled disagreement that is worthy of respect,
but as a human failing. Jews are liberals, he concludes, as a
consequence of “willful blindness and denial.” He has a philosophy. They
have a psychology.*

The long and short of it is we have one person asking the obvious
question. Why are Jews liberal? His answer is that liberalism has become
the religion of The Tribe. That’s a bit of a tautology, but at least it
moves the ball down the field. The alternative theory as seen <a
href="http://www.jewishworldreview.com/0410/goldson_reasons_jews_are_liberal.php3#.UqM-yuJ8vTo"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">here</a>, <a
href="http://forward.com/articles/153882/why-are-american-jews-so-liberal/?p=all"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">here</a> and in the NYTimes
book review is the typical boilerplate we see from the Left every day.
“The reason for X is we are the good guys and down in the valley, where
the bad people dwell, is Y.”

Podhoretz’s explanation is good for a number of reasons. One is it fits
with something we know about liberalism. It is clearly a religion. This
political ideology provides the inner measures traditionally considered
to be a religious territory, such as ethics, values, symbols, myths and
rituals. At the same time, its attachment to the Standard Social Science
Model, appeals to those raised in the Talmudic tradition. Instead of
divining God’s will from the Torah, liberals divine the will of
“science.”

Successful minority groups the world over have one thing in common. That
is they attach themselves to the strongest element of the ruling class.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carlos_Slim"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Carlos Slim</a>, the Mexican
billionaire, is a good example. He is not Mexican. He is Lebanese. He is
also tight with the ruling class. He has to be as he controls 90% of the
telephone market. If he does not make sure the guys with guns are well
compensated, they may decide Carlos needs some competition. In other
words, minorities can be useful to the ruling elite.

The trouble with this theory is Jews have been out front in American
culture and politics for generations now. The days of Jewish
entertainers, for example, passing themselves off as Italians are long
gone. Joe Lieberman was a Vice Presidential candidate 15 years ago and
probably kept Gore in the race. Lieberman was a very respected political
figure and very publicly Jewish. Modern Jews don’t have to cozy up to
the elite for protection, as they are the elite and mostly in control of
America.

There are a few other things to consider. Catholics, Episcopalians and
Baptists have not followed the same path. Catholics used to be a core
Democratic constituency, but that was more class and economics than
religion. Plus, when they left their old church, they did not join the
new faith. Instead they started voting Republican. Protestants certainly
swapped the old religion for the new in many cases. Episcopalians, for
example, are mostly way out on the far left these days.

Genetics may hold the key. Jews, as known in the West, are not the same
Jews as in the Middle East. Most Jews in the West are Ashkenazim, not
Sephardim. They have a very different evolutionary arc and they have a
different history. It’s not just the issue with you know who. The Jews
of central and eastern Europe are different people from the Jews of
Italy, Spain and the Middle East. <a
href="http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/37821/title/Genetic-Roots-of-the-Ashkenazi-Jews/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Recent studies suggest
Ashkenazim descend from the earliest Europeans</a>.

*The majority of Ashkenazi Jews are descended from prehistoric European
women, according to study published today (October 8) in Nature
Communications. While the Jewish religion began in the Near East, and
the Ashkenazi Jews were believed to have origins in the early indigenous
tribes of this region, new evidence from mitochondrial DNA, which is
passed on exclusively from mother to child, suggests that **female
ancestors of most modern Ashkenazi Jews converted to Judaism in the
north Mediterranean around 2,000 years ago and later in west and central
Europe.***

*The new findings contradict previous assertions that Ashkenazi
mitochondrial lineages originated in the Near East, or from mass
conversions to Judaism in the Khazar kingdom, an empire in the north
Caucasus region between Europe and Asia lasting from the 7th century to
the 11th century whose leaders adopted Judaism. “We found that most of
the maternal lineages don’t trace to the north Caucasus, which would be
a proxy for the Khazarians, or to the Near East, but most of them
emanate from Europe,” said coauthor Martin Richards, an
archaeogeneticist at the University of Huddersfield in the U.K.*

Given the state of religion in Europe 2,000 years ago, it is rather
amazing that a group of people would elect to become monotheists, much
less Jewish. A religion requiring a relatively high degree of literacy
and one that comes with a rational legal code is going to make them even
more unusual. It is not too much of a reach to think that Ashkenazim are
hard wired to believe and to believe a certain way. Those unique traits
and a high degree of endogamy meant those traits were reinforced through
mating.

This is, in part, the Kevin McDonald argument. He takes it well beyond
this point, arguing that Jews are purpose built to undermine white
nations. That’s a bit ridiculous from the perspective of science, but a
lot of people believe it. Maybe it does not matter, as Jews are wildly
over-represented in radicalism. Why that is so is not all that
important. Like blacks voting Democrat, what matters is accepting that
Jews are never going to be on the side of bourgeois white people.
