---
title: "Rand Paul and the Right"
date: "2014-09-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2681"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2681"
---

Libertarianism is nonsense, of course, but it has always been hard to
hate people like Rand Paul or his father Ron Paul. Rand appears to be a
lot less wacky than his father and a much better politician. That’s
probably why the GOP establishment treats Rand Paul like an eccentric
uncle. The old man was no threat because he always said something nutty
to turn off people attracted to his libertarian arguments. Rand is far
more ambitious and far more disciplined as a politician.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/387129/events-vs-rand-paul-rich-lowry"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Rich Lowry has a wishful
thinking post</a> about Rand Paul coming around to the neo-con foreign
policy view. It is wishful thinking because neoconservatism will end up
on the the left side of the Washington establishment in a few years.
They wore out their welcome with most conservatives, so they are
grabbing their bags and headed off to the next opportunity. They are
like hyperviolent gypsies.

*I wrote a column last year on the Rand Paul moment, on how events in
the midst of the NSA controversy and Paul’s canny capitalizing on them
were making him a real force in 2016 Republican presidential politics.
He’s obviously still such a force, but events haven’t been so favorable
to him lately. We’ve been starkly reminded of how dangerous the world is
and how important American leadership is over the last few months. Now,
on two very important questions, Paul has had to reverse field after
initially, we can assume, going with his gut. First, he counseled
against “tweaking” Vladimir Putin and sounded like we should give him
running room in Ukraine, then toughened up his rhetoric. Second, after
the Islamic State took Mosul, he wrote an op-ed for the Wall Street
Journal titled, “America Shouldn’t Choose Sides in Iraq’s Civil War.”
Now, as Eliana notes below, he wants to declare war on the Islamic
State.*

*In both cases, I obviously agree with his second position, and always
welcome evolution in the right direction. His defenders can argue that
none of these positions are strictly contradictory and defend it all on
“when facts change, I change my mind” grounds. But the more cynical
interpretation is that he was following the politics. Amazingly enough,
if he had maintained his initial attitude of not doing anything to check
the rise of the Islamic State, he would be to the left of Elizabeth
Warren right now.*

*There are two big problems for Paul here. One is that the politics of
foreign policy are shifting, not just on the right, but more broadly.
That means that Paul’s foreign policy, which was running with the grain
of Republican sentiment in the post-Bush era, is now running against it.
Navigating that for him will obviously be tricky, and creates the second
problem. Paul is a conviction politician. That is an enormous part of
his appeal. If he is seen as playing it too cute on foreign policy —
trotting out robust Paulite sentiments, before walking them back into
more conventional positions — he will undermine a major part of his
broader appeal as a straight-shooter. Paul can run as a Paulite purist
on foreign policy or he can run as a traditional Republican/cautious
hawk. He can’t run as both.*

Engaging in the debate in the comments section, it strikes me that the
Right is really out of gas. They have nothing to offer. They are making
a huge deal over ISIS and Iraq, because that’s all they have right now.
The GOP seems to have gone underground, hoping public disgust with Obama
is enough to carry them to victory. There are no Republican leaders
anyone finds interesting, except Rand Paul and he’s not on good terms
with Conservative Inc.

There’s not a lot of space between the parties now. There is the legacy
belief that the Republicans are for the rich while the democrats are for
the poor, but that’s just a bunch of nonsense now. Both parties are
tools of the emerging oligarchy. The great American middle-class has no
party. There is no tribune of the people. Both parties make commercials
declaring their love for the people, but no one can name a single policy
or position held by either party that benefits the middle-class.

That’s the attraction of Paul and to a lesser degree libertarianism.
Even though it is not said, their offer is simple. Since the state does
nothing but harass you and steal your money, why not vote for the guys
who will not harass you or steal your money? Instead of promising to
rebuild your trust in the state with the politics of personal apology,
they offer to help you get even with the state. It’s populism for dorks
and compared to what the GOP has on offer, it may look pretty good in
two years.
