---
title: "Elizabeth Warren 1.0"
date: "2014-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=957"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=957"
---

[Wendy
Davis](http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CDIQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWendy_Davis_(politician)&ei=UJn7UvmKM6qa1AGFkYCwBA&usg=AFQjCNFlM9zfHSFC6PrBed6UaeG1m9keCw&sig2=jwCNqxI1rLwJ-JHqfZUIhw&bvm=bv.61190604,d.dmQ)
the adventuress from Texas that is the Left’s new hero. She came to fame
when [she filibustered a
bill](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/06/25/wendy-davis-filibuster_n_3498699.html)
in the legislature that would ban abortions after 20 weeks. It was a
publicity stunt that allowed her to catch lightning in a bottle with the
national media. Like all modern politicians, she has little in the way
of qualifications, other than a dogged determination to remain in public
view. That means creating a [fantasy
biography](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/she-the-people/wp/2014/01/19/wendy-davis-admits-to-fuzzy-facts-in-bio/)
that attempts to turn a parasitic life into heroic tale of struggle.

Davis is trying to parlay her 15 minutes of fame into a national
political career, but even politics has some standards. A mediocrity
with a good personality can go places in politics. A mediocrity that
reminds you of your first ex-wife better have another skill. Like the
music business, politics is full of one-hit wonders, who have that
summer of success, but can never follow it up with a second hit. That
appears to be the story arc of Wendy Davis, as she struggles to find a
way to remain in the media.

Interestingly, Progressives remain committed to her, even though her
ridiculous backstory has been revealed to be less than authentic. They
are trying to carry on as if that truth has not been revealed.
<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/16/magazine/wendy-davis.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece in the NY Times</a>
on her reads like it was written by Hollywood. The writer carefully
weaves Davis’s thin resume into the conventional narrative about the
modern super woman so popular with feminists. By the end, though, the
writer is forced to confess the obvious.

*Meanwhile, the reality of Davis’s achievements were all around me as I
drove back to my hotel, along a route that took me through her old City
Council district, where few people probably spent much time wondering
about what personal sacrifices went into the building of this bridge or
that residential tower. What had once been a languid cow town was now a
sleek city where folks still un-self-consciously stroll around in cowboy
hats. Davis played a notable role in the integration of what Fort Worth
had always been with what it was becoming. It struck me as a pretty good
campaign theme. But perhaps it wasn’t good enough: It was impersonal,
unrelatable and technocratic, a nice tale for a Texas Democrat to
promote on the way to a landslide loss, just as the state’s last
Democratic candidate for governor, former Mayor Bill White of Houston,
did in 2010.*

*Instead, Davis had reassured voters with a near-perfect narrative: a
portrait of herself as modern-day Supermom, a woman who existed only in
our imaginations.*

Reality says Wendy Davis could have stayed at Harvard and not a single
Texan would have noticed. Her life is inconsequential. Crediting her
with the growth of Texas is like crediting my cat with the building of
the Pyramids. At least there are pictures of cats in those pyramids. It
reveals the hollowness of feminism in particular and Progressivism in
general. Modern feminism is just unicorn hunting, as there is not
escaping the realities of biology. As a result they are forced to rely
on narrative, rather than reality.

That’s why Davis can be looked at as the predecessor of Lizzy Warren.
Like Davis, Warren has no real accomplishments. In the case of Warren,
she married well and that opened doors in the academy. her fake back
story about being an Indian completed the puzzle. Like Davis, Warren is
just a story designed to fit into the Progressive narrative, not a real
person doing real things. Even her Senate run was just a story
manufactured by the local media. Warren was just playing a role.
