---
title: "But Was He Wearing A Hoodie?"
date: "2014-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2442"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2442"
---

It is not hard to see where <a
href="http://www.stltoday.com/news/local/crime-and-courts/police-ferguson-teen-struggled-over-officer-s-gun-before-being/article_f9d627dc-e3c8-5bde-b2ab-7f0a3d36a083.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this</a> is heading. An
unarmed black male getting shot by the police is catnip for the race
hustlers in the media, which is all of the now. The ramping up of
anti-white rhetoric coincides with the highlighting of these cases where
the cops are forced to shoot out of control blacks.

*An unarmed teenager killed Saturday by Ferguson police, spawning
continuing community unrest, had struggled for an officer’s gun in a
patrol car first, officials announced this morning.*

*St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said one shot was fired by the
officer’s gun inside the car during the struggle, and that the officer
fired multiple times at Michael Brown, 18, as he ran away.*

*Belmar did not indicate whether police think the shooting was
justified.*

*He said the shots that hit Brown were “more than just a couple but I
don’t think it was many more than that.” He said an autopsy was pending
and that a toxicology test would take as long as six weeks to determine
whether Brown had alcohol or drugs in his system.*

It’s funny and predictable how these things go. The white Hispanic in
Florida had a pretty good excuse for shooting the black kid. Getting
your skull crushed is usually enough to justify lethal force. Of course,
we did not learn that until much later, as the media colluded with the
the dead guys family to perpetrate a hoax. Odds are this is another
example of the media lying in order to rev up a black mob.

*Belmar promised a full investigation that might also include the FBI.
He said the results would be forwarded to St. Louis County Prosecuting
Attorney Robert P. McCulloch, whose office would decide whether criminal
charges were justified.*

*The chief noted that as Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson arrived at
the scene Saturday, he called Belmar personally to ask for a county
investigation. “I would not think anybody would do that if they had
anything to hide,” Belmar said.*

*Jackson sat beside Belmar but did not speak in a short press conference
at 10 a.m. at the community’s firehouse.*

*Belmar said he had not consulted the FBI but would call today. The FBI
can investigate a police use-of-force incident as a possible violation
of constitutional rights. Belmar emphasized that these are “standard
protocols.”*

*The officer who fired, whose name has not been disclosed, is now on
administrative leave. Belmar said that officer has been on the Ferguson
force for six years and appears to have “no other issues” in his past.*

*Belmar said the officer had an encounter about noon Saturday with two
“individuals” and was pushed back into his car and “assaulted” by Brown.
The chief did not again mention the second person, nor did he describe
the reason for the initial contact.*

*Belmar and Jackson left the press conference as reporters continued to
call out questions.*

Of course, that does not mean the more responsible members of the
“community” cannot pitch in and help calm things.

*State Sen. Jamilah Nasheed, D-St. Louis, and the St. Louis NAACP also
have said they would seek a federal investigation.*

*Angry residents took to the streets shortly after Brown was killed in
the 2900 block of Canfield Drive. Some shots were heard in the crowd
that gathered, but nobody was injured. Some people chanted obscenities
and “kill the police” as about 60 officers from multiple jurisdictions
gathered.*

*At least 200 people continued the theme today outside the police
station, 222 South Florissant Road, carrying signs and occasionally
making speeches.*

*One of them, Shontell Walters, of Berkeley, said they took exception to
the presence of police dogs with officers watching the scene. “They are
trying to instill more fear in us,” she complained.*

*A memorial went up at the shooting scene, where Brown’s stepfather,
Lewis Head, stood and wept this morning. “Ferguson killed my son,” he
said. “They flat-out murdered him.”*

*A candlelight vigil is planned for that spot at 8 p.m.*

In case you’re wondering, <a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CB8QFjAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.senate.mo.gov%2F13info%2Fmembers%2Fmem05.htm&amp;ei=0ObnU526C4udygTd0IKoDw&amp;usg=AFQjCNEiWvLDMXfU0Ql1VBX4Z5UdXeVK-w&amp;sig2=xyxnX5pqx7er1-0evg9a0w&amp;bvm=bv.72676100,d.aWw"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Jamilah Nasheed</a> is a woman
and, this will comes as a surprise, she is black. In fact, Ferguson
Missouri is 65% black.
<a href="http://www.city-data.com/crime/crime-Ferguson-Missouri.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The crime data from
City-Data</a> suggests the crime rate has been falling.
<a href="http://spotcrime.com/mo/ferguson" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Spot Crime</a> shows that the criminal element is east
and south of the main part of the town. The overall crime rate is still
much higher than the rest of the country. It is not Detroit, but it
ain’t Mayberry either. The cops have a challenging job in that town.

Policing high crime areas is a grind. The cops get cynical and if you’re
lucky they just stop caring. Often, they resent having to police a
population that seems to have no interest in civilization. Bad things
start to happen and then the war is on. Los Angeles had this problem. In
Baltimore and Washington, the cops simply keep the bad guys from leaving
their area. The result is an urban reservation.
