---
title: "Legalized Soma"
date: "2014-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2723"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2723"
---

Anyone who has any familiarity with the drug game knows that the
libertarian claims about drugs are mostly nonsense. Drugs certainly play
a role in the degeneracy of the lower classes, but they are not a
cause.  Poor people make bad choices, have high time preference and a
below average IQ. There are exceptions, but that’s always the case with
general rules. Drug use is a symptom of other problems, like the
unwillingness oft he ruling class to do their duty.

That’s not to say the war on drugs is a good thing or even a necessary
thing. In a time of low cultural confidence, aggressive policing of vice
is never going to work. In fact, it just adds to the social pathologies
that blossom during times of cultural decay. The cops are not hassling
drug dealers in the ghetto out of righteous anger. They are doing it for
money and the right to push people around in public.

That’s why the tide seems to be turning on the drug war. All of the most
glamorous people are now proud of their hookahs and dank tanks.  The
cultural elite are squarely behind legalization and the <a
href="http://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/panel-global-leaders-urges-drug-policy-overhaul-25390745"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">political elites are coming
around now too</a>.

*A 21-member international panel urged a global overhaul of drug
policies on Tuesday, calling for some drugs such as marijuana to be
regulated, an end to incarceration for drug use and possession, and
greater emphasis on protecting public health.*

*The Global Commission on Drug Policy said traditional measures in the
“war on drugs” such as eradicating acres of illicit crops, seizing large
quantities of illegal drugs, and arresting and jailing violators of drug
laws have failed.*

*The commission’s 45-page report pointed to rising drug production and
use, citing the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime’s estimate that the
number of users rose from 203 million in 2008 to 243 million in 2012.*

*The commission includes former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan; the
former presidents of Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Poland, Portugal
and Switzerland; British tycoon Richard Branson and former U.S. Federal
Reserve chief Paul Volcker. It was established in 2010 with a stated
purpose of promoting “science-based discussion about humane and
effective ways to reduce the harm caused by drugs to people and
societies.”*

*The commission’s first report in 2011 condemned the drug war as a
failure and recommended major reforms of the global drug prohibition
regime. This report goes further, encouraging experiments in legally
regulating markets in currently illicit drugs “beginning with but not
limited to cannabis, coca leaf and certain novel psychoactive
substances.”*

*It called for “equitable access to essential medicines, in particular
opiate-based medications for pain,” noting that more than 80 percent of
the world’s population has little or no access to such medications. It
also called for an end to criminalizing people for drug use and
possession, a halt to “compulsory treatment” for such people, and
alternatives to incarceration for non-violent, low-level participants
such as farmers, couriers and others involved in producing, transporting
and selling illegal drugs.*

*“The facts speak for themselves,” said Annan, who is also the convener
of the West Africa Commission on Drugs. “It is time to change course.”*

The facts clearly show the war on drugs to be a failure. Compared to the
past, drugs are cheaper, more diverse, more potent, more evenly
distributed and more sophisticated than at anytime in history. If
prohibition was having any impact on supply, all the metrics would point
in the other direction. The best you can argue is it could be worse, but
that’s a gratuitous assertion. When you add up the costs, the war on
drugs looks like an epic failure and probably a deliberate failure.

Legalization will not be a panacea. In fact, there may be an even higher
cost to legalization. Drugs like weed have been proscribed for
generations now. No one alive recalls a time when heroin, cocaine and
cannabis were legal. More modern drugs like hallucinogens and
dissociatives were broadly banned decades ago. That means generations
have adjusted to the current arrangements. There will be a cost to
breaking up those arrangements.

No one considers that because it is hard and not very cool.
Libertarians, like Liberals, see only one side of the ledger. Basking in
their new hipness, the drug legalizers are in no mood to think about the
other side of the ledger. But, the first time a “dispensary” blows up or
the owner is gunned down, everyone will suddenly remember that the drug
dealers did not pack up and go away just because weed is legal.

Not that it will matter. The rulers have concluded that it is too much
fuss to defend western civilization. The easy choice is to give the mob
<a
href="http://foxnewsinsider.com/2014/01/21/welfare-weed-colorado-allows-ebt-withdrawals-pot-shops"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">free drugs</a> so they can
sleep through the rest of the collapse. The Romans gave away free grain.
The new Rome gives away free weed. I’m sure it will turn out just fine.
