---
title: "The Future is Null"
date: "2014-12-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3431"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3431"
---

For as long as any of us have been alive, the default assumption is that
humans are not the only self-aware beings in the universe. Everyone just
*knows* that out in space, there are intelligent life forms that have
evolved on some planet somewhere. Libraries of books and countless
movies and TV shows have been created around the belief in life beyond
earth. Not just bugs and plants either. Intelligent life along with all
the stuff that comes with it.

Alien life is almost always imagined to be more intelligent than
earthlings. Everyone just knows that the aliens are our intellectual
superiors. Most assume that means they have evolved to be our moral
superiors. That lets our scolds project onto the aliens features and
attributes they wish we possessed. Others go the other way and the
aliens are an out-sized version of our worst features. That means the
aliens roam the universe consuming natural resources like locusts or
enslaving minorities.

I’m not sure where <a
href="http://motherboard.vice.com/read/the-dominant-life-form-in-the-cosmos-is-probably-superintelligent-robots"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I saw this</a>, but it fits the pattern.

*If and when we finally encounter aliens, they probably won’t look like
little green men, or spiny insectoids. It’s likely they won’t be
biological creatures at all, but rather, advanced robots that outstrip
our intelligence in every conceivable way. While scores of philosophers,
scientists and futurists have [prophesied the rise of artificial
intelligence](http://motherboard.vice.com/read/super-intelligent-ai-could-wipe-out-humanity-if-were-not-ready-for-it)
and the impending singularity, most have restricted their predictions to
Earth. Fewer thinkers—outside the realm of science fiction, that is—have
considered the notion that artificial intelligence is already out there,
and has been for eons.*

*Susan Schneider, a professor of philosophy at the University of
Connecticut, is one who has. She joins a handful of astronomers,
including [Seth
Shostak](http://www.seti.org/seti-institute/staff/seth-shostak),
director of NASA’s Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence, or SETI,
program, NASA Astrobiologist [Paul
Davies](http://history.nasa.gov/SP-4802.pdf), and Library of Congress
Chair in Astrobiology [Stephen
Dick](http://www.stevenjdick.com/Steven_Dicks_Website/Welcome.html) in
espousing the view that the [dominant intelligence in the cosmos is
probably
artificial](https://ac.arc.nasa.gov/p39bvbis2q5/?launcher=false&fcsContent=true&pbMode=normal).
In her paper “[Alien
Minds](http://schneiderwebsite.com/Susan_Schneiders_Website/Research_files/12%20Schneider%20Newest-Alien%20Minds_1.pdf),”
written for a forthcoming NASA publication, Schneider describes why
alien life forms are likely to be synthetic, and how such creatures
might think.*

The fact that all of this was thought up by science fiction writers a
long time ago is lost on all of these folks. I guess when you have
letters after your name, dreaming up crazy nonsense is grant worthy,
even when it is someone else’s crazy nonsense. Regardless, the Borg was
thought up when they rebooted the Star Trek series for TV. That was
ripped off from the first Star Trek movie when Voyager returns after
having acquired all knowledge in the universe.

People who take a new spin on this bit are always heralded as futurists,
people with grand imaginations that think up out-of-the-box scenarios.
The reality is it takes little to no imagination or intelligence. What’s
tough is imagining a world where we are are the dominant life form.
That’s what pushes the envelope of imagination. It’s what made Asimov’s
Foundation series so great. Asimov had an uncanny grip on religion and
science, without have strong emotions for or against either of them.

It’s why I find the singularity stuff so dull and stupid. It is just a
blend of mysticism and science fiction, without a lot creativity.
Instead of reaching a higher consciousness, we end up on a hard drive
somewhere on a core Internet server. Great. Living out eternity as CPU
cycles would cause a truly intelligent being to unplug one’s self from
the grid.

That’s the error in the singularity argument. Life is not driven by
survival. It is driven by reproduction. Reproduction, even amongst the
lower species, is driven by hope. When times are good and the future is
bright, we get lots of reproduction. When the opposite is true, we get
the opposite. Put another way, if there’s no tomorrow, there’s no need
to reproduce. If there’s no need to reproduce, there’s no need to live.
The singularity, therefore, is the nullification of life.
