---
title: "Soy Latino"
date: "2014-08-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2426"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2426"
---

I always thought I may be Latino or a Latino. I’ve never been
comfortable with the term to know the proper usage. Hispanic is another
word that vexes me. I’ve never met a Mexican or Puerto Rican that used
it. It’s always upper middle class white people. Anyway, <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/Breitbart-California/2014/08/08/Univision-Poll-Immigration-Low-Priority-for-Latino-Voters-in-California"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">according to this story</a>,
polls show Latinos agree with me on a wide range of issues. Either I’m
Latino or they are becoming me.

*Immigration is only the 6th-most-important issue for Latino voters in
California when casting a vote for a candidate for U.S. Senator or for
U.S. Congress, according to a statewide survey conducted by
Univision.*  
*When registered Latino voters were asked to name their most important
issues, the results, in order, were: education (21%), jobs (16%),
government spending and the deficit (15%), social security (13%), “how
what they do will affect my wallet” (10%), health care (9%), immigration
(8%), and crime and personal safety (5%).*

*An overwhelming 86% of those surveyed support comprehensive immigration
reform. However, a majority–53%–of registered Latino voters in
California also answered that they believe that, “…we should require
borders to be secured before providing a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants.”*

*Furthermore, when asked, “Which of the following is your major concern
or complaint about the Republican Party?”, only ten percent of those
surveyed named Republican opposition to immigration reform.*

*The number one gripe was that Republicans “care mostly about
corporations and big business” (17%). Other concerns, in order, were
that Republicans: care only for themselves (17%), favor the rich (14%),
are against immigration reform (10%), don’t stand up strongly for their
beliefs (7%), “don’t understand people like me” (6%), and favoring white
people not minorities (5%).*

I’ve said for years that the problem we have is both parties are sock
puppets for multi-nationals and the banksters. The Democrats are better
at pretending they are for the average guy, but that’s because most of
them are a little nuts. Republicans, on the other hand, think being the
friend of CitiCorp and Haliburton is the same as being business
friendly. These are not businesses. They are fiefdoms.

The second complaint is another with which I agree. The GOP leadership
has known for a long time how to turn their promises to the base into
results, but they refuse to do it. They prefer the status quo as that’s
where the easy money resides. They use the middle-class to lever riches
for themselves from the political system. Democrats, at least, try to
follow through with their promises to destroy the country.

Of course, the big take away is that immigration is meaningless to the
prospects of the GOP with Latinos. As a newly minted Latino, I have a
different interpretation. Like the majority of my new race, I want a
secure border, expedient deportations and sensible policy about who and
how many immigrate here. I DON’T WANT AMNESTY.
