---
title: "Highway Robbery"
date: "2014-12-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3295"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3295"
---

G. Gordon Liddy used to enjoy using the term “prison guards” rather than
“corrections officers” on his radio show. Inevitably, guards would call
in to defend their “profession” and chastise him for his choice of
labels. He would then remind them that they chose to go into a
“profession” that required them to look into the anus of other men.
Things got ugly from there, but it was fun radio. It was also a good
point. We decorate job names in order to conceal them. The classic is
calling garbage men sanitary engineers.

A bigger point is that the sorts of people who go into these jobs are
often as unpleasant as the job we’re trying to conceal. There are not a
lot of soft, sophisticated men hanging off the back of garbage trucks.
The guys guarding animals in cells are just as mean and nasty as the
people they guard. They just know how to obey the rules. Similarly, cops
are more often than not criminals with a badge and a gun. It’s obvious
when you see stories like <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/highway-seizure-in-iowa-fuels-debate-about-asset-forfeiture-laws/2014/11/10/10f725fc-5ec3-11e4-8b9e-2ccdac31a031_story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one</a>.

*The two men in the rented red Nissan Altima were poker players
traveling through Iowa on their way to Las Vegas. The police were state
troopers on the hunt for criminals, contraband and cash.*

*They intersected last year on a rural stretch of Interstate 80, in a
seemingly routine traffic stop that would soon raise new questions about
laws that allow police to take money and property from people not
charged with crimes.*

*By the time the encounter was over, the gamblers had been detained for
more than two hours. Their car was searched without a warrant. And their
cellphones, a computer and $100,020 of their gambling “bankroll” were
seized under state civil asset-forfeiture laws. The troopers allowed
them to leave, without their money, after issuing a traffic warning and
a citation for possession of marijuana paraphernalia that carried a $65
fine, court records show.*

*Months later, an attorney for the men obtained a video of the stop. It
showed that the motorists were detained for a violation they did not
commit — a failure to signal during a lane change — and authorities were
compelled to return 90 percent of the money.*

This is nothing more than piracy. In the age of sail, governments would
quietly grant permission to pirates to attack the shipping of their
enemies. The British made a big show of chasing pirates, but they
employed many of them. Today, states grant their police the right to rob
people on the highways, seize their property and demand ransoms from
them. Fighting the system is often not worth the trouble. Drug dealers
are not suing the state for their drug money back so they keep quiet.

*Now the men are questioning the police tactics in an unusual <a
href="https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/1350224-davis-v-vanderwiel-et-al.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">federal civil rights lawsuit</a>. In the
suit, filed Sept. 29, William Barton Davis, 51, and John Newmer­zhycky,
43, both from Humboldt County, Calif., claim their constitutional rights
against unreasonable searches and seizures were violated. They also
contend the stop was part of a pattern connected to the teachings of a
private police-training firm that promotes aggressive tactics.*

*Davis is a professional poker player, and Newmerzhycky worked as glass
blower, according to court records. In an interview, Davis said the men
felt as though they were being “stalked” by the police.*

*If allowed to proceed, the lawsuit could illuminate the widespread but
little-known police practice known as “highway interdiction.” The suit
names
<a href="https://desertsnow.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Desert
Snow, the Oklahoma-based training firm</a>, and its founder, Joe David,
court records show. It also names the two Iowa State Patrol troopers who
participated in the traffic stop and were trained by Desert Snow.*

*Desert Snow’s lead instructor, David Frye, said the lawsuit has no
merit and contains “outrageous” and “inaccurate” accusations.*

There’s a lot of make work in a society and ours is overflowing with it.
This company training cops to shake down civilians on the highway should
never exist. His company exists because of the laws that permit this
sort of theft from people by the police. There are armies of diversity
trainers, human resource managers, insurance consultants, etc., who
exist solely because the law creates a need for them.

The rest of the story is worth reading. Three quick points come to mind.
One is never talk to a cop unless required by the law. They are just
criminals with badges so they should be treated as such. Yeah, I know,
most are just doing their job. But some are not and you can’t know that.
Cooperate with crooks like the two in the story and you could find
yourself in jail while they find a way to steal your property.

The other thing that comes to mind is how these laws have not been
challenged in court. Even in our degenerate times, due process is
enforced. Stealing someone’s property and making them sue to get it back
should never stand in court. We’re a mess as a country, but we’re not
North Korea. At the minimum, the state should be required to get
permission from the court to seize property.  In this case that would
probably have stopped the whole thing before it got to the search.

Finally, later in the story the cops raid the guy’s home and find weed.
They charge him with possession and a stack of other crimes that are all
the same thing. Sandbagging has gone so far out of control even
misdemeanor offense end up filling a page of the charging document. Come
to find out they had a permit to grow their own weed. This is what we
see all the time now. Charge/arrest first and force the citizen to prove
they are innocent. We are now government by highway men.
