---
title: "Two Americas"
date: "2014-07-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2233"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2233"
---

Even mendacious degenerates can say something useful on occasion. John
Edwards, a guy of low morals even by the standards of politics, used to
campaign on the idea of there being two Americas. His formulation had
one America for the lumpenproletariat and the other for the giant lizard
people he promised to slay with his bare hands if only he was elected
president. The lizard people were enslaving the rest of us with
capitalism and false patriotism.

The oleaginous sociopath tacked on all sorts of nonsense, but the idea
actually got some traction, despite it all. People feel the country is
coming unglued and anything that speaks to that, gets their attention.
Charles Murray has a <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Coming-Apart-State-America-1960-2010/dp/030745343X"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">whole big book</a> on the idea
of the country coming apart. The rapid changes in the country’s
demographics means the old culture and politics must give way to a new
culture and politics. Politics is downstream from culture and culture is
the byproduct of biology.

When it comes from a guy like John Edwards, this talk is intended to
trick people out of something, like their vote. Even when it comes from
less revolting public figures, it is wise to be a little skeptical.
America is a big country and that means lots of weirdness and that means
lots of natural friction. The South has been vastly different from New
England since the founding. California will always be a bit strange
compared to the rest of the country. Diversity always brings conflict.

That said, <a
href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/frankminiter/2014/07/11/americas-largest-shotgun-maker-shifts-more-jobs-to-texas/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">stories like this should give
everyone pause</a>. The gun grabbing fetish will not go away, because
the people behind it hate the sorts of people who own guns. The great
gap in culture is now becoming a physical separation.  Guns are now
associated with downscale whites who hunt and shop at WalMart. Guns are
southern, like Christianity and NASCAR. Odds are, most of Connecticut is
happy that <a
href="http://www.al.com/sports/index.ssf/2014/04/gun_manufacturers_move_south_r.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Gun Valley is moving south</a>.

It is convenient to think guns are an outlier, but there are a range of
issues where the country’s regions are going in different directions.
Military service is one example. According to people who study these
things, <a
href="http://www.heritage.org/static/reportimages/E8F05D884C7E78E45A200DC953ED3854.gif"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Southerners are much more
likely to enlist than Northerners</a>. Marriage rates and divorce rates
are following a similar trend. <a
href="http://www.gallup.com/poll/125999/mississippians-go-church-most-vermonters-least.aspx"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Church attendance</a> is the
one that jumps off the page. But what strikes me about the gun issue is
that people are actually moving around the country to get away from
those with whom they no longer agree. We are physically self-segregating
on the national level.

Maybe it is just temporary madness and it will pass. Maybe something
else will come along to jam us back together. Maybe we were always this
different and mass media is making it more obvious. I’m not that smart.
On the other hand, maybe John Derbyshire is right and we are
balkanizing. In a generation or two we will go our separate ways. <a
href="http://www.wnd.com/2014/07/america-no-longer-1-nation-1-people/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Pat Buchanan</a> has been
talking about the crack-up for years.

Again, perhaps it has always been so, but it sure feels like we are
coming unglued. If Texas broke away, I’d probably move there and become
a Texan, rather than American. The same is true of the Old South. If New
England decided to join Canada as a province, I’d shrug and wish them
the best. It’s not that I’m rooting for it. I’m just tied of being
around and being ruled by people who hate me. Sometimes, divorce really
is the best answer.
