---
title: "The Gay Hive"
date: "2014-10-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3014"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3014"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, it used to be said that a man was defined
by his views on abortion and Israel. The former was all about IQ.
Understanding the downstream ramifications of widespread use of abortion
as a means of birth control requires a supple mind, something rare
amongst abortion advocates. The latter issue was all about morality.
Israel is about understanding the moral difference between a man that
shoves an old women in the way of bus and a man that shoves an old women
out of the way of bus. If you think both are men that shove old women,
you side with the Arabs.

These days, the issue that separates the the wheat from the chaff is
homosexual marriage. The moral side is easy to see, but it is different
from the Israel question. Liberal fanatics use the issue to segregate
themselves from normal people. It is a crude, simplistic morality, but
that’s how it goes with religious cults. Everything boils down to which
side of the hive wall on which you fall. I’ve yet to hear a liberal
friend explain why they are are *for* changing the definition of
marriage. *They* just are and if *you’re* not then *you’re* a bad person
with a head full of crimethink.

The IQ side of the coin is not so obvious, mostly because we have
conflated morality and intelligence in modern times. The fake nerd
culture has made intelligence a mark of moral goodness. Bad people
breath through their mouth while watching UFC. Good people talk about
the latest Malcolm Gladwell book they did not read, while watching
Cosmos on Netflix. Despite that, there is a moral component and like
abortion is has to do with the downstream consequences. That’s hard and
bumps into icky subjects so it is not permitted in public. Instead we
get tantrums and the spewing of buzzwords like in <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/10/are-gay-marriage-bans-a-form-of-sexism/381365/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this ridiculous Atlantic story</a>.

*Last week, the Supreme Court declined to hear a collection of
**marriage-equality** decisions and deferred for another term what seems
now an inevitable ruling for marriage equality. The very next day, the
Ninth Circuit handed down an opinion, Latta v. Otter, striking down a
number of **same-sex-marriage bans**.*

*In doing so, the appeals court provided the first of what will surely
be many such decisions from which the Court can choose when the justices
consider what cases they might hear in the future—and so offers
potential rationales by which they might make marriage equality the law
of the land. The Ninth Circuit’s majority opinion rejects
same-sex-marriage bans because they violate the Equal Protection Clause
by discriminating based on sexual orientation, which is a standard
reason courts have struck down these bans.*

*But there is a twist: According to one judge, this is about sexism,
too. In her concurrence, Judge Marsha Berzon argues that
same-sex-marriage bans also constitute sex discrimination and therefore
violate Equal Protection on additional grounds.*

*In some respects, Berzon’s concurrence was nothing new. Since the
beginning of the fight for marriage equality, **advocates have argued
that a failure to allow same-sex couples to wed amounts to sex
discrimination**. This argument has, with a couple of notable
exceptions, failed in courts. The Hawaii Supreme Court used this logic
in 1994 when it issued the first decision in the U.S. for marriage
equality (later nullified by a state constitutional amendment), and the
argument has only succeeded in a Utah federal district court since
then.*

***The formalist argument is that such bans classify on the basis of sex
in a very basic way: In states where a man cannot marry a man, he is
deprived of this right by virtue of his sex. That is, were the man a
woman, he would have the right to marry his mate.***

Let’s take the highlighted portions in order. The phrase
“marriage-equality” is a marketing term intended to shift the focus away
from the lack of an affirmative argument in favor of homosexual
marriage. The fact that homosexual marriage is irrational, as a matter
of former logic, is the reason. Similarly, same-sex-marriage bans are
nonsensical since you cannot ban something that cannot and does not
exist. It is akin to claiming there is a unicorn ban.

The third highlighted portion is why untethering yourself from objective
reality leads to trouble. Humans come in one of two sexes, male and
female. These are biological facts as axiomatic as gravity. Implying
that people who act in ways contrary to the biology have created a third
sex category should be grounds for commitment in the local asylum. The
reason the state cannot issue a marriage license to two males is the
same reason they don’t issue driver’s licenses to leprechauns.

The final bit it emblematic of most self-described advocates. They never
bother to learn why things are as they are and they never learn the
opposing arguments. The mind of the fanatic knows only that which
supports the object of his fanaticism. Those who oppose these changes to
the legal definition of marriage do so in defense of an institution that
has served Western people well since the Franks first imposed it in the
fifth century. Turning it into a roommate agreement, something that
already exists, is nothing but a veiled attempt to destroy another
pillar of civilization.

I’m tempted to say that these fanatics rally to homosexual marriage
because they get caught up in the emotion of joining a mass movement.
But, that’s just not the case. The two lesbians who wrote that Atlantic
piece are incapable of reasoning through any of this, which is why they
latch onto buzzwords and jargon. It let’s someone else do their
thinking.

 
