---
title: "Good News From The Black Death"
date: "2014-02-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1025"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1025"
---

Every society has its myths. Foundation myths not only explain how the
culture came to be, but also why they are God’s special people. Up until
a couple of decades ago, Americans were taught in grammar school about
the Pilgrims, religious liberty and the founding of the world’s first
representative democracy. Other myths justify the existing order and the
traditions of the people. In the West, this means believing in the
equality of man, natural rights and so forth. Myths are a necessary part
of who we are.

In America, politics, popular culture and policy debate all start from
the assertion that all people are equal at birth. Everything about a
person is determined by environment. Even things like heart disease,
cancer, and body type are negotiable, despite science saying otherwise.
Of course, sex and race are ruled irrelevant. Any differences between
the sexes or races is assumed to be a carryover from past sins in the
culture. Public policy in areas like education are aimed at eradicating
these cultural shadows.

As is always the case with religion, myths and belief, science tends to
be an enemy. The HBD folks have done yeoman’s work popularizing and
expanding on ideas percolating up from the sciences, particularly
genetics and evolutionary biology. Still, it is a small collection of
people that follow this stuff and even a smaller group that think public
policy should reflect the new knowledge. Superstition is the rule, but
if you are the least bit optimistic, <a
href="http://news.sciencemag.org/biology/2014/02/black-death-left-mark-human-genome"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">then stories like this one</a>
should give you some hope.

*Enter Mihai Netea, an immunologist at Radboud University Nijmegen
Medical Centre in the Netherlands. He realized that in his home country,
Romania, the existence of two very distinct ethnic groups provided an
opportunity to see the hand of natural selection in the human genome. A
thousand years ago, the Rroma people—commonly known as gypsies—migrated
into Europe from north India. But they intermarried little with European
Romanians and thus have very distinct genetic backgrounds. Yet, by
living in the same place, both of these groups experienced the same
conditions, including the Black Plague, which did not reach northern
India. So the researchers sought genes favored by natural selection by
seeking similarities in the Rroma and European Romanians that are not
found in North Indians.*

*Netea; evolutionary biologist Jaume Bertranpetit of Pompeu Fabra
University in Barcelona, Spain; and their colleagues looked for
differences at more than 196,000 places in the genomes of 100 Romanians
of European descent and 100 Rroma. For comparison, the researchers also
cataloged these differences in 500 individuals who lived in northwestern
India, where the Rroma came from. Then they analyzed which genes had
changed the most to see which were most favored by selection.*

*Genetically, the Rroma are still quite similar to the northwestern
Indians, even though they have lived side by side with the Romanians for
a millennium, the team found.
<span style="text-decoration: underline;">But there were 20 genes in the
Rroma and the Romanians that had changes that were not seen in the
Indians’ versions of those genes</span>, Netea and his colleagues report
online today in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
These genes “were positively selected for in the Romanians and in the
gypsies but not in the Indians,” Netea explains. “It’s a very strong
signal.”*

Now, why should Gypsy resistance to the plague matter? Well, as a
cultural matter, it does not. What matters is the free and open
discussion in a mainstream science journal about genetic differences in
human populations. If genes matter in disease resistance, there’s no
denying they matter in other areas. More important, if observable
differences are genetic, then there is little point in arguing for
environmentally based antidotes. That would be like trying to talk
someone out of having cancer.

Now, there are plenty of these turning up every week and that supports
for the above point. What’s important here is the casual discussion of
gypsies, a protected class in Europe. Even though everyone hates them,
no one is allowed to mention them. They are not quite on the level of
American blacks, but they enjoy a similar status. When geneticist feel
free to study and report on protected classes, then maybe the Overton
window is moving in the direction of rationality. Even a little movement
is a miracle.
