---
title: "The Foolishness of Tyler Cowen"
date: "2014-12-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3440"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3440"
---

<a
href="http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2014/12/how-much-economic-potential-does-cuba-have.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Tyler Cowen has a post up</a> arguing
that Cuba could be the next Singapore. I used to be a regular at his
site, but then I made Alex Tabarrok cry and he asked me not to post
there anymore. My pointing out that he has arranged his life in such a
way that he avoid all contact with minorities was a bridge too far. I
still read the site once a week, looking for material, but that’s it.
Libertarian economics are a bit silly for an adult my age.

*I’m not one of those who thinks Cuba is the next Singapore or even the
next Puerto Rico.  Why not?*

*I’m willing to assume that the end of the American embargo will mean
some kind of economic liberalization over the next ten years.  But how
much good will that bring?*

*We could start by looking for relevant comparisons.  We could ask how
well have non-British-ruled, non-Dutch-ruled, non-American-ruled
Spanish-speaking Caribbean islands done?  There is a fairly clear
example of such a country with some ethnic, cultural, historic, and
linguistic similarities to Cuba, namely the Dominican Republic.  For
non-PPP-adjusted gdp per capita, the D.R. clocks in at <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_GDP_%28nominal%29_per_capita"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">about $5800 per year</a>.  And that is
about where I think Cuba will end up, after a good bit of turmoil.*

He goes on to list a bunch of things that probably have nothing to do
with what comes next for Cuba. I like how he skirts around the
biological aspects and simply makes a rosy comparison to nearby
Dominican Republic. The reason a guy like Steve Sailer is not allowed
out in public is he would simply say Cuba is not going to do well
because it is full of Cubans.

I’ll go further and and say it is full of the worst Cubans. The best
Cubans got the hell out of Cuba when Castro took power. Those who hung
around hoping the terror would pass found a raft eventually and took
their chances with the sharks, on their way to Miami. All the smart,
industrious Cubans are in Miami now, living the middle-class American
dream. The same thing happened in Lebanon, which is why that country
never got off the mat.

That’s the central defect of liberals and libertarians. They never
bother to stop and wonder why things are the way they are now. They just
seem to assume the facts of life were placed around so they can change
them. In this case, Cuba has been a totalitarian police state for fifty
years for no particular reason. The fact that there are no riots in the
streets or populist protests against the status quo does not turn on any
lights for these folks. Nope, Cuba is now a blank slate on which they
can draw their utopian future.

Cuba is the way it is because the Cubans living there prefer it that
way. Not all Cubans everywhere, but a majority of the ones living in
Cuba. Most of the dissenters now live abroad. Those remaining are small
in number and are easily suppressed. The idea that they will create a
Singapore is so laughably ridiculous you have to wonder if Tyler is not
sniffing glue in his office.

That’s another thing libertarians have in common with liberals. No, not
glue sniffing, although that is a problem. No, both cults look at people
as things, in the same way a socio-path looks at people. People are just
bits of machinery to be arranged in whatever way suits the ruler.
Culture and biology are looked upon as obstacles that can be yanked from
the garden like weeds. Of course, if that means yanking out a few people
along the way, so be it.

I think if Cuba joins the rest of the world they will probably continue
to be Cubans. That means a country somewhere between Haiti and Puerto
Rico. The things that will change are the cars. American collectors will
swoop in and buy the old relics on the Cuban roads and sell them our old
jalopies. Global tourism will snap up the prime real estate for the
global ruling class. Otherwise, Cuba will continue to be Cuba.
