---
title: "La Fantasía"
date: "2014-11-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3177"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3177"
---

It appears that no amount of facts or experience will kill some
fantasies. The myth of the Latino voter is one example.

*With President Barack Obama vowing to press ahead on immigration,
prominent Hispanic Republicans are worried about the reaction of staunch
conservatives. They fear it will harm the party’s ability to win over
Latinos in the next presidential election and beyond.*

This chart makes clear that Hispanics are not that important and no
amount of pandering will change the party split.

<img
src="https://lionoftheblogosphere.files.wordpress.com/2014/11/2014_no_latinos.png?w=700"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="464" height="494" />

But, when objective reality is infinity negotiable. why bother with
facts?

*While immigration was generally a muted issue in elections dominated by
the Republicans, Obama promised the next day to move ahead on his own to
remove the threat of deportation or grant work permits to an unspecified
number of immigrants living here illegally.*

*“The initial reaction from Republicans is going to be very ugly and not
well- thought-out, unfortunately,” said Alfonso Aguilar, former chief of
the U.S. Office of Citizenship in the George W. Bush administration and
executive director of Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles.*

Immigration was a central feature of many races, but pretending
otherwise is so much more fun.

*Aguilar said congressional Republicans must offer a plausible
alternative to the president’s plan, especially since the Republican-
controlled House has shelved bipartisan immigration legislation. His
call echoes those of some of the party’s potential 2016 candidates to
reach out to Hispanic voters in some way.*

This is what I call the Lunatic’s Gambit. It works like this. The Left
decides some issue has to be addressed. It is so urgent that “doing
nothing is no longer an option.” Then they offer up their crackpot plan
to address the crisis. When normal people object to the crackpot plan,
the Left begins demanding the other side propose an alternative they
will accept, or else we just have to go along with their crackpot idea.
In this case, merely stopping a Caesarian power grab by the executive is
not enough. The GOP has to come up with some way to satisfy the fanatics
or else they must stand aside and allow Obama to declare himself
emperor.

*But House Republican aides note that Speaker John Boehner and others
have no effective way to tone down comments of members who stridently
oppose looser immigration rules. Indeed, many of those members are proud
to defy party leaders.*

*Boehner himself likened Obama’s remarks to playing with matches. “He’s
going to burn himself if he continues to go down this path,” Boehner
said Thursday, a day after Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell
warned the president not to act without congressional approval. Such a
move, McConnell said, “poisons the well” for potential bipartisan
efforts.*

*A Congress controlled by the Republicans come January “will defend
itself and our citizens from these lawless actions,” said Republican
Sen. Jeff Sessions.*

*Aguilar and others are concerned that conservative firebrands will go
further in their rhetoric, perhaps by calling for Obama’s impeachment or
for mass deportations — creating a political sweet spot for Democrats
not long after the Republican triumph at the polls and exposing a rift
inside the party just as it assumes control of both chambers.*

Well, I’m concerned that my neighborhood will be flooded with disease
riddled peasants form the third world. That’s a concern Alfonso Aguilar
does not have as he lives in a bunker community that is whiter than
Reykjavik. If Alfonso Aguilar gets his feelings hurt because patriots
say mean things about the open borders fanatics I can live with that. I
can’t live in Tijuana Norte.
