---
title: "The Legacy of Slavery"
date: "2014-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2490"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2490"
---

The legacy of slavery is primarily a two digit IQ. That is, according to
fashion, slavery made a whole population too dumb to fend for
themselves. At least <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/us/2014/08/15/slavery-pregnancy-drove-california-professor-to-accost-teen-pro-lifer-say/?intcmp=latestnews"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">that seems to be the case
here</a>.

*Supporters of Mireille Miller-Young cite the “cultural legacy of
slavery” and even the effects of pregnancy to explain why the feminist
studies professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara would
accost a teenager spreading a pro-life message on campus.*

*The pregnant 38-year-old who pleaded no contest to misdemeanor counts
of theft, vandalism and battery after stealing and destroying an
anti-abortion poster and injuring a a16-year-old activist, says she’s
sorry for some of her actions and hopes to “makes amends through
community service.”*

*An associate professor whose course work, which includes pornography
and sex work, has gained her the nickname the “porn professor,” Ms.
Miller-Young was set to appear for sentencing today (August 14) before
Judge Brian Hill in Santa Barbara County Superior Court.*

Think about that for a second. A university in a first world country
employs someone to teach pornography and sex work. <a
href="http://www.femst.ucsb.edu/people/academic/mireille-miller-young"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">In fact they have a whole
department for it</a>.

*But the hearing got moved to another courtroom before being
rescheduled, perhaps Friday.*

*The News-Press obtained Ms. Miller-Young’s apology letter, which was
part of a package of letters of support prepared by defense attorney
Catherine Swysen, aimed at getting the lightest possible sentence for
her client.*

*Three months pregnant at the time of the March incident, a portion of
which was recorded on a cellphone camera, Ms. Miller-Young states, “I
wish to apologize for my actions … The Survivors of the Abortion
Holocaust group had a perfect right to come to UC Santa Barbara to
express their views about women’s reproductive rights.”*

*“As much as the images they displayed were offensive and distressing to
my students, and to me, I had no right to take their poster or destroy
it,” she writes.*

*But the letter says nothing about the battery charge, which stemmed
from Ms. Miller-Young scratching teenage activist Thrin Short.*

*Thrin’s 21-year-old sister, Joan Short, who also participated in the
demonstration, isn’t buying the apology, telling the News-Press
exclusively today, “I guess I would like to see her say to her students,
‘I did a really stupid thing. You shouldn’t follow my example.’ ”*

*In the video, posted online by Survivors of the Abortion Holocaust,
Thrin pleads with the associate professor to return the sign, at one
point calling her a thief.*

*“I may be a thief,” a smiling Ms. Miller-Young replies, “but you’re a
terrorist.”*

*She told UCSB Police that she was pregnant at the time and was
“triggered” by the graphic images of abortion on the poster.*

*After initially pleading not guilty, she changed her mind and in July
entered pleas of no contest.*

*Support letters submitted by defense attorney Catherine Swysen and
obtained by the News-Press laud the respect and admiration Ms.
Miller-Young has among her peers as well as her generosity when it comes
to students.*

*Some of the letters were written on UCSB letterhead, presumably on
university equipment and university time. Among them is one from history
professor Paul Spikard, who states that his colleague is the object of
“an energetic smear campaign that seems to have little to do with her
person or her actions, and a great deal to do with fomenting racial
hatred and rallying right-wing political sentiment.”*

*“It would be tragic if Dr. Miller-Young were sentenced to jail time or
mandatory anger management classes based on the press’ portrayal of her
as an Angry Black Woman.”*

*He cites no reports or stories to back up the claim.*

*Another letter of support, also on UCSB letterhead, comes from Eileen
Boris, a professor in the Department of Feminist Studies.*

*Prof. Boris seeks clemency for her colleague, stating, “she was at the
stage of a pregnancy when one is not fully one’s self fully, so the
image of a severed fetus appeared threatening.”*

*“If she appears smiling on camera,” Prof. Boris continues, “she is
‘wearing the mask,’ that is, she is hiding her actual state through a
strategy of self-presentation that is a cultural legacy of slavery.”*

*Pat Hardy, a member of Santa Barbara Friends Meeting (the Quakers) and
president of a group called Alternatives to Violence Project California,
urges Judge Hill to consider AVP’s conflict resolution workshops as part
of Ms. Miller-Young’s punishment.*

*“These workshops are offered both in the community as well as 19
prisons throughout the California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation.”*

*Ms. Hardy says workshops in Santa Barbara are being offered “to gang
members and at-risk youth as well as a widely diverse group of adults.”*

*“I urge you to look beyond the recent act,” she writes to Judge Hill,
“to explore the opportunity for (Ms. Miller-Young) to make a change by
exploring the world of non-violence within this setting.”*

*Joan Short said any punishment that doesn’t include some sort of
broader apology to students, not just for stealing the poster but also
for the physical nature of the confrontation, does not go far enough.*

*“Before, some of the things she was saying was, ‘I had a right to do
this. I set a good example for my students. I was showing them how to
protect themselves,’ ” Joan said.*

*“I think she should publicly say to her students, ‘I acted completely
inappropriately.’ ”*

If you look at the collection of crotch warriors in the link to the UCSB
Crotch Studies Department, you won’t find anyone who majored in math or
physics. There are no “right answer” studies in there. This is why we
have a trillion dollar student debt problem. A big chunk of that debt
finances this stuff. There’s zero demand for these courses , but
students are forced into these courses. Scan through the typical state
university catalog and you find more worthless courses than useful ones.

But, that’s life in a social democracy. The game is about shifting costs
onto others through manipulation of the system. These broads are making
lavish salaries by gaming the higher ed system. An army of worthless
administrators fill up offices pushing paper around like African
bureaucrats. The bill for all of it ends up in the hands of the
dwindling number of people pulling the cart.
