---
title: "Just In Time For The Election!"
date: "2014-10-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3090"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3090"
---

<a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/ap-gfk-poll-most-expect-gop-victory-november-202133360.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">New polling</a> says the Democrats are in
deep trouble with the voters. That is assumed to be good news for the
ever so slightly less liberal alternative, the Republicans. The key will
be getting the black vote out in force and what better way than a race
riot? That looks like the plan. <a
href="http://stlouis.cbslocal.com/2014/10/22/new-information-released-on-michael-brown-case/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">News reports coming from Ferguson
Missouri</a> indicate the cop will not be charged.

<a
href="http://www.stltoday.com/news/local/crime-and-courts/official-autopsy-shows-michael-brown-had-close-range-wound-to/article_e98a4ce0-c284-57c9-9882-3fb7df75fef6.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"><em>A report</em></a> *by the St. Louis
Post-Dispatch this morning shows the official autopsy supports Ferguson
officer Darren Wilson’s claim that Michael Brown struggled with him in
his patrol vehicle, and that Brown did not have his hands up when he was
shot Aug. 9.*

*A source tells the Post-Dispatch that Wilson testified to the Grand
Jury that when he tried to get out of his SUV to talk to Brown and his
friend Dorian Johnson about the theft of cigarillos, Brown slammed the
door shut and punched him in the face.*

*Wilson pulled his weapon, and Brown grabbed it. At one point, the
barrel was pointed at Wilson’s hip, then a shot was fired hitting
Brown’s hand.*

*Wilson says he then chased Brown, who turned and ran toward him. Wilson
said “stop,” then fired. Brown kept coming, so Wilson fired several more
shots.*

*The Post-Dispatch also had three experts examine the official autopsy.*

*St. Louis medical examiner Dr. Michael Graham says the report supports
claims that there was a “significant struggle” in Wilson’s patrol car,
and Brown suffered a hand wound at “relatively short range.”*

*A forensic pathologist from San Francisco, Dr. Judy Melinek, says based
on a bullet wound to Brown’s arm, Brown’s palms could not have been
facing Wilson in the standard surrender position – with hands up and
palms out – when he was shot, and Brown was falling forward or lunging
when he was hit by the fatal shot to the top of his head.*

Looks like what everyone probably knew it was all along, but that’s not
the point. <a
href="http://stlouis.cbslocal.com/2014/10/22/browns-family-warns-officer-wilson-he-will-feel-the-wrath-of-gods-vengeance/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">At least the family is ready to play
their role</a> in the effort.

*Michael Brown’s aunt believes Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson
will “feel the wrath of God’s vengeance” for the shooting death of the
18-year-old.*

*Speaking to <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2800496/it-s-murder-feel-wrath-god-s-vengeance-michael-brown-s-family-react-angrily-leak-darren-wilson-s-testimony.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">MailOnline</a>, Sheryl Davis believes
Wilson committed murder. A grand jury is expected to decide by next
month whether Wilson will be indicted in Brown’s death.*

*“It’s murder and they will feel and see the wrath of God’s vengeance
come upon them in a mighty way, just as he promised all who do evil in
his sight,” she said.*

*The shooting has sparked protests in Ferguson over the past two months
as tensions are mounting following a New York Times report revealing new
details about the incident.*

*The New York Times reported Friday evening that Wilson told authorities
that Brown reached for the gun during a scuffle. The officer’s account
to authorities did not explain why he fired at Brown multiple times
after emerging from his vehicle, according to the newspaper.*

*The Times reported that the account of Wilson’s version of events came
from government officials briefed on the federal civil rights
investigation into the Aug. 9 shooting that sparked racial unrest and
weeks of protests, some of which turned violent. Wilson is white and
Brown black.*

*One protester warned what would happen if Wilson is set free.*

*“If there is not an indictment, excuse my French, all hell is going to
break loose,” the protester told CNN.*

The best thing that could happen here is for respectable blacks to take
the side of the police on this issue. That will never happen, of course.
The usual suspects will make sure of it, but funding the bomb throwers.
These rent-a-savages will burst forth and make sure the drama unfolds as
usual.

<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3035" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">As I’ve pointed out before</a>, the biggest obstacle to
black people in America now is this stubborn racial solidarity that
leads otherwise sensible people to defend savagery. Italians, Irish,
Jews, Poles and other “ethnics” used WW2 as a chance to abandon their
ethnic identity and become simply Americans. That often meant abandoning
their old neighborhoods and their old neighbors. If you wanted to be a
hood, the respectable Irish/Italians/Jews/etc wanted nothing to do with
you.

Blacks have gone the other way and placed racial solidarity above all
else. Defending ghetto culture may have been necessary in the 50’s, but
it is self-defeating today. But, the ruling class needs the blacks to
stay at the bottom of the social hierarchy so this is unlikely to
change.  Ben Carson is shunned by respectable white liberals, but Al
Sharpton gets a prime time TV show.
