---
title: "Rich People"
date: "2014-10-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3053"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3053"
---

I have a mild resentment toward rich people. Every society has rich
people. That’s just the natural order and every human society has had an
elite that enjoys a better material existence than the rest. It’s not
always obvious why. I look at the wealthy elites of today and I don’t
see a collection of geniuses. CEO’s are smart guys and they work hard,
but <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11162959/Top-10-millionaires-paradise-islands-where-the-rich-and-famous-go-to-get-away-from-it-all.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">they are not that smart and they don’t
work that hard</a>.

The number of rich people who invented some product or service that made
human existence much better is tiny. In most cases, the guy inventing
stuff is getting hosed by the rich guy who owns the company where he
works. In other cases the guy with the great new idea has it stolen by
someone how gets rich off it. Facebook stole the idea from MySpace, for
example.

That said, getting rich in business is no easy task. You have to be
ruthless and you have to take a lot of abuse on the way up. There’s a
fair amount of dumb luck involved as well as chicanery. It’s why CEO’s,
partners in white shoe law firms and entrepreneurs are often horrible
people. They are very good at getting ahead and climbing the greasy
pole, but they suck at most everything else.

Even so, dumb luck and serendipity play a defining role. Mitt Romney won
the lucky sperm contest. Bill Gates was handed the golden ticket by IBM.
Mark Cuban hit the lottery when Yahoo threw a billion at his worthless
company. If you have the choice between being a ruthless and crafty
businessman or
<a href="http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/rockwinr.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">being a lucky</a> businessman, take the
latter. This is the lesson of The Rocking Horse Winner.

When I look at
<a href="http://www.forbes.com/forbes-400/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the list of the super rich</a>, I can live with the fact
they are mostly assholes and they got lucky. If we started from scratch,
all of them would do better than most and some would get rich all over
again. Maybe not top-400 rich, but they would do OK. Like I said at the
start, mine is a mild resentment.

That said, I look at <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11162959/Top-10-millionaires-paradise-islands-where-the-rich-and-famous-go-to-get-away-from-it-all.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a> from the Telegraph and I
wonder if we have not lost our minds. The first guy on the list, Richard
Branson, did not exactly come from the gutter, but he made his money in
a real tough business and he made the business better. But, look at the
rest of the list. Six of the ten are clowns. These are people who
entertain us by pretending to be people they are not. Every society has
entertainers, but we have made them into our ruling elite! Johnny Depp?
David Copperfield?

Troll though Manhattan or LA and you can find a thousand people with the
acting ability of Johnny Depp. He got rich on pure dumb luck. He showed
up at the right casting call on the right day with the right look. His
show had some success and a few lucky turns later he is a star. Nothing
wrong with it, but what does it say about a society where this guy is
super rich? My goodness. He’s not friggin’ Shakespeare. No one will
remember him once his time is done. His footprints will wash away in a
few years after his death, maybe sooner.

That’s not to say there’s not some talent involved with being a good
actor. It’s just not that hard. Lots of people can do it well enough to
be believable on stage or on screen. I was at a fall festival no long
ago where some local college kids were doing Shakespeare. It was as good
as anywhere else, by anyone else. I once stayed at an inn where they had
a small theater. Local kids and adults put on plays for the locals. It
was as good, in terms of acting, as anything I’ve seen on Broadway. All
over America, people are entertained by community theater. There’s a
threshold level ability that is pretty low. Once you cross it, you can
be a credible actor. In <a
href="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7c/Kevin_Costner_DF-SD-05-08959_crop.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this case</a> and <a
href="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/35/Keanu_Reeves_2013_TIFF_%28cropped%29.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this case</a>, you can be horrible and
still make a living.

I think that’s where my resentment rears its ugly green head. I look at
a Johnny Depp and his island and wonder how that makes any sense. I see
a Mark Cuban and think crime actually pays. In isolation it is not a big
deal, but we have a lot of this, too much of this. A healthy society is
one that produces a healthy, restrained elite. Our cultural and
financial elites are corrupt, brutish and stupid. We’ve turned the
culture over to pimps who made their whores millionaires. The financial
affairs of the nation are ruled by con-men and bank robbers, skimming
from the economy without every adding grain of sand to the wealth of
humanity.

We have a rich people problem.
