---
title: "The Weirdness of Texas"
date: "2014-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2488"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2488"
---

Texas is the new cool place these days. There are a bunch of TV shows
shot in the Lone Star state. Austin has become the hipster place to be.
An Austin aesthetic has developed that is showing up all over. It’s like
white trash meets SoHo. It helps that the economy is booming. The people
who claim to measure these things say more jobs have been created in
Texas since the bust than the rest of the states combined.

But, it is a very weird place with a distinct third world vibe to its
politics. <a
href="http://www.statesman.com/news/news/rick-perry-indicted-for-lehmberg-veto-threat/ng3zF/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> is a good
example. The local DA gets drunk and decides to drive around, getting
caught by the cops eventually. Anywhere else, even deep blue states like
Massachusetts, the DA would have resigned. If not, then the rest of the
crooks would have backed efforts like Perry’s in order to force the
issue. Not Texas.

*A Travis County grand jury Friday indicted Gov.
<a href="http://www.statesman.com/s/news/politics/rick-perry/"
id="Rick Perry" title="Rick Perry">Rick Perry</a> on two charges related
to his effort last year to force District Attorney Rosemary Lehmberg to
resign after her drunken driving arrest.*

*Grand jurors charged Perry, 64, with abuse of official capacity, a
first-degree felony, and coercion of a public servant, a third-degree
felony. The first charge carries a punishment of 5-99 years and a fine
of up to $10,000. The second charge is punishable by 2-10 years and a
fine of up to $10,000.*

*The indictment stems from Perry’s threat last summer to withhold $7.5
million in state money from Lehmberg’s office unless she step down – a
threat he later carried out by vetoing an appropriation in the state
budget.*

*Mary Anne Wiley, General Counsel for Perry, said in a statement
following the indictment: “The veto in question was made in accordance
with the veto authority afforded to every governor under the Texas
Constitution. We will continue to aggressively defend the governor’s
lawful and constitutional action, and believe we will ultimately
prevail.”*

*Immediately, after the indictment was announced, Perry, who is poised
to make a second run for president, tweeted: “Help RickPAC elect
candidates who support a strong border, new jobs, smaller gov’t, and
fiscal responsibility.”*

*The special prosecutor in the case, San Antonio attorney Michael
McCrum, said he was confident with the strength of the charges filed
against Perry.*

*“There has been an immense amount of work that has gone into my
investigation up until this point,” he told reporters after announcing
the indictment. “I have interviewed over 40 people who were related in
some way to the events that happened.”*

*He later added: “I looked at the law. I looked at the facts. and I
presented everything possible to the grand jury.”*

This is the same court that hounded Tom DeLay out of office. A lunatic
named Ronnie Earle terrorized the state for years, abusing his office
with the full support of the kooks in Travis County.

*Asked about his thoughts of Perry’s ability to do his job as governor,
McCrum said: “I took into account the fact that we’re talking about the
governor of a state and a governor of the state of Texas, which we all
love. Obviously that carries a level of importance, but when it gets
down to it, the law is the law, and the elements are the elements.”*

*McCrum said he will speak with Perry’s lawyers Monday to arrange for
the governor to be booked and formally notified in court of the charges
against him.*

*Ray Sullivan, a former chief of staff to the governor who served as his
spokesman when he ran for the 2012 presidential nomination, said of the
indictment, “I think it certainly will be a big deal with the liberal
media – Slate, Salon – and therefore for the national media. It is
beyond ridiculous that Travis County is pursuing the governor, after
letting the seriously drunk, police-disrespecting DA stay in office.”*

*Some Democrats were calling for Perry to step down.*

Again, you see the weirdness of Texas. Anywhere else this either gets
laughed out of court or laughed off the stage. In Texas, it is how they
do politics. I wonder if it is the unusual combination of people. If you
look at <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/actually-there-are-11-americas-map-2013-11"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this great map</a> from
American Nations, you see Texas is a mix of independent Mexicans,
chaos-loving Scots-Irish and Anglo-Saxon rejects. That’s not the genetic
stock one looks for in a stable democracy. Great warrior class, but not
what you want in local burghers.

 
