---
title: "The Colonists"
date: "2014-09-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2804"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2804"
---

I’m fond of saying that America has been colonized by pod people. Unlike
the racists white colonists that oppressed the noble people of places
like Africa and the Americas, these colonists sort of look like the
people over whom they rule. They even speak the same language, for the
most part. Rather than secure their place by force of arms, the new
colonial class has convinced the natives they are on their side as
protectors. It’s why they invest so much time telling some natives that
the other natives are a danger. Divide and conquer.

<a href="http://maggiesfarm.anotherdotcom.com/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Maggie’s Farm</a> had a link
to <a
href="http://legalinsurrection.com/2014/09/johns-hopkins-study-huge-gulf-between-d-c-political-class-and-the-rest-of-america/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story on Legal
Insurrection</a>. She seems to think it is really cool that the ruling
class is all-white. She describes herself as “an attorney, writer, and
digital strategist from Dallas, Texas.” You can’t help but get a bad
vibe from the expression “digital strategist.” It sounds like a fake job
for women. Tech firms tend to load up their marketing and human
resources departments with women to counter the fact their talent is all
white and Asians dudes. They give the ladies of marketing titles like
“digital strategist.”

Anyway, the vast chasm between the ruled and the ruler is hardly news.
The interesting bit is that the political divide looks a lot like what’s
happening in trendy coastal cities. Upper middle-class whites are
systematically driving out non-Asian minorities. Washington DC is
getting whiter by the day. <a
href="http://edexcellence.net/commentary/education-gadfly-daily/flypaper/2012/the-fastest-gentrifying-neighborhoods-in-the-united-states.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This old list shows</a> that
DC, like other trendy ruling class places is becoming less vibrant. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/06/nyregion/06harlem.html?pagewanted=all&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Harlem went white a few years
ago</a> and is on its way to looking like Reykjavik. It only makes sense
that the governing class would follow the same path, getting whiter,
richer and more self-absorbed.

That last bit is not unimportant. I was watching Red Eye the other day
and the topic was drugs. Legalization is now cool amongst those living
in the bunker communities. The cast of Red Eye is emblematic of the
SWPL-types now running the culture. One of the guests was a cute little
girl named Katherine Timpf. She said something along the lines of “I
live in Harlem and see people selling drugs every day.” They all nodded
without the least bit of irony. They are totally unaware of what’s going
on around them. Dylan from upstairs who had a heroin problem is a
different breed of cat from D’Quan who slings dope on a Camden street
corner, but no one in hipsterville knows that.

But, that’s thing with the colonial class. They don’t really know they
are a colonial class and they don’t seem to know there’s a world outside
of the Potemkin villages they are building for themselves in the coastal
cities. There’s a blissful unawareness that most obviously shows up in
political attitudes. When you live in a quaint little Victorian on a
block filled with sophisticated hipsters like yourself, you trust the
system. The cops are your friends and the people with who you work in
government are your well-intentioned neighbors. In a world where there
are never any layoffs or pay cuts and no such thing as a recession, it
easy to be naïve. They are the Eloi and we are the Morlocks, except they
live off us, instead of the way Wells imagined it.
