---
title: "Bad Religion"
date: "2014-11-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3187"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3187"
---

I think you have to judge any religion by its outcomes, intentional or
accidental. Islam has some wise and beautiful elements to it. Much of
the practical application of Islam is sensible, particular when applied
to a tribal culture. That’s only part of the story. The other part is
the butchery and forced ignorance that is the natural result of the full
flowering of Islam. There’s a reason no Islamic society has produced
anything of any value, other than things like suicide bombers and
terrorism.

Marxism is another dreadful loser of a religion. The Soviet empire was
good at keeping its people backward and ignorant, but not much else.
Germans, despite there obvious faults, were able to reach the very
pinnacle of human civilization, except when they were under Marxism. For
fifty years Germans in the East produced nothing other than steroids to
rev up their female athletes. Amazingly, East Germans even made bad cars
while under the rule of Marxism. Then you have the enormous body count.

The weird religion of our current rulers has similarly outcomes. <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/new-republic-make-the-u-s-more-like-qatar/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Steve Sailer points to a story</a> in the
lefty journal
<a href="http://www.newrepublic.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">The
New Republic</a> extolling the glories of Qatar. People forget that the
New Republic was founded by Malcolm Crowley, a fascist sympathizer who
thought Mussolini was a leader FDR should emulate. But that was a long
time ago and who can remember that stuff. Anyway, Steve’s point is the
ruling class has no problem persecuting someone for not worshiping
transvestites, but they are OK with slavery.

The Left is shot through with these bizarre contradictions. Liberals,
for example, are crowing about recently passed marijuana laws,
decriminalizing possession of weed. They forget that the Old Right was
never in favor of drug laws and it was the Left that was behind
Prohibition and the early war on drugs. But, weed is now a liberal fad
so it’s OK. Contrast that with their never ending war on tobacco. A town
in Massachusetts is now planning to <a
href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_TOWN_VS_TOBACCO?SITE=AP&amp;SECTION=HOME&amp;TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&amp;CTIME=2014-11-09-10-24-21"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ban tobacco</a> entirely.

*The cartons of Marlboros, cans of Skoal and packs of Swisher Sweets are
hard to miss stacked near the entrance of Vincent’s Country Store, but
maybe not for much longer: All tobacco products could become contraband
if local health officials get their way.*

*This sleepy central Massachusetts town of 7,700 has become an
improbable battleground in America’s tobacco wars. On Wednesday, the
Board of Health will hear public comment on a proposed regulation that
could make Westminster the first municipality in the United States to
ban sales of all tobacco products within town lines.*

*“To my knowledge, it would be the first in the nation to enact a total
ban,” said Thomas Carr, director of national policy at the American Lung
Association. “We commend the town for doing it.”*

*Town health agent Elizabeth Swedberg said a ban seemed like a sensible
solution to a vexing problem.*

The vexing problem of people making informed decisions that the
busy-bodies and pests don’t like.

*“The tobacco companies are really promoting products to hook young
people,” she said, pointing to 69-cent bubblegum-flavored cigars,
electronic cigarettes and a new form of dissolvable smokeless tobacco
that resembles Tic Tac candies. “The board was getting frustrated trying
to keep up with this.”*

*Citing a report from the U.S. surgeon general, Swedberg said that if
tobacco use continues unabated, 5.6 million American children who are
younger than 18 today will die prematurely because of smoking. Change,
she said, “has to start somewhere.”*

The fact that they wish to ban things that are not smoking in order to
keep people from smoking is lost on these people. Tobacco and anything
related to it is bad because the Cult associates it with the type of
white people who shop at Walmart and make fun of men who wear dresses.
Weed is cool because it what young people like and you can now buy it at
those quaint boutiques near that ski resort you went to in Colorado.
Tobacco is what the guy fixing the lifts uses.

A sane person would ask whether it is better for the guy fixing the
chair lift to be smoking a Marlboro or a jumbo? I’m OK with the
repairman sucking on a cancer stick while he repairs the lift. Nicotine
helps concentration. The same repairman doing bong hits before working
on the lift is probably about to kill a bunch of people. Of course, he
probably called out of work so he can play video games and eat chips all
day, but that’s another story.
