---
title: "The Next Constitution"
date: "2014-04-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1597"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1597"
---

<a
href="http://takimag.com/article/while_were_at_it_john_derbyshire#axzz3087bjsr6"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">John Derbyshire’s latest Taki
column</a> is on amendments he would like to make to the Constitution.
It’s a take off on the book written by former Supreme Court Justice John
Paul Stevens. Stevens would like to repeal the Second Amendment. John
would like to add a bunch of things to address the abuses that bug him
the most. I don’t think his list is intended to be taken seriously. It’s
just a handy list of grievances.

The “next constitution” is a topic I think about a lot, not because I am
plotting a revolution or expect one. We do seem to be heading for an end
of cycle moment, but how that plays out is a mystery to me. <a
href="http://armstrongeconomics.com/2014/04/26/world-war-iii-on-the-horizon/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Maybe we are headed to World
War III</a>. Who knows? The way things end is almost always a surprise
to everyone involved, even though the signs are all around them.

I don’t know, but what comes next will be a response to what went wrong.
That’s always the way it goes. The Constitution was a reflection of the
Founders reading of the recent history of Europe. Much of their concern
was the abuses they knew first hand and that’s what they tried to
address. Whoever is left after the great upheaval that ends this age
will do the same and address the problems of this age.

With that in mind, here’s my list:

**1)** **Clean Up Past Mistakes:** The first change is to eliminate the
amendments 13 through 27, except 25, which seems sensible. The Civil War
Amendments have resulted in so much abuse they are not repairable. The
16th Amendment is another area of abuse. The 17th has been a disaster,
knocking the pins from under the balance of powers. The rest are just
reflections of silly fads, for the most part.

**2) You Vote Where You Were Born:** One of the great abuses in recent
times has been people moving from one state that is dysfunctional to a
well run state. Instead of learning from their new neighbors, the new
comers start voting for the same degenerates that destroyed their home
state. This amendment is aimed at fixing that problem. If someone from
Massachusetts moves to New Hampshire, they still vote in their home
state, if their home state will allow it.

The children of that person, assuming they were born in the new state,
will vote in the new state. This also solves the problem of foreigners
moving here and then voting for crazy people. I would also be amenable
to a twenty year waiting period as well. You are on probation for 20
years then you get voting rights.

**3)** **No Federal Debt:** The systematic borrowing by the Federal
government has led to a mountain of abuses. If taxes had to be raised to
pay for government, we would have a lot less government. The last half
century has seen the massive growth of the government at all levels
fueled by debt. Government debt has also fueled the explosion of the
financial sector and all of its abuses.

To address this problem, borrowing would only be permitted in times of
war – declared wars against real countries. No more wars against
concepts. The ban on debt would also extend to things like pensions. Any
promise to pay beyond the term of the current Congress would be invalid.
This means the government is a pay as you go enterprise, thus
eliminating one route of subversion.

**4) All Income Taxed At 12%:** The last century has seen Congress
auctioning off tax breaks for campaign cash to the point where the tax
code is unintelligible. Government needs to be financed and the only
source of revenue will be a fixed levy on all income to individuals. No
business taxes. No tariffs. Nothing but the 12% tax, which will apply to
all income regardless of source. The benefit is it limits the size of
the state to the size of the economy. More important, it removes a
source of corruption that is at the heart of all forms of socialism.

**5)** **Term Limits:** All citizens will be limited to ten years of
Federal checks. One of the great abuses today is this army of people
living off the tax payer. The government needs employees, but it should
not be a career. Putting a ten year cap clears out the vast army of
loafers, but it also clears out the political class. They have to get
jobs in the dreaded private sector. I’d exempt the military and post
office. In all likelihood the workaround would be a shift from a
civilian workforce to contractors, but that’s OK. The point is to remove
the government as an employer of first resort.

The language would be key, as the weasels that seek to live off the
state are good at twisting the meaning of words. Inevitably, they would
find new ways to abuse the system. No set of arrangements will outlast
the endurance of the parasite class. Like the poor, they will always be
with us. But, the Founders created a system that served us pretty well
for 100 years. Lincoln drove a stake through it and subsequent
generations finished it off, but it staggered on for another 75 years
after Lincoln.

The Founders addressed what they knew. The French Revolution had yet to
reveal the frightening new danger facing civilization. They can be
excused for thinking the excesses of the French Revolution were
temporary. The republic they created was designed to arrest the abuses
of the past. They simply had no way of anticipating the tidal wave of
sewage that was about to wash over Western Civilization. This virulent
suicide cult we call Liberalism in America was unimaginable in the 18th
century. The constitutions of the 21st century will have to deal with
it.
