---
title: "No One Is Ever Punished"
date: "2014-10-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3132"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3132"
---

A business person I know recently found out that a couple of his
employees were stealing from him. It was petty theft and he never would
have detected it, except one of them bragged about it to another
employee. One thing led to another and he was informed by a loyal
employee of what was happening. He fired the thieves and that was the
end of it. It was not the first time and it will not be the last time.
Every business has policies and procedures in place to handle theft.

If you talk to cops, they will tell you that they solve most crimes with
a lot of help from the criminals. The crooks leave physical evidence
that is easy to trace. They brag about their exploits to friends. These
days, they post about their crimes on Facebook and Twitter, which is
amusing at a certain level. There’s something about humans that leads
them to give themselves away when they are breaking the rules.

The point I’m leading up to is the recent report on the North Carolina
academic scandal is based on assumptions that contradict the human
condition. The official story does not comport with what we know about
people breaking the rules. For instance, former UNC Athletic Director
and current ACC Commissioner, John Swofford, claims [he was wholly
unaware of what was going on all around
him](http://www.bostonherald.com/sports/college/other_college/2014/10/acc_commissioner_john_swofford_saw_no_warning_signs_as_unc_s_ad?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+bostonherald%2Fsports%2Fcollege+%28College+-+BostonHerald.com%29).

*John Swofford, the ACC commissioner, said that during his final years
at North Carolina he saw no warning signs, sensed no red flags, about
bogus independent studies courses that for nearly two decades inflated
athletes’ GPAs and helped keep them eligible.*

*Swofford, who spoke Wednesday at the ACC’s annual basketball media day,
was the athletic director at UNC from 1980 through 1997, when he left to
become the ACC commissioner. By the time he left, a long-running “paper
class scheme,” as it has been described recently, had been ongoing for
four years.*

*Kenneth Wainstein, a former U.S. Justice Department official, last week
announced the results of his months-long investigation into suspect
courses in UNC’s African- and Afro-American Studies Department.
Wainstein concluded that, from 1993-2011, 3,100 hundred students —
nearly half of them athletes — passed through bogus paper classes in
AFAM.*

*Among the athletes who were enrolled in the classes, which had no
professor oversight, nearly half were football and men’s basketball
players. Overall, athletes received higher grades in the courses than
non-athletes — often As and Bs for papers that were found to have been
heavily plagiarized.*

*Asked Wednesday if he sensed “any red flags” about the AFAM courses
during his final years at UNC, Swofford said, “I don’t think so.”*

*“I think if you look at (the Wainstein) report there, in my last few
years there, there were some, in terms of numbers, very relatively
minimal, independent study classes and AFAM,” Swofford said. “But that
really took off in about 2000.*

*“So it never came up while I was there as an issue from any source. If
it had, obviously, we would have addressed that with the appropriate
people. But it never arose as any issue at all.”*

*When Swofford was UNC’s athletic director, the academic support program
for athletes was, for a time, housed within the athletic department. He
changed that, though, and moved the academic support program — formerly
called the Academic Support Program for Student-Athletes — to the
College of Arts and Sciences, where it has remained.*

Now, I suppose it is possible that not a single student talked to anyone
about the fake classes. It’s possible the adults running the scam said
nothing. I suppose no one at the school ever wondered why so many
athletes were taking and acing these classes. All of that could be true,
but is so unlikely that it borders on the laughable. In all these years
not a single person bragged? Blabbed? Accidentally let slip with
something?

[According to the
report](http://3qh929iorux3fdpl532k03kg.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/UNC-FINAL-REPORT.pdf),
this was a miraculous crime spree. For almost two decades, a handful of
low-level flunkies and one professor orchestrated an elaborate fraud
without anyone in charge ever noticing. They were so good, they were
able to elude detection by dozens of coaches, several directors and a
couple of presidents. Not only does this contradict common everyday
experience, it is one of the all-time great crimes.

That’s all nonsense, of course. What we are seeing is another example
the how we no longer punish the people in charge. The report was
commissioned so the people in charge of the school could pretend to be
doing the right thing, while not actually blaming anyone who was in
charge at the time. Instead, it is some low-level flunkies left holding
the bag. Much like how Janet Reno “took responsibility” for killing all
of those people at Waco, being responsible means never having to answer
for your actions.

It is the problem that plagues our age. The people in charge have no
respect for the rules, they don’t abide by them and they never face any
consequences for breaking the rules. Walter Russell Mead calls what
happened at UNC a [moral
collapse](http://www.the-american-interest.com/blog/2014/10/28/the-utter-moral-collapse-of-unc-chapel-hill/).
That true, but it misses the larger issue. The UNC scandal is emblematic
of what has happened to American society. The utter and complete moral
collapse of the ruling class has reduced to a transactional society run
by sociopaths.
