---
title: "War on STEM"
date: "2014-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2440"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2440"
---

Progressives are not just obsessed with destroying competitors. They
seem determined to pull down the pillars of civilization. Their
destruction of the America health insurance system is a great example.
There’s no reason to explain the mayhem they are causing, other than a
desire to destroy. It is possible that it is just gross incompetence,
but it sure looks deliberate. <a
href="http://news.investors.com/ibd-editorials-obama-care/080614-712169-obamacare-enrollees-learn-that-insurance-does-not-equal-access.htm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece in IBD</a> the
other day is a good example. All of these results were predicted and
avoidable. Yet, here we are.

<a
href="http://mashable.com/2014/08/09/female-engineers-lean-in/?utm_cid=mash-com-Tw-main-link"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Another example</a> is the
continued assault on the STEM fields.

*Tracy Van Houten has always been infatuated with space. Over the course
of two decades and two degrees, that love took Houten from a
pre-engineering class in high school to NASA’s Jet Propulsion
Laboratory, where she works as an aerospace systems engineer on
groundbreaking projects like the Mars Curiosity Rover.*

*Like many female engineers, though, the 32-year-old mother of two has
encountered challenges one might expect in a field where nearly 90% of
professionals are men. Colleagues have occasionally asked Van Houten —
sometimes the only woman in the room — to take notes during meetings and
plan work parties. At times she feels her ideas aren’t acknowledged or
heard.*

*Van Houten must also make difficult choices in order to juggle work and
family — a balance male engineers may not feel as compelled to achieve.
When her second child was a year old, she turned down the opportunity to
join a team operating Curiosity once it landed on Mars, because of the
grueling schedule.*

A common assertion from feminists is that women have to make choices
that men do not face. There’s never a mention of the reverse. Men
certainly face choices women do not face. Both are a product of
biological reality, but determined to be a social construct, because,
well, you go girl.

*Yet, Van Houten remains a dedicated engineer, and that’s not always
common according to a new survey. For the past several years, two
researchers at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee have surveyed 5,300
women with degrees in engineering. They found that females frequently
leave the profession because there aren’t enough opportunities for
career advancement, or because they need to fulfill parenting or
caregiving responsibilities in the absence of family-friendly work
practices and policies.*

*The research indicates that leaning in to an engineering career may not
lead to leadership prospects or a lifelong vocation, as women may hope.
Instead, these women find themselves working for unfriendly or even
hostile supervisors who show little interest in helping them advance
professionally or designing a flexible work schedule to accommodate
family obligations. The survey respondents also reported being
discouraged by antiquated attitudes expressed by male colleagues and
feeling isolated in a “male-centric” workplace.*

Notice how men are supposed to accommodate women by “helping them
advance professionally.” Maybe that’s good business. Maybe it is
something a smart business owner should do. Who knows. What this is,
however, is a childish demand by girls unprepared for the real world.
Suck it up toots.

*Women, in fact, comprise about 20% of engineering school graduates, but
only 11% of practicing engineers are female. In Fouad’s survey, a third
of the women who left the field in the past five years did so to take
care of children at home. Twelve percent reported a dearth of
opportunities to advance in their career.*

Engineering, for example, is not sales. The value of an engineer is
cumulative. A woman who leaves her job for five years to raise kids is
coming back to work, not just having missed five years of working. She
is now behind the college grads in many cases. Her peers have advanced
to supervisory positions. Odds are, the mom returning to work has better
options outside of engineering.

*To help both employees and their employers address these problems, SWE
recently published a “playbook” that offers suggestions on how to better
integrate work and personal commitments. Among the recommended policies
are flexible scheduling practices, maternity and adoption leave, and
on-site health and wellness resources.*

*Fouad, along with Bierman, believes that companies must start
evaluating their policies for both sexes in order to effectively change
attitudes in the workplace. As more men feel comfortable insisting on a
sensible schedule, such requests will become the norm and not just the
domain of female employees. Similarly, as more women view engineering as
field that accommodates and encourages all of its professionals, they
may increasingly join its ranks.*

It’s not hard to see where this is going. The diversity rackets started
the same way. First they sent out “helpful” play books. Then they sent
out letters reading, “Nice company you have there. Too bad is something
were to happen to it.” Not long after, the HR departments were flooded
with women and minorities running diversity clinics. <a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=3&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CC8QFjAC&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.usatoday.com%2Fvideos%2Fnews%2Fusanow%2F2014%2F07%2F28%2F13273261%2F&amp;ei=xp3nU7-pHI6AygSuroHoCg&amp;usg=AFQjCNGN4lWwVF3sSg-Cy9yYY7B2BE2SRA&amp;sig2=4zfWeNsk2MQGLULqB7wopw&amp;bvm=bv.72676100,d.aWw"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Jesse Jackson is out shaking
down Silicon Valley</a>. The more subtle types will be demanding
engineering and technology firms start hiring girls – or else.

Put another way, it is convert, or else.
