---
title: "Leno Versus The Lunatics"
date: "2014-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=911"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=911"
---

I admit to being a fan of Jay Leno. By fan I mean I have been recording
his program for years and watching when I feel like watching some
television. I don’t watch much TV, other than sports. While eating
dinner, I like to watch something for an hour that will not piss me off
or make me crazy. Leno is the perfect choice. His brand of humor is
broad based and well within the bounds of common decency and
middle-class respectability.

Leno’s jokes are PG-13, his political humor sticks to the obvious from
the headlines and it is not particularly ideological. He makes fun of
whoever is in the news, regardless of party or status. His bits after
his monologue are similarly tame, mostly letting regular people do silly
things for the camera. The first 30 minutes make for a good dinner time
show. I rarely watch his guests as I don’t follow pop culture.

All that said, I therefore took note of the fact he was being forced out
by his employers in favor of a person named Jimmy Fallon. [A quick
search](http://variety.com/2013/tv/news/nbcs-rising-leno-dominates-over-kimmel-and-letterman-1200524505/)
tells me Leno was dominating his counterparts, including the man-boy
favorite, Jimmy Kimmel. The old Marxist David Letterman stagers on in
third place. As Leno’s forced exit grew closer, his rating soared to the
point where he was becoming a cultural phenomenon.

His final show scored huge numbers. According to the people who care
about these things, [his final show was one of the most
watched](http://www.deadline.com/2014/02/jay-lenos-tonight-show-farewell-ratiings-jimmy-fallon-best-ever-result/)
in decades. As an empirically minded person, 14 million viewers in a
nation of 300 million looks tiny to me, but people who make millions to
know about this stuff say otherwise. It is just a reminder that culture
is not rational in the linear sense of the term.

If a major company decided to retire its top selling and most profitable
product, for a new product that is obviously inferior, it could be
excusable. Even the best and brightest get wild ideas in their head
about what lies around the corner. Front running, or attempts at it, is
what gets investors in the most trouble. Sticking with the tried and
true is boring, especially for young people, so change for the sake of
change is common.

Television is a different thing, in that the nature is short term. The
whole point is to get a hit, ride it until it dies and then jump out the
window with a suitcase and the cigar box full of cash. NBC tried this a
few years back and it was a costly and embarrassing disaster. To do it
again when Leno is riding even higher than the last time raises the
question. Why does NBC hate him?

What we’re see is the work of fanatics. I first bumped into this when I
was a kid working in Washington. I worked for a Congressman doing
nonsense work. Back in the old days, this was common. I’m sure it is a
rigid process these days, but three decades ago it was not, so you got a
fun mix of personalities. The law student in charge of the young staff
was a nice girl, but a hard thumping liberal feminist.

Inevitably she set her sights on me as someone who had to be run out of
the office as a trouble maker. Her reason, which she told me when I
confronted her, was that I was not “very liberal.” That’s all that
mattered to her. So much so she did not note that I was the favorite of
the congressman’s wife, driving her around town. The result was they
found a new person to supervise the kids and volunteers.

It was my first experience with a fanatic. The second experience was
talking with an Iranian exile. He was a student when the Shah fell, but
he was not a fanatic or even religious, as far as I could tell. He
thought the Islamists were nuts and was one of the first people I heard
talk about the danger of Islamic fundamentalism. He told me a story
about his time in the army during the Iraq war to illustrate his point.

His unit was near the front lines and they were preparing for an
offensive. Between them and the Iraqi army was a minefield. Saddam’s
army was trained and developed by Soviet advisers, so it relied about
Soviet tactics. That mean they used a lot of mine fields. The Iranian
commander asked for volunteers to clear a minefield. About two dozen
Revolutionary Guards volunteered for the job.

After some prayer, they ran across the minefield, blowing up the mines
with their feet. A second wave of volunteers followed showing that the
mines had been cleared. That’s the definition of a fanatic. The object
of their fanaticism changes, but everything else is the same. The true
believer gives up his identity for that of the group, so sacrifice is
the ultimate expression of faith. The act counts for more than the
result.

The point of this diversion is that NBC is run by fanatics. A night
watching MSNBC, for example, is a descent into madness. Within living
memory, liberal members of the press would have mocked these people as
the aluminum foil hat crowd. Today [they run the news division of
NBC](http://www.realclearpolitics.com/2014/01/06/maddow_amp_the_new_matriarchy_running_nbc_news_323088.html).
Inside the building is a daily competition between fanatics to see who
is the most committed to the cause. Leno is not one of them.

In such an asylum, a non-believer like Leno would be suspect. In a weird
way, his popularity is confirmation of his heresy.  Because normal
people like him and he gets along with normal people, it is assumed he
is an enemy of the cause, so they will do what must be done to run him
off. That’s not to say his replacement is a fanatic. He’s just not the
guy they see as the enemy. So, the change will be made.
