---
title: "A Post With No Title"
date: "2014-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2270"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2270"
---

Looks like the Man is going to throw FedEx in jail.

*<span class="ticker_wrap">FedEx Corp. (<a
href="http://investing.businessweek.com/research/stocks/snapshot/snapshot.asp?ticker=FDX:US"
class="ticker" data-symbol="FDX:US">FDX:US</a>)</span> was accused in a
federal indictment of delivering prescription pain pills, sedatives,
anti-anxiety drugs and other controlled substances for illegal Internet
pharmacies. A conviction could be “material,” the company said today in
a regulatory filing.*

*The operator of the <span class="ticker_wrap">world’s largest (<a
href="http://investing.businessweek.com/research/stocks/snapshot/snapshot.asp?ticker=FDX:US"
class="ticker" data-symbol="FDX:US">FDX:US</a>)</span> cargo airline was
indicted on 15 counts of conspiracy to distribute controlled substances
and misbranded drugs and drug trafficking that carry a potential fine of
twice the gains from the illegal conduct, alleged to be at least $820
million for it and co-conspirators. FedEx delivered drugs to Internet
pharmacies that supplied pills to customers who filled out online
questionnaires and were never examined by doctors, knowing these
practices violated federal and state drug laws, according to the federal
indictment.*

*The company vowed to fight the charges, saying it can’t be responsible
for the contents of the 10 million packages it transports daily and that
policing customers would violate their privacy.*

*“FedEx is innocent of the charges,” Patrick Fitzgerald, a spokesman for
the Memphis, Tennessee-based company, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We will plead not guilty. We will defend against this attack
on the integrity and good name of FedEx and its employees.”*

Well, FedEx is not getting a free pass because they tried to protect the
privacy of criminals engaged in criminal behavior. That’s called aiding
and abetting. That said, it is unreasonable to hold a shipping company
responsible for the packages. Unless there’s proof FedEx knew about it
or should have known about it, the Feds are spinning their wheels.

*FedEx said yesterday it repeatedly asked the government for a list of
illegal pharmacies so it would know which ones not to do business with.
The U.S. never gave it such a list, it said.*

*The company knew it was delivering drugs to dealers and addicts, with
couriers in Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia expressing concerns
circulated to senior managers that FedEx trucks were stopped on the road
by online pharmacy customers demanding packages of pills, according to
the indictment. Some delivery addresses were parking lots or vacant
homes, prosecutors said.*

*“This indictment highlights the importance of holding corporations that
knowingly enable illegal activity responsible for their role in aiding
criminal behavior,” U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco said in
a statement.*

*The illegal deliveries began in 2000, Haag said, and FedEx continued to
do business with one Internet pharmacy whose manager had been arrested
for violating drug laws. She said the company also served a fulfillment
pharmacy that supplied Internet pharmacies that were shut by law
enforcement, with their owners and doctors convicted of illegally
distributing drugs.*

OK, that sounds bad. If the Feds can back it up with proof, then it is
clear the company engaged in illegal conduct that they knew to be
illegal. But, there’s a problem. The “company” did not do anything.
People working for the company made these decisions. Why are the Feds
going after the share holders? Surely, they could press the employees to
dime out the people who made the decision to commit these crimes.
Conspiracy to distribute class A narcotics is a big crime carrying big
time.

It is the fundamental problem we face as a country. We no longer arrest
and prosecute rich people. In the 80’s, the S&L crooks went to the can
in big numbers. Even Michael Milken did time. In the Clinton years that
stopped and the law no longer applies to the ruling class. Exactly one
guy from the Enron scandal went to jail. No one from the dot-com scam
went to jail. No one from the mortgage meltdown went to jail.

If we get back to sending rich people to the can when they screw up, a
lot of what ails us will fix itself. Want to see the ruling class get
religion? Send a few of them to Angola State Prison. They get serious
about the law in a hurry.
