---
title: "Watching Old People Work"
date: "2014-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2366"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2366"
---

The other day I was watching bunch of guys tear up some concrete in the
courtyard of my office building. One guy was running a jackhammer, the
sort that is attached to a bobcat. Others were cutting re-bar, while
others moved the rubble around for no apparent reason. They were not
screwing around or loafingThey were just ridiculously disorganized. It
was an amusing show.

Watching it, I noticed that there was not a single immigrant on the
crew. It was all white guys and one black guy. Construction has been
down around here since the crash so maybe the Mexican trade guys moved
on and what’s left is the old white guys who used to work in sales or
something. I’m just guessing. Maybe the government cracked down on the
illegals in the trades. Stop laughing.

The other thing was the age. Every one of the crew was over forty. One
guy was in his sixties. He was busting his hump, outworking everyone
else. The old guy was in great shape. He even smoked, which is pretty
funny. I’m going to say the bulk of the crew was between 45 and 55.
There was one guy that could have been under 40, but that’s it. Pretty
old for manual labor.

Out of curiosity, I looked up the average age of construction workers
and [found this](http://www.bls.gov/cps/industry_age.htm) from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. There’s a lot of data there and it does not
look like construction is an old business. Manufacturing is older.
Government is really old with a median age pushing 50 for most sectors.
Searching around for more granular data I found <a
href="http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2014-03-20/skilled-welder-shortage-looms-in-u-dot-s-dot-with-many-near-retirement"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story</a> that claims the
average age of welders is 55.

For some reason we have had a welder shortage for years now. I have a
distant relative who is a career criminal and welder. He gets out of
jail and goes back to welding, often being bailed out by his employer.
Presumably he is very good at his trade and does not commit his crimes
on the job, but it says a lot about the quality of people in that trade.

There’s not a lot of great data for the trades. Plumbers in Texas, for
example, are 50 years old, on average. The median age of carpenters is
supposedly 48 across the country. If you look closely at the BLS data,
retail is the youngest sector and government is the oldest.
Manufacturing is the next oldest and then you get into the trades. Young
people seem to be in services, technology and retail.

When you start looking at the data, it is not hard to see why upper
middle class whites favor open borders. They don’t work in the trades.
Their kids will not even work summers in the trades. Heck, middle class
kids no longer work. That’s for the poor people now. On the other hand,
upper middle class people need their toilets fixed and their houses
repaired.

At the same time, it is easy to see why the [public is turning on
immigration](http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/214561-poll-most-in-us-say-illegal-immigrants-threaten-life-economy).
Despite what the people on TV believe, America is not 30-something
beautiful people living in swank urban enclaves. Most people are related
to one of those guys busting up the sidewalks outside my office.

Still, demographics does not explain why the trades are getting gray. It
is not easy to be a carpenter or a steamfitter. Welding is a lot more
involved than working in a government office. To be a competent
carpenter you need math skills, problem solving skills, in addition to
physical skills. The young people with something on the ball are
discouraged from going into the trades, while they are encouraged to
head off to college. At some point, that has to change.
