---
title: "War?"
date: "2014-09-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2644"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2644"
---

For a long time, war in Europe has been unthinkable. In the Cold War,
conflict meant nuclear exchange and the end of the human race.
Therefore, war with the Soviets was to be avoided at all costs. It was
also assumed, correctly, that the Russians were not interested in war
with the West, at least not a shooting war. Proxies such as Vietnam or
various civil wars in the third world were as far as it could be allowed
to go.

Once the Cold War ended, war was looking like a thing of the past.
Hammering a crap hole from time to time was as far as it would go.
Europe was into the end of history stuff and racing toward one worldism.
If you talked about the Russian threat ten years ago, you were
considered a nut. Heck, in the 2012 election, Obama mocked Romney for
talking up the threat of Russia. The liberal media roared with laughter
when Obama said “The 80’s called and they want their foreign policy
back” in one of the debates.

Now, here we are with [the very liberal Slate posting
article](http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/foreigners/2014/08/vladimir_putin_s_troops_have_invaded_ukraine_should_we_prepare_for_war_with.html?wpsrc=sh_all_dt_tw_top)
about the looming war with Russia.

*Over and over again—throughout the entirety of my adult life, or so it
feels—I have been shown Polish photographs from the beautiful summer of
1939: The children playing in the sunshine, the fashionable women on
Krakow streets. I have even seen a picture of a family wedding that took
place in June 1939, in the garden of a Polish country house I now own.
All of these pictures convey a sense of doom, for we know what happened
next. September 1939 brought invasion from both east and west,
occupation, chaos, destruction, genocide. Most of the people who
attended that June wedding were soon dead or in exile. None of them ever
returned to the house.*

When you start with a reference to the looming Nazi onslaught, you know
the rest of the article is going to be seriously grim.

*In retrospect, all of them now look naive. Instead of celebrating
weddings, they should have dropped everything, mobilized, prepared for
total war while it was still possible. And now I have to ask: Should
Ukrainians, in the summer of 2014, do the same? Should central Europeans
join them?*

*I realize that this question sounds hysterical, and foolishly
apocalyptic, to American or Western European readers. But hear me out,
if only because this is a conversation many people in the eastern half
of Europe are having right now. In the past few days, Russian troops
bearing the flag of a previously unknown country, Novorossiya, have
marched across the border of southeastern Ukraine. The Russian Academy
of Sciences recently announced it will publish a history of Novorossiya
this autumn, presumably tracing its origins back to Catherine the Great.
Various maps of Novorossiya are said to be circulating in Moscow. Some
include Kharkov and Dnipropetrovsk, cities that are still hundreds of
miles away from the fighting. Some place Novorossiya along the coast, so
that it connects Russia to Crimea and eventually to Transnistria, the
Russian-occupied province of Moldova. Even if it starts out as an
unrecognized rump state—Abkhazia and South Ossetia, “states” that Russia
carved out of Georgia, are the models here—Novorossiya can grow larger
over time.*

The thing about American politicians and strategists is they always
assume the other guys think like they think. That’s been the problem
with Ukraine. Close to zero people in the American foreign policy bubble
have heard of “Novorossiya” or what the “Wild Fields” means to Russian
nationalists. Anne Applebaum is clever and super connected to the neocon
network, yet this is the first time she has written about this. This
suggests that the Western foreign policy elite knows next to nothing
about what’s going on in Russia today and they assume no one else does
either.

That’s the scary part about this situation. It looks like the West is
not just clueless about Russia, but almost in disbelief every time Putin
makes a move. [This story about Igor
Strelkov](http://www.newrepublic.com/article/118813/igor-strelkov-russian-war-reenactor-fights-real-war-ukraine)
is a good example. That part of the word has forever been dominated by
out-sized and outlandish personalities. Just look at how the collapse of
the Soviet Union unfolded. Boris Yeltsin was not a sober and cautious
man, by any stretch of the imagination. Look at some of the characters
in the “stans” or even in the Russian parliament.

Wars start for one of two reasons. One is the combatants don’t know
what’s coming and blunder into war. The other is the combatants know
exactly what is coming, but the stronger side will not be deterred. The
American Civil War and the First World War are example of the former. If
the participants had the benefit of foresight, they would have made
different choices. The bloodbath may have happened under different
conditions, I don’t know, but there’s no way people voluntarily submit
to a mass kill-off.

That’s what’s scary about what’s unfolding with Russia and the West. The
West has no idea what they are dealing with in Ukraine or with Putin.
They think they can wage technological and financial war to force their
preferred solution on Putin. On the other hand, Putin seems convinced
the West is paralyzed by a lack of confidence. He can impose his
preferred solution on the West with the force of arms. History says he
is probably right in the short run, but the West is right in the long
run.

What happens in between is the scary part.
