---
title: "Another Black Guy"
date: "2014-01-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=778"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=778"
---

Like a lot of people in the bad thing community, I have recently
discovered [Ta-Nehisi
Coates](http://www.theatlantic.com/ta-nehisi-coates/). This means I have
not been reading the Atlantic for a long time. I used to be an avid
reader, when it was the symbol of educated taste and I was a young guy
trying to acquire educated tastes. I lost interest in it at some point,
but I did return when Michael Kelly took over for a while. After his
death they fell back into the old bad habits and I drifted away. There’s
only so much blank Progressivism you can take.

Anyway, I discovered him when he was described as an important new
public intellectual in a lefty publication. Looking at his blog, I saw
some interesting stuff and read up on him a little bit. There was enough
there to see the familiar markings. The Left will start with the idea of
the ideal intellectual and then find some guy to dress up like the model
and repeat the slogans and sing the songs popular with the Left. It’s
like the Left has central casting where they find these guys to plays
these roles on TV and their websites.

This bit from the Coates blog jumped out to me:

*When I was young man, I studied history at Howard University. Much of
my studies were focused on the black diaspora, and thus white racism. I
wish I had understood that I was not, in fact, simply studying white
racism, but the nature of power itself. I wish I had known that the
rules that governed my world echoed out into the larger world. I wish I
had known how unoriginal we really are.*

Notice it is possible for someone to major in white racism. By the time
you are a teenager, you have a pretty good idea how racism works,
whether it is white-on-black, black-on-white or any combination that
strikes your fancy. America is a big country. Whatever your race, we
have someone who hates you for it. The other thing that jumps out here
is the conflation of racism, however defined, and power. It is an
interesting concept because it explains something of the black view or
the Western world and is entirely insane.

people naturally are attracting to people who look like them and share
their heritage and culture. This is obvious to anyone who has been
outside. That means they are less likely to be a threat. Developed
within the evolving social networks of humans over ten thousand years,
it is not hard to see how distrust of the other is baked into the cake.
It is a useful survival strategy and it is useful as a group survival
strategy. This innate sense of trust among similar people is well known
to anyone who has traveled.

Notice also that race is not real, but racism explains everything that
makes people like Coates angry at the world. It’s a weird contradiction,
but these are not people basing their claims in Aristotelian logic. This
dualism about race is simply a way to claim they have a right to your
stuff and to rule over you. On the one hand, you got yours through
racism, which is bad, but blacks can never be racist, as they don’t have
stuff. It’s pretty much just a tarted up statement from the black guy
who robbed your house.
