---
title: "All Fagged Out"
date: "2014-07-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2302"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2302"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, I hired a homosexual. Of course, this was
the olden thymes so there was no mention of it. If anyone discovered a
homosexual, they were required to report them to the authorities. The
homosexual was then shipped off to one of the rehabilitation centers run
by Pat Robertson. If that did not “take” then they were shipped to the
lavender plantations in the South, operated by Oral Roberts, ironically
enough. As a result no one ever spoke of homosexuals.

That’s nonsense, but not too far from the official narrative being
developed by the usual suspects. The airbrushing of history with regards
to this topic is not going to end until the past fits the fantasy. In my
case the guy was flaming, so it was obvious he preferred the company of
men. That and he mentioned it in his interview. He wanted to make sure
it was not going to be an issue. I told him he’d have to figure that out
for himself, but as long as he did his job I did not care.

That was the last time I had any reason to discuss the matter with him.
Some of the guys gave him grief, but he was used to it and handled it
well. As is always the case, he fell into a role that suited him and
everyone else. The point being that in the olden thymes, homosexuals had
to put up with some mild inconveniences, but nothing significant. More
important, normal people did not go crazy around them. Other than some
mild discomfort, normal people got along just fine with homosexuals
because we were *indifferent* towards them.

Today, people all over the world are going insane over homosexuals.
Throughout the Middle East and Africa, otherwise normal people are going
berserk and attacking homosexuals. [Uganda just passed harsh laws
against
homosexuality](http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/africa/ugandan-leader-signs-harsh-anti-gay-bill-despite-warning-from-obama-administration/2014/02/24/88486066-9d63-11e3-878c-65222df220eb_story.html).
They did it despite stern warnings from Obama. Of course, we all know
how countries in the Middle East have gone bonkers over this. Iran was
driven to such madness as to [bring back
stoning](http://www.theblaze.com/stories/2011/01/18/human-rights-group-two-gay-men-face-stoning-in-iran/).

OK, I’m kidding around again.

Sort of.

I wanted to check in on the sports world and [I see this on
ESPN](http://espn.go.com/new-york/nfl/story/_/id/11249783/human-rights-campaign-blasts-new-york-giants-hiring-david-tyree).
David Tyree is against gay marriage, like most everyone. Big deal. Who
cares? Every damned week the sporting press is running with a homosexual
story. You just know they will make a fetish of Michael Sam this fall.
They made fools of themselves hounding the gay basketball player last
summer so you know they will go crazy over this. ESPN is the worst
offender, but even sports radio can’t stop obsessing over gays. There’s
nowhere to hide from the constant chatter about homosexuals.

I’m all fagged out.

I want “the love that dared not speak its name” to go back to the time
honored tradition of not speaking its name. Instead, it is the love that
won’t shut the hell up and leave the rest of alone. You can’t escape it.
If you watch TV, every show now must feature a homosexual, despite the
fact only [3.4% of the population claim to be
homosexual](http://www.gallup.com/poll/158066/special-report-adults-identify-lgbt.aspx).
There are more “little people” in this world than “trans” people, yet
every newspaper in the country is running at least one tranny tale a
week. If I were a midget, I’d feel like I was getting the short
end…well…nevermind.

It is getting to the point where it is impossible to engage with popular
culture. The preaching is unbearable. Preaching about homosexuals is
even worse, given that no one, including most homosexuals, cares about
homosexuals. Circling back (or reaching around if you prefer) to my
story at the top, I remember a time when no one cared about the topic
and they were generally decent enough to keep their feelings about it to
themselves. Let’s go back to that.

But, that’s not how cultural genocide works. The lunatics give you two
choices. One is you embrace their insane, ever shifting set of codes,
or, else. ISIS is telling Iraqi Christians they must convert or die. The
Greater American Lunatic is telling normals they must embrace and exult
homosexuality or else. Well, nuts to that, as it were. I’ve had enough
of the gays. I’m all fagged out and I don’t want to hear any more about 
the gays.
