---
title: "Weird People"
date: "2014-09-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2893"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2893"
---

F. Scott Fitzgerald supposedly said the “rich are nothing like us.” The
fact is the rich do live different lives than everyone else. For most
people, money is the thing you never have enough of and so you are
forever fussing over it. It is always at the heart of your decisions.
Rich people have excess and so they don’t spend as much time fussing
about money in their daily lives. That leads to lives that are <a
href="http://www.vanityfair.fr/culture/livre/articles/generation-wuss-by-bret-easton-ellis/15837"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">strangely different than the
rest of us</a>.

*In February I gave an interview to Vice UK to help promote a film I had
written and financed called The Canyons—I did the press because there
was still the idea, the hope, that if myself or the director Paul
Schrader talked about the film it would somehow find an audience
interested in it and understand what it was: an experimental, guerilla
DIY affair that cost $150,000 dollars to shoot ($90,000 out of our own
pockets) and that we filmed over twenty days in L.A. during the summer
of 2012 starring controversial Millennials Lindsay Lohan and porn star
James Deen. The young journalist from Vice UK asked me about the usual
things I was preoccupied with in that moment: my admiration of Martin
Scorsese’s The Wolf of Wall Street—the best film I saw in 2013 (not
great Scorsese, but better than any other American film that year) and
we talked about the movie I’m writing for Kanye West, my love of
Terrence Malick (though not To The Wonder), a miniseries I was
developing about the Manson murders for FOX (but because of another
Manson series going into production at NBC the miniseries has now been
cancelled), the Bret Easton Ellis Podcast (link), the possibility of a
new novel I had begun in January of 2013 and that I lost interest in but
hoped to get back to; we talked about my problems with David Foster
Wallace, my love of Joan Didion, as well as Empire versus post-Empire
(link) and we talked about, of course, The Canyons. But the first
question the young journalist asked me wasn’t about the movie—it was
about why I was always referring to Millennials as Generation Wuss on my
Twitter feed. And I answered her honestly, unprepared for the level of
noise my comments caused once the Vice UK piece was posted.*

Bret Easton Ellis is not a billionaire, but he lives a life of leisure.
His books and the movies from those books have made him millions. His
fame means rich people looking for cultural trinkets are willing to pay
him to hang around them. That’s why his opening paragraph resembles
something you would expect from a patient at the local psychiatric ward.
The name dropping and impulsive self-reference is strange enough, but
the volume of it is not like anything you find in normalville.

*I have been living with someone from the Millennial generation for the
last four years (he’s now 27) and sometimes I’m charmed and sometimes
I’m exasperated by how him and his friends—as well as the Millennials
I’ve met and interacted with both in person and in social media—deal
with the world, and I’ve tweeted about my amusement and frustration
under the banner “Generation Wuss” for a few years now. My huge
generalities touch on their over-sensitivity, their insistence that they
are right despite the overwhelming proof that suggests they are not,
their lack of placing things within context, the overreacting, the
passive-aggressive positivity, and, of course, all of this exacerbated
by the meds they’ve been fed since childhood by over-protective
“helicopter” parents mapping their every move. These are late-end Baby
Boomers and Generation X parents who were now rebelling against their
own rebelliousness because of the love they felt that they never got
from their selfish narcissistic Boomer parents and  who end up
smothering their kids, inducing a kind of inadequate preparation in how
to deal with the hardships of life and the real way the world works:
people won’t like you, that person may not love you back, kids are
really cruel, work sucks, it’s hard to be good at something, life is
made up of failure and disappointment, you’re not talented, people
suffer, people grow old, people die. And Generation Wuss responds by
collapsing into sentimentality and creating victim narratives rather
than acknowledging the realities of the world and grappling with them
and processing them and then moving on, better prepared to navigate an
often hostile or indifferent world that doesn’t care if you exist.*

Pop culture people always seem to come to bad ends. Comics rarely have
careers into their fifties for this reason. Once you hit your 40’s you
begin to lose touch with pop culture. By your mid-50’s you have no idea
who most of these people are even if you try yo pay attention. The aging
comic’s references become sad and dated. The aging satirist starts to
sound like a retired athlete. Ellis appears to be heading down that road
where he compares everything to his generation.
