---
title: "Piketty Ninnies"
date: "2014-05-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1584"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1584"
---

David Brooks is a useful guy to watch at the moment, as he is popular
with the managerial class. His book, <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Bobos-In-Paradise-Upper-Class/dp/0684853787"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Bobos in Paradise,</a> is an
excellent bit of cultural observation.  He knows his peers well and
often does an excellent job describing their habits and world view. It
is also why he sounds like a space alien when he addresses issues facing
common Americans. Still, he scores with a column or two a year and <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/25/opinion/brooks-the-piketty-phenomenon.html?ref=opinion&amp;_r=2&amp;version=meter+at+5&amp;region=FixedCenter&amp;pgtype=article&amp;priority=true&amp;module=RegiWall-Regi&amp;action=click"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this is one such example</a>.

*Many people join the political left driven by a concern for the poor.
But, over the past several years, the Democratic Party has talked much
more about the middle class than the poor. Meanwhile, progressive
political movements like Occupy Wall Street directed their fervor at the
top 1 percent. Progressive movies and books have focused their attention
on conspiracy and oligarchy at the top, not “Grapes of Wrath” or “How
the Other Half Lives” stories at the bottom.*

*This is natural. The modern left is led by smart professionals —
academics, activists, people in the news media, the arts and so on — who
tend to live in and around coastal cities.*

*If you are a young professional in a major city, you experience
inequality firsthand. But the inequality you experience most acutely is
not inequality down, toward the poor; it’s inequality up, toward the
rich.*

*You go to fund-raisers or school functions and there are always hedge
fund managers and private equity people around. You get more attention
than them at parties, but your whole apartment could fit in their dining
room. You struggle with tuition, but their kids go off on ski weekends.
You wait in line at the post office, but they have staff to do it for
them.*

*You see firsthand the explosion of wealth at the tippy-top. It really
doesn’t help that you have to spend your days kissing up to the
oligarchs and their foundations to finance your research, exhibition or
favorite cause.*

And right there he touches on precisely why a hitherto unknown economist
named Thomas Piketty is taking the beautiful people by storm. The people
writing at the NYTimes, teaching at big state universities and carrying
bags for elected officials have grown resentful of their masters. They
look around at lottery winners like Mark Zuckerberg and wonder why he
gets to live like an 18th century French royal, while they toil in his
fields. After all, they went to an Ivy League college too.

Obama declared inequality as “the defining issue of our time.” Obama is
a spokesman, so he is a useful indicator about what vexes these people.
His writers and teleprompter operators are members of the managerial
class. What’s important to them will eventually turn up in one his
carefully choreographed speeches. With an election coming and the Left
on its heels, it is a safe bet they will be pounding this drum for the
rest of the year in an effort to <a
href="http://washingtonexaminer.com/poll-americans-see-health-care-as-the-top-problem/article/2541495"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">change the subject</a>.

“defining challenge of our time.”

“defining challenge of our time.”

“defining challenge of our time.”

There may be something else going on here. If you look back at the last
fifteen years, the period of this last Great Awakening of Progressive
fanaticism, they don’t have a whole lot to show for themselves. In the
2000’s, it was mostly an extended tantrum about the unlettered rubes of
the Bush administration. The Obama years have been a big disappointment
to the Left. The great dreams of 2008 have been boiled down to one major
initiative, health care, which has been a terrible flop.

If you are a member of the ruling class, it feels bad right now. The
triumph of Obama is a distant memory and all the promise of that time
amounted to nothing. More broadly speaking, this last fevered push by
the Left never had much going for it. Health care is a math problem, not
a moral problem. The rest of their agenda amounts to nothing more than
weird fads cooked up by intersectional college professors with too much
time on their hands. It’s been a total bust

The other side of the coin is the Right has nothing to offer.
Conservatism in America has mostly functioned as a brake on the
Progressives. Every once in a while they come up with a good policy and
aggressively promote it, but for the most part they are the
party-poopers telling the Left they can’t have what they want. Right
now, the Left is exhausted and the Right has nothing to champion. That’s
why the so-called conservatives sound like a bizarre mystery cult built
around Reagan and buckley.

Ideologically, we are at a dead end. With no way forward, going back and
re-arguing inequality suits both sides well. The real issue of this age,
the demographic issue, is forbidden due to the dictates of
egalitarianism. Since that is the only issue that actually matters, they
are left talking about trivial and made up stuff. That and their
feelings about one another, which is the root of the inequality stuff.
The house servants are getting restless with nothing better to do.
