---
title: "Fallon: Regular Guy?"
date: "2014-02-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1035"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1035"
---

<a
href="http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/tv/showtracker/la-et-st-jimmy-fallon-tonight-show-review-20140217,0,4175291.story#axzz2tiDM5muj"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I saw this on Drudge</a>
yesterday. For some reason I thought the Fallon version of the Tonight
Show was starting in the spring. I’m not enough of a TV watcher to keep
up with these things, I guess. I’m now exclusively on Amazon and the
XBox for content. That means old movies when the spirit moves me and
whatever is free from Microsoft.

Anyway, I never have understood the popularity of Jimmy Fallon. I don’t
think he is very funny. The dorky effeminate white guy routine is as
worn out as the neurotic Jewish guy routine. You have to be a comedic
genius to make it work. But, I’m not a good judge of these things. I
think Will Ferrell is just warmed over Chevy Chase.

What got my attention in this article was this:

*Fallon has long positioned himself as a regular guy, the kind who would
rather play charades with his guests than engage in lame interviews —
or, even better, just pick up a guitar and goof around. His likableness
has taken him far.*

*But even by his standards, the “aw shucks” factor was high on Monday
night.*

*After a lovely opening credits intro directed by <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/topic/entertainment/movies/spike-lee-PECLB004221.topic"
id="PECLB004221" title="Spike Lee">Spike Lee</a>, Fallon took the stage,
thanked his predecessors, and said: “I really don’t know how I got
here.” Speaking in a voice so quiet you could practically hear audience
members swallow, he introduced himself to “those of you who are watching
me for the first time, which is very possible,” starting with the
basics. “I’m 39 years old, I live in New York City with my beautiful
wife Nancy and my daughter Winnie who’s six months old … and I love her
so much.”*

Fallon a regular guy? This is one of those things where you see the
yawning gap between the over-class and the rest of America. The only
place an effeminate poseur is a regular guy is in some gentrified
hipsterville like Brooklyn. In the rest of America, men are still men
and they don’t “pick up a guitar and goof around with friends.” That’s
the sort of thing that will still get you beat up in large swath of
America. If you’re black or Spanish, regular guys are certainly not
30-something white hipsters.

That probably explains the enormous investment in Fallon by NBC . They
really want him to be the every man. More important, they want America
to look like the trendy places they have coffee and talk about writing
projects. In fact, they want it so much they believe it is happening.
These people are always sure their greatest desires for society are
right around the corner, so they can believe anything is possible.

In the early days of TV, writers and performers were obsessed with
middle-America. TV hosts were from the Midwest so they could relate to
everyone. The shows were geared toward reinforcing and flattering the
norms of middle-America. Johnny Carson became an icon and a force in
Hollywood because he was loved by middle-America. Leno, as much as he
could, kept that tradition going, but he was never a powerful figure in
show business like his predecessor. His politics were simply too
pedestrian.

The promotion of a Jimmy Fallon reflects the new way of doing things.
Instead of armies of Jewish writers flattering Middle-Americans,
Hollywood is an army of writers lecturing, educating and training those
crude prols that go to WalMart and eat fast food. Fallon is the new
model man, small, petite and vulnerable. He does not have on guests to
entertain you; he has them on so he can entertain them. The new model
man is an androgynous man-boy begging for acceptance by spilling his
heart out in public.
