---
title: "The High Cost of Diversity"
date: "2014-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1625"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1625"
---

In Pennsylvania, <a
href="http://lancasteronline.com/news/local/supreme-court-pennsylvania-cops-no-longer-need-a-warrant-to/article_6a407fc6-d077-11e3-8025-0017a43b2370.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the police can now search your
vehicle</a> whenever the spirit move them. This is all about stopping
drug mules on the interstate. Those drug mules are almost exclusively
black and Hispanic. The cops don’t advertise it, but they are trained to
look for young NAM males driving rented cars. The drug gangs want to
eliminate one reason to stop the vehicle. Using a rental means all the
lights work and license is in order. They also figured out that local
cops tend not to pull over out of state drivers.

The problem with that is they need a reason to pull over T’Q’uan. These
people are idiots so the mule is often smoking weed while driving or
otherwise doing something the cops can use as an excuse. But, it will be
a lot easier to run a wide-scale version of stop and frisk on the
nations highway system if they no longer need a warrant. <a
href="http://www.theregister.co.uk/2014/04/29/supreme_court_mobile_search_warrantless/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">They would also like to search
mobile phones</a> without a warrant as well. That way they can get a
jump on the rest of the crew once they pull T’Q’uan or Julio over in
I-95.

That sounds great until you think about the abuses that will surely
follow. Cops are mostly decent people, but it is a close call. A lot of
cops are sociopaths, attracted to the position because they can push
people around with impunity. Many are just crooks with enough on the
ball to know it is better to be a crook with a badge than a crook
without a badge. The crime rate among cops is not encouraging, if you
are looking to trust your liberty to these people.

There are a couple of things to consider in that graphic. One is cops
are much whiter than the general population. Adjusted for race, the
crime rate of cops will be much higher than the general population.
Second, the number of robberies is most certainly an outlier. Bad data
is my guess. Cops steal like mad. Everyone knows it, but it is rarely
reported or prosecuted. Violent crimes are too difficult to hide so they
get investigated.

<a
href="http://web.archive.org/web/20121019014646/http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/homicide/race.cfm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Crime in America is mostly a
NAM issue.</a> The drug game, outside of crystal meth, is a black and
Hispanic activity. Plenty of whites take drugs, but the drug game is run
by blacks and Hispanics. Legalization of weed will further this trend.
Murder is not entirely drug related, but a big part of the yearly
homicides committed by young NAM males in the drug game, mostly at the
street level. Controlling this population has been the focus of
policing, prisons and social policy for 50+ years.

The fact is, you can have diversity or liberty, but not both. Otherwise,
you get a violent free-for-all of tribal warfare. The reason Continental
Europe is naturally authoritarian is it is how you survive when
surrounded by a bunch of people not like you. For the Dutch to have
remained Dutch for 2,000 years meant defending their turf against all
comers. This required a high degree of discipline. The same is true of
every other group in Europe.

The same will be true of America.
