---
title: "Post-Modernism"
date: "2014-07-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2328"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2328"
---

It used to be that “post-modernism” was said to be the artistic
expression of late-stage capitalism,  [at least according to Frederic
Jameson](Way%20back%20in%20the%20olden%20thymes,%20post-modernism%20was%20said%20to%20be%20the%20artistic%20expression%20of%20late%20capitalism.).
A useful definition of post-modernism came from the great philosopher
[Moe Szyslak](http://simpsons.wikia.com/wiki/Moe_Szyslak). He said it is
“weird for the sake of being weird.” Contra Professor Jameson, with few
exceptions, post-modern art is crap made by people with no real artistic
talent. On the other hand, maybe that’s a telling indictment of the
flickering lights of western civilization.

Anyway, here is another definition of post-modernism. It is when a
society forgets all of the lessons about human nature handed down from
the previous generations and then embarks on the process of re-learning
them through painful trial and error. A good example of this is right
here in [this story from the New York
Times](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/13/us/how-one-college-handled-a-sexual-assault-complaint.html?_r=0).
It is the typical sob-story from a leftist rag about how men get away
with being violent rapists and women are helpless victims.

*She was 18 years old, a freshman, and had been on campus for just two
weeks when one Saturday night last September her friends grew worried
because she had been drinking and suddenly disappeared.*

*Around midnight, the missing girl texted a friend, saying she was
frightened by a student she had met that evening. “Idk what to do,” she
wrote. “I’m scared.” When she did not answer a call, the friend began
searching for her.*

*In the early-morning hours on the campus of Hobart and William Smith
Colleges in central New York, the friend said, he found her — bent over
a pool table as a football player appeared to be sexually assaulting her
from behind in a darkened dance hall with six or seven people watching
and laughing. Some had their cellphones out, apparently taking pictures,
he said.*

*Later, records show, a sexual-assault nurse offered this preliminary
assessment: blunt force trauma within the last 24 hours indicating
“intercourse with either multiple partners, multiple times or that the
intercourse was very forceful.” The student said she could not recall
the pool table encounter, but did remember being raped earlier in a
fraternity-house bedroom.*

*The football player at the pool table had also been at the fraternity
house — in both places with his pants down — but denied raping her,
saying he was too tired after a football game to get an erection. Two
other players, also accused of sexually assaulting the woman, denied the
charge as well. Even so, tests later found sperm or semen in her vagina,
in her rectum and on her underwear.*

Later in the story, we get some additional background.

*The fraternity houses, where so many parties occur, sit high above the
lake. And it was at one fraternity, Kappa Sigma, where sometime between
9:30 and 10 p.m. on Sept. 7, Anna attended one of the year’s first big
social events — a “highlighter party,” where students write on one
another’s clothes with a marker that glows under black light.*

*Later there was dancing. Anna and a senior football player she had just
met were grinding to the music, rubbing their bodies together.*

*With so many students packed together in the basement, it became hot,
and the football player escorted Anna upstairs, where smaller groups
congregated in students’ bedrooms. A friend tried to stop her, but she
went anyway.*

*Anna said she had begun the evening drinking shots of rum mixed into
Gatorade. She drank one beer at the dance, she said, and then the rest
of an opened beer her dance partner had given her.*

*Around midnight, a fraternity member tried to enter his room, but found
it locked. He opened the door with his key and caught a glimpse of what
would become a pivotal episode in Anna’s case: The senior football
player was naked, and Anna was sitting on a bed with her top off,
covering her breasts. The visitor quickly left.*

At this point, everyone knows what happened. A young girl got drunk and
wound up pulling the train. It is a crude things to say, but sometimes
it is bets to describe things using crude language to make the point.
John Derbyshire has this to say about the resulting rape investigation.

*Is your sympathy for this young woman draining away as fast as mine is,
listener?*

*Yep, you heard right: the young woman cried rape. The gist of the
article is that she accused the original football player and two others
of raping her, but the college didn’t discipline the guys.*

*On her video clip Anna says the following thing, quote: “When I came
forward I felt so good because I was told that people had my back, they
believed me, and the right thing would be done,” end quote. Let’s pass
over in decent silence the bit about people having her back … What does
she mean by “the right thing would be done”?*

*I don’t think there’s much doubt what she means. She means that she,
Anna, should be fussed over and sympathised with as a victim, and that
the guys who helped themselves to her incontinently drunk body should be
expelled from campus, or better yet sent down for five to ten in the
state penitentiary.*

*What a crock.*

If you are a woman and choose to get blind drunk around a bunch of horny
young males, you will probably regret itt. Similarly, if you don a meat
suit and rush into a lion’s den, you will get mauled. This is something
humans used to know. In fact, up until the 1960’s, it was so universally
understood that it was common to separate boys and girls without adult
supervision. Boys want sex and will do and say just about anything to
get it and girls are vulnerable and a bit gullible.

Again, we used to know these things.

We have filled the heads of young women with feminist nonsense and we’ve
done the same to males. Men were taught they had a moral obligation to
protect the innocent, especially women and children. If you found a
vulnerable women surrounded by predatory males, you had a duty to stop
it. Today, you are told you should either join in or take pics of the
gang bang and post them to your Instagram account.

The worst part of it all is this thoroughly insane idea that if it is
not against the law it is permitted. Again, we have an example of this
in this story. The girl and some of her friends, admit to behavior that
the school should never tolerate. It is not illegal, but beneath the
standards of this university. The adults running the school should know
that if they turn a blind eye to their coeds getting blind drunk on
weekends, this is the sort of thing that will happen. They should have
expelled the women involved.

Further, the boys holding the party should all be expelled. The football
players who appear to admit having sex with this girl should be gone.
While they are not guilty of rape, they are guilty of being loathsome,
despicable human filth. A guy willing to have sex with a passed out girl
is of low character and you can never trust him. It is his nature to
exploit others. The men running this school should know it and throw the
garbage out when they find it.

To post-modern ears, particularly those of the younger generations, this
sounds like the grousing of an old man. Maybe so, but this is how we
used to manage ourselves as people. Lesser people were the ones carrying
on like animals. We knew that holding the line was the only way to
develop young men of character and young women of virtue. Today, talking
about character and virtue is a hate crime, meanwhile stupid young girls
are being sodomized on pool tables at our colleges and universities.

Again, we used to know better.
