---
title: "Ordinary Madness"
date: "2014-05-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1672"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1672"
---

Within living memory, a normal person could have a civil conversation
about politics with someone identifying as liberal. It was not that
everyone got along. It was that everyone seemed to agree on the value of
civil debate. Only far out wackos thought you were evil for voting for
Reagan or favoring tax cuts. Liberals did not like conservatives, but
they did not hate them and they did not treat them like lepers. It was
still possible for people to disagree without despising one another.

In the 1990’s that began to change. The vulgarity of the Clinton crowd
made civility difficult. The culture gap became a chasm in the 1990’s.
If you voted Republican it was not just because you happened to like
their positions or the candidate. Party affiliation became tribal
identification and the debates, therefore, were not about facts and
reason. They were about which side you were on in the culture war. The
roots of the great divide between use them started in the 1990’s.

On television, the public affairs shows turned into shouting matches.
The liberal would talk over everyone, ignore the questions and just
chant the slogans the Left was embracing at the moment. They called it
spin, but it infected everything. This filtered into daily life and it
became impossible to maintain a friendship with a lefty, because who
they were was now defined by their hatred of normal people. The Left
became an identity cult based on hatred of normal white people.

These days, the only way to maintain a civil relationship with a lefty
is to avoid anything but sports and weather.  Anything that bumps up
against the tenets of the faith, even tangentially, has to be avoided.
Everywhere you turn a lunatic is preaching at you about gay marriage,
the war on women, racism, white privilege and on and on. It often feels
like the book
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Am_Legend_%28novel%29"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I am Legend</a>. Instead of
raging vampires, we’re surrounded by lunatic liberals shaking their
piety bracelets at us.

<a
href="http://blogs.spectator.co.uk/edwest/2014/05/political-correctness-gone-mad-and-madder-and-even-madder/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> over at The
Spectator does a good job analyzing the ratcheting lunacy we see around
us.

*It has long been clear that expressing certain views has been a form of
social signaling, although social media has made this far more explicit.
Holding what might be loosely called politically correct opinions on a
range of issues suggests that the holder is more likely to be
well-educated, wealthy, young, probably attractive, and possessing
social nous (ie in touch with social trends).*

*But Kristian’s theory also explains one aspect of political
correctness: the speed at which the accepted and acceptable view moves,
heading in an ever-more extreme direction.*

It goes further. Ever notice the speed with which buzzwords and
catchphrases get popular among the Left? Obama used the word
“shellacked” after the 2010 election and every lefty in America was
littering their language with it. Another example was “gravitas” after
that idiot Biden was picked to be Obama’s running mate. Language no
longer has the same meaning for them as the rest of us. instead, it
works like incantations signifying membership in the faith.

*He uses the analogy of the music fan who, once the band he’s into has
been discovered by everyone else, must find some other obscure outfit as
a positional good. Once a wacky idea becomes accepted, the high-status
politically correct brigadier must stand out with some new area of
concern; this he or she does with one of those articles or blogs in
which it is argued that, while progress has been made in one particular
battle against prejudice or bigotry, the real war is now against racism
in food labeling or the lack of transgender dolls for my children. It
doesn’t matter if the issue at hand is inconsequential or, more likely,
impossible to overcome; in fact the more so, the better.*

*Unlike with music, however, the trend is always in one direction and
there is no re-centering; it would be as if the mainstream of elite
taste in music went from Led Zeppelin to Black Sabbath to Metallica to
Slayer and onto Napalm Death. Politically that’s what much of the
commentary in places like Slate sounds like to me – just some guy
atonally screaming in my ear about some micro-injustice.*

Not a bad example. Thatcher called it the ratchet effect.

*Another aspect of this mindset is the desire to punish people who have
insufficiently correct views on doctrine, even if the beliefs they hold
were orthodoxy ten or five years ago. I’d really like to conduct a
Stanford Prison-style experiment in which people were rewarded (perhaps
with a dopamine hit) for punishing those with heretical views, and to
see where it led. To make it more interesting, only people with
unorthodox views on only one side of the political spectrum would be
punished, to see how extreme a group would become towards the other
direction in a short space of time. Soon they’d be sacking people for
disagreeing with an idea that didn’t exist anywhere in the world before
2001 – oh whoops, sorry, that was [real
life](http://blogs.spectator.co.uk/coffeehouse/2014/04/the-mozilla-controversy-suggests-that-the-sexual-revolution-is-getting-ugly/).*

There are examples of the public simply going mad. Athens leading up to
the Sicilian expedition is an example. The Athenians appear to have lost
their minds and threw away their advantage on a crazy idea cooked up by
a conman. The Abolitionist Movement is something closer to home. Large
numbers of whites in the north wanted to murder the whites in the South
and would not be deterred. Prohibition is another example from the
American past.
<a href="http://www.damninteresting.com/bad-rye-and-the-salem-witches/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Maybe there is something wrong
with our grain</a>.
