---
title: "Drug War Inc."
date: "2014-01-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=773"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=773"
---

Drug War Inc. is making a stab at fighting back against the wave of pot
legalization that is sweeping the country. Fighting drugs has been big
business for decades now so the folks profiting from it are mature
businesses and institutions. Millions depend on the never ending war on
drugs for their livelihood. If the libertarians are correct and close to
half our prison population is in the system for drugs, that’s a million
people.

It probably takes that many to keep them in cages. You have the guards,
their unions, the union bosses and the vast administrative layer. You
have the people who build and maintain the cages. Then you have the cops
and courts who chase and process the criminals. They have their
suppliers and unions. Fighting the drug war is a multi-billion dollar
industry that serves another multi-billion dollar industry, the
political class. The politicians have been using the drug war to scare
up votes for generations.

One way to justify their existence appears to be the claim that
legalization will breed <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/us/2014/01/11/colorado-pot-shops-likely-targets-cartels-say-experts/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a whole new type of crime that
must be fought by Drug War Inc</a>. Certainly, these new businesses,
flush with cash, will be targeted by criminals. The same people stealing
copper pipe so they can sell it to buy meth will try to break into weed
shops, rob the customers and so forth. Simply decriminalizing the buying
and selling of weed is not going to change the fact that it is a cash
business conducted by low-lifes.

That can be reduced by letting the pot dealers open merchant accounts to
take credit cards and bank accounts to deposit their cash. They will
need to adopt the same security tactics pawn shops and check cashing
operations have adopted. Korean liquor store owners in Baltimore and
Washington have solved the problem of running a cash business in black
neighborhoods so the pot shops have plenty of examples. The above ground
nature of it would then draw in professionals who know how to solve
these problems

That’s not going to deter Drug War Inc from making their claims. You can
be sure they will be rushing to the nearest news studio with any
evidence of new crime arising from the weed shops. I don’t doubt that
the black market weed dealers will seek some way to keep their business
going and that may include attempts to get in on the act. Talk to any
cop working narcotics cases and he’ll tell you that drug dealers like
crime. If not for drugs, they would be into some other illegal activity.
Criminals will always be with us.

The question is whether they will muscle in on the legal weed business.
Organized crime has long been into illegal cigarettes. They steal them
and sell them at a discount to convenience stores, but that’s a low
level crime. The more profitable venture is to get large quantities from
low tax states and send them to high tax states, without paying the
tax. <span style="line-height: 1.625;">When Canada imposed a massive tax
on cigarettes in the 1990’s, bootleggers set up shop in upstate New York
to smuggle Marlboros and Camels into Canada. </span>

Another way they can get in on the racket is through extortion, but
that’s not a great crime these days. America is loaded with cops looking
to arrest someone. The value proposition of extortion is just not what
it was in the old days. Going into a retail joint and telling them to
pay or you break their legs works if the cops are not prepared to
intercede. That was the case in the heyday of the Mafia. Today the cops
are the protection racket and they will not let anyone muscle in on
their turf, so this seems unlikely.

Of course, the other side to this is that it is an example of
anarcho-tyranny. Tasked with stopping the flow of drugs, Drug War Inc.
eventually turned into a business and then a racket. It lost interest in
actually stopping the flow of drugs and instead focused on terrorizing
local potheads. Maybe what comes after anarcho-tyranny is just a massive
set of institutions that consume resources, but do nothing.
