---
title: "Some Pro Tips"
date: "2014-08-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2451"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2451"
---

**Don’t run in traffic:** Over the weekend, the sports people could not
stop talking about <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2721034/Kevin-Ward-Jr-killed-run-NASCAR-champion-Tony-Stewart.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">race car driver Tony Stewart
driving over another driver</a> on a dirt track. The dead driver,
wearing a black suit, got out of his wrecked car and ran onto the track.
He made every effort to get in the way of Tony Stewart, because the guy
thought Stewart intentionally caused him to wreck. The lighting at the
track looks pretty bad. Maybe Stewart should have seen him. Maybe he
should have done something different. Who knows.

As citizens, we have a responsibility to conduct ourselves so as not to
cause harm to others. It is a basic responsibility on all people
everywhere. Otherwise, you cannot have human settlement. Race car
drivers, for instance, have to try and avoid hitting other drivers or
wrecking their cars. That responsibility stops where *your
responsibility to you* begins. You are in charge of you. Your life means
more to you than anyone else so you get the primary duty of guarding it.

That means when you run into traffic and try to jump in front of
speeding cars, you own the consequences. Sure, the other guys have to
take reasonable measures to avoid you, but if they don’t it is still on
you. It is sad that a young man is dead and it is sad that the other man
will now have to carry that with him. That’s all on the dead guy. The
obvious advice here is simple. If you don’t want to be run over by Tony
Stewart, don’t run in front of his car on the race track.

**Don’t fight with the cops:** Look, the cops are out of control. We all
know that. In the land of the free, there are close to 50,000 SWAT raids
every year. Fewer than ten percent involve an armed stand-off or
kidnapping. We have foolishly turned the local police force into a
paramilitary force. The difference is that the local yokels are rarely
qualified to guard a lamppost, much less handle mil-spec hardware in
urban areas.

That does not mean you fight the cops. When you do that, <a
href="http://stlouis.cbslocal.com/2014/08/10/police-michael-brown-had-struggled-with-officer-before-shooting/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">they may shoot you</a>. When
confronted by an armed retard with a sour attitude, you are wise to do
as you are told and let the lawyers figure it out. Most cops are decent
enough people and just want to get home to their families. Some are nuts
and others are just stupid. You can’t know any of this at the time of
contact. Don’t fight the cops.

**Don’t start riots:** Black people have a lot of unsolvable problems,
because blacks are not equipped to live in white societies. African used
to be called the white man’s graveyard, because whites are not built for
Africa. This reality is what it is, but that does not mean you cannot
have some sympathy for blacks. There are some things society can do to
make things a bit easier for them.

The thing is, <a
href="http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-08-11/ferguson-stlouis-violence-continues-protesters-warn-revolution-wont-be-televised"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">when you riot and burn down
your neighborhoods</a>, people start to think maybe the bad guys are
right. When oleaginous scumbags like <a
href="http://www.wtsp.com/story/news/2014/08/11/trayvon-martin-family-attorney-to-represent-slain-missouri-teen/13882389/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Benjamin Crump</a> is hired to
represent the rioters, people are even less inclined to sympathize. The
family of the victim probably has a legitimate claim and they should get
representation. There are plenty of local lawyers looking for work.
People will be more inclined to listen if you avoid hiring a human
hemorrhoid as your mouthpiece.
