---
title: "Banksters"
date: "2014-09-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2752"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2752"
---

The beginning of the end of the Roman Republic was when the ruling class
loss respect for and the willingness to abide by their own rules.
Scholars don’t frame it like that because it’s hard and boring. Instead
they focus on economic changes like the flood of slave labor after the
defeat of Carthage and Corinth. Alternatively, the political changes
make for nice stories because the characters are interesting. The road
off the cliff, however, started with the loss of respect for the spirit
of the laws and customs.

The point when our politicians stopped punishing criminal financiers
will similarly be looked at as an inflection point. There was a time
when politicians and wealthy members of the ruling elite faced criminal
punishment for breaking the law. Nixon was run out of DC for talking
about what Obama boasts of doing. Michael Milken went to jail for two
years for what is common today on Wall Street. A great trivia question
is how many bankers went to jail for the sub prime mortgage scandal. The
answer is zero.

<a
href="http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2014-09-10/the-biggest-lie-of-the-new-century"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This article on Bloomberg</a>
points this out.

*Yesterday, we looked at why bankers weren’t <a
href="http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2014-09-09/the-reasons-bankers-weren-t-busted"
rel="external">busted for crimes</a> committed during the financial
crisis. Political corruption, prosecutorial malfeasance, rewritten
legislation and cowardice on the part of government officials were among
the many reasons.*

*But I saved the biggest reason so many financial felons escaped justice
for today: They dumped the cost of their criminal activities on you, the
shareholder (never mind the taxpayer).*

*Corporate executives theoretically work for the owners of the company,
namely, the shareholders. But there is an agency problem in that owners
can’t closely manage and object to the actions of these executives.
Collective owners, such as mutual funds, seem to have no interest in
doing so. What we end up with is a management class that works for
itself instead of on behalf of the owners of the publicly traded banks.
Many of these executives committed crimes; got big bonuses for doing so;
and paid huge fines using shareholder assets (i.e., company cash),
helping them avoid prosecution.*

*As for <a
href="http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2014-09-09/the-reasons-bankers-weren-t-busted"
rel="external">claims</a> like those of white-collar crime defense
attorney Mark F. Pomerantz, that “the executives running companies like
Bank of America, Citigroup and JP Morgan were not committing criminal
acts,” they simply are implausible if not laughable. Consider a brief
survey of some of the more egregious acts of wrongdoing:*

***Foreclosure fraud:** Of all the crimes committed during the financial
crisis and in its aftermath, this is one that should have been the
easiest to identify and prosecute.*

*Any bank that owns a mortgage with the debtor in default must follow a
simple set of legal steps in order to foreclose. The procedure is time
consuming, specific to each state’s laws and involves lawyers, so
foreclosures are expensive. Hey, it is the cost of issuing credit, and a
simple reality of the rule of law. There are no shortcuts.*

*Except the banks took many short cuts and did so on purpose and with
the goal of improperly expediting the process. They failed to review the
documents of the mortgages they were foreclosing on, then told courts
they had. They didn’t verify information, but claimed to have done so in
sworn affidavits. They hired $8 an hour burger-flippers to “robosign”
these documents, pretending the underlying legal work had been done.
They knowingly used falsified records, some of which they bought en
masse. They were aided by a company called DocX, which had a price list
of fabricated documents for use in court. (DocX, by the way, was
eventually indicted on charges of mortgage fraud).*

*After creating phony dossiers on borrowers, the banks signed and
notarized affidavits stating they had taken all of the legal steps. In
many cases, even the notarizations were fakes. Submitting a falsified
notarized affidavit to a court is perjury and fraud.*

*Of course, the burger-flippers who did the paperwork didn’t think up
the whole scheme — someone much higher did. Somewhere between these
low-level workers and the chief executive officer were managers who
masterminded robosigning. So far, just one midlevel executive has been
convicted at Bank of America, while scores of others have gone
untouched.*

***Mortgage underwriting**: Then there are the crimes committed in
mortgage underwriting, where defects were <a
href="http://www.ritholtz.com/blog/2013/01/why-the-banks-were-thrilled-about-the-latest-8-5b-settlement/"
rel="external">knowingly ignored</a>. The <a
href="http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/investigate/white_collar/mortgage-fraud/mortgage_fraud"
rel="external">FBI investigated</a> these cases early on, but
investigators never moved forward with prosecutions.*

*Maybe the scale of the financial penalties bank agreed to pay had
something to do with this inaction. Bank of America, for instance, using
shareholder money, paid <a
href="http://blogs.reuters.com/financial-regulatory-forum/2014/08/26/bank-of-americas-mortgage-fraud-deal-yields-quick-impact-message-may-not-be-what-enforcers-wanted/"
rel="external">$16.65 billion to settle allegations of fraudulent
mortgage origination</a>s, securitizations and servicing. One can’t help
think that this money bought immunity from prosecution for executives.*

***Money Laundering**: Banks have been laundering staggering sums of
money for drug dealers and terrorists. Hey, there are big bucks in high
net worth narco-terrorists. Awash in cash, drug cartels [relied on big
banks](ttp://www.npr.org/blogs/parallels/2014/03/20/291934724/awash-in-cash-drug-cartels-rely-on-big-banks-to-launder-profits)
to launder their ill-gotten money. Apparently, it was just good business
to grab a slice of that pie. However, these are deeply offensive, very
illegal activities, and deserve not just penalties, but jail time.*

*How much of this dirty money made its way through the banks? One
<a href="http://www.fatf-gafi.org/pages/faq/moneylaundering/"
rel="external">analysis</a> estimates that $1.6 trillion of tainted
proceeds has been laundered through major money-center banks around the
world.*

*A U.S. Senate report <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-mo-hsbc-senate-20120717-story.html"
rel="external">linked HSBC to drug lords and terrorists</a>, leading to
a record <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/business/2012/dec/11/hsbc-bank-us-money-laundering"
rel="external">$1.9 billion fine</a>. The Federal Reserve faulted <a
href="http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2013/03/26/federal-reserve-faults-citigroup-over-money-laundering-controls/"
rel="external">Citigroup over its controls</a>, allowing money
laundering to go on. And Wells Fargo admitted to <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/banks-financing-mexico-s-drug-cartels-admitted-in-wells-fargo-s-u-s-deal.html"
rel="external">laundering money for Mexican drug gangs</a>.*

***• Market manipulation**: We haven’t even gotten to the manipulation
of markets in violation of U.S and international law. Whether it was <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/21/business/a-shuffle-of-aluminum-but-to-banks-pure-gold.html"
rel="external">aluminum</a> or <a
href="http://www.spiegel.de/international/business/the-libor-scandal-could-cost-leading-global-banks-billions-a-847453.html"
rel="external">Libor rates</a>, prices were either improperly
manipulated or illegally rigged, with knowledge of the bank executives
and the traders they employed and supervised. Let’s not forget
manipulating the <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424127887324789504578384382464803140"
rel="external">multitrillion dollar derivatives market</a>.*

*• **Fraud, skimming and bid-rigging**: Then there is just good
old-fashioned fraud and bid-rigging:
<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/21/business/21street.html"
rel="external">State Street Bank</a> was accused of skimming money off
of the <a
href="http://www.nydailynews.com/money/2009/02/21/2009-02-21_bank_of_new_york_mellon_scored_3b_bailou.html"
rel="external">pension transaction</a>s it handled while <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/05/business/new-york-state-says-bank-of-new-york-mellon-cheated-pension-funds.html"
rel="external">BNY Mellon</a> was accused of skimming money for <a
href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/12/28/bny-mellon-case_n_1172575.html"
rel="external">“fictitious” foreign-currency costs for pension funds</a>.*

*• **Accounting fraud**: We could spend months discussing how some
executives at banks <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304830104575172280848939898.html?mod=WSJ_Markets_MIDDLETopNews"
rel="external" title="Cooking their books">cooked their books</a>, but
really, this is so well known that it hardly merits mention.*

*So next time you hear the claim that “there were no crimes committed by
bankers,” just remember that this may be the biggest lie of the 21st
century.*

That’s a strong and accurate indictment. When you add in the multiple <a
href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/jessecolombo/2014/06/03/this-new-libor-scandal-will-cause-a-terrifying-financial-crisis/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">LIBOR scandals</a> and the <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-09-04/barclays-bofa-citigroup-sued-for-isda-fix-manipulation.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ISDAfix scandal</a>, the image
we get is of a rapacious bandit class rampaging through the world
financial system like pirates. Theft, graft and corruption will always
be a part of the financial class. Banks attract bank robbers and the
banking system will always attract grifters and confidence men. It is
the duty of the civil authorities to police the financial system and
punish the people who commit crimes.

If there’s going to be a reform of the ruling class, it has to start
with the bandit problem on Wall Street. The reforms following the Great
Depression ended for a generation the type of spiritual corruption we
see today. Those reforms were not perfect, but they gave an advantage to
the type of men who put their reputation and their firms reputation
ahead of quick profits. Top to bottom the modern financial firm is
filled with men who would gladly murder their mother for a bigger bonus
check.

The answer lies in those reforms a century ago. Separating commercial
banking from investment banking is where it must start. The former is
vital to a strong economy, while the latter is just gambling and popular
only in good times. Similarly, retail banking should be separate from
commercial banking. A firm offering boat loans and second mortgages
should not be financing factory expansion and land acquisition. They
have different regulatory needs and different degrees of transparency.

For any of this to happen, the ruling class has to abandon the idea that
you can have a civil society based on purely transactional
relationships. When all relationships are measured purely on monetary
terms in the moment, there’s no reason to be honest in your dealings
with others. Completely bankrupting the other guy is fine because you
win the deal. Squeezing your vendors into poverty is acceptable, even if
it destroys your ability to do business down the road. All that matter
is the here and now. That’s a recipe for a low-trust society, not
western civilization.
