---
title: "Επανάσταση !"
date: "2014-12-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3473"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3473"
---

I know it is terrible of me, but I tend to root for anarchy. Let’s face
it. Anarchy is great to watch on TV. Specifically, other people’s
anarchy is fun to watch on TV. The Ferguson riots were entertaining, in
part, because I don’t live anywhere near Missouri. Similarly, seeing <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/dec/29/syriza-leading-polls-future-begun-alexis-tsipras-greece"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Greece once again descend into
anarchy</a> promises to deliver some good entertainment.

*Within minutes of the Athens parliament failing to elect a president,
Alexis Tsipras, the man most likely to become Greece’s next prime
minister, said the country had experienced “a historic day”.*

*For the first time since the foundation of the modern Greek state
nearly 200 years ago, radical leftists – marginalised, tortured and
tormented for the best part of the 20th century – were on course to
assume power. “Greeks,” he said, “should rejoice.” The government that
had put the country through an assault course of austerity would soon be
over.*

*The onerous terms of the deeply unpopular “memoranda”, agreed with
foreign lenders to keep insolvent
<a href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/greece" class="u-underline"
data-component="auto-linked-tag"
data-link-name="auto-linked-tag">Greece</a> afloat, would be
overturned.*

*“The future has already begun,” he told reporters as the nation braced
for early elections, a constitutional diktat when presidential polls
fail. “You should be optimistic and happy.”*

I love how the lunatics at the Guardian always carry on like their ideas
have never been tried. You see the same stuff in US papers. Greece may
not have allowed hair-on-fire crazies like Tsipras to run the
government, but Greece has been a social-democracy since World War 2.
That’s why they have been a basket case economically for fifty years.
That and they are full of Greeks.

*But the prospect of renewed political turmoil in the country where the
eurozone crisis began will bring anything but a smile to the faces of
decision makers in Brussels and Berlin. Greece, ineluctably, is being
drawn into a new dance of uncertainty, a rollercoaster ride of
high-pressure politics.*

*After six years of recession, the nation is only now beginning to show
the first signs of recovery, posting a primary surplus – before interest
payments on its mountain of debt – and returning to the capital markets
that cut off funding at the start of the crisis.*

*But the country cannot survive alone. And market reaction to Monday’s
news was instantly pessimistic, with the Athens Stock exchange
plummeting by more than 10 percent.With bailout funds guaranteed to the
end of February but far from assured after that, the spectre of Greece
defaulting on its loans, and possibly crashing out of the eurozone, have
been revived.*

The reason Tsipras will be the next PM is the people have figured out
that they can do just fine alone. If Greece leaves the Euro, the country
will not sink into the ocean. They can default, print their own money
and start over. They will have a year of turmoil, but then things will
settle down and get back to normal. Greek bankers will be screwed, but
they deserve it. Therefore, the threats from Germany about expulsion
carry no force. The Greeks have nothing to fear from the Eurocrats.

On the other hand, the Euro lives on the belief that walking away from
it is the end of the world. If Greece leaves the Euro and survives, the
stronger nations like Spain, Italy and Portugal will get crazy ideas in
their heads. If Greece thrives, then Europe is doomed, at least as
currently constructed. The fact the Russia will be right there to help
the Greeks should not be missed either.

*Athens faces debt repayments of up to €20bn (£15.6bn) in 2015. On
Monday the Greek finance minister, Gikas Hardouvelis, said local banks
had enough funds to survive until March but unless further financial
assistance was agreed they would enter into the uncharted waters of
non-liquidity after that. This makes an effectively rudderless Athens in
the run-up to elections on 25 January more daunting for the “troika” of
creditors at the EU, ECB and IMF.*

*“What we are looking at is a Greece in crisis,” said Dimitris Keridis,
professor of political science at Panteion University. “The first party
will be Syriza but the elections may well be inconclusive. And then,
once a government is formed, it will have a few weeks to elect a new
president and negotiate with the troika.”*

*The radical leftists wasted no time, announcing that Tsipras would hold
his first pre-election speech in central Athens on Monday night. The
result of the presidential poll indicated the thirst, at least on a
political level, for new beginnings. Opinion polls at the weekend
confirmed Syriza’s popularity among a population exhausted by
austerity.*

*An Alco poll published in Proto Thema on Sunday showed the neo-Marxists
leading by 3.3%.*

*Many supporters are neither leftist, nor admirers of Syriza’s
anti-capitalist rhetoric, but Greeks appalled by the catastrophic
effects of policies that have left 1.5 million unemployed, 3 million
facing poverty and the vast majority unable to pay their bills.*

*The party has pledged to fight such ills – referred to as Greece’s
silent humanitarian crisis – by renegotiating the bailout accords that
have propped up the economy to the tune of €240bn.*

*“Solution to Greece’s problems lies within the European context but the
first thing we will say is that the programme has failed because it was
badly planned and didn’t see the pitfalls that were coming,” said Euclid
Tsakalotos, Syriza’s shadow finance minister. “Then we will address the
priorities of austerity and debt.”*

It will be interesting to watch this unfold. The Russians have already
made friends with Tsipras and his people. They would love to use Greece
to make trouble for Europe. Tsipras may be a lunatic, but he appears to
be a clever lunatic. He will surely try to play the Germans and Russians
against one another. That’s the oldest trick in the book. Tsakalotos is
clearly signalling their intention to end the existing deal and
arrangements first and talk about new agreements. That will make for
some good times in 2015.

 
