---
title: "Vengence High School"
date: "2014-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2433"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2433"
---

The phrase “social justice” really means “revenge.” It is always used in
the context of a self-defined loser demanding money from the folks they
see as winners. The losers are bitter at being losers  and they want to
take it out on someone. Envy is the natural result from great
disparities in talent and accomplishment.

The link between winners and losers never seems to make much sense. It’s
like the champions look for causes that are both obscure and pointless.
David Horowitz has made this point often. The middle-class Jewish kids,
who helped the Black Panthers beat the system in the 70’s, did it just
to cause mayhem.

Anyway, there’s now a high school based on the principles of social
justice. Conveniently, it is called
<a href="http://sj.lvlhs.org/sj/mission_vision.jsp"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Social Justice High School</a>
and it is located in Chicago. For some reason a lot of New Left radicals
came from Chicago.

*The Little Village Lawndale High School is a reality because of the
principles of social justice. Our belief in self-determination inspired
a community to act on its convictions to affirm its right to a quality
education. Through a system of support, guidance, and accountability our
students will graduate high school, be prepared for college and
implement a post secondary plan. Our students will cherish and preserve
their ethnic and cultural identity, will serve and determine the future
of our community, and will have a passion for peace, justice and the
dignity of all people.*

The language here looks similar to corporate jargon. There’s a
creepiness to it that brings to mind dystopian sci-fi films where the
fully human protagonists is faced with a formless, faceless alien
authority.

*The purpose of the school of social justice is to assure that all
students become critical thinkers through a curriculum that is rigorous,
innovative, and implemented through meaningful school relationships.*

*Project based and problem based learning that addresses real world
issues through the lenses of race, gender, culture, economic equity,
peace, justice, and the environment will be the catalyst for developing
our curriculum.*

*Service learning will be the center of our curriculum. Our community
and the city will be our classroom. All learning will be relevant to the
lives of our students.*

*We will increase student learning and achievement by building on what
our students know and utilize their everyday experiences in order to
build the excellence of basic skills and literacy.*

*The professional community composed of administrators, teachers,
students, parents and other community members will learn together and
from one another.*

That’s an impressive collection of abracadabra words. The Left has a
thing for magic words and incantations. One that is always good for
laughs is “critical thinking” which is Left-speak for attacking the
current order. These guys are all about pulling down the walls. They say
it is to remove barriers, but it is really so they can pull the roof
down on the rest of us. The core beliefs section is great:

*Truth and Transparency*

*We will practice honesty and authenticity in our communication and
relationships with students, our community, peers, and ourselves.*

*Struggle and Sacrifice*

*Our struggle is against systems of power that have been historically
used to deny, regulate, and prohibit access to the most basic human
rights that should be granted freely to members of society regardless of
race, class, gender, sexual orientation, or religious belief. We accept
the reality that such struggle will require sacrifice from all
involved.*

*Ownership and Agency*

*We will take responsibility as agents and catalysts of change to expose
the truth about the functions of power, work (unite) to interrupt their
operations, and operate as producers of power to meet the needs of the
Greater Lawndale community.*

*Collective and Community Power*

*Through collective community power, we commit to a conscious effort to
overcome the intended historical obstacles that have been designed to
disempower and divide our communities, and thereby meet the needs of all
members of Greater Lawndale for continual betterment and progress.*

Authenticity is a magic word for these people. To normal people, this
word implies simplicity and originality. To the Left it means adherence
to ideology. Of course, struggle and sacrifice have a long history with
radicals. The adherents have to be willing to give themselves completely
to the cause in order for them to live forever in the promised utopia.

I’ll just note that this is pretty standard stuff on the Left. My bet is
up and down the Obama education department this sort of language is
common. They not only think this school is a good thing, they want to
make your kid’s school just like it. It is why vouchers are a dumb idea.
Those vouchers would come with strings requiring classes in social
justice and empowerment.

But, this is probably the future anyway.
