---
title: "The Homintern"
date: "2015-04-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4264"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4264"
---

I was reading some Roman history the other day, specifically about the
short reign of [Elagabalus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elagabalus),
the first truly foreign emperor. He showed up in Rome from Syria wearing
eyeliner and silk robes. Before long he was dressed as a women and
having people call him queen. As Gibbon put it, “Elagabalus abandoned
himself to the grossest pleasures and ungoverned fury.”

Elagabalus was not the first queer emperor, but he was probably the most
flamboyantly queer. Romans were indifferent to homosexuality as long as
it remained private and the respectable public man was in the dominant
position. The submissive role was for slaves and lower class boys used
by the elite. Pillow biters had no place in the Roman elite. Elagabalus
was assassinated, his corpse dragged naked through the streets and then
thrown into the Tiber

The ancients were slightly more tolerant of homosexuality than modern
Europeans, but not by a whole lot. That is, until the
[Homintern](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homintern) got control of the
culture. We have suddenly lurched from mildly intolerant to, well,
complete intolerant. Intolerant of traditional views of human sexuality.
Everywhere you look, it seems that the gay mafia is waging the finger at
us, warning that we are violating some taboo.

[A friend sent this to
me](http://www.wired.com/2015/04/ex-machina-turing-bechdel-test/) the
other day.

*The Turing test detects if a machine can truly think like a human. The
Bechdel Test detects gender bias in fiction. If you were to mash the two
together to create a particularly messy Venn diagram, the overlap shall
henceforth be known as the Ex Machina Zone.*

*In writer/director Alex Garland’s thought-provoking new film—out
Friday—we meet Ava (Alicia Vikander), an artificially-intelligent robot.
Ava’s creator, genius tech billionaire Nathan (Oscar Isaac), has asked
his employee Caleb (Domhnall Gleeson) to determine whether Ava’s
thinking is indistinguishable from a human’s. Until she meets Caleb, Ava
has only ever met her maker and one other woman. (Hence the failing of
the Bechdel Test, which stipulates that a movie must feature two female
characters who talk to each other about something other than a man.) Her
existence, and her ability to learn how to interact, is a fascinating
study of what makes us human.*

*It’s also a compelling, if problematic, look at the interactions
between men and women—or at least that’s what I thought.*

The word “problematic” is always a clue that you are dealing with a
lunatic. Fanatics love that word. It has that Torquemada vibe they like
so much. On the one hand it is banal, but on the other is the threat
that you better fall in line or else. [A quick look up of the
authoress](http://www.wired.com/author/awatercutter/) conforms that she
is, at the minimum, a minor figure in the Homintern.

[This story from the
NYTimes](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/12/us/the-case-against-gay-marriage-top-law-firms-wont-touch-it.html?mabReward=R2&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&region=CColumn&module=Recommendation&src=rechp&WT.nav=RecEngine)
explains how homosexual pressure groups are gnawing through the fiber of
the culture.

*The stacks of Supreme Court briefs filed on both sides of the same-sex
marriage cases to be heard this month are roughly the same height. But
they are nonetheless lopsided: There are no major law firms urging the
justices to rule against gay marriage.*

*Leading law firms are willing to represent tobacco companies accused of
lying about their deadly products, factories that spew pollution, and
corporations said to be complicit in torture and murder abroad. But
standing up for traditional marriage has turned out to be too much for
the elite bar. The arguments have been left to members of lower-profile
firms.*

*In dozens of interviews, lawyers and law professors said the imbalance
in legal firepower in the same-sex marriage cases resulted from a
conviction among many lawyers that opposition to such unions is bigotry
akin to racism. But there were economic calculations, too. Law firms
that defend traditional marriage may lose clients and find themselves at
a disadvantage in hiring new lawyers.*

Now, the nuts at the Times think this is just swell, but it used to be
called a culture of fear. The sort of thing that went on in Nazi Germany
or Stalin’s Russia. People are altering their behavior, foregoing their
rights and privileges as citizens, out of fear.

This is not a conspiracy, of course. I just like the analogy because it
is useful. The fact is we are seeing a mass conversion, forced upon the
people by their rulers. The people in charge want to stamp out
traditional customs and beliefs. Unleashing mentally disturbed deviants
to harass respectable people that fall afoul of the new ways is a time
tested way of converting the people.

Elagabalus was not assassinated because he was a homosexual or even that
he was a degenerate homosexual. In addition to his sexual peculiarities,
he also thought he was a deity and was a devotee of the cult of
Elagabal. He created a new god to rule over the pantheon of Roman gods
and started turning all of the Roman temples into temple to Elegabal.
How long before the Homintern starts forcing Christian churches to marry
homosexuals?

This will not end well.

 
