---
title: "The Crushing Reality of Mathematics"
date: "2015-08-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3399"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3399"
---

A fun book to read, if you have a thick skin, is called [The Big
Questions](http://www.amazon.com/The-Big-Questions-Philosophy-Mathematics/dp/143914821X)
by a libertarian crackpot named Steve Landsburg. Somewhere in the book
he makes the excellent point that mathematics is universal and
immutable. At the dawn of time, two plus two equaled four for all values
of two. It’s never changed and will never change, even if the universe
collapses into an infinitely dense mass.

If you are looking for a nice shorthand definition of reality,
mathematics is a good choice. Consequently, a good definition of
“crisis” is when beliefs violently realign with mathematics. The Greek
crisis is about the number of Euros they owe to creditors is bigger than
the number of Euros they have in their accounts.

To paraphrase Philip K. Dick, math is that which, when you stop
believing in it, doesn’t go away. Like reality, people can only take so
much math, so we spend a lot of time pretending it is negotiable. The
most obvious example is the American pension system. Every week we see
[stories like
this](http://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2015-08-24/illinois-towns-drowning-in-pension-debt-from-hundreds-of-funds)
one about how cities and towns are being crushed by pension debts.

There are three bits of math to consider here. One is the fact that you
can only tax people so much before they revolt. They may revolt by tax
avoidance, or they may hang their politicians, but there’s a point where
they will not pay any more in taxes. That means every government has a
cap on what it can collect from its subjects.

The second bit of math is that people expect certain minimum things from
their rulers. Towns have to keep the streets clean, catch criminals,
runs schools, etc. National governments have to defend the borders, run
the courts, police the economy, attack the muzzies and so on. These
things cost money and that amount is always more than the people think
they should pay, but it is just below the maximum they will pay.

The final bit of math is the hardest and that has to do with debt.
Pension systems are a type of debt. If I hire you and as a part of your
compensation, I promise to pay you a monthly stipend after you turn 65,
that’s a debt. That debt must be backed by collateral. In a pension
system that collateral is the cash contributed by members and the
employer, plus whatever interest that cash earns.

Pols have been jacking up the benefits for decades as a way to buy
support from unions. This is just another way of saying they have been
borrowing massive amounts to buy votes. To hide this reality, these
pension systems claim their investments will return 7.5% or more, which
they promise will cover their liabilities.

The trouble is the math says otherwise. If your pension system has $100
million in liabilities and those liabilities are growing by 7.5% per
year, your returns have to be 7.5% to keep pace, as long as your assets
are $100 million.  In many cases, these pensions have assets between
60-70 percent of liabilities. That means 10-12% returns are required and
[most of these funds are seeing returns of
2-3%](http://www.economist.com/news/finance-and-economics/21656202-betting-equities-has-not-eliminated-americas-pension-deficit-wishful-thinking).

The only way to make up for this gap, which is getting worse every year,
is to divert money for operating expense like street cleaning, to pay
pension debts. That and raise taxes, but in most of America we are at
the maximum people will pay. The result is the people pay more and more
for less and less government. At some point, mathematical reality
crushes these municipalities and the states.

Most estimates put the math problem at about $4 trillion, but we have to
assume that is the best case scenario. Greece is an excellent example of
how math avoidance leads to compounding mistakes, thus making the math
worse. Ten years ago, Greece could have unwound their debt with an
orderly exit from the Euro. Now they just wait for the revolution.

There’s no reason to think the same thing will not happen in the state
pension systems. Some states can cut benefits and others have quietly
transferred the liabilities to cities and towns, which can use
bankruptcy to cut their debts. California, on the other hand, is looking
at a Greek-style economic meltdown in the next decade.

None of these things happen in a vacuum. California owes its former
workers money it will not pay. Those employees owe money they cannot
play. Of course, California bonds sit on the balance sheet of banks who
pledge them as collateral. The math of the pension crisis says it is
going to wipe out more than the savings of a few retired bus drivers.
The math says we’re all doomed.
