---
title: "Post-Democracy"
date: "2015-06-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4674"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4674"
---

Theories of history are fun in the same way speculative science is fun.
Because there’s no need for proof in the strict sense of the word, you
are free from the narrow pedants who now dominate the empirical fields.
I’m a numbers guy, by nature, but the narrow-minded ninnies with their
freshman-level understanding of statistics now fill up the comment
sections of social science stories. As a result I find myself more drawn
to big picture stuff these days.

One way of reading history, a quasi-Marxist theory of history, is that
it is the dynamic between the internal jostling of skimmer classes and
the external jostling of those skimmer classes with one another. For
Instance, The Hundred Year War can be read as the skimmer classes of
England and France competing with one another for rights to skim the
proceeds from the Continental landowners and merchants. It was driven by
the lack of opportunities for English elites to skim from their own
people.

It’s a pretty cynical way of viewing human society, but feudalism was a
system for the elites to raid and plunder their own people. That can
only scale up to the point where the peasants are starving. That would
inevitably put pressure on large landowners to prey on the smaller
landowners. This is a dynamic that turned the Roman Republic into an
oligarchy and then dictatorship. The big landowners used slaves to
bankrupt the small landowners, much in the same way Silicon Valley uses
indentured servants today.

We like to think we are past all that stuff. With democracy and market
capitalism, the rulers are now beholden to the people and no longer prey
on them like the aristocracies of old. Most Americans really think that
our elections are critical for deciding the direction of the nation. The
winners will respect the wishes of those who put them in office and
follow through on their promises. It’s why we have ritualized the public
freak-out when a politician inevitably does the opposite of what he said
he would do once in office.

Anyway, I’m reading about [the current phase of the Greek
drama](http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EU_GREECE_BAILOUT?SITE=AP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&CTIME=2015-06-05-08-40-12)
and it occurs to me that our ruling classes are exclusively concerned
with deceiving the public. If you noodle through the options facing
Greece and Europe, it is pretty clear that both sides are trying to come
up with a way to pull one over on the Greek people. Tsipras and the
Troika agree on one thing and that is the Greeks need to eat the turd
sandwich. The question is how to make them do it.

In another age, national governments could use the people’s sense of
duty against them to inflict sacrifices. America got into WWI because
Wilson said it was about making the world safe for democracy. FDR pushed
through his economic policies on the lie that they were necessary to
save the nation from depression. The Civil Rights movement was sold as a
moral cause. Whites had to make these sacrifices to get right with God.

Further back, the preferred option was force. The landowners under the
prince had to provide food, labor and fighters for the lord or face the
sword. The smaller landowner would pay his crop tax and maybe provide a
son or two to the service of the military. That was the price for peace
and protection. Coercion is still a part of governance, obviously, but
it is not as overt.

The global ruling elite has a problem in that they lack the legitimacy
to demand sacrifices from their people since they no longer have people.
At the same time they lack the will and stomach to use force. In another
age, Tsipras could beseech his people to eat their turd sandwich. A
reduced standard of living for the people could be pitched as a duty to
the people. Failing that, he could make them eat it, by killing the
appropriate number of trouble makers. Today, he has to fool them into
it.

That’s what’s going on with these long “negotiations” between Syriza and
Europe. Both sides are teasing out how they can fool the Greek people,
who voted for Syriza believing it would be the end of the turd sandwich
program. Instead, we see developing a game where Tsipras games his own
party so that he gets to stay in power, without having to do any of the
things he promised.

The post-Democracy game is on full display on the UK. The “conservative”
party used public discontent with Europe as a way to win big in the UK
elections. Part of their campaign was the promise of letting the people
decide on their role in Europe through a referendum. Clearly, the public
is not all that happy with erasing their country and becoming a province
of Brussels.

Now that he is safely in charge, [Cameron is now working with
Europe](http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EU_EUROPE_REFORM_?SITE=AP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&CTIME=2015-06-05-07-50-25)
to game the people into doing that which he promised not to do. There’s
simply no way Europe can make the reforms Cameron has demanded. That
would require a new treaty and new referenda around Europe. But, this is
complicated stuff that even experts struggle to understand so that means
fooling the public is the easier path and that’s what they are working
to do.

What will happen here is a load of promises from Merkel and Hollande
about making reforms. Cameron will ride around England braying like an
ass about how he has got all the good stuff patriotic English demand,
without having to leave Europe. That will fool enough of the public into
voting against leaving Europe. Immediately after the vote, none of the
promised reforms will happen and the march to integrating the UK as an
island province of Brussels will continue again.

Representative democracy was a solution to the problem of coercion.
Forcing the people to do give up their property to the skimmers is
bloody and messy. If the skimming class takes too much, the people
revolt. That means a bloody response to put down the revolt.
Self-government means the skimming class has to win the approval of the
people to take their skim. That can’t work when the people in charge are
a global elite detached from their host countries.

In the post-Democracy world, the ruling elite conspires with and
manipulates local elected officials into gaming the public, foiling them
into being looted by the global elite. We think our elections are about
arbitrating disputes between the ruling class over public policy. In
reality they are festivals to keep the public busy so they don’t revolt
against their leaders. The Greeks can have as many elections as they
like, the results will not change. The turd sandwich is what they get.
The English can vote Tory or Labour. The results will be the same.

If there is any doubt about this just look at American politics. The GOP
ran against ObamaCare in 2010 and won a huge majority in the House. They
spent the next two years trying to enfeeble the Tea Party movement,
rather than halt ObamaCare. They won big again in 2014, capturing the
Senate and a bigger majority in the House. So far they have managed to
pass more of Obama’s agenda in six months than Reid and Pelosi did in
six years.

In the authoritarian age, violent revolt was the check on the skimming
class. The ruling families could only loot so much of the people’s
wealth before they ran into dangerous resistance. In the democratic age,
the ballot box forced the skimming class to compete for the public’s
affection. Get on the wrong side of the voters and you ability to skim
was diminished. In the global age, what will be the check on the
skimming class?
