---
title: "A Million Words Or Less"
date: "2015-12-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5992"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5992"
---

This morning I noticed that I’m approaching one million words. I have a
widget that counts posts, words, comments and so forth. I’ve never paid
much attention to the total word count until I noticed the odometer was
about to turn over somewhere in the next post.

Allegedly the word count excludes the quoted texts from links, so those
million words are all mine. That sounds like a lot, but the math says it
is roughly 700 words per day. I don’t post every day, but I often post
more than one thing in a day.

This is the officially the millionth word: Hurray!

I try to keep my essays at the 1000 word length on the theory that most
people have the attention span of a gnat. The internet has damaged our
brains, making long pieces unreadable. I still read long form essays,
but I do so in stages. I’ll read a chunk and then put it aside and then
read another chunk. Part of it is the medium, but like everyone, my
attention span has shrunk thanks to the internet.

Looking through the activity logs, it appears I have about 25,000
regular readers. There’s a gizmo on the site to tell me how many
non-robot visitors I get every day, week, month and so on. I never look
at it as I’m not running a storefront. If I ever tried to make money
from this, then maybe it would mean something to me. As it stands, I
have 25,000 readers who come by multiple times a month.

I’m a little surprised by the number as I have done nothing to promote
the blog. The readership is entirely word of mouth. Most of that mouth
is [Gerard Van der Leun](http://americandigest.org/) from American
Digest. I also get a ton of traffic from [Maggies
Farm.](http://maggiesfarm.anotherdotcom.com/) Both are great sites by
the way. [Doug Ross](http://directorblue.blogspot.com/) also sends a lot
of people my way. There are others, of course, but those are the top
three referrers.

I get most visits from US readers, but number two on the hit parade is
Britain. Someone sent me a message claiming to be a UK based reader and
thanking me for my efforts. They said they have to read US sites for
this type of content as it is largely banned in Europe. Strangely, I get
very little Canadian traffic. Maybe they have enough domestically
produced vitriol and bile. Maybe they are too drunk to work the
internets.

As has been pointed out, I’m starting to cast a shadow. My Overton
Window bit with regards to trump turned up in a lot of gentile places,
suggesting some good thinkers are slumming it with the bad thinkers like
me. That makes this site like the slave quarters in the bad old days.
Instead of coming here for the hootenanny, the beautiful people come to
the ghetto for ideas and insights. Z is the new black!

Anyway, thank you to all the folks who spread the good news and thank
you for being a reader. I appreciate it greatly. After the revolution,
your contributions will be noted.
