---
title: "Hating Whitey"
date: "2015-10-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5719"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5719"
---

In the not too distant future, the robot historians and archaeologists –
I’m assuming the robots wipe us out –  will puzzle over a number of
things.The most obvious will be why humans invented robots that would be
smart enough to wipe out humanity. The other will be why those same
humans suddenly decided to start worshiping black people as if they
possess magical healing powers.

In modern America, whites fear being called racist more than anything. I
would imagine that you could put a gun to the head of most anyone in
academia, for example, and demand they shout the “N” word. Their
response would be to turn and put their mouth over the barrel and force
you to pull the trigger. For most Americans, death is a better option
than being a racist.

This of course has made it easy for blacks to be raging bigots. In
another age, blacks looked to assimilate into the dominant culture
because they feared the wrath of the majority. Now that the roles are
reversed. blacks are encouraged to indulge in the most outlandish acts
of racism. It’s not just the
<a href="http://www.worldstarhiphop.com/videos/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">World Star Hip-Hop</a> types either. It’s allegedly
responsible members of the community like <a
href="http://www.wdrb.com/story/30308688/louisville-judge-questioned-for-dismissing-juries-based-on-lack-of-minorities"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this Louisville judge</a>.

*Unhappy with the number of potential black jurors called to his court
last week, Jefferson Circuit Court Judge Olu Stevens halted a drug trial
and dismissed the entire jury panel, asking for a new group to be sent
up.*

*“The concern is that the panel is not representative of the community,”
said Stevens, who brought in a new group of jurors despite objections
from both the defense and prosecutor.*

*And this wasn’t the first time Stevens, who is black, has dismissed a
jury because he felt it was lacking enough minorities. Now the state
Supreme Court is going to determine whether the judge is abusing his
power.*

*On Nov. 18, after a 13-member jury chosen for a theft trial ended up
with no black jurors, Stevens found it “troublesome” and dismissed the
panel at the request of a defense attorney.*

*“There is not a single African-American on this jury and (the
defendant) is an African-American man,” Stevens said, according to a
video of the trial. “I cannot in good conscience go forward with this
jury.”*

*A new jury panel was called up the next day.*

*After that, the Jefferson County Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office and
Attorney General asked the Kentucky Supreme Court to look at the issue
and see if Stevens has the authority to dismiss jury panels because of a
lack of minorities. And last month, the high court agreed to hear
arguments.*

Imagine a white judge dismissing black jurors in a case because they
were black. Ironically, Batson v. Kentucky was where the Supreme court
ruled that a prosecutor’s use of peremptory challenge in a criminal case
may not be used to exclude jurors based solely on their race. Here we
have a judge doing it and everyone is nervous about doing anything about
it.

Putting that aside, look at this from the story:

*Jefferson County has long had a problem with minorities being
underrepresented on local juries. **Several black defendants have
complained over the years that they were convicted by an all-white jury
– not of their peers.***

*The Racial Fairness commission – a group made up of local judges,
lawyers and citizens – has studied the issue for years, monitored the
make-up of jury panels and found them consistently lacking in
minorities.*

*For example, in October, 14 percent of potential jurors were black, far
below the estimated 21 percent for all residents of Jefferson County,
according to records kept by the commission. In September, 13 percent of
potential Jefferson County jurors were black.*

The premise of this is that blacks and whites are not peers and can
never be peers. I’ll grant that the intent is to imply that whites can
never stop being racist toward blacks, but the further implication is
that blacks and whites can never be peers, which means we can never be
fellow citizens. Hell, it could mean we cannot be fellow *human beings*.

That’s the sort of logic that has to flow from the
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4056" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">narcotic of anti-racism</a>. If blacks are objects of
worship as whites try to cleanse their souls of racism, then blacks and
whites can never be on the same footing as citizens or human beings. if
so, what’s the point of having integrated societies? Why are we turning
ourselves into pretzels to have diversity when we are not the same
species? It’s like insisting everyone live with bears or mountain lions.

No one thinks about it because it really is just another area where
meddling fanatics get to make war on normal people. They don’t really
worship blacks. they just like it when this crazy judge outrages the
hillbillies down in redneck country. It’s why they encourage Black Lives
Matter to attack cops and cause mayhem. It’s all about hating the bad
whites. Hating whitey is just another front on the cold civil war.

This will not end well.
