---
title: "Inside Out"
date: "2015-08-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5248"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5248"
---

Human beings evolved over a very long time in small groups of related
people. They hunted together, foraged together, ate together, slept
together, and did all the other things one does, in front of everyone
else in their group. In all probability, all of the things we consider
to be private were public for most of human existence. It’s only when
you can live behind walls, away from the sight of others, that you can
have privacy.

Did privacy evolve with settlement? Did the need for privacy influence
settlement? Was it both, like language and religion. For as long as we
know, settled humans have maintained some degree of privacy. Northern
cultures seem to maintain a greater divide between public and private,
but every settled society had the concept of privacy. Romans may have
used communal toilets in the open air, but they did not have sex in the
streets or discuss their family matters in the open.

Privacy is the key to one’s identity. It’s why militaries march recruits
around naked so much in their initial training. Criminal gangs, like
some motorcycle clubs, will do the same thing to prospective members.
Take away a person’s privacy and they can no longer stand apart from the
rest. It’s hard to hold yourself distinct from others when they know
even the most intimate things about you.

Today, the big challenge is keeping your financial life and medical life
out of the hands of crooks and ne’er do wells. Unlike 50 years ago or
100 years or 500 years ago, a man on the other side of the globe can now
peer into your life and learn things about you that you prefer to keep
private. The people who signed up for Ashley Madison are now discovering
that those privacy notices are not the safeguard they were promised.

It’s getting much worse than that. If you get a Google thermostat for
the house, Google can now data mine your environment and they will. Your
phone, your car, your TV, and your PC are all reporting on your
behavior. We have gone from passively guarding our private lives to
having to aggressively protecting our privacy. It’s a losing fight.

What happens when it is no longer possible to keep any of your life
private? What if anyone with a curiosity can go on-line and find out
whatever they like about you? It’s not just going to change how you
think of others, but it is going to change how you think of yourself.
Imagine a world where everyone has the circumspection of a B-list TV
personality, always whoring for attention.

That’s one possible outcome. Another possible outcome is a bandit
existence where on-line pirates rob people by first stealing their
secrets. [The Ashley Madison
hack](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3205189/Hackers-dump-SECOND-bigger-batch-Ashley-Madison-records-taunting-message-millionaire-founder-cheating-dirtbag-site.html)
is a good example of how a small number of dirt-bags can take down a
business. Granted, the business in question caters to dirt-bags, but
that’s just a coincidence. The next time it could be a clinic that holds
sensitive patient data.

In such a world, you will be forced to employ a combination of
deceptions to build a zone of privacy around your life. Most people
already have dummy e-mail accounts for signing up to websites. People
use proxy services to surf the web. Imagine a world where everyone lies
about everything in order to make it impossible to assemble the mosaic
of their life. A world in which no one can trust anything about anybody
is not one that can have much in the way of social cohesion.

I think we are seeing a case where technology has outpaced our ability
to evolve the corresponding cultural and psychological traits. For a few
thousand generations we have maintained some degree of privacy and now
we may be suddenly thrust into a world of none. Similarly, we evolved in
a world where communication was slow and personal. Now we are swimming
in an ether of mass media.

Maybe the end is that of [John the
Savage](http://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/b/brave-new-world/character-analysis/john-the-savage).

 
