---
title: "Rich and Dead"
date: "2015-02-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Dark Enlightenment
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3742"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3742"
---

<a href="http://www.unz.com/pfrost/a-faustian-bargain/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">This Peter Frost column</a> on the Parsis is getting
some attention on the fringe. Fertility rates are a bit of a hobby-horse
issue on the fringe, but for good reason. In every branch of natural
science, reproduction rates are a key measure of health. A species with
a declining fertility rate is assumed to be under stress or its
environment is under stress. In fact, it is usually the key metric waved
around by the greens when demanding some new rule on humans.

The exception is humanity. No one ever applies the same metric to the
human species. The great irony of the environmental movement is that
they insist humans are not part of the environment. For them, we are
everywhere an invasive species.

<a href="http://mangans.blogspot.com/2015/02/what-price-wealth.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mangan</a> has a take on it:

*It seems more and more clear that the demands of the market economy
come at a price. The enthusiasts for capitalism like to point out how
much wealthier it has made us. Before capitalism, or before the
Industrial Revolution, incomes were barely above subsistence level,
whereas now everyone can afford iPads. But they elide over, or don’t
even recognize, the trade-offs that are made to become wealthier. Until
relatively recently, even under capitalism and as recently as the 50s
and 60s in this country, families still had more than enough children to
further their patrimony. But as we become ever wealthier, and
opportunities for doing do become more widespread, capitalism steadily
erodes what’s left of the old ways, including family ways, of doing
things. That would be my interpretation anyway.*

It is a testament to the power of the Progressive faith that this
assertion is still with us. The Left insists that prosperity eliminates
the need for lots of kids. The logical end point is a replacement rate
or even a click lower for extended periods. Children become a luxury
item once they no longer contribute to the prosperity of the family.

That reduces all human relations to their material content.

It’s also mostly nonsense.

Children have always been a cost in Eurasia. Even in sub-Saharan Africa
where low parental investment is the norm, children are a net drain on
their families in most cases. Humans, like all living things, have an
impulse to reproduce. Without it, we would not be here. The one thing
every extinct species has in common is the failure to reproduce. Even
those wiped out by predators simply failed to reproduce before it was
too late. It’s why it is hard to eradicate rabbits.

Plummeting fertility rates remain a puzzle to the people who care about
the topic. Fertility does track closely with religiosity in the West.
When church attendance declines, marriage rates decline and then
fertility rates decline. This is true within the US as well as across
Europe. Poland is one of the better examples because of the accident of
history. They were a Catholic society trapped in time during the Soviet
era.

Then they were exposed to Western culture in a massive wave following
the fall of the Iron Curtain. Church attendance rates collapsed and
fertility rates collapsed. A similar phenomenon happened in Quebec, but
without the communism. There is was most likely the language barrier
that insulated the culture for so longer. Regardless, when church
attendance collapsed, fertility followed.

Now, that does not mean one causes the other. But, the correlation is
unmistakable.

There’s a line in the movie The Matrix where Agent Smith explains how
the first Matrix was a disaster because it was perfect. Humans could not
accept it. The machines figured out that their human batteries needed an
imperfect world. The implication being that we evolved for a specific
environment. While all species adapt over time, there are limits and the
time line must be imperceptible. Put humans in a radically different
environment and they quickly die off, just like any other critter.

That very well may be what we are experiencing in the West and what the
Arabs are desperately fighting. Modern Western culture is almost
entirely transactional. There’s no continuity with the past and
therefore no understanding of the future. Ours is a material, sterile
world, one for which we are poorly designed. Why would humans bring
children into a world with an unknowable future? What’s the point?

There’s an old Greek proverb. In good times, old men plant olive trees
whose fruit they will never taste.
