---
title: "The Stupid Party"
date: "2015-10-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5701"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5701"
---

There is a class of citizen, a growing class, who look at the Republican
Party, shake their heads and vow to never vote for any of them. It’s not
that the Republicans have unusually dumb ideas or present their ideas in
an off-putting way. It is simply the realization that The Stupid Party
is not a serious endeavor and there is no point in bothering with them
any longer.

Here’s a perfectly good example.

*On State of the Union this morning, CNN’s Jamie Gangel sat down with
Senator Marco Rubio (R., Fla.), where she picked the Republican
presidential candidate’s brain on a variety of topics. Such as:*

-   -   *Why is Donald Trump beating you in your home state?*
    -   *What do you think about Donald Trump saying he’s going to win
        with Hispanics?*
    -   *Is Donald Trump more in tune with Republicans on immigration
        than you are?*
    -   *Are you comfortable with Donald Trump having “his finger on the
        button”? Is Donald Trump “ready to be commander in chief”?*
    -   *If he’s the nominee, will you “enthusiastically support him”?*
    -   *“Do you think there needs to be a Stop Trump movement”?*

*If that sounds as if she asked a lot of questions about Donald Trump,
that’s because she did. In the five-and-a-half-minutes interview, Gangel
asked eight questions about Donald Trump. The only other topic she found
time to cover was Rubio’s missed Senate votes while campaigning.*

I should say that the Stupid Party does not operate in a  vacuum. Their
cheerleaders in the so-called conservative press are just as dumb. The
writer here is probably a child just out of college, but even a child
should be aware enough wonder why Rubio or any other Republican is going
on CNN?

These shows on CNN attract a few hundred thousand viewers, none of whom
will vote Republican. The people in charge of CNN are fully committed
Progressives who would be OK with rounding up the bad thinkers and
putting them into internment camps. There’s zero value in going on these
shows if you are a Republican.

The stupidity does not end there as you can forgive a politician craving
attention for going on a hostile program. The bigger error here is the
waste of resources. The most precious asset a campaign has is the
candidate’s time. A campaign is all about getting your guy as much face
time with as many people as possible. It’s why you run ads and do large
town hall style events.

Squandering half a day or more doing a five minute TV spot on a network
no one watches is the opposite of smart. It is a stupid waste of time.
Yet, one Republican after another lines up to wait around all day to do
a five minute segment on these lefty networks. Most of the time, the
result is embarrassing. It’s as if they are trying to lose.

Now, complaining about the questions is old hat for The Stupid Party,
which is why they are the Stupid Party. They never learn, they just keep
moaning about having the same gags pulled on them over and over. The
point of the Peanuts cartoon was that if Charlie Brown had anything on
the ball, he would have slapped the bleep out of Lucy for pulling the
ball away the first time.

Here’s the thing. CNN is trying to attract viewers. Trump generates
ratings. Rubio and the rest of the establishment dwarfs do not generate
ratings. At some point, people with anything on the ball would wonder
why and do something about it. Instead of moaning about the lack of
interest, try being interesting and talking about things that seem to
interest the voters. You know, like the Trump guy is doing.

Instead, the Stupid Party demands we pretend it is 1996 and their plans
to shuffle commas around the tax code are fresh and exciting. They may
as well be sporting mullets and jorts or leisure suits and perms. Marco
Rubio is a great candidate to beat Bill Clinton in the 1996 campaign.
Today he sounds like a guy who just woke up from a 20-year slumber.

It takes guts to stand out from the crowd and the one thing the Stupid
Party has little of these days is guts. It is a collection of
technocrats and trimmers, more at home in a cubicle working a
spreadsheet than rubbing elbows with the hoi polloi. It’s not just that
they are stupid and boring. It’s that they are cowards, little mice
afraid to make a sound fearing the cat will notice them.

Rubio, if he was worth anyone’s time, should have cut that questioner
off after the first question and then delivered a five minute dressing
down so that she would never make the same mistake again. Even George
Bush the Elder could drop the hammer on a guy like Dan Rather. The
modern GOP pol is one step from groveling to these people on camera.

It’s unmanly and disgusting and that’s why no one takes Rubio seriously.
He looks and sounds like a little boy being corrected by his teacher.
But he is the modern GOP. The only thing they are missing are guys with
neck beards and ear gauges, perhaps a few trannies thrown in to make the
pathetic freak show complete.
