---
title: "Immigration & The Moonbats"
date: "2015-04-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Immigration
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4348"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4348"
---

My office manager is a communist. She’s not a young nitwit with a head
full of nonsense. She is an old women who grew up wishing her parents
were communists. From what I can gather, she has signed up for every
crackpot scheme to bubble forth from the Cult of Modern Liberalism since
her glory days as a teenager.

Whenever we discuss politics, which is something I try to avoid, her
preferred solution is for the men with guns to impose a uniform solution
on all of us. The phrase “single payer” pops out of her mouth anytime
health care is mentioned. She has Moonbat Tourette’s.

Today we were talking about current events and the subject of
immigration came up, regarding the lower classes. We were having some
moving done and the crew that showed up was mostly Hispanic, with a few
blacks. The guy running the show was Eastern European. My guess is he
hits one of the many open air labor markets for day labor. The moving
business is a tough way to make a living so Sergei can’t worry about the
niceties of the current labor laws. He needs cheap labor.

I fully admit to being a bit torn on the issue of immigration. My
grandparents were immigrants. Even though I now “identify” as African
American on government forms, my genome says my people come from
Eurasia. They fled the Bolsheviks and set up shop in America.

I kind of dig the fact that my country welcomes those who can’t seem to
get along with the folks back in the old country. I love thinking about
what the rest of the world thinks when all those mutts wrapped in Old
Glory march into the Olympic stadium. You just know a lot of them are
thinking, “I wish that was me.”

In my mind, I see that as a big old middle finger to the rest of the
world. I get that from my grandfather. He was never a rich man, but he
loved the “fuck you” side of being an American. He came here, learned
perfect English and made a life for himself as an *American*. As far as
he was concerned, the folks back in the old country were losers.

That bit of sentimentality is not intended to get your patriotism up.
I’m just stating my bias. I have an unreasonable bias toward immigrants,
at least the ones trying to be Americans. But, that only works if
citizenship has any value. If anyone can wander over the border and get
all the same rights and privileges as me, the citizenship has no value.
Further, my loyalty to my country evaporates.

Anyway, that’s where I come from on immigration issue. Talking with my
commie office manager, I was surprised at how strongly she is opposed to
immigration. Her reasoning is that it hurts blacks and poor whites. I
get the sense she is new to the subject, at least this side of the
topic. She’s up on all the latest Progressive trends so I doubt she has
arrived at this position independently. She’s getting this from
somewhere.

The other thing she said is that immigration is a tool for corporations
to exploit the middle-class. She is a big Elizabeth Warren fans so I
suspect all of these new opinions from my office manager are coming from
the Fake Indian side of the fever swamp. Warren has voted in line with
her party on immigration, but I don’t recall her saying much about it.

Warren’s faculty lounge populism mostly appeals to credentialed
Progressives who resent not making more money. A rich white woman
standing on the steps of her mansion, ranting about the rich strikes
normal people are laughably absurd. I think Progressives understand that
this brand of populism has a small audience so they are looking to
expand into other areas.

The idiots in the GOP may be focused on winning Hispanic votes, but the
Progressives know better. They need to get white people voting for them
again and an easy way to do that is the immigration card. They can even
pitch immigration restrictions as a way to help immigrants, thus
avoiding the charge of xenophobia.

There’s always been a
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eBCUkdd57qc" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Star-Bellied Sneetch</a> quality to American
Progressives. By that I mean they get revved up on a fad and it
eventually fades, to be replaced by a new fad that often contradicts the
old fad. In that regard, liberals are like teenage girls. In order to
distinguish themselves from the Old New New Left of the Obama years, the
New New New Left is embracing immigration restriction.

The polling on the issue makes clear that a hawkish position on
immigration is the safe one and that may be what’s happening here. As
both parties gear up for 2016, they are figuring out that the mood of
the public is running away from them so they need to catch up. Whether
or not the people in charge will follow on is unknown, but we may be
seeing a paradigm shift over the next 18 months on the issue of
immigration.

Or, my office manager will be burned at the stake by her coven for the
crime of apostasy.

 
