---
title: "The No Trust State"
date: "2015-07-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5052"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5052"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, I was one of those weirdos who liked
tinkering with early computers. Off and on throughout my life I have
fiddled with computers, usually being a bleeding edge adopter. For
instance, I built a PC running OS/2 when most people thought it strange
and exotic to even own a computer. I was on-line when it meant knowing
how to program a modem so you could dial into a BBS.

The point is that I’m OG when it comes to the interwebs and the
communication revolution. I’ve seen it all. One part of that “all” is
the fact that a big part of what has driven the business is theft. Using
technology to get around artificial barriers, designed to preserve
capital, is what fueled the internet in the early days. That meant
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phreaking" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">spoofing the phone company</a> to avoid paying phone
line charges. The phone company called it theft. The hackers called it
“disruption.”

Napster was driven by the desire to get around the artificial barriers
created by the music business. The music company wanted you to buy the
whole CD to listen to one song. Technology made it possible to unbundle
the CD and distribute the song free to whoever wanted it. The record
companies called it theft, hackers called it disruption. I’ll just note
that the hackers won.

That’s the positive spin. The truth is a lot of what is passed off as
innovation is just the clever use of technology to transfer costs to
unsuspecting third parties. Uber is a cost shifting operation. Facebook
and NetFlix are cost shifting operations. In other cases, it is just
outright fraud, <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-07-23/thousands-of-apps-secretly-run-ads-that-users-can-t-see"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">as in the case of advertizing</a>.

*There may be much more advertising in apps than it seems. Thousands of
mobile applications are secretly running ads that can’t be seen by
users, defrauding marketers and slowing down smartphones, according to
<a href="http://forensiq.com/mobile-app-fraud-study"
data-web-url="http://forensiq.com/mobile-app-fraud-study" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">a new report by Forensiq</a>, a firm that tracks fraud
in online advertising.*

*Over the course of the 10-day study, one percent of all devices
observed in the U.S. ran at least one app committing this kind of fraud;
in Europe and Asia, two to three percent of devices encountered fake
ads. Forensiq identified over 5,000 apps that display unseen ads on both
Apple and Android devices. Advertisers are paying about $850 million for
these ads each year, according to the report, and the apps with the
highest rate of ad fraud can burn through 2 gigabytes of data per day on
a single device.*

*The sheer amount of activity generated by apps with fake ads was what
initially exposed the scam. Forensiq noticed that some apps were calling
up ads at such a high frequency that the intended audience couldn’t
possibly be actual humans. The apps, says Forensiq, were hitting these
numbers by showing as many as five ads in the background for every ad
visible to users. Some apps continued to scroll through ads even after
the app had been closed.*

This is simple fraud, of course, but the sort that is hard to detect.
The app maker can make claims against the advertiser that cannot be
disputed easily. Facebook has been accused of doing something similar,
by using click farms. Since we no longer enforce the laws on rich people
and their corporate faces, these crimes go on at a wholesale level.

The worst part of it is the phone user is having his minutes consumed by
ads he does not want. This happens right out in the open, but people
don’t notice it. Open a YouTube video on your phone and you pay to watch
ads at the front end through your monthly minute allocation. The kind of
fraud in this story means your minutes are being used while your phone
is idle.

This is only going to get worse. Theft of medical records, bank records
and security records is already a problem. The source of this problem is
the general failure of the people in charge to take responsibility for
running society. There’s no longer any sense of obligation on the part
of elites. They look ta the Ground People with contempt and say things
like “they should be more careful.”

In the case of these apps, the people in charge should round up the app
makers and put them in a place like Angola state prison. These are small
dollar crimes, but they erode social trust. It’s why counterfeiting
carries such harsh penalties. But, the people in charge no longer care
about social trust. They don’t think it matters. They’re probably right.
