---
title: "After America"
date: "2015-08-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4771"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4771"
---

[This post on Marginal
Stasis](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2015/08/how-would-america-evolve-under-open-borders.html)
got a ton of comments and so did [the Sailer commentary on it at his
site](http://www.unz.com/isteve/how-would-america-evolve-under-open-borders/).
What makes this interesting is not what is said in the comments or even
what’s in the source article. The comments are mostly people reworking
their favorite cheers with regards to immigration.

The libertarians chant about riding unicorns to their castles in the
clouds. The patriots chant about the cultural collapse that would be an
inevitable consequence of transporting the world’s peasants to your
neighborhood. Then a fight breaks out and before long someone is calling
the patriots racist.

That’s all fine, but why does everyone assume America would remain a
country as currently constructed? More important, why is it assumed that
immigration would play out the same everywhere? California has had a
vastly different experience with immigration than Texas. Virginia has
had a much different result than Maryland or Delaware.

A great book to read, if you like reading this blog, is called [American
Nations](http://www.amazon.com/American-Nations-History-Regional-Cultures/dp/0143122029).
It covers the history of the people who settled the Americas, breaking
them into unique “nations” that have ties back to the old country. New
England, for example, was founded by Roundheads mostly from a handful of
towns in England. They imposed their culture and new arrivals were
forced to assimilate. Later, Yankees migrated west settling in what is
now the Midwest.

The neat thing about the book is he ties this together with the
country’s history, so we get to see how those old regional differences
played out in the Civil War, for example. I like the book primarily
because it jives with my view of history, but it is a great read and
very good introduction to understanding the HBD view of history. For the
record, I doubt the author would agree with it being HBD history, but
that’s my take.

Anyway, wholesale immigration to America is not going to play out the
same everywhere. It has not played out that way so far. New England has
been far more welcoming to Irish immigrants than Hispanic immigrants.
The town system allows them to pack people they don’t really want into
ghettos away from everyone else. This puts a natural cap on immigration
from places that are too ethnically different from the natives.

California, which has always been split between a mild and tolerant
south and a Yankee influenced north has largely been overrun by
Hispanics, but mostly in the South. Northern California is getting
whiter while the state gets browner. Similarly, Virginia has absorbed a
lot of Hispanics, while West Virginia has absorbed very few. Those
Appalachian Mountain people are not friendly to outsiders of any type.

I think if we ever go for open borders, we’ll see three things happen.
One is the native populations will begin to move around with a sense of
urgency. Yankee transplants living in North Carolina will find a way to
move back. We’re already seeing Midlanders who migrated to California
heading to states like Colorado fleeing the Hispanics. I think the
American nations will consolidate back into their natural zones again.

Another thing is each region will adjust to make sure the native
population maintains control of the local power structure. This is
something you see in California. The state looks like Mexico, but the
state’s political leaders look like Vermont. In New England, this means
a compulsory assimilation which will serve to scare off immigrants. In
the Old South a return of the highly stratified caste system will make
its return. The South will look a lot like South America or the
Caribbean.

Finally, I think we would probably see the country break up. New
England, most of New York and New Jersey, big chunks of the upper
Midwest will either leave for Canada or become a separate country. The
South and the Tidewater would most likely welcome it, breaking off as
their own country. The Northwest would probably join Canada, but I could
argue they would follow New England and the upper Midwest. The middle
part of the country and states like Pennsylvania and West Virginia are
hard to figure, but they could band together with Texas and Oklahoma or
join the South.

The reason for thinking the country would break up is it has come close
over much less. In the 19<sup>th</sup> century New England was close to
leaving the Union, but the end of the War of 1812 put a halt to that.
The Civil War is the best example. If the South had not attacked Fort
Sumter, the North would never attacked. Instead, the South would have
been permitted to leave.

We are currently unified as a country only because Yankee culture
dominates the political, cultural, and financial high ground. One
reading of American history is that it is the fight for control by
Yankeedom. If the Yankee north can no longer dominate the rest due to
massive immigration, they would look to leave and that would cause the
rest to break apart too. The result would be four or five countries,
maybe in some sort of federation to modulate trade, borders, and
defense.
