---
title: "Alert: The Backlash™ Was Spotted"
date: "2015-11-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5873"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5873"
---

This is a public notice to all of my readers. <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/11/20/white-student-union-challenges-black-lives-matter-at-university-of-illinois/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Reports are coming in that The Backlash™
was spotted near the internet safe zones</a> of the University Illinois.
Reports are still coming in, but it appears someone associated with the
university may have said some mean things on Facebook about rampaging
black students on that campus.

*A Facebook page ostensibly created for an audience at the University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign called “Illini White Students Union” has
drawn fire after it characterized the national Black Lives Matter
movement as “terrorism.”*

*Created Wednesday after a protest sympathetic to Black Lives Matter,
the page declared itself “for white students of University of Illinois
to be able to form a community and discuss our own issues as well as be
able to organize against the terrorism we have been facing from Black
Lives Matter activists on campus,” as the Daily Illini reported.*

*The page did not last long in its original incarnation, but was taken
down after three hours. It has since been revived here.*

*“We recognize the right to free speech, and we encourage you to
exercise that right when you see examples of racism, discrimination or
intimidation on our campus,” Interim Chancellor Barbara Wilson, who
called the page “extremely disturbing,” wrote in a message Thursday to
the student body.*

Got that? When blacks go bananas on campus it is the most beautiful
thing in the world. When a honky posts mean things on Facebook, well,
they need to be stopped because they are extremely disturbing.

*In an anonymous message to [the
News-Gazette](http://www.news-gazette.com/news/local/2015-11-18/ui-denounces-illini-white-student-union-facebook-page.html),
the page’s administrator discussed Black Lives Matter.*

*“We feel they disrupt student daily life and activity far too much,”
[the message
read](http://www.news-gazette.com/news/local/2015-11-18/ui-denounces-illini-white-student-union-facebook-page.html),
saying that movement “marginalizes” white students. “… We are in the
United States and not Africa and we don’t desire to have an African flag
on campus.”*

Given that there’s probably a 10-to-1 hoax to non-hoax ratio on campus,
it is a good idea to assume the anonymous administrator here is a black
guy, probably a professor at the university. Check that. Probably a
black female professor. For some reason they are the most common
perpetrator of hoaxes on campus. Even so, it is pretty tepid stuff.

*A recent post was a clip from the 1998 film “American History X,” in
which Edward Norton plays a white supremacist. In the clip, billed as
“revelant to all Ferguson news,” Norton’s character denounces the 1992
riots in Los Angeles.*

*“It’s a bunch of people grabbing any excuse they can find to go and
loot a store, nothing more,” Norton says. “… Lincoln freed the slaves
what, like, 130 years ago. How long does it take you to get your act
together?”*

The amusing part here is the quote is not actually on the page. Instead
the WaPo reporter fished it out of the interwebs. If I were Steve
Sailer, I’d assume that was not an accident.

*While this was certainly eyebrow-raising, the original page was even
more provocative.*

*“Feel free to send in pictures you take of any black protestors on the
quad so we know who anti-whites are,” one message read, as [FOX
55 reported](http://www.foxillinois.com/news/features/top-stories/stories/u-demanding-page-taken-down-5529.shtml?utm_source=hootsuite).*

*According to a student reporter, protesters were particularly concerned
that they were being targeted.*

*“One of the parts on the page particularly concerning to students is
that they were taking pictures from the rally of the main quad and
identifying students in attendance to identify the ‘anti-whites,’”
Marijo Enderle, a 20-year-old senior at the university, said in a
telephone interview. Enderle also pointed out that “there hasn’t been
any indication that it has been a university student” who created the
page.*

My recommendation to the black lives matter types is they start wearing
masks at their riots. Maybe dress up as the old Black Panthers and carry
fake guns. That will scare those honky oppressors!

I like this closing bit from the WaPo story.

*And in 1991, the New York Times discussed a similar group at the
University of Minnesota.*

*“I have no desire to harm the non-white races,” senior Thomas A. David,
who founded the group, said at the time. “I simply think it would help
everyone to separate.” He added: “I don’t want to be a mud race in this
country, and I will fight to the death against that.”*

Again, If I’m Steve Sailer I wonder if this is code to let people know
the reporter is not as batshit crazy as it would first appear. It’s the
magic signal to let the outside world know he is being held against his
will. If that last time The Backlash™ showed up was 1991 – 25 years ago
– one has to wonder if maybe it really even exists. But, that’s crazy
talk. We all know the greatest threat to humanity is The Backlash™. We
have always been at war with The Backlash™.
