---
title: "USA Sevens"
date: "2015-02-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3827"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3827"
---

For a while now, I’ve been wondering what replaces football in America
as the acceptable male sport. Baseball remains popular, despite howling
to the contrary, but it is not a tough guy sport. Little boys need a
sport where they can get all that aggression out of their system.
Football has served that purpose in most of the country. In the
Northeast and upper Midwest, hockey has been the tough guy sport for
boys. In some areas like the Midwest, wrestling is popular. In the inner
city, boxing used to be the thing.

Football is under assault by the Cult for a number of reasons. One is it
is overly masculine. The other is it is too racial. They have tried hard
to create great black quarterbacks, but so far it has come up empty. On
the other hand, they can’t see to find fast white guys to play receiver
and cornerback. Like track, the results reveal uncomfortable truths
about people. Of course, there’s also the concussion issue which is
probably exaggerated, but serious injury is real and enough to scare off
some moms from letting their kids play football.

Football is also too Southern for the Cult. The best college teams are
in the South and the best players are in the South. The Cult hates the
South. That means another sport is needed to fill the need for boys.
I’ve been leaning toward hockey filling that role. The reason is the
“hockey mom” phenomenon. I know a lot of single mothers who put their
kids into hockey. In the Mid-Atlantic, youth hockey is doing very well.
Still, it is a cold weather sport and that makes it impractical for most
of the country.

Anyway, watching the USA Sevens today – USA ties South Africa! – it
occurred to me that this could be the next “soccer” for the Cult of
Modern Liberalism. Like football, it is a tough guy sport. You can’t
play rugby unless you have some courage. But, you’re unlikely to get
your brains scrambled like in football. Heads clash, for sure, but not
with the ferocity of football. The added bonus is it is easy to
understand so single moms can stand on the sidelines and cheer.

The big bonus, I think, is it is a sport white kids can play. Speed,
strength and size matter, but it is not a running and jumping sport like
basketball or football. Cooperation and discipline probably count for
more than anything in rugby. The game moves quickly and there’s a lot of
action. The bigger bonus is the snob factor. Rugby is a sport played by
gentleman, unlike soccer, which is played by criminals and deviants.
Given that rugby is getting on TV I suspect that it may become the next
big thing in America.
