---
title: "Not Funny"
date: "2015-10-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5612"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5612"
---

The other day, some one
<a href="http://www.amnation.com/vfr/archives/004009.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">posted a link to this pos</a>t by the
late Larry Auster. I was not a frequent reader of Larry’s while he was
alive, but I have read more of his work since his death. It’s a funny
thing. I should have been a big fan of his work, but there’s only so
many hours in a day and you can’t follow everyone. That and a dozen
years ago I was a little wore down by paleo-con moaning about George
Bush.

Anyway, his commentary about Jonah Goldberg reminded me that it has been
a long time since I’ve read Goldberg. I was a regular reader up until
his first book, which I thought was very good. If you want a good primer
on 20th century Progressive history, it is a good option. Up until that
point, Jonah was an irreverent slacker smart-ass, but after he wrote a
book he tried to turn himself into a very serious person, which was a
good decision. The money is better.

A couple of years ago he tried to get back to being an irreverent
smart-ass again with his G-File columns, but they were painfully unfunny
so I stopped reading them. They just felt hackneyed and corny, like
seeing an old comic try to do his act after 20 years away from the
stage. Tastes change, people change, the dogs bark and the caravan moves
on. All humorists have their time and once it is gone, they start to
sound, well, hackneyed and corny.

A good example of that is P.J. O’Rourke, who has always struck me as a
nasty, self-absorbed d-bag. Maybe there was a time when he was funny,
but I’ve never stumbled upon an example of it. I’m told he was hilarious
at National Lampoon when <a
href="http://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Culture/Extras/foreigners/01.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he penned stuff like this</a>. There’s no
accounting for taste, but there was never a time in my life when that
was funny to me, not even as a child when cornball humor goes over well.

The other day the twitter machine was buzzing with <a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/she-said-what_1035823.html?page=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this column</a> written by O’Rourke that
may be humor or maybe not. I really can’t tell. It just reads like a
bitter old man saying nasty things about someone out of jealousy.

*Toward Ann Coulter I had always taken a “suffer little children to come
unto me” attitude. Not that she ever came on to me or anything. It’s
just that she’s a kid. She was born in 1961. I’ve got skinny Brooks
Brothers neckties in the back of my closet older than that.*

Hilarious. O’Rourke is pointing out that he he very old and has old
stuff. That’s a real knee-slapper.

*Ann Coulter grew up during the
“I-was-conservative-after-conservatism-was-cool” era, helping found the
Cornell Review in the early 1980s. She’s noisy and she gives me a
headache. But kids are, and kids do. I have several.*

Actually, the 1980’s was pretty much when “conservatism” became cool.
It’s also when he decided his left-leaning hippy routine was becoming
dated so he went with the libertarian shtick.That way, he could make fun
of the lefties, but also play the old crowd by mocking the Right. To
quote myself, libertarianism is standing on the sidelines and pretending
it is on principle.

That last line is a classic insecure old-manism. Coulter is a
middle-aged woman so calling her a kid allows the old fart to dismiss
her like a servant. It’s a defense mechanism you see with old men who
fear they can no longer keep up. O’Rourke is not a dunce so he knows he
is a yesterday man and he is bitter about it.

The rest of it is mostly sad. Writing is not a young man’s game, but it
is not geriatric man’s game either. Some guys stay fresh well into their
dotage or they stick to subjects where being a geezer works well. But,
all of us lose our fastball eventually. For a guy that is mostly getting
by on shtick, the fastball goes early. If O’Rourke ever had a fastball,
it is long gone.

Of course, The Weekly Standard is not trying to send a fastball at
Coulter’s head. They just want to let her know to take it easy on the
Jew stuff. This brush back was more like throwing behind the batter so
you know he won’t get hit, but he’ll get the message. Having the old
washed up guy do it is safe because even if he plunks her, nothing is
going to come of it.
