---
title: "The New Containment"
date: "2015-12-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Immigration
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6131"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6131"
---

The policy of containment, with respect to the Soviet Union and the Cold
War, evolved at the end of World War II and into the post-war period
because the other options were not practical. Sending the US army to
push the Russians out of eastern Europe would have been an impossible
sell to the American public, assuming it was even possible. Dropping a
nuke on Moscow would have been a public relations disaster.

On the other hand, simply letting the Russians dominate Europe was out
of the question politically, even though many within the American ruling
elite were communists. There had to be a way to keep most of Europe free
that did not result in a war with Russia.
[Containment](https://history.state.gov/milestones/1945-1952/kennan) was
the near perfect solution. It kept the Russians in check, created
thousands of jobs for the Yankee elite and fed the military-industrial
complex.

That’s not intended to imply that the people who crafted and developed
the Western response to the Soviets thought all this through in advance.
It just evolved into the best solution. At the onset it scratched the
itch, the need to respond to Soviet aggression, but over time it proved
to be flexible enough to accommodate the needs of various constituencies
within the ruling class.

The funny thing about the Cold War is it preserved the American ruling
consensus long after the facts on the ground justified it. The public
was not going to support overturning the apple cart as long as the
threat of nuclear annihilation was very real. That naturally made anyone
advocating great change a threat and they were easily painted as a
hothead or commie.

The result was a self-policing where the Left kept their commies in the
lower ranks and the Right kept their hot heads out of sight. Within
living memory, a ridiculous fop like Barak Obama would have been kept in
the community organizing department where he could not cause trouble. Of
course, fear of nuclear annihilation kept the public from questioning
the arrangements, even if meant keeping the black man down.

Since the end of the Cold War a quarter century ago, the ruling elites
have lost their footing, staggering around like drunks. In Europe, the
main parties are imploding into a single party relying on skullduggery
to overcome a lack of purpose. The recent French elections demonstrate
their willingness to lock shields to preserve the status quo, even when
they can’t come up with reason for maintaining it.

In America, the Democrats are a party for men in dresses and women in
muumuus. The Republicans are the land of misfit toys, politicians just
not weird enough for the other team. The ructions in the GOP primary
reveal the party establishment to be hollow men with no reason to exist
beyond habit. The Democrats look like God’s waiting room, an old pinko
in a pantsuit versus an old an old pinko in pants.

For the past few decades, there’s been no real cost to excess, but
that’s changing as the demographic explosion on the fringes of
civilization threaten the West with an invasion of barbarians from over
the horizon. Islam presents both a cultural and demographic challenge.
Africa presents a demographic and biological challenge. So far, the
ruling elites have failed to come to terms with this looming threat.

It strikes me that the rise of “far far far extreme right wing” parties
in Europe and the rise of the “extreme right wing racist Donald Trump”
in America may turn out to be a catalyst for how the ruling class
responds to the next great challenge to civilization. While abandoning
anti-racism, multiculturalism and egalitarianism is unthinkable, all
three can be shoehorned into a new policy of containment.

Keeping the Mahommedan bottled up in his own lands, a new policy of
containment, has obvious practical benefits to the West. Capping off
Africa by making the Mediterranean a real barrier to entry (and maybe
bribing the countries of the Maghreb), helps solve the African explosion
as well. The Arabs would simply refocus their attention on making the
Sahara a natural barrier again.

At the same time, containment means not mucking about in the affairs of
the Mahommedan*.* In the Cold War, the West left the Eastern Bloc to the
care of the Soviets. They had their sphere of influence and we had ours.
The new containment would follow the same model. Let the Mahommedan
manage his lands as he sees fit, but keep him bottled up in those lands,
behind a technological, cultural and military curtain.

The benefit to the ruling class is it gives them a natural reason to
exist. They are holding back the tides and sensible citizens will not
want to risk that by supporting fringe candidates. It also brings back
the natural self-policing that comes from permanent war. The Left will
suppress their one-word fanatics, while the Right will keep their invade
the world nutters under wraps.

Of course, the military and the diplomatic core will have plenty of
reasons to get money and jobs for their people. Muffy Pemberton can pop
out of Harvard and take a job in the diplomatic corps, while Dwayne
Haskins can make a career out of standing guard at the borders. The
Yankee ruling class gets the band back together, just focused on a
different enemy. They can even, wink-wink, argue about which side has
the best approach.

The sales pitch can center around the fact that it is more effective to
send aid to these people than it is to resettle them in the West.
There’s also the benefit of keeping their best and brightest in their
home countries so they can help develop their societies. There’s the
obvious safety angle, keeping the Mahommedan from exploding in your
local coffee shop. It’s an easy sell with obvious benefits.

Containment. It’s not just for commies anymore.
