---
title: "The Cloud People"
date: "2015-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4934"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4934"
---

I’m fond of calling the emerging global elite the “cloud people” because
they are untethered from the places the rest of us call home. Way back
when Obama was running the first time someone asked him about American
exceptionalism. He responded with something along the lines of “everyone
thinks their country is exceptional.” He not only did not understand the
question, he went out of his way to say citizenship is for chumps.

Obama is typical of the new global elite. He does not know a whole lot
about his host country and its people. He has weird ideas about people
worshiping fire gods and carrying boom-sticks, but he’s really not all
that interested. When he leaves office, expect him to live mostly abroad
in global capitals, rubbing elbows with the rest of the global class.

<a
href="http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/ec63a3d0-2615-11e5-9c4e-a775d2b173ca.html#axzz3g0fysUaM"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s why governments are synchronizing
their tax and residency policies for the rich</a>.

*When George Osborne last Wednesday announced a shake-up of tax rules
for foreigners living in Britain, the chancellor was careful not to
damage his country’s underlying appeal.*

*The “non-dom” tax status “plays an important role in allowing those
from abroad to contribute to our economy”, he said.*

*The UK is not alone in rolling out the red carpet for wealthy
foreigners. As Mr Osborne noted, many countries have some sort of
special tax status to attract the global rich. Cyprus last week
announced plans to introduce the concept of “domicile” into its tax
regime. Portugal, Israel and even France have all introduced tax
concessions for foreign incomers.*

*In Switzerland, as in Britain, there has been pressure to increase the
fairness of special tax rules for foreign residents but it has stopped
short of their abolition. Switzerland is set to increase the bills for
rich outsiders using its lump sum tax system but in a recent referendum
it rejected proposals to axe them.*

*When countries try to draw in rich foreigners, it is not just tax
privileges that are on offer. A growing number of countries — including
about half of the EU — are selling residency rights. A smaller but
fast-growing group are selling passports. The number of
cash-for-passport schemes have increased since the financial crisis. In
the case of Cyprus, there was a direct link: affluent foreign investors
were offered citizenship as compensation for their bank deposit losses.*

*Antigua, a tiny nation in the eastern Caribbean, offers one of the most
popular “citizenship by investment” programmes. It sells itself as a
tropical paradise “with some 365 beaches of clean turquoise waters” and
the prospect of visa-free travel to 130 countries to prospective
citizens. Antigua only requires its new citizens to visit for five days
every five years.*

*In 2014 George Georges, a Syrian businessman, became the first of
Antigua’s new citizens under the investment scheme. Since then more than
500 other passports have been sold to Chinese and other nationals. The
scheme has brought in $65.9m for the cash-strapped island, which is
still scarred by the massive fraud carried out by Allen Stanford, who
until 2009 was the island’s largest employer.*

*Christian Kalin of Henley Partners, a specialist in immigration and
citizenship, said that several thousand people a year were opting to
acquire additional passports. His clients were driven by a desire for
long-term security, easier, visa-free travel and, in some cases, fears
of being targeted by terrorists.*

*He said: “Since 9/11 it has accelerated. A lot more people are seeing
the value of an alternative citizenship.”*

*In a recent working paper the International Monetary Fund said that
citizenship by investment programmes were reporting “a surge in clients
from China, followed by Russia, and a steady rise in clients from the
Middle East, although to a much lesser degree”. Citizens from “advanced
countries” were also well represented and generally motivated by tax
savings.*

*Some countries offering citizenship investment programmes cite “their
favourable tax treatment in an attempt to attract high net-worth clients
seeking global tax planning”.*

*The IMF cited preferential tax treatments available with economic
citizenship programmes in Cyprus and Malta as well as investor residency
programmes in Bulgaria, Hungary, Ireland and Portugal.*

*There is no shortage of controversy surrounding the sale of residency
or citizenship rights. In Portugal, there were arrests in connection
with its “golden visa” programme last November. Also last year the US
Treasury warned that Iranian businessmen were seeking to exploit
citizenship for investment in St Kitts in order to skirt international
sanctions. In 2014, the European Parliament passed a resolution
criticising Malta for offering EU passports for sale.*

*Tax is another potential source of controversy, although the IMF said
the global crackdown on avoidance and evasion was reducing the scope to
misuse citizenship or residency investment schemes. It said their use
“may become increasingly difficult as more advanced countries adopt
anti-avoidance provisions in their tax legislation and enact financial
transparency laws”.*

*The Tax Justice Network, a campaign group, is not so sure. It fears
that residency rights are being sold to people who want to circumvent
new transparency rules. Banks are starting to report tax information to
their clients’ country of residence which — if it is a tax haven — will
ignore it. John Christensen, a director, said tax evaders had a big
incentive to adopt a tax haven as their country of residence.*

*“Selling residency and special tax treatment is contagious. It is
creating a new tax loophole that will spread geographically,” he said.*
