---
title: "Germs!"
date: "2015-09-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5377"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5377"
---

<a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/alzheimers-disease-may-be-infectious-study-suggests-10493032.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is one of those stories</a> that
could be big or it could be a nonsense. The nonsense part is easy. Most
medical research is poorly reported by the media. The men and women
working at these sites simply lack the IQ to understand the material so
they let the researchers write their copy for them. Studies are sent to
the media with an executive summary. It is cut and pasted into a “news”
story.

The result is a lot of scientific nonsense makes it to the public, but
not all of it is bunk. In this case, there’s a growing speculation that
germs may play a much bigger role in human health, with regards to
issues like heart disease, cancer and Alzheimer disease.

*The “seeds” of Alzheimer’s disease may be transmitted from one person
to another during certain medical procedures, scientists have found.*

*A study into people who died of a separate kind of brain disease after
receiving injections of human growth hormone suggests that Alzheimer’s
may also be a transmissible disease.*

*The findings have raised questions about the safety of some medical
procedures, possibly including blood transfusions and invasive dental
treatment, which may involve the transfer of contaminated tissues or
surgical equipment.*

*The investigation has shown for the first time in humans that
Alzheimer’s disease may be a transmissible infection which could be
inadvertently passed between people.*

*Scientists emphasised that the new evidence is still preliminary and
should not stop anyone from having surgery. They have also stressed that
it is not possible to “catch” Alzheimer’s by living with someone with
the disease.*

*However, the findings of a study into eight people who were given
growth hormone injections when they were children have raised the
disturbing possibility that Alzheimer’s can be transmitted under certain
circumstances when infected tissues or surgical instruments are passed
between individuals.*

Alzheimer disease does not fit well with our understanding of the genome
and evolution. What’s known about the disease, and it is quite a lot
now, suggests it should strike people of all ages, not just the very
old. The most common gene associated with late-onset Alzheimer’s disease
is called apolipoprotein E (APOE). The one form of this gene with the
highest correlation to the disease is APOE e4, but having two copies of
this gene, one from each parent, does not mean you get the disease. In
other words, the correlation is weak.

There are other genes associated with the disease, as we see with many
other diseases that turn up in old age. The number of factors associated
with the incidence can be quite large. On the other hand, the genome has
revealed some interesting associations. Heart disease is the one of the
better example as it can be mapped. This map is a great example of how
genetics and disease fit together:

<img
src="https://jaymans.files.wordpress.com/2013/01/europe-heart-death-men-2000.png?w=595&amp;h=612"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="595" height="612" />

If science is beginning to link  a disease like Alzheimer’s to a
pathoigen, to use shorthand, it changes the way medicine attacks these
diseases. In other words, if exposure to a pathogen triggers certain
gene combinations, resulting in the production of a bad protein, science
can better predict, but also better treat these diseases. Put another
way, genetically linked disorders could still be treated, just at the
pathogen level.

Where it can get revolutionary and scary is in the area of human
behavior. Homosexuality remains a great scientific mystery. No one knows
why some steady percentage of males are homosexual. Genetics could never
be the answer as a gay gene would rarely be passed along to the
off-spring, since homosexuals have far fewer off-spring. Basic math says
the gay gene would have died out long ago. Here’s a nice Jayman post on
the topic.

<a
href="https://jaymans.wordpress.com/2014/02/26/greg-cochrans-gay-germ-hypothesis-an-exercise-in-the-power-of-germs/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The gay germ theory</a> is controversial
as is everything to do with homosexuals, but the implications are not
insignificant. If pathogens trigger behavioral traits, then it means
behavior could, in theory, be modified medically. Curing things like
homosexuality, alcoholism, or simply being a douche bag are suddenly not
so far fetched.

No one reading this will live to see the day when you can take a pill
for you homosexuality or unpleasant disposition. We’re not going to see
the day when genes are altered in order to eliminate disorders. Some
alive today will see treatments for common maladies of old age that will
allow for more vigorous lives and even longer lives. Curing Alzheimer’s
is not that far off. That alone will radically alter a lot of lives.

It’s not all bad news.
