---
title: "Damsel in Distress Syndrome"
date: "2015-03-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4059"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4059"
---

<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/hammerin-hillary/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Steve Sailer has a post up about Hillary Clinton</a>. I
Posted something there which will be approved whenever Sailer decides to
roll out of bed. The Unz site has a lot going for it, but the commenting
system is a dumpster fire. Anyway, after posting it I thought about it
some more and here are some things I should have added.

I never thought Hillary Clinton was all that interesting. In my work
life, I’ve encountered her type many times. That’s the bitchy,
middle-aged professional woman that is always pissed off because she
cannot reconcile feminist orthodoxy with her reality. These are the
broads who were marinated in feminism in college, but married well
nonetheless.

They still have the feminist nonsense in their heads about how they can
compete with the boys and take down the patrimony, but the reality is
they just married well. Their husband makes a good living so they can
live the life, but also “have a career.” In the case of Hillary Clinton,
her career was being a screw up, who had a highly successful husband.

All the way back to Arkansas, Clinton seems to have been in over her
head. The scandals with the shady land dealers are a prime example.
Bill’s finger prints were never on those things. The same is true of the
law firm shenanigans. The only thing anyone could ever pin on him were
the bimbos and that’s nothing new in Southern politics.

As she enters the Bob Dole phase of her career, she is slightly more
interesting. Instead of the bitchy middle-aged “professional” woman, she
is a a boozy old gal that is a feature of the Washington cocktail
circuit. These are the women who have been married to politicians their
whole lives and have a cultured cynicism that comes from years of
disappointment.

Like Bob Dole, she is probably a hoot after a few drinks, but you can
always sense why no one in the political class thought enough of them to
put them in charge of anything. They are the sort of people who never
ask, “What if this doesn’t work?” As a consequence, they get jammed up
on minor stuff.

This e-mail scandal is a classic Hillary bungle. The old rule in
politics is “never write when you can speak, never speak when you can
nod.” There’s nothing wrong with having a private e-mail account. It
should have been two steps removed from the boss. Hillary should have
dictated her correspondence and never e-mailed anyone in her official
capacity, other than to send birthday wishes.

But, that’s been the story for three decades or more with this woman. As
I mentioned on my Unz post, everyone forgets why Clinton lost in 2008 to
Obama. Her and her people failed to account for the rule changes the DNC
implemented for the 2008 primary. The Clinton team was operating under
the old rules, prior to proportional allotment of delegates.

I’m going to play amateur psychiatrist here. I wonder if this serial
bungling is a way to get attention from her husband. When I worked in
DC, I saw this quite a bit. The wives of politicians are often just
furniture. They stand next to hubby on stage and for photos, but
otherwise hubby thinks about them as much as he thinks about the coffee
maker.

There are more than a few drama queens in the political wife club. It’s
how they get the attention of their husbands who spend all of their time
with their staff. Hilliary’s scandals are the one thing she and Bill
share together. Maybe there’s a damsel in distress syndrome going on
here that drives these unforced errors.

I remain skeptical about her chances to be president. There’s a Bob Dole
’96 vibe here. The party does not have anyone ready that they trust and
it is not looking like  good year to run anyway. May as well let the old
broad have her day in the sun as the first female nominee. Otherwise,
everyone will just go through the motions.
