---
title: "Busy Work"
date: "2015-11-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5597"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5597"
---

Walk around any big company and you will find lots of people that appear
to do nothing but busy work. They have titles and responsibilities. They
perform all sorts of activities, but it is nearly impossible to figure
out how these activities help the company. In tough times, these are
often the people who get let go and everyone who is left moans about
having to do their work, but in a month or so no one notices anymore.

Government and the academy are loaded with people that do nothing but
busy work. I once knew a guy whose mother was a year from retirement
from the government. Her department was closed and instead of
transferring her elsewhere, they just let her run out her time in an
office. She spent her days making scrapbooks of the grand kids. They
even gave her an office with a window.

I knew a guy who worked for the city of Boston and all he did was attend
meetings. His day would start with a meeting and he would go from
meeting to meeting all day with breaks for lunch and answering voice
mails and so forth. I had some fun trying to pin him down on what he
actually \*did\* every day. The best I could tell, he’s gift was in
never answering the question.

Maybe the reason the workforce participation rate is at all-time lows is
because of a side effect of automation. That is, there’s no need to
automate busy work. The process of automating essential work is making
it harder to add extra people who spend their days keeping busy. As
companies automate essential work, there’s less waste, as in the guy in
the cubicle who spends all day on Facebook.

The area I notice this most often is in IT departments. Companies of any
size will have at least one IT person. Often they have several. One guy
handles desktop support, while another manages their software and
corresponding database systems. Some other guy is the boss and he
usually spends his days in meetings, not actually doing work. All of
these people appear to be essential when something goes wrong, but
things don’t go wrong very much anymore.

These jobs could be and used to be combined. I’m old enough to remember
when there was not much of a need for desktop support because everyone
used dumb terminals. This can be done today with things like Citrix and
thin clients. Similarly, the IT guy was never in management meetings.
Like engineers, these were guys who did work, not talk about it. We’ve
created a lot of busy work in IT.

The place where you see endless busy work is the academy and the “think
tanks” that have sprouted up like dandelions all over the Imperial
Capital. In the academy, the study of the obvious has become a staple of
life. Every day we see something in the news feed that can be classified
either as the <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/04/us/mass-murderers-fit-profile-as-do-many-others-who-dont-kill.html?_r=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">“study of the obvious”</a> or the <a
href="http://www.marketwatch.com/story/too-hot-for-hanky-panky-threat-of-global-warming-hits-between-the-sheets-2015-11-03"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">“study of the imaginary.”</a> The latter
pretty much keeps the economics departments around the country going.

I think it is part of what is driving the <a
href="http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/scientists-replicated-100-psychology-studies-and-fewer-half-got-same-results-180956426/?no-ist"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">replication crisis</a> in the soft
sciences. Most of these studies are cooked up in order to fulfill grant
funding conditions. The government doles out money and part of the deal
is a paper on some topic. The result is loads of “research papers” that
are <a
href="http://www.nature.com/news/publishers-withdraw-more-than-120-gibberish-papers-1.14763"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">simply gibberish</a>.

The old saying that idle hands do the devil’s work applies to busy work.
My suspicion is most of the people rattling around the academy are
better at fraud than anything academic. Take for example this guy who
did a <a
href="http://www.unz.com/article/closing-the-black-white-iq-gap-debate-part-2/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">guest post</a> on the Ron Unz site. Ron
posted it mostly because it conforms to his view that biology does not
exist. Ron is a denier!

Anyway, look at the bio of the writer, [Chanda
Chisala](https://chandachisala.wordpress.com/about/):

*I am from Zambia, Africa. My formal educational background is in
Biochemistry, but I have never practiced it or worked in that field. I
started my web company immediately upon graduating in Biochem at the
University of Zambia. I also formed Zambia Online in 1998 and it is
still the most active Zambian web site today (see Zambia Google rank).*

*“Human Supremacism” is what I call my philosophy. It simply means that
man is the highest kind of being possible in reality, and it means that
every individual is absolutely the highest kind of being in the
universe. This is the only logical foundation for the ideology of human
rights. No one has a right to control another human being, not
government, not society, nothing, because nothing is above any human
being. So, observing human rights simply means that you can’t involve
any human being in any kind of interaction without their permission. And
this interaction means interacting with any of their property.
Governments exist solely for the purpose of sustaining this principle.
Anything they do above that is not their duty and it is usually a
violation of human rights itself. Human supremacism.*

*In 2008, I was granted the Knight Fellowship by Stanford University to
study “the impact of the internet on the future of African journalism,
and the philosophy of human rights.”*

*In 2009, upon completing my Knight Fellowship program, I was invited
back to Stanford by the Hoover Institution as a Visiting Scholar.*

At the risk of sounding uncharitable, Mr. Chisala has no business being
on a college campus. The reason he has never worked in biochemistry is
there is no one in Zambia in need of a biochemist and no one outside of
Zambia would hire a biochemist from Zambia. STEM fields are notoriously
un-PC because they are right answer fields. Checking the right boxes
does not trump getting the wrong answer.

Having figured this out, Mr. Chisala set about a career as a hustler
that has taken him all the way to Stanford. His personal philosophy
reads like something you see in high school yearbooks, but that’s not
what matters. He’s checking the right boxes at Stanford and *that’s*
what matters. He gets to fritter away his day writing nonsense about the
Internet in Africa, a topic no one cares about, including Africans. This
is busy work.

The assumption by the robot future guys is that we will reach a point
where the robots either wipe us out of become our caretakers. We will
become Eloi and the machines will be our Morlocks, without the
harvesting and eating part. A world kindergarten where humans are free
to play like children, while their robot overseers look out for their
safety.

Maybe the alternative is a world composed of busy work. The robots will
figure out that humans need to feel important and that means performing
work. The robots will create a world where it appears all of us are
doing important stuff, but in reality we are just spinning our wheels,
killing time in busy work, like maintaining blogs.
