---
title: "Kindermord"
date: "2015-09-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5542"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5542"
---

No people have been more poorly served by their leaders than the German
people, going back to the founding of the modern German nation. Most
people would assume I’m referring to you know who and the you know what,
but that’s just one example.The Kaiser’s actions in the lead up to the
Great War were reckless and crazy, costing his people immeasurably. The
Great War has largely been forgotten, but it is fair to pin the blame
there for what came after on the events of 100 years ago.

I’ve been reading about the Great War lately and one event in the Battle
of Ypres jumped out to me for its significance today. The German army
found itself on the defensive after the French rallied at The Marne.
They retreated back toward Belgium and took up defensive positions
before the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_to_the_Sea" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Race to the Sea</a>, where both sides tried to outflank
the other to the north. The Battle of Ypres was at the end of this.

There’s one battle that struck a chord with me and it is the Battle of
Langemarck. The war had not gone as the Germans had planned and they
suddenly found themselves needing many more soldiers. Not only was there
not going to be a quick end to the war, the Allies had amassed a huge
army and the Germans had to match it so they began conscripting every
able bodied man into the army.

Both sides found themselves in a position where they were sending raw
recruits into battle against hardened units in a form of warfare no one
had contemplated until the Great War. The result was often slaughter
where raw units were sent rushing against machine gun positions, only to
be mowed down by the thousands. By Langemarck, however, both sides were
well aware of the reality of this war.

In September 1914 four new German Army Corps had been formed. At that
time, a German corp was about 12,000 men so these new corps totaled
50,000 men at most. Estimates vary, but about 75% of these new units
were young volunteers between 17 and 19 years of age. As a result of the
young age of so many of the soldiers, the Corps became known as the
“Kinderkorps”. The word “Kinder” translates as “children” in English.

These four Corps were incorporated into the German Fourth Army and by
October, with only a few weeks of training, they were on the march
towards the front at Ypres. On the other side were experience soldiers
of the British Expeditionary Force. These were some of the best soldiers
in the war at the time. The BEF was a professional, full-time military
that had fought around the globe prior to the war in France.

The accounts are disputed, but the reports at the time claim these
“Kinderkorps” attacked the British positions, singing
<span class="st">*Deutschland Uber Alles,* with some having put flowers
in their helmets. This was most assuredly apocryphal, made up to add
poignancy to a dreadful event. Estimates say 70% of these units were
mowed down in the attack. Again, the details are disputed by
revisionists, who have motives worse than the the people they wish to
refute, but the slaughter is not disputed. </span>

<span class="st">For a long time this event held a special place in the
German national consciousness, but I’m sure it no longer holds any place
today. It should have remained a warning to all future Germans about the
conduct of their leaders and the cost of giving them too much power. The
story of German leadership since the founding of the modern state is one
of suicidal squandering of their most precious resources for no good
purpose, beyond self-aggrandizement. </span>

This is relevant today in what we are seeing with Merkel’s quest to <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/shortcuts/2015/sep/01/mama-merkel-the-compassionate-mother-of-syrian-refugees"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">fill up Germany with Muslims form the
Near East</a>. These Muslims are not looking to become German, even if
that were a possibility. They are not seeking temporary shelter from a
storm back home. <a
href="http://pamelageller.com/2015/09/refugees-in-europe-young-fit-and-overwhelmingly-male.html/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The majority are men of military age</a>,
who should be back home fighting to make their country safe again. No,
this is just a bunch of people looking for a better deal.

Germany should be organizing the defense of Europe, helping the
periphery deal with this flood of migrants. Instead, it is a slow motion
“Kindermord”, where the children of today are being sacrificed to the
mad policies of a bunch of old farts in charge of the country.The
absolute inability to admit error is leading the German political class
to embrace what amounts to national suicide, just so they can feel good.

Reading about the Great War, it’s hard to comprehend how the leaders of
that age could have been so foolish, reckless and craven. But, we also
have the benefit of 100 years of hindsight. Still, after the first wave
of young men were fed into the gaping maw of industrial warfare, there
was simply no excuse for not seeking a way to end what was a pointless
war.

One hundred years from now, if civilization permits a looking back at
our age, people will wonder how the leaders of today let wave after wave
of migrants wash away European civilization. After the first experiments
with wholesale immigration, how could they not see the suicidal lunacy
of these polices? The lesson, of course, is no amount of “Kindermord”
can shake the faith of men determined to wipe themselves out.
