---
title: "What’s a Conservative?"
date: "2015-06-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4737"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4737"
---

The other day, James asked about this line from one of my posts:

*“On the other hand, people like me no longer describe ourselves as
conservative because we are at odds with everything the modern
conservative supports.”*

His questions was:

*“Two questions: 1. what specifically are the things the modern
conservative supports? 2. In what respect are you at odds with each of
these things?”*

Large books have been written on the subject and I could easily write a
small book on what I find objectionable with what we currently define as
“conservative.” Since I don’t have the time to write a book at the
moment, I’ll nibble away at it here. <a
href="http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2015/06/has-fiscal-conservatism-met-an-impasse-at-the-state-level.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This post</a> by one of Tyler Cowen’s
grad students is a good place to start.

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/12/us/louisiana-lawmakers-arrive-at-11th-hour-compromise-on-funding.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"><em>The latest from Louisiana</em></a>
*is that taxes are going up, but in a strange way that won’t be called a
tax increase:*

*One of the most critical parts of the budget plan, and the part that
attracted most of the debate, would raise no revenue and lighten no
one’s tax burdens. But because of a complicated arrangement of tax
credits, this plan could, by some interpretations, allow Mr. Jindal, a
Republican, to say that despite millions coming in from cigarette tax
hikes and tax break rollbacks, the state had technically not raised net
new tax revenue.*

*Read the whole article, it is even weirder than that sounds.  Combine
that with the recent fiasco in Kansas, where <a
href="http://www.kansascity.com/news/government-politics/article23831500.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the strongly Republican state government
will be reversing earlier tax cuts</a>.*

***It seems to me that, whether we like it or not, fiscal conservatism
has been stymied at the state level. ** No, that’s not true for
Illinois, New York, or California, but it does seem to be true for many
other states, especially those governed by Republicans.  (And yes, state
pension obligations
<a href="http://mercatus.org/publication/fiscal-health-states"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">still do need to be reigned in and made
subject to proper accounting.</a>)  More concretely, trying to cut taxes
at the state level doesn’t seem like a useful or productive way
forward.*

I’m old enough to remember when the people saying they were “fiscal
conservatives” were almost always in the Democrat party. That phrase was
a lot like “path to citizenship” or “secure the border” is today. It
meant something different than the literal meaning. The Congressman I
worked for was a fiscally conservative Democrat and that meant he was a
*deficit hawk*.

My congressman was no one’s idea of a *conservative* back then. He was
fine with New Deal style government programs, as long as they were paid
for through taxes. Like all other fiscal conservatives in both parties,
he preferred broad based taxes to pay for government. Today, exactly no
one in politics is a deficit hawk. Borrowing is a given and no one cares
how much or from whom the government borrows money.

The innovation Reagan brought to the debate was the idea of cutting
taxes in order to *force* spending cuts. That’s what it meant to be a
conservative. They agreed with the deficit hawks about not borrowing so
cutting taxes naturally meant a restraint on spending. If you slow the
growth of government to some level below inflation and population
growth, the relative size and scope of the state shrinks.

In other words, conservative meant small, financially responsible
government. That meant the aversion to borrowing of the deficit hawks
and the desire to shrink government. The novelty of using tax policy to
force spending restraint was a means to an end, not an end in itself.

There were objections to this on the Right. The old-school conservatives
preferred to fight the spending fight on its own terms. They contended
that the inevitable deficits from tax cuts would not force spending
cuts, but normalize chronic borrowing. The fact that they were proven
correct has been lost to the mists of time.

There was also another “conservative” principle in the use of tax cuts
and that was simplification. The Progressive view on taxes was as
another tool to shape behavior. The myriad of loopholes, shelters and
breaks was a way to force behavior that otherwise would not occur,
without the carrot of tax breaks. Conservatives always rejected that and
pushed for simple tax systems.

Today, what passes for a conservative holds views no conservative would
recognize forty years ago. For starters, demanding trivial reduction in
taxes as some sort of great goal is just silly. The tax cuts of Bush,
for example, had no impact on the lives of 90% of Americans. If twenty
bucks a week is making a difference, you’re not paying taxes anyway. For
most families, the Bush tax cuts were a rounding error.

Worse yet, today’s “fiscal conservatives’ are in favor of all sorts of
social engineering through the tax code. The credits and breaks demanded
by conservatives could fill a warehouse. The
<a href="http://conservativereform.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Reform Conservatives</a> are calling for a proliferation
of breaks and credits making tax lawyers rich and further entangling the
state in the lives of citizens.

Tinkering with tax rates and expanding the complexity and scope of the
tax code is what defines the term “fiscal conservative” today, along
with an embrace of reckless borrowing to finance a metastasizing welfare
state. I’m old enough to remember when moderate Democrats would mock
that as woolly-headed liberalism.

That’s one example of where I am at odds with the modern conservative.
Taxes are honest when they are frictionless. They should have as little
impact on behavior as possible. They should be clear and in plain site.
Hidden taxes are a crime against the free citizen. Taxes should also be
universal. Citizens pay taxes.

The tax level is whatever is required to finance government. If the
people want a lot of government, then they pay a lot of taxes. If they
want lower taxes, then they have to cut spending. The core principle of
conservatism is that public policy is about trade-offs. Borrowing
conceals these trade-offs and deceives the public, just like hidden
taxes and special tax breaks, thus making deficits at odds with a free
society.
