---
title: "Techno-Feudalism"
date: "2015-06-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4794"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4794"
---

Since the dawn of human settlement, being rich has been a process, not
an end point. In order to accumulate capital, you need to figure out a
way to organize people in such a way that their extra becomes your
extra. Ideally, you leave a little for them so they think helping you
grow rich is to their benefit. But, 1,000 years of feudalism proves it
is not a requirement. With the right system, you can grow rich and
powerful at the expense of others.

That’s the other part of the process though. To keep the peasants,
slaves, servants, workers and associates from revolting, you either
invest some of your extra back into them or you invest it in men with
weapons who will keep the order. Recently the former has been the
preferred method, but the only proven way to keep order is the latter.
That’s why gun laws are enforced by men with guns.

This is not how most Americans look at economics. I’m sure a few reading
this are thinking I have been reading too much Marx. But, that’s the
thing. Marx was not wrong about everything. He made some excellent
observations. His recommended solutions were insane, but many of his
observations were spot on and hold up well even today.

Marx observed that capitalism, as he defined it, destroys and
reconfigures previous economic orders, but also that it must ceaselessly
devalue existing wealth. We see this today with Uber. The old order of
state run cab companies is under assault from the new order of
distributed contractors linked by a public information network paid for
by people who don’t use it.

Joseph Schumpeter argued that this process was not pure destruction as
Marxist claimed, but a reordering that eventually added value to the old
stock of capital. The automobile did not entirely obliterate the horse
and buggy industry. The carriage makers moved to the car business. The
property employed in keeping and raising horses did not go away. It was
re-purposed for car maintenance. While some value was lost from the end
of horse travel, much of it was retained and a whole new layer of value
was added onto it.

Both men were working from the perspective of rapid material progress.
Events seem like they favor Schumpeter as opposed to Marx as we have
seen whole industries grow up in one generation, displacing an old
industry from our parents’ generation. The example I love using is the
fax machine. In my lifetime, I saw it created, dominate and then
replaced with something different. My parents could not imagine it and
the kids today have never heard of it.

[When I see stories like this
one](http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2015/06/amazon-publishing-authors-payment-writing/396269/),
I wonder if rapid material progress has reached an end or at least a
lull. This looks like techno-feudalism to me. Amazon is trying to
arrange things such that they can get writers to work for the benefit of
Amazon, rather than their own benefit. Amazon gets the benefit of being
the world’s largest bookstore, without incurring any risk. Get halfway
through some book and decide you don’t like it? No problem. The author
will refund you the difference! Amazon looks like a hero and the writer
is looking for food in neighborhood dumpsters.

Amazon is not the only billionaire operation running these scams. [Apple
is trying to screw
performers](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/22/business/media/taylor-swift-criticizes-apples-terms-for-streaming-music-service.html?_r=1)
out of royalties. They backed off this time, but you can see where they
are headed with this. These new “rental” services are about locking up
the pipeline between the creator and the customer. Once they gain that
edge, they will stop paying royalties. The next step will be that small
acts get nothing but the benefit of “advertising” themselves on Apple or
Amazon. It’s classic rentier behavior.

These are two recent examples, but the entire financial system is
nothing but feudalism these days. Banks charge people for savings
accounts. That forces everyone to put their savings into equities where
smart people charge fees on investment funds. This arrangement means
that when the economy is strong, everyone gets richer, but the rich get
very rich. When the economy falls, everyone gets poorer, except for the
rich, they keep getting richer. It is heads they win tails you lose.

The reason for wondering if these are symptoms of systemic stagnation is
that when the pie is expanding, the rich guys are rushing to get the
lion’s share of the new pie. When the pie is not growing, they look to
expand their share of the pie at the expense of the weak. The new
business from expansion is always the most profitable. Cannibalizing the
existing market is low margin. When big players like Apple and Amazon
are slumming this way, it suggests they have nowhere else to turn for
profit.

It’s what appears to be at the heart of the massive new trade bill that
just passed. The point of it is not to expand the US market, letting a
rising tide lift all boats. No one believes that anymore. This bill is
about making it easier for global players to loot the American middle
class. William the Conqueror imposed feudalism in the English speaking
world after the Battle of Hastings. Silicon Valley and Wall Street are
imposing it on America a millennium later.
