---
title: "The Ceremonial Congress"
date: "2015-02-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3894"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3894"
---

One of the things important to Democrats in the post-WW2 years was to
reassert the authority of Congress. The extraordinary circumstances of
the previous 15 years required a temporary dictator, of sorts, but the
trouble was past and it was time to put things back as they were, in
terms of political balance. The Cold War, however, meant they never
really could fully restore Congress as the base of Federal power. The
President in a time of forever war, would forever have powers delegated
to an executive in times of war or emergency.

But, Congress clawed back a lot of their power, which is why we ended up
with Lyndon Johnson and the Great Society. The irony there is the
massive expansion of the social welfare system would ultimately
eliminate much of the power of Congress. After all, parliaments have one
source of power and that is the power of the purse. If you create
entitlements, that power is partially eliminated. Keep adding new
entitlements and new benefits and before long Congress has little power
at all.

The Louvre Accords in the 1980’s will be looked upon by historians as
the great undoing of self-government, in all its forms, in the West.
Unlimited zero-interest borrowing has made the power of the purse
superfluous. Why should anyone worry about taxes or budgets when you
have easy access to unlimited funds? It’s not an accident that Congress
no longer passes budgets, but instead passes unread “continuing
resolutions” that just roll existing budgets over for another year, with
a big grab back of new goodies added on.

The power of the purse is four fold. Congress decides what to tax, how
much to tax, how to allocate the tax revenues and, most important, to
supervise the spending of the money. Since the Clinton years and the
capitulation of Congress <s>at Runneymede</s> over the budget,
Presidents have little to fear from Congress regarding taxes and
spending. Bush was hated by Democrats, but he got what he wanted as far
as taxes and spending. After Clinton and Bush, the only power left to
Congress was the supervision of the actual spending. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/414348/gop-leaders-should-learn-their-amnesty-calamity-deroy-murdock"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Now, it is clear they no longer have that
power</a>.

The unwillingness of Republicans to hold the ground on what amounts to
Impoundment by Obama is the last necessary concession to make Congress
purely ceremonial. If they are unwilling or unable to exercise their
oversight duties and instead leave it to the courts, there’s very little
left for Congress to do. They can engage in busy work, go on TV and
shake down private citizens for money, but otherwise they have no power.
We have reached the point the Romans reached after Actium. That is, how
much longer do we we pretend the republic is still reality?

I know a lot of people on the Dissident Right think democracy is a sham
and the source of our problems. I tend to agree with the Founder
critique of democracy as two wolves and sheep voting on what’s for
lunch. Handing a veto to the least able just means the most clever and
devious, the ones able to manipulate the least able and their veto, will
rule the country. It’s why Western political elites are stocked with
sociopaths. But, the trouble today is not that the people has too much
power. It is that the people no longer have a tribune.

The issue of immigration is no greater way to illuminate this point. The
public is overwhelmingly against the anarchy that has been unleashed by
Obama. Voters of both parties in large majorities want greater
enforcement, tighter control and tougher measures against scofflaws. As
that NRO article makes clear, there were a number of avenues the GOP
could have taken to force Obama to heel. They deliberately chose the one
that was most likely to fail. Like borrowing limits, they are more
concerned with eliminating the issue than solving the root problem.

The other interesting thing here is that we are seeing something rather
strange. Revolutions and revolts have always been about a dispossessed
public rebelling against their oppressive or derelict rulers. In the
post-national West, we are seeing the ruling class revolt against their
own people. Instead of mobs with torches and pitchforks surrounding the
palace, the palace is unleashing the praetorian guards to ravish the
people. As I’m fond of pointing out, we have been colonized by our own
kind, who no longer see us as their own kind. The emasculation of the
People’s House is the final blow.
