---
title: "Never Hire a Mentally Disturbed Grifter to Run Your Company"
date: "2015-07-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4871"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4871"
---

One of my rules of life is to never put a bitter weirdo in charge of
anything. People on the fringes usually have a lot of strange new ideas,
but they are just as likely to secretly harbor a lot of deep resentments
about the core. Barak Obama is the most obvious example. He was a fringe
weirdo growing up in elite private schools and that festered into a deep
hatred of typical white people.

A corollary to that rule is to <a
href="http://www.theverge.com/2015/7/3/8889997/reddit-ceo-Ellen-Pao-comments-Victoria-Taylor"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">never hire a mentally disturbed
grifter</a> to run your company.

*Reddit CEO Ellen
Pao [commented](https://www.reddit.com/r/sysadmin/comments/3byaei/reddit_alternatives_other_subs_going_private_to/csr0by6)
this morning about <a
href="http://www.theverge.com/culture/2015/7/2/8888243/reddit-subreddits-private-after-ama-victoria-taylor-fired"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the firing of Reddit Director of
Communications Victoria Taylor</a>, a move that has resulted in a very
public revolt from users of the site. Pao wrote that the site is working
on better tools for its moderators, but it will be a while before those
tools are made available. “The bigger problem is that we haven’t helped
our moderators with better support after many years of promising to do
so,” Pao wrote in a comment. She said that Reddit has hired new
employees to help build these tools, as well as new employees to engage
with the community and its moderators. “We are going to figure this out
and fix it,” Pao wrote.Since she was hired in 2013, Victoria Taylor has
worked on Reddit’s popular “Ask Me Anything” question-and-answer
sessions. She served as the main contact for celebrities and other
high-profile figures participating in the sessions, helping to
transcribe their answers to users’ questions over the phone. In response
to her firing, [Reddit moderators have effectively shut
down](http://www.theverge.com/culture/2015/7/2/8888243/reddit-subreddits-private-after-ama-victoria-taylor-fired)
many of the site’s most popular sections.*

What’s amazing to me is that anyone would hire this woman in the first
place. Her resume screams incompetence and she has a history of suing
her employers. The only thing she brings to the job is she is Asian and
probably lacks a penis. But, inside the Cult, she must have a lot of
piety points, despite being laughed out of court a few months back.

I’m not a Reddit user, but I have looked at it from time to time. It
strikes me as another Silicon Valley scam where suckers do all the work
and some rich people keep all the profits. The Huffington Post is the
best example of how the scam works. They relied on bloggers to provide
content while Arianna Huffington kept the proceeds.

That works as long as the people running the scam remember to keep the
mark happy. Huffington, like the Gabor sisters, has a strange charm that
is very effective at keeping the mark happy. Pao is just a stupid twat
focused on small time hustles. Putting her in charge of a sophisticated
grift like Reddit was never going to work.
