---
title: "Ellen Pao: Asian Al Sharpton"
date: "2015-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4243"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4243"
---

I did not follow <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-03-27/kleiner-fights-off-gender-bias-suit-that-riveted-silicon-valley"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ellen Pao’s attempt to shake down the
Silicon Valley VC firm</a> closely. I read the news reports toward the
end summarizing the case and I concluded, like everyone else, that she
was just shaking down her former employer. The employer decided not to
blink, thus the court drama. The very average people in the jury
apparently thought the same thing and ruled against her on all counts.

If you look at
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ellen_Pao" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">her bio</a>, it is not hard to figure out what’s going
on here. She is not very good at doing real work so she has focused on
gaming the system. That seems to be the only thing she is good at doing.
Her work history suggests she checks the right boxes and pushes the
right buttons. When it comes time to do real work, she starts screaming
about discrimination. It just goes to show that a high IQ does not trump
a lack of scruples.

<a
href="http://finance.yahoo.com/news/reddit-ceo-ellen-pao-no-salary-negotiation-194418442.html?soc_src=mail&amp;soc_trk=ma"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The news brings word that she is now
installed as the interim CEO of Reddit</a>. How or why she landed in
this job is unknown to me, but I’m familiar with failing up, having
spent enough time in the Imperial Capital. From what I gather, Reddit is
just a group-sourcing site with a small staff. They claim 68 employees
so you would assume even Ellen Pao is not going to screw that up. But,
you would be wrong.

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2327">Ellen Pao is swiftly
emerging as the new face of feminism in the U.S., despite losing a
closely watched gender discrimination lawsuit against one of Silicon
Valley’s biggest venture capital firms last month. Pao, who has been
interim CEO of Reddit <span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2334">since
November</span>, is now speaking out about how her experience has
changed the way she manages her own employees. </span>*

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2389">In an </span><a
href="http://blogs.wsj.com/digits/2015/04/06/ellen-pao-on-reaction-to-kleiner-case-workplace-sexism-and-running-reddit-qa/"
data-rapid_p="32">interview with the Wall Street Journal</a><span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2385">
published Monday, Pao says she decided to rewrite the rules of hiring at
Reddit. In addition to hiring workplace diversity consultant
<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2391">Freada Kapor Klein,
</span>the company no longer allows new hires to negotiate their
salaries. Pao defended her move based on studies that have shown that
when women negotiate, they don’t fare as well as their male
counterparts. </span>*

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2393">“We’ve got a lot of
diversity on our team,” she <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/ellen-pao-talks-to-katie-couric-in-exclusive-interview-040627016.html"
data-rapid_p="33" rel="noopener" target="_blank">told Yahoo’s Katie
Couric</a> in a separate interview. “We could use more, but we’re very
excited to make sure we have different perspectives that represent the
people we have using the site.”  </span>*

If I’m the owner of Reddit, I fire this stupid twat tomorrow. Her job is
to run a profitable firm, not engage in social science experiments. But,
Reddit is not a real company so the owners can afford to have her engage
in the nonsense of the day. Reddit is a rich man’s hobby.

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2420">Although Pao doesn’t name
specific research, there have been plenty of studies to back up her
claims. One 2006
</span><a href="http://www.cfa.harvard.edu/cfawis/bowles.pdf"
data-rapid_p="34">study</a><span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2423">
led by Carnegie Mellon University professor Linda Babcock revealed that
when women negotiate, both men and women are less likely to want to work
with them. Men, on the other hand, are much more respected for their
negotiation skills. For women, it’s generally a lose-lose situation. In
</span><a
href="http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S074959781400048X"
data-rapid_p="35">another study published in 2014</a><span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2437">,
researchers found that female negotiators are perceived as more easily
misled than male negotiators and are more likely than men to be lied to
in negotiations.</span>*

Sensible people would look at this data and conclude that men and women
are different. Crazy people, like the social justice warriors now
plaguing tech, think
<a href="http://www.tnellen.com/cybereng/harrison.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Harrison Bergeon</a> is a true story.

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2434">Pao’s solution wouldn’t give
hiring managers a chance to inadvertently discriminate against women who
ask for more. “We come up with an offer that we think is fair,” Pao
says. “If you want more equity, we’ll let you swap a little bit of your
cash salary for equity, but we aren’t going to reward people who are
better negotiators with more compensation. </span>*

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2432">We reached out to Reddit for
comment but have not heard back yet. </span>*

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2426">This might sound like a good
idea, in theory at least. It’s hard to argue with any move that might
make the hiring process and salary decisions as democratic and equitable
as possible. </span>*

*<span id="yui_3_16_0_1_1428453979439_2486">Still, it’s hard to imagine
a corporate world where salary offers are the final word. There are
people whose entire careers are built upon the promise that they will
help people (and women in particular) master the art of negotiating. In
recent years, blockbuster books like “Lean In” and “Know Your Value,”
penned by high-ranking women working in male-dominated industries, have
focused on coaching women to negotiate in a gender-biased workplace. 
And by removing the ability to negotiate, it’s possible some employees
will feel disempowered knowing that they have no real control over their
compensation. </span>*

It’s more likely that talented people will tell this goofy bitch to fuck
off and take a different job. What they will end up with are the beta
males and losers who worry about this nonsense. But, Reddit is a hobby
and having a trophy like Ellen Pao burnishes the liberal credentials of
Condé Nast.

Ellen Pao has figured out how take Reverend Al’s game into tech and give
it an Asian flair.
