---
title: "The Faith of the Crazy"
date: "2015-09-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5552"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5552"
---

What’s hard for normal people to wrap their heads around, I think, is
how modern liberalism is not a set of fact-based opinions, but a crazy
quilt of beliefs that are untethered from reality. Normal people tend to
assume that people can look around, see the world as it is and act
accordingly. Those who fail to acknowledge reality are either mistaken
or insane. For as long as anyone reading this has been alive,
conservatives have assumed liberals are mistaken and therefore they can
be corrected.

Over the last decade, many on the right have come to the conclusion that
the people we call Progressives are suffering from a mental disorder.
Maybe it is the nutty aunt who thinks Obama is Jesus. Maybe it is that
neighbor who has covered his Prius in “coexist” bumper stickers. These
are not people with whom you can have a conversation because they find
some way to preach Progressive craziness at you, even over the damned
weather.

I tend to think of it a third way, which is as a religion. I call it the
Cult of Modern Liberalism because what we call politically correct is
what we used to call “pious” in another age. The PC enforcers deeply
believe in egalitarianism, anti-racism and multiculturalism as pathways
to salvation. It’s Congregationalism with God removed from the
cosmology. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/monkey-cage/wp/2015/09/28/born-that-way-scientific-racism-is-creeping-back-into-our-thinking-heres-what-to-watch-out-for/?postshare=2571443517397390"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a> of it in the
Washington Post.

*This month, Jennifer Cramblett lost her “[wrongful
birth](http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/09/05/white-woman-accidentally-impregnated-with-black-mans-sperm-loses-legal-battle/)”
lawsuit, which centered on a troubling ideology that has been creeping
into mainstream discussions in ways not seen in decades. Cramblett
claimed that the sperm used to inseminate her came from the wrong donor,
leading to a biracial child, which she had not wanted. Her lawsuit
claimed that this mix-up in the lab caused her and her family personal
injuries of various kinds.*

*This lawsuit was shadowed by a troubling logic: the idea that race is a
biological reality with particular traits and behaviors that can be
avoided through proper breeding practices. In doing so, Cramblett’s
claims echoed arguments made in a darker era of global history of
“scientific” racism.*

*Here’s how the argument goes. Some people are born with outstanding
talents, easily mastering basketball, mathematics, languages or piano,
if given the right environment in which to grow. What biologist or
social scientist could argue with that? But alongside that genetic
understanding, an old and pernicious assumption has crept back into the
American conversation, in which aptitudes are supposedly inherited by
race: certain peoples are thought to have rhythm, or intellect, or speed
or charm. That’s a fast track toward the old 19th- and early
20th-century problem of “scientific” racism.*

First off, you’ll note the tone. These are two deeply religious people
speaking to an audience they assume to share their religion. If instead
of “racism” the bogeyman was the devil, it would be something you would
expect from certain Christian sects. If the bogeyman was Western
decadence, then this would read like a sermon from the local imam.
Instead, the bogeyman is biology so it is a boiler plate lecture we’ve
all come to expect from people who enjoy diversity seminars.

You’ll also note that the authors are both professors with degrees in
nonsense fields like <a
href="http://louisville.edu/panafricanstudies/faculty-and-staff/w-carson-byrd-ph-d-assistant-professor.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">racism</a> and
<a href="http://www.matthewhughey.com/Website/HOME.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">sociology</a>. These are not fields of study that add to
the stock of human knowledge about the world. These are fields dedicated
to enforcing religious orthodoxy. When your kids go off to college, they
are forced to sit through diversity lectures by these types of people as
part of the “orientation.”

The Washington Post gobbles up submissions like this because it helps
the faithful resist the temptations of biological science, which
<a href="http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/09/150928122548.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">is becoming a real threat</a> to the Cult
of Modern Liberalism. When genetics can trace your genealogy back to the
home country by merely taking a mouth swab and correlate physiological
attributes to intelligence, biology becomes the same sort of threat to
the New Religion as it was to the Old Religion.

Because this new religion inherits so much from the old religion, it
even comes with an apocalyptic element. <a
href="http://www.wired.com/2015/09/climate-change-bad-us-china-agree/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This breathless story</a> on “climate
change” is a daily feature in Progressive media. Christianity used to
keep people in line by promising eternal damnation in the fiery pits of
Hell if you broke God’s laws. Progressives promise an extremely high air
conditioning bill if you keep using the lawnmower.

The interesting thing about the New Religion is it is a throwback to the
pre-Christian days. Before the Jews gave us a fixed, rational God who
created a fixed and rational world, people truly thought appeals to the
gods would change the laws of nature. Hang a bull’s penis around your
neck and your next kid would be a son. Burn a couple of heretics and the
rains would come and end the drought.

Climate change is paganism for guys and gals on the private jet circuit.
They force the state to pass some regulation making it hard for you to
cut your grass because that will appease, well, whatever is in the blank
spot where Elagabalus used to sit. As has always been the case, the rich
guy making the sacrifice to the gods is never sacrificing anything of
his. It’s always some other guy stretched out on the altar, having his
heart ripped out.
