---
title: "Pizza Rat and Bureaucrats"
date: "2015-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5510"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5510"
---

One of the things most people fail to comprehend is the logic of
bureaucracy. When we bump into it and inevitably get frustrated by the
results, we assume it is due to sloth and stupidity. The image of the
callous, incompetent bureaucrat is a stock figure on TV and in movies.
In America, the Post Office is the example held up as emblematic of the
dull-witted and disinterested government functionary.

The truth of it is, many of the people working in the bureaucracy are
quite competent. The average is probably about the same as you would
find at any private sector company. The difference between the
government bureaucracy and the corporate bureaucracy is what gets
rewarded. In government, it’s all about advancing the interests of the
bureaucracy, while the private firm is motivated by profit. The latter
encourages competition among employees, while the former encourages
cooperation.

The most obvious example is corruption. City police departments are
often bedeviled by corruption because cops never rat on one another.
That’s a good way to get killed. Instead, the honest cops look the other
way and the crooks collude to advance their corruption. In the private
sector, employees rat out crooks and loafers all the time, because the
crooks and loafers are seen as a drag on the organization. The peer
pressure in the private sector is to advance the goals of the group,
which is always about profit.

The goals of government organizations are about protecting the
prerogatives of the organization. The people inside are entirely focused
on what happens inside. The people at the Post Office, for example,
don’t care a wit about the customers or the service they are allegedly
providing. They simply care about their place within the blob and
protecting the blob against outside threats.

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/23/nyregion/pizza-rat-spurs-debate-on-how-to-clean-up-new-yorks-subway-system.html?_r=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story about “Pizza Rat” in the
NYTimes</a> provides an excellent example of how the internal logic of
the bureaucracy looks insane from the outside.

*Even in a subway system often cluttered with trash, it stood out: a
whole slice of pizza left carelessly on the floor.*

*The slice found its way into the grip of an ambitious rat that dragged
it down the stairs of the First Avenue L station in Manhattan early
Monday. A [video of the
spectacle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UPXUG8q4jKU) spread quickly
online, amassing more than two million views on YouTube, and a star was
born: Pizza Rat.*

*A day later, <a
href="http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/d/thomas_p_dinapoli/index.html?inline=nyt-per"
class="meta-per" title="More articles about Thomas P. Dinapoli.">Thomas
P. DiNapoli</a>, the state comptroller, [released an
audit](http://www.osc.state.ny.us/press/releases/sept15/092215.htm "copy of the report")
that questioned whether an effort by the <a
href="http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/m/metropolitan_transportation_authority/index.html?inline=nyt-org"
class="meta-org"
title="More articles about the N.Y. Metropolitan Transportation Authority.">Metropolitan
Transportation Authority</a> to reduce trash and rats on the subway was
working. Mr. DiNapoli said that a pilot program to remove trash cans
from some stations had shown little evidence of success.*

*“After four years, the best one can say about this experiment is that
it’s inconclusive, except for the fact that riders have a harder time
finding a trash can,” Mr. DiNapoli said. His office declined to comment
on the video of the rat.*

*The authority has [removed trash cans from 39 subway
stations](http://www.mta.info/news-trash-new-york-city-transit-subway/2015/08/06/mta-new-york-city-transit-trash-can-free-stations)
in recent years to encourage riders to take garbage with them instead of
dropping it in overflowing trash cans and leaving scraps for rats to
feast on. On Tuesday, the authority defended the program, saying it had
reduced the number of trash bags collected at those stations.*

*“We wholeheartedly disagree with the comptroller’s opinion,” Kevin
Ortiz, a spokesman for the authority, said.*

Now, to normal people the obvious solution to over flowing trash barrels
and the subsequent rats is to empty the trash barrels. If the trash
barrel in your office fills up, you empty it. If you use a service,
maybe you have them come more often. If you have a rat problem, you get
a service to eliminate the rats. In other words, the problem needs to be
solved and that means the problem stops being a problem. The trash
barrels get emptied and the rates go away.

To the bureaucrat, the problem is not the overflowing trash barrels and
the rats. They don’t care about that. The problem is how to create
activity. It’s always about creating activity, which is why problems
never get solved because solved problems create the need for new
activity. In this case, overflowing trash barrels means pilot programs,
committee meetings, budget hearing, endless activity as long as rates
are dragging slabs of pizza around the subway platforms.

 
