---
title: "What Comes Next"
date: "2015-11-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5858"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5858"
---

[Steve Sailer has an excellent
column](http://takimag.com/article/four_ways_to_save_europe_steve_sailer/print#axzz3rqiXh51B)
on how Europe can manage its Muslim lunatic problem. The other day, I
made the point that the will of the people cannot be ignored forever. If
the politicians can’t be made to do the people’s bidding, they will get
new politicians. If the parties are too corrupt to produce the right
politicians, then we get new parties. Ultimately, if the political
system proves useless in dealing with threats, then the people get a new
political system.

The French Revolution is the most common example of the people getting a
new system. Through trial and error, they eventually got to the Second
Republic. In America, the Constitution may still be the theoretical
framework of the nation’s political system, but our government is
nothing like it was 100 years ago or at the founding. As times change
the political system changes, sometimes peacefully and sometimes
violently.

The changes Sailer discusses are changes in the political system.
Implementing a system of collective guilt where the clan of a criminal
pays for the crimes as opposed to the current method of punishing just
the criminal, requires a radical change in the political system. Sailer
is no doubt being facetious with this, but it is not far-fetched. There
has to be a way to keep the peace and if the current arrangements cannot
keep the peace, we will get new arrangements.

[John Derbyshire the other day mocked up his chart of probable
outcomes](http://www.unz.com/jderbyshire/five-scenarios-for-the-white-world/)
with regards to the immigration issue. It sounds reasonable if one
assumes the political systems remain static and you reject other
possible outcomes, like revolts, anarchy, pestilence, war, etc. The
countries of Europe, for example, have not faced an invasion like this
since Batu Khan stood at the Mohi River.

The political systems and cultural structures in place did not evolve to
face invasion, at least not invasion from over the horizon. Europe is
what it is today due to the internal forces of Europe. For instance, the
authorities no longer wear uniforms and solute one another in public.
Instead, they wear pants suits and grin like chimps, so no one thinks
they are Hitler.

What John gets right is the math, which stands to reason. The math makes
clear that the ruling elite’s desire to replace their native populations
with foreign imports is doomed to failure. A critical mass of Muslims
will simply force changes on the political system that either trigger
revolts or sends the West spiraling into anarchy.

Take a look at the responses from Western governments to the latest
Muslim attacks. Civic life is being sharply curtailed, and restrictions
are being placed on citizens. All over Europe, large public events are
being cancelled because they fear a Muslim may detonate and kill a bunch
of spectators. The Germans government is telling people to avoid walking
in large groups so as not be a target.

Today, the French president is out there [welcoming 30,000 new suicide
bombers](http://abcnews.go.com/International/french-president-francois-hollande-welcomes-refugees-paris-attack/story?id=35274658)
into France. There’s simply no way they can keep importing Muslims and
remain France. They know this, at some level, which is why [they put in
jail
anyone](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/oct/20/marine-le-pen-trial-charged-anti-muslims-hate-speech)
who points it out. Holland says, “France will remain a country of
freedom” unless you’re opposed to the Muslim invasion. Then it is not a
free country.

Because the people in charge have defined themselves in such a way that
open borders is the only option, they must implement these sorts of
polices in order to prevent mayhem. The Muslims will adapt and find new
ways to blow themselves up in public. That means new restrictions. This
cycle can only go on for so long before even the most docile honky
throws down his pacifier and picks up a rock.

It’s tempting to assume that whites are too timid and lost to fight
back. Some are, for sure, but action in the streets has a funny way of
bringing out the revolutionary in even old men. A big part of what
plagues the West is there’s no place for men in modern societies.
Rioting Muslim hoards in the streets suddenly will spike the demand for
white males willing to crack skulls. The supply will soon follow.

History says this sort of large scale, transformative event washes away
the old solutions for long ago problems. What comes next is something
different. Again, Europe is politically and culturally alien to its past
of just a century ago. Two great wars did that. An invasion by millions
of Muslims will surely mean a different Europe, even if they beat back
the tide.

That’s where John’s five scenarios falls down. Whatever comes next means
the West stops being the West, politically and culturally. If it lets in
the Muslim invaders, it becomes Muslim and follows the path of every
other Muslim society into a dark age. Alternatively, it becomes a police
state to keep the Muslims from killing everyone else. Or the West
changes to beat back the tide and do what is now unthinkable.

Regardless, what comes next will something entirely different than what
we are today.
