---
title: "Fear of the Dark"
date: "2015-11-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5879"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5879"
---

Jonah Goldberg still churns out a newsletter, of sorts, that National
Review distributes for some reason. I’m not a subscriber, but they post
it on their site. I don’t read Jonah Goldberg very much, but I don’t
have anything against him. It just feels like he has said everything he
has to say as a writer. Whenever I read one of his columns these days it
just feels like I read it a few times already.

That’s not unusual. A lot of opinion writers exhaust their supply of
insights, gags and gimmicks within a few years. The exceptions are those
who have very fertile minds and a high degree of curiosity. Christopher
Hitchens was an example of someone who never stopped fine tuning his
worldview so he kept his work interesting, even though I rarely agreed
with him.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/427444/hillary-clinton-islam-comments-terrorism"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">his column</a> starts with the stock gags
he has been doing for a long time, but the point of it is to solve the
puzzle as to why the Left keeps denying the obvious about Islam. After
meandering around a bit, he gets to this:

*And that is why, as I argue in my column today, Barack Obama is so
eager to respond to the Paris attacks with a rhetorical fusillade
against Republican bigotry. It is a ploy as brilliant as it is
disgustingly cynical. Obama is a co-author of this refugee crisis. As
Walter Russell Mead writes, “No one, other than the Butcher Assad and
the unspeakable al-Baghdadi, is as responsible for the humanitarian
catastrophe in Syria as is President Obama.” Somewhere deep inside
Obama’s supposedly Niebuhrian conscience even he must suspect there is
some truth to this. And even if his denial is total, he must understand
that a great many historians will side with Mead in this appraisal.*

One of my themes here is that the Professional Right is not all that
interested in understanding the motivations of the Left. They much
prefer to be the foil as the pay is better and the work is easier.
Instead of digging deeper, the preferred response is to just assume the
Left is playing politics, dodging responsibility or scoring points for
the party. In this case, Jonah just assumes Barry both agrees that the
refugee situation is a disaster and that he knows he is largely
responsible for it.

There’s no evidence of this and there’s plenty of evidence that Obama
thinks the refugee situation is a pretty good result. Further, he does
not seem all that concerned about the politics of it. You can tell when
a politician is worried about how something looks by watching him change
his position, often denying he was ever on the other side of the issue.
None of that is happening with Obama.

The general consensus from people who have read his two autobiographies
and studied his life is that Obama was a Muslim growing up. His church
in Chicago was nominally Christian, but was modeled on a mosque. Within
Islam there’s a tradition of street corner Imams building a following,
which is what Reverend Wright did in Chicago, but waving the Christian
Bible around instead of the Koran. Reverend Al is another obvious
example. Holy man without portfolio is common in Islam, too.

That’s not to say he is a Muslim. I don’t think Obama is very religious.
It’s just that when he thinks of religion, he thinks of what he knows
and that’s the street corner Islam of his youth. Therefore he is
sympathetic to Muslims in the same way normal Americans would be
sympathetic to Christians fleeing the ISIS lunatics. The truth is, most
Americans would welcome Syrian Christians. Obama’s instincts are 180
degree out of phase with normal Americans.

None of this is groundbreaking. As I said, this is the consensus of
people who have read his books and studied his life. People who are his
supporters often point to his exotic foreignness as the primary
attraction. Obama’s critique of America is from the outside and his
desire to fundamentally transform the country is from the perspective of
an outsider, particularly an outsider who is emotionally outside the
traditions of the West.

You never hear anyone in the professional Right point this out. It’s as
if they fear it. If you go on Fox and talk about Obama’s own words in
his autobiographies, you get branded an extremist loon. The only people
referencing Obama’s writing in their columns are hate-thinkers like John
Derbyshire, who may be one of the few people to read Obama’s books.

The reason for this studied avoidance of the obvious by the Professional
Right is fear. When Obama was elected, the great fear of Republicans and
their cheerleaders in the conservative media was that Obama would be
accommodating to them. They would have no choice but to go along and, in
effect, sign off on his proposals. The game would be up and it would no
longer be possible to carry on like there is substantive fight over
public policy.

Obama turned out to be a petty and venal guy once in office so everyone
could relax and pretend there’s a real fight going in Washington. Obama
seems to fine with it and may even enjoy it. He wins all the fights so I
suppose he should embrace this dynamic. The GOP huffs and puffs. The
“right-wing attack machine” goes into high gear. Then, Obama wins and he
feels like a hero. Everybody is happy.
