---
title: "Imagination Land"
date: "2015-08-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5237"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5237"
---

Years ago, I read a story about a kid who cleverly gamed the admissions
system at Dartmouth, I think, by letting them think he was black. He
checked “other” on the race questions and listed on his application that
he was a member of the black students union and some other groups that
would indicate he was black. Once he got on campus his new adviser was
shocked to learn he was white.

This was before the movie
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0091991/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Soul Man</a> was released, but close enough to make me
think the movie was inspired by the story. The wiki page on the movie
does not mention the news story so who can say. The thing is, thirty
years ago most people thought it was absurd to have different rules for
different races when it comes to admissions. Here we are and <a
href="http://www.mediaite.com/online/mindy-kalings-brother-reveals-he-pretended-to-be-black-to-get-into-medical-school/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">nothing much has changed</a>.

That’s probably to be expected given that college is enormously
expensive now compared to when these stories were oddities. What no one
could have imagined is the sudden rash of white people passing
themselves off as black. Two months ago we had the NAACP leader outed as
a <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2015/06/16/us/washington-rachel-dolezal-naacp/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ginger with a tanning bed addiction</a>
and now we have the <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/08/19/did-black-lives-matter-organiser-shaun-king-mislead-oprah-winfrey-by-pretending-to-be-biracial/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">#blacklivesmatter organizer revealed as a
honky!</a>

*An investigative blogger has accused Shaun King, a key figure in the
Black Lives Matter movement, of misleading media icon Oprah Winfrey by
pretending to be biracial in order to qualify for an “Oprah scholarship”
to historically black Morehouse College. The blogger says King is white
and has been lying about his ethnicity for years.*  
*King is a high-profile campaigner against “police brutality” and
“justice correspondent” for the liberal Daily Kos website who told Rebel
magazine in 2012 that he was biracial, with the magazine reporting that
he is the “son of a Caucasian mother and an African-American father.” He
has also described himself as “mixed with a black family” on Twitter.*

*King has been lionised by the press, praised as hero of civil rights
and social activism. He has written extensively about a childhood in
which he was terrorised by “decades old racial tensions.” He claims to
have been “the focus of constant abuse of the resident rednecks of my
school.”*

*Yet, in recent weeks, rumours have been circulating about his
ethnicity. A 1995 police incident report lists Shaun King’s ethnicity as
white. And blogger Vicki Pate, who has been assembling forensic accounts
of Shaun King’s background and family tree on her blog, “Re-NewsIt!,”
has published her findings.*

*She claims that King is entirely white and says a birth certificate,
which Breitbart has since independently acquired from the Kentucky
Office of Vital Statistics, names a white man as his
father.<img src="http://media.breitbart.com/media/2015/08/hqdefault-1.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="650" height="362" />*

I think if that guy told me he was black, I’d struggle to keep a
straight face. I’d have a much easier time believing he was a member of
a white power or skinhead group.

*“King, 35, has related the story of the hate crime on his blogs and in
his recent self-help book, seemingly to bolster his credibility as an
activist and as a self-help guru,” wrote the Daily Caller‘s Chuck Ross.
“While King has said that he was attacked by up to a dozen ‘racist’ and
‘redneck’ students, official records show that the altercation involved
only one other student.”*

*“And while King has claimed that he suffered a ‘brutal’ beating that
left him clinging to life, the police report characterized King’s
injuries as ‘minor,’” Ross reported.*

*This month, more details have emerged from King’s account that do not
match up with the police report or eyewitness accounts from journalists
who noticed that King’s public claims did not square with reality.*

For as long as I’ve been alive, black people have hated it when whites
act black. Maybe things are different with young people, but I still
think blacks look at a guy like this and want to beat his ass. His fraud
comes off like mocking of blacks, not imitation. How is this different
than black face?

On the other hand, a man can throw on a sundress and the rest of us have
to pretend he is a woman. The same people telling us that Bruce Jenner
is now a girl are the same people <a
href="http://www.livescience.com/47627-race-is-not-a-science-concept.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">claiming that science says race is not
real</a>. That means this cracker is just living the life. If he wants
to pass himself off as a Mohawk, he can do that too. Race is just a
social concept.

This is always the problem with these crackpot ideas. They never think
them through. Defending the dude in a dress because he scandalizes the
wreckers from normalville is a knee slapper until Vanilla Ice shows up
claiming to be Malcolm X. The old system where everyone accepted biology
did not have these problems. Imagination land where you can be anything
you want is fine for children, but not so good for adults.
