---
title: "Guns, Blacks and Biology"
date: "2015-10-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5585"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5585"
---

Whenever a lunatic goes bonkers and shoots up a public place, the usual
suspects march around in public, waving their banners and making a
nuisance of themselves. Whether or not we have more lunatics going on
shooting rampages is debatable. The figures are always gaffed by the
people presenting them so they can claim science! supports their side.
What no one can dispute is that we have more people with more guns, but
the lowest violent crimes rates since the 80’s. Whatever is causing the
nuts to go bonkers, it is not the guns.

<a
href="http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2015/10/obama_s_roseburg_speech_was_right_and_the_gop_is_wrong_about_american_gun.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">William Saletan, a minor moonbat writer
at Slate, is a good example</a> of the deranged logic of Progressives in
defense of the One True Faith. His piece on the latest mass shooting is
the sort of thing that you would expect from a college freshman, but it
is pretty standard stuff from the modern Left. There’s the requisite
bogeyman (Republicans), the hero (Obama) and a series of cheers that are
supposed to be an argument.

He writes that Obama is “raising a question that Republican candidates
for president ought to answer: Our country has a strikingly high rate of
killings. If it’s not because of our prodigious stockpile of firearms,
what’s your explanation?”

Think about the implication of that statement. The mere presence of guns
causes some portion of the public to fly into a rage and murder people.
That’s the only conclusion one can draw from that argument. Even
nuttier, it means that shaping metal in a certain way imbues it with the
magical power to make an otherwise passive man become violent and
murderous. Of course, you also have the classic logical fallacy of
declaring that only one possible cause can explain the observed result.

Now, it is unlikely that Saletan believes in magic, but he is a true
believer. As such, the other possible reasons for American’s elevated
crime rates are off-limits. It’s not a lot different than how ancient
people would assume witchcraft as an explanation for extraordinary
events. When you can’t come up with anything rational, the only thing
you have left is the supernatural. For Progressives, guns are magic that
make people commit crimes.

Another example of this superstitious fear of knowing the true cause of
crime in America is <a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/datalab/black-americans-are-killed-at-12-times-the-rate-of-people-in-other-developed-countries/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story from 538 back in the
summer</a>. You have the typical Nate Silver treatment of the issue with
lots of weird charts and tables. Then you get to the end where he slips
in a bit of forbidden knowledge, assuming his Progressive readers never
bother to read the whole thing. He writes:

*The Charleston killings were unusual in that it was a mass shooting —
and also in that the suspect is of a different race than the victims
(both black and white homicide victims are much more likely to be killed
by someone of their own race.) But that doesn’t negate that the threat
black Americans face from homicide is radically different from the one
whites do.*

Get that? Blacks are killed in much higher numbers than other races, but
they are killed by other blacks because murder is almost always
intra-racial. Whites tend to kill whites, blacks kill blacks and so
forth. Since blacks are much more likely to be victims, and blacks kill
other blacks, well, you know what follows. That truth is so horrifying
to Progressives it can never be said. It can only be implied and only
through oblique references.

The truth is America does not have a gun problem or even a murder
problem. America has a black guy problem. <a
href="http://web.archive.org/web/20121019014646/http:/bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/homicide/race.cfm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">According to the Federal government</a>,
young black males make up 3% of the population and commit 27% of the
homicides. Put another way, if black crime rates fell to the same level
of whites, America would have an overall crime rate of a typical
European country.

I did a series of posts on Africa a long time ago and
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4376" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">one of them listed the intentional homicide rates</a>.
Sub-Saharan Africa has some outlandish murder rates, but they are
consistent with what we see in American in cities like Baltimore and
Detroit. America’s blacks are actually less violent than blacks in the
mother country so that speaks well of the civilizing effects of
civilization, but it still means there is a biological component to
violence.

Progressives, of course, cannot accept that as it means a big chunk of
the One True Faith is invalid. Reality, however, is <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3253295/Fingerprints-reveal-black-white-Distinctive-patterns-person-African-European-descent.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">making that increasingly difficult</a>.

*Palm readers claim to be able to see a person’s future in the patterns
on their hands, but it seems it is possible to also learn about their
ancestral past too from their fingers. Fingerprints – already used as a
way to identify individuals – appear to encode information about a
person’s ancestral background. Researchers have found there are distinct
differences in how fingerprint ridges split between people of European
and African ancestry. The researchers claim their findings could prove
useful not just for anthropologists but also for modern law enforcement
when trying to profile suspects.*

*Professor Ann Ross, an anthropologist at North Carolina State
University who led the study, said: ‘This is the first study to look at
this issue at this level of detail, and the findings are extremely
promising. ‘A lot of additional work needs to be done, but this holds
promise for helping law enforcement. ‘This finding also tells us that
there’s a level of variation in fingerprints that is of interest to
anthropologists, particularly in the area of global population
structures.’*

*The researchers, whose work is published in the American Journal of
Physical Anthropology, examined the right index fingerprints of 243
individuals. They looked at both the level one details, such as pattern
types and ridge counts, and the level two details, which are more
specific variations such as bifurcations – where ridges split – ridge
endings and other structures. They analysed the prints of 61 African
American women, 61 African American men, 61 European American women and
60 European American men. While they could not find any significant
differences between men and women, they did find significant differences
in the level two details of fingerprints between people of European and
African descent.*

If fingerprints carry racial markers, it is no longer possible to argue
that race is anything but biological reality. How the Cult of Modern
Liberalism contends with the growing amount of data contradicting a
major chunk of their worldview is not clear, but denial cannot go on
forever. Otherwise, they will all sound as nutty as William Saletan and
the next stop is marginalization. We can only hope.
