---
title: "Uber Screwed"
date: "2015-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4764"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4764"
---

At various times here I have ranted and raved about Uber and other
“sharing economy” companies. My contention is that they are just clever
ways to dodge existing laws and regulations in order to undercut exiting
providers. It’s not a new technology or a new way to provide a service.
It’s technology used to evade the law. <a
href="http://techcrunch.com/2015/06/17/uber-drivers-deemed-employees-by-california-labor-commission/#.grnlwa:3Gnl"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It looks like the law is slowly coming
around to that position.</a>

*It would appear that the California Labor Commission has ruled that at
least one Uber driver is an employee.*

*As it stands now, Uber employs its drivers as third-party contractors,
operating as a logistics company that provides access to customer demand
and directions, transactions, etc. for the drivers. Uber has argued
repeatedly in various courts that it is not a transportation or taxi
company, but rather a software platform that matches customer demand
with supply.*

*This ruling changes all that, turning Uber into a transportation
startup instead of a logistics software company. That puts the company
in a position to face a number of legal obstacles, as well as rising
costs of employing those drivers directly and offering them benefits,
etc.*

*As <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com.au/california-labor-commission-rules-uber-drivers-are-employees-2015-6"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">BI points out</a>, one of Uber’s main
costs is its full-time employees that work out of Uber corporate
offices. If Uber drivers are deemed employees, the business model shifts
drastically.*

Uber is not the first company to try this trick. Most states have laws
to address the use of “part-time” and “contract” employees. That’s
because companies tried to shift their employment costs onto their
employees by classifying full-time employees as contractors or
temporary. In most states, an employee counts as an employee as soon as
they reach a certain number of hours.

Years ago I was involved with a union campaign in Massachusetts. The
company used part-time drivers and got into trouble when they let the
part-time drivers work full-time hours. They were working 40-50 hours
per week, but classed as seasonal temps. Sensing an opening, the
Teamsters tried to organize them promising better wages and benefits.

Anyway, there’s no mystery to any of this. Operating a car service has
well known costs. The car, its maintenance, gas and taxes are not costs
that can be mitigated with a phone app. Similarly, licensing and
regulatory fees are set by the state. There’s never been a lot of room
to cut costs or increase efficiency. It is a basic business made more
expensive by government.

The only way Uber and Lyft can be offering a better cheaper service is
to avoid the government imposed costs or transferring some of their
costs onto others. It turns out they are doing both of those things. On
the one hand they dump their fleet costs on their drivers. On the other
hand they dodge local regulations and licensing. Add back all of those
costs and Uber is just another taxi company.

The interesting thing about this line of attack on Uber is the potential
liabilities. Once the states start calling those Uber drivers employees,
they can go to the local labor boards and get back wages, benefits and
possibly damages. At the very minimum, Uber will be hiring a big shot
law firm charging big shot law firm rates. Those costs will show up in
the price of the product.

As I’ve said in the past, I’m not against Uber or Lyft. I’m against the
idiots claiming they are creating “disruptive technology.” That offends
me. Uber and Lyft are not building a better mousetrap so much as they
are just exempting themselves from the laws the rest of us must follow.
We have a lot of stupid laws governing banks, but I’m still against bank
robbery. Most taxi laws are probably stupid too, but that does not mean
Uber is a great way to mitigate those laws.

 
