---
title: "Religion of the West"
date: "2015-05-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3990"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3990"
---

When listening to an interview of Richard Spencer on Red Ice, the thing
I found most interesting is the bafflement by supposed race realistic
people as to why the people in charge of the West seem to have a death
wish. John Derbyshire calls is ethnomasoichism, a form of self-hatred
that extends to everyone like them. That is not a great term, but it is
what we have right now.

Listening to Spencer fumble through an explanation, he said one thing
that caught my attention. He kept coming back to the idea of a spiritual
awakening or renewal that he thinks will precede a restoration of
national identity. He was not all that clear on the point so I may be
misunderstanding him.

Regardless, it brought to mind something about the Roman Empire from the
second century forward. That is, the proliferation of odd cults, mystics
and what we would think of as Eastern mysticism. Hadrian was into the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleusinian_Mysteries"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Eleusinian Mysteries</a>. One of the
later emperors fell in the grips of a mystic whose name escapes me at
the moment. Of course, Christianity got going in this time, starting
from a Jewish heresy into a full blown religious movement.

None of this would be possible if the old gods and the old ways were
still satisfying the people. After all, there’s no need for a new
religion if the old religion is scratching that itch that is there in
every human society. One of the things that’s true about the Roman
empire is it was a miracle it did not collapse at any point after the
reign of Commodus. The reason the people, including the ruling elite,
were looking for new religions is they had largely lost faith in the old
one.

We tend to look at the West as a collection of countries and people
located in Europe, jostling with one another for supremacy. Another way
is to look at the West as the Christian flowering, the Christian era.
Starting from the second century, Christianity evolved and spread until
it was largely formalized in the fourth century. The fall of the Western
Roman empire in the fifth century let Christianity spread throughout
Europe with the conversion of barbarians over the next two centuries.

What’s happening today is Christianity is dying out in the West. No one
in the European ruling class is animated by his Christian faith. In
fact, they mostly mock those remaining Christians in their own lands. In
the US, No one in the ruling party is Christian. Some fake it for old
time sake, but otherwise there are no Christians in the Democratic
Party. The GOP still has some Christians, but most of that is for show,
as their party is the natural home of the remaining Christians in
America.

It’s a conceit of the modern ruling elites that they have shrugged off
the sky gods and the oogily-boogily, but it is just a conceit. Belief is
one of the oldest of human traits, co-evolving with speech. Belief, like
all traits, varies from person to person and between groups. To think
that this trait suddenly fell out of the human animal a generation ago
is simply ridiculous.

That does not mean there always has to be an invisible man in the sky.
An anthropomorphic god or gods probably came along long after the first
conceptions of the super natural. There are plenty of modern examples of
belief without the man-like god or gods. Buddhists, for example, have no
invisible men in the sky. Natives of the Americas did not have man-like
gods.

The point here is that the collapse of Christianity as a legitimizing
and organizing faith has left the people in charge searching for a
replacement. Socialism and Communism filled the void until they were
laughed off the stage by reality. Even the Soviet rulers threw in the
towel on the spiritual side of Bolshevism after Stalin.

The grasping around at these crazy fads like climate change and
anti-racism is just a search for some legitimizing answer to the eternal
why. Even silly materialist fads like Apple and Uber are driven by the
need to the fill the spiritual void. It’s not an accident that every
dedicated Apple user has  memorized the standard response to why they
over spend for a bit of electronics.

This is a blog post, not a dissertation so I’m going to keep and short
and stick with the broad outlines, but I think what’s driving this weird
worship of the alien, specifically brown people migrating north, is
spiritual envy. They envy the natural identity and belonging these
people have as members of the oppressed. Generously inviting the noble
savages into your neighborhood scratches that age old spiritual itch.

The cults and mystic faiths that floated around the late Roman Empire
borrowed heavily from the old ways. Even Christianity cherry picked
items from the old pagan religions. Climate change obviously borrows
heavily from the Jewish Bible. Cultural Marxism looks a like liberation
theology, without the Christianity. It’s Gnosticism updated to the
modern era.

The absurdity of these weird cults and theodicies suggest we are in that
transition period between the end of the old ways and the birth of some
new way. Something is going to take the place of Christianity, just as
Christianity took the place of the Greco-Roman gods. I have no idea
what, but I will not be around to see it.

This is obviously a huge subject and I’m still noodling my way through
my own thoughts on it.
