---
title: "Mass Stupidity"
date: "2015-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5386"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5386"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, I kept getting invitations to join
Facebook. I had no interest in joining Facebook, which made me a weirdo.
Friends would ask me why I was holding out and I’d tell them “I’m just
not that interesting.” I did not realize it, but I was subtly insulting
my friends by breaking the unwritten rule of social media. That is, none
of us are so interesting that we should be on social media. No one I
know, except me apparently, can face up to the fact that their life is
not all that interesting.

I finally relented for a while, but then I quit and no one noticed. The
same is true with Twitter. I have two accounts. One for sports and one
for this blog. I rarely tweet anything. When I do read the twitter (I
love calling it “the twitter” for some reason), I mostly see strangers
posting what they hear on TV or say on the Interwebs. It’s an echo
chamber of snark and stupid.

A good example of the latter is Razib Khan, who is a super smart
doctoral candidate in genomics and genetics. This is mighty tough
material tackled by the very brightest people in the world. On the
twitter, however, he comes off like a teenage girl with a bad attitude.
The reason is he spends most of his time commenting about what other
people are tweeting. Dogs and flees.

I think there is merit to the wisdom of the crowds. I’m a human and
humans are social animals. We take cues from those around us about what
is and what is not acceptable and preferable. Restaurant reviews are the
most obvious example. Bad reviews count for way more than good reviews,
because we are wired to look for taboos and dangers. “I had a great
burger” tells me nothing. “I found a rat in my soup” tells me
everything.

Unlike many on my side of the fence, I’m not in favor of shuttering the
TV stations and closing down the Interwebs. The young and the stupid
need entertainments and it keeps them busy. We live in an age with lots
of idle young men and idle young men get into trouble. Having them play
video games and watch car chase movies is probably a good idea. It keeps
them off the streets, at least for a little while. I’d rather have them
on Facebook than on my street corner.

This is something the people in charge have long understood. The first
thing the Reds did in the 19<sup>th</sup> and 20<sup>th</sup> century
was take control of the media organs. The Cult of Modern Liberalism
controls mass media in America because if you control the media you
control the country. <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2011/mar/17/us-spy-operation-social-networks"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The CIA works hard to control social
media</a> because they understand that it is the key step in controlling
the people. Having the title “Director of Internet Sock Puppetry” must
make for some laughs in the Langley locker room.

The trouble is we are awash in mass media, meaning we are floating in a
sea of *bad* information. Republican voters often carp about the
low-information voter, but most of the people voting GOP believe all
sorts of nonsense, mostly because they see it on Facebook. They think
they are holding the correct opinions because people they see on TV or
on-line hold those views and those people seem nice or smart or cool or
whatever.

Men of the Right have been complaining about the stupidity of the people
for a long time, which is why the Right has always opposed democracy.
It’s indisputable that half the people in any society are below average
in IQ. Giving them the franchise is inviting trouble, but as long as the
smart fraction controlled the mass media, society buggered along without
too much trouble. The dimwitted got their cues from the local paper or
TV about which way to vote, thus mitigating any damage they could cause
by backing a nut or a deviant.

That’s not really the case with social media. Twitter and Facebook are
platforms run by the masses, mostly by the portion of the masses with
free time. It is the nature of man to trust what is said to him and that
makes all of us susceptible to the mass stupidification of mass media.
If you spend all day listening to blockheads on Facebook or Twitter,
you’re likely to get caught up in whatever the other blockheads are
doing.

The so-called Arab Spring is a good example. The claim at the time is it
was driven by social media. How did that turn out? Egypt had a nice
blood bath with a brief period of control by Muslim lunatics. The same
thing played out across the Maghreb. One could argue that the unrest in
the Maghreb is in some small part responsible for the [mass invasion of
Europe from the Near
East](http://www.euractiv.com/sections/infosociety/migrants-use-facebook-messaging-apps-liaise-smugglers-317338).
It turns out that a million nitwits can be wrong.

That’s the Arab world and easy to dismiss, but the evidence says the
West is getting dumber and the Internet is probably a part of it. All of
my Progressive friends get their “facts” from Wiki and Facebook. They
think their [ability to Google something makes them
brilliant](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/science-news/11507200/Google-makes-people-think-they-are-smarter-than-they-are.html).
This make them dumber than nature intended because instead of being
ignorant, they are ignorant and certain. Smart people are always
uncertain. It’s when the stupid become confident that things can get out
of hand.
