---
title: "The Reactionaries Take Greece"
date: "2015-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3680"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3680"
---

It looks like <a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/syriza-poised-for-victory-in-greek-election-1422168982?mod=WSJ_hp_LEFTTopStories"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Greeks have decided to bugger the
world</a> by voting in Syriza. I don’t know enough about Greek politics
to know if they can govern alone. According to news reports, they are
just shy of a majority so they need partners to form a government.
Presumably they can find a few small parties to give them the seats they
need, but that’s just my guess. <a
href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EU_GREECE_ELECTION?SITE=AP&amp;SECTION=HOME&amp;TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&amp;CTIME=2015-01-25-12-09-15"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The AP says</a> they won 149 of 300 seats
in parliament. Looking at the WSJ chart, it appears the communists got
15 seats so they will probably join Syriza in a coalition of the crazy
to run Greece.

I would assume that average Greeks will now pull the rest of their money
from the banks and stop paying their taxes. The Greek banks are on the
knife’s edge due to the quiet bank run leading up to the election. All
of them have reportedly applied for emergency liquidity from the ECB.
The noises coming from <a
href="http://www.channel4.com/news/we-are-going-to-destroy-the-greek-oligarchy-system"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Yanis Varoufakis</a>, the incoming
Finance Minister, suggest Alexis Tsipras is spoiling for a fight that
creates chaos. It is an axiom of radical politics that crisis creates
opportunities.

The crisis they seek now is with Europe. Reading the international news
tells me the first step is to break out of the spending restraints
placed on Greece by the troika. That should force a confrontation with
the rest of Europe, particularly Germany. If not, then the next step
will be to demand a restructuring of current debt. Syriza seems to think
the Germans would rather be bled dry than let the Greeks walk. That’s
the way to bet, given the way European politicians have turned
themselves into pretzels in order to keep the project afloat.

The fascinating thing to me is that Alexis Tsipras is basically the
young version of every current European leader. The typical Eurocrat was
saying all the same stuff, when they were young, as Tsipras is saying
today. It’s like time has folded on itself and the Eurocrats are now
fighting their juvenile selves over a project they would have opposed in
their youth. That should work to the advantage of the geezers, but so
far the advantage seems to be with the young radicals.

The other thing of interest to me is what happens elsewhere with their
radical parties. In a healthy social democracy, the main parties
represent the core of the nation. What we’re seeing all over the West is
the main parties are losing support from the core as they defend the
privileges of the elites over all else. The people will have their
tribune, so eventually a fringe party finds a way to make its case to
the disaffected core. That’s what has happened in Greece and is in
process throughout Europe.

The future is not written so there is still time for the more stable
countries of Europe to reform and maybe what’s happening in Greece will
be the wake up call they need. I’m not terribly optimistic about that
possibility.  The main parties of Europe are now built on the idea of a
single Europe with open immigration, a single economy and a single
political class, independent of the people. I don’t think people realize
just how radical the idea of Europe is in the history of man. There’s
never been anything like it and the mainstream parties are all married
to it.

That’s what brings me back to the irony of the young radicals facing off
with the old radicals. Europe has been stuck in this endless loop for
two centuries now. Each generation comes along with their plan to prove
Rousseau right. When they inevitably fail, the next generation gets
their shot to show the old fools how it is done. Alexis Tsipras talks
like a college professor circa 1968 or 1848.

The endless loop of feudalism was eventually broken by the Black Plague.
As an economic system it could not survive the massive disruptions
brought by the plague so something else had to fill the void. But that
was an economic arrangement, not an ideological one. It took the massive
devastation of central Europe in The Thirty Years War to discredit the
idea of a universal European church.

Rousseau-ism has proven to be much more resilient and adaptive.
Christianity eventually broke on the wheel of science. Rousseau-ism
keeps mutating. The European project is a radical adaptation of fascism
– transnational fascism, but it is still the same old songs, just sung
to different tunes. In one of life’s ironies, Syriza is reactionary, a
demand to return to old school Rousseau-ism of a century ago.

My sense is we have entered a new phase. This will be marked by the slow
bleeding of the core in order to buy off the fringe. The core is
intellectually and spiritually exhausted. Success within the core is
about managing decline. There’s no man on a horse riding in to reform
and reinvigorate the core. Like a once rich family selling off the
furniture to pays their debts, the core of Europe will keep printing and
borrowing to pay off the fringe. Until they can’t do it anymore.
