---
title: "The Religion of Open Borders"
date: "2015-10-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5630"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5630"
---

I’m fond of pointing out that the main reason Progressives win every
fight is that their opponents make the mistake of thinking it is a
debate over facts and reasons. The people calling themselves
conservative right now are sure that all they have to do is round up the
facts and present them to the other side and the Left will throw down
their weapons and embrace them as brothers.

Reality is completely different. Progressives are religious fanatics and
no amount of reality will shake them from their beliefs. Their religion
does not have a superior being anymore, but it has lots of supernatural
components. Most important, it has a moral component. The adherent is
there to receive grace and that comes through social activism. They act
locally because they think eternally.

We’re seeing a similar thing with open borders. It’s common to blame the
greedy cheap labor lobbies for buying off pols in both parties, but
there’s not a ton of evidence for it. The guys doing most of the hiring
of illegals are small businesses with no lobbying power. Amnesty
actually harms the cheap labor lobbies because it would end the under
the table hiring. Yeah, there are cheap labor lobbies, but they are not
the bogeymen many imagine.

Steve Sailer has other ideas. <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/brooks-house-republican-caucus-is-close-to-ungovernable/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">In this post about Paul Ryan</a>, he
blames black people.

*In the early 1990s I visited the Milwaukee fairgrounds on the lakefront
a couple of times for various festivals. I recall being struck by how
African Americans made up a large percentage of the partiers at the
festivals, but a small percentage of the workers. Most of the work
seemed to be getting done by Mexicans.*

*A continuing theme here at iSteve is that Milwaukee and
[Madison](http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-atlantic-madison-wisconsin-is-not-ferguson-missouri/ "http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-atlantic-madison-wisconsin-is-not-ferguson-missouri/")
have, on average, close to the worst blacks in the country. Most
Northern cities’ blacks are the descendants of people who left the South
in the 1940s and 1950s for jobs in the North. But Wisconsin’s blacks
tend to be the descendants of people who left Mississippi in the 1960s
and 1970s for
[welfare](http://www.unz.com/isteve/scott-walkers-wisconsin-where-social-democracy-came-closest-and-crashed-hardest/ "http://www.unz.com/isteve/scott-walkers-wisconsin-where-social-democracy-came-closest-and-crashed-hardest/")
in social democratic Wisconsin.*

*It’s only natural for Wisconsin whites like Paul Ryan to see Mexicans
as better than blacks and thus want more of them in order to
demographically swamp the African-Americans who have made life miserable
for Wisconsin whites. But it’s also natural for Republicans further from
the Canadian Border to be less naive about the poorly thought-through
social engineering emotions of Wisconsin politicians.*

Steve is fond of this sort of reductionist argument. It sounds good at
first, but when you think about how it must work, it starts to sound
implausible when you scale up from one guy at the state fair. Imagine
Ryan meeting with his team and saying, “We have to do something about
our bad blacks and I think we should import a bunch of Mexicans!”

I don’t know. Maybe that’s happening at secret meetings of The Deep
State™ and I’m terribly naive, but my sense is exactly no one in
Wisconsin thinks like this. I get around a lot and what you always hear
from amnesty advocates is one of two talking points. One is that
Hispanics are wonderful hardworking additions to the country. The other
is they are a necessary part of the labor market.

Frankly, I don’t know if anyone that says these things thinks much about
it. They just say these things because that’s what you do. If you are a
Democrat, you are for amnesty so you pick from one of the Democrat
talking points. The same is true for most Republicans. Libertarians, of
course, have their fantasies about the free flow of good and people in a
world without government.

My hunch is what lies at the core of the Religion of Open Borders is
morality. It’s a manifestation of Public Protestantism. In a prior age,
the Yankee religious impulse was focused on the salvation of society,
not of the individual. You had men in black clothes making sure you were
observant of the Sabbath and not having too much fun. Once God faded
from the picture and the world got smaller, this impulse folded into
what we call social activism. The moonbat woman next door with the Prius
really does think she is saving the planet.

The Religion of Open Borders is the next great cause or perhaps the
globalization of Yankee Public Protestantism. <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2015/10/get-rid-borders-completely/409501/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Take a look at this article</a> by Tyler
Cowen’s flunky, Alex Tabarrok.

*Not every place in the world is equally well-suited to mass economic
activity. Nature’s bounty is divided unevenly. Variations in wealth and
income created by these differences are magnified by governments that
suppress entrepreneurship and promote religious intolerance, gender
discrimination, or other bigotry. Closed borders compound these
injustices, cementing inequality into place and sentencing their victims
to a life of penury.*

*The overwhelming majority of would-be immigrants want little more than
to make a better life for themselves and their families by moving to
economic opportunity and participating in peaceful, voluntary trade. But
lawmakers and heads of state quash these dreams with state-sanctioned
violence—forced repatriation, involuntary detention, or worse—often
while paying lip service to “huddled masses yearning to breathe free.”*

That is a purely moral argument. He couches it a little in economic
terms, but he is not shying away from the moral claims he is making in
favor of mass immigration.

*What moral theory justifies using wire, wall, and weapon to prevent
people from moving to opportunity? What moral theory justifies using
tools of exclusion to prevent people from exercising their right to vote
with their feet?*

*No standard moral framework, be it utilitarian, libertarian,
egalitarian, Rawlsian, Christian, or any other well-developed
perspective, regards people from foreign lands as less entitled to
exercise their rights—or as inherently possessing less moral worth—than
people lucky to have been born in the right place at the right time.
Nationalism, of course, discounts the rights, interests, and moral value
of “the Other, but this disposition is inconsistent with our fundamental
moral teachings and beliefs.*

The language used here is right out of the Abolitionist Movement. It is
right from the Civil Rights Movement. It’s right out of John Winthrop’s
*<a href="http://winthropsociety.com/doc_charity.php" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">A Model of Christian Charity</a>.* God does not make an
appearance, but clearly Alex believes that the path to grace is through
creating a world where “every man might have need of others, and from
hence they might be all knit more nearly together in the bonds of
brotherly affection.”
