---
title: "¡Viva los Republicanos!"
date: "2015-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4248"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4248"
---

One of my hobbies is studying human belief. People, singularly and in
groups, especially groups, will come to believe something to be true, no
matter the facts. Their belief reaches a point where all
dis-confirmation triggers a redoubling of their dedication to the cause.
So much so it begins to look like madness.

So it is with the people running the Republican Party and their belief
in winning the Hispanic vote. The math has been worked out for a long
time now, but they persist in the belief that the party of gringos will
be the party of the mestizos. It’s not just the party leaders, many of
the rank and file buy it too. It’s what’s driving the Marco Rubio
campaign.

Anyway, here’s <a
href="http://latino.foxnews.com/latino/politics/2015/04/06/gop-congressman-mike-coffman-keeps-up-latino-outreach-long-after-re-election/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a good example of it from Fox News
Latino!</a>

*Congressman Mike Coffman has been studying Spanish for less than two
years, but he launches into it with the seeming comfort and ability of a
veteran speaker.*

*The Colorado Republican, who won re-election in 2014 in what was
considered the most competitive House race in the country, drew some
skepticism when he began taking Spanish and going to Latino
neighborhoods and **adopting a more moderate view of issues such as
comprehensive immigration reform.***

You see? He followed the Jeb Bush model and turned himself into El Jefe!

*His district’s boundaries were redrawn in 2011, after the Census came
out a year earlier, and suddenly the predominantly white, Republican
area was ethnically diverse – including 20 percent Latino – and was
winnable by a Democrat.*

*That made last year’s mid-term election, as Politico put it, “a proxy
war for the national Democratic and Republican parties” in the battle
for the growing Latino electorate.*

*Coffman, 60, does not deny that the need to reach out to Latinos, a
community he concedes that he knew very little about, was non-negotiable
if he was to remain in Congress.*

***But what began as a survival tactic, Coffman said, developed into a
genuine interest and respect for Latinos and the Spanish language.***

Just like Jeb Bush! What a coincidence!

<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3371" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I wrote about this last year</a>. The facts tell a
vastly different story. Sure, learning Spanish and soliciting votes from
Latinos helped. The fact is he won because his opponent turned out to be
a nut, the Latino and black votes were much lower than in previous
elections and he did better amongst white voters. The telling fact is no
one ever mentions his share of the Latino vote. The reason is he did no
better than Republicans ever do with Hispanics.

To quote myself, the RINO fantasy is a world where pasty-faced blancos
rule over a land of socially conservative brown people who enjoy
authoritarian rule. The fact that California turned into *la dictadura
perfecta*, to borrow [Mario Vargas
Llosa](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mario_Vargas_Llosa "Mario Vargas Llosa")‘
description of the Mexican ruling party, never comes up. Maybe in
addition to learning Spanish, the Jeb Bush GOP has some other
transformation in mind.
