---
title: "The Show of Force"
date: "2015-03-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3931"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3931"
---

I tend to think of “secessionist movements” as collections of harmless
old weirdos with too much time on their hands. The operative word being
harmless. As we see in Europe, the West is well past violent
insurrection. Instead, the angry confine themselves to posts on
Facebook, Twitter and the secession club meeting at the local Holiday,
as long as there is a breakfast buffet. We do, however, <a
href="http://www.wnd.com/2015/03/feds-raid-texas-political-meeting/#PokDUHViu5JGcJBM.99"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">have a cop problem</a>.

*In a deliberate “show of force,” federal and local police forces raided
a political meeting in Texas, fingerprinting and photographing all
attendees as well as confiscating all cell phones and personal recording
devices.*

*Members of the Republic of Texas, a secession movement dedicated to
restoring Texas as an independent constitutional republic, had gathered
Feb. 14 in a Bryan, Texas, meeting hall along with public onlookers.
They were debating issues of currency, international relations and
celebrating the birthday of one of their oldest members. The group,
which describes itself as “congenial and unimposing,” maintains a small
working government, including official currency, congress and courts.*

*According to
[MySanAntonio.com](http://www.mysanantonio.com/news/houston-texas/article/Feds-raid-Texas-secessionist-meeting-6096637.php):
“Minutes into the meeting a man among the onlookers stood and moved to
open the hall door, letting in an armed and armored force of the Bryan
Police Department, the Brazos County Sheriff’s Office, the Kerr County
Sheriff’s Office, agents of the Texas district attorney, the Texas
Rangers and the FBI.*

*“In the end, at least 20 officers corralled, searched and fingerprinted
all 60 meeting attendees, before seizing all cellphones and recording
equipment in a Valentine’s Day 2015 raid on the Texas separatist
group.”*

*“We had no idea what was going on,” said John Jarnecke, president of
the Republic of Texas. “We knew of nothing that would warrant such an
action.”[Information
Liberation](http://www.informationliberation.com/?id=49846) noted, “The
pretext of the raid was that two individuals from the group had
reportedly sent out ‘simulated court documents’ — summonses for a judge
and a banker to appear before the Republic of Texas to discuss the
matter of a foreclosure. These ‘simulated documents’ were rejected and
the authorities decided to react with a ‘show of force’ – 20 officers
and an extremely broad search warrant.”*

Even allowing for the fact this is reported in World Nut Daily, there’s
simply no excuse for this behavior from government officials. They are
harassing people to get their jollies. It’s why dressing up mall cops in
battle gear is a very bad idea. It takes low-IQ dimwits and sociopaths
and tells them they have a free pass to push people around.

In the custodial state, however, the cops function as hyper-violent
helicopter parents. If a citizen is doing something the authorities
think is unsafe or uncooperative, the state sends in a swat team as a
“show of force”
<a href="http://www.newyorker.com/news/daily-comment/swat-team-nation"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">or worse</a>. There are over 50,000 SWAT
raids a year in America. Most are for things like serving a summons or
collecting non-violent parolees. The argument is the cops don’t know
what they are getting into so for their safety they send in Seal Team
Six.

This is the logic of the managerial class. Police departments have
arrived at a bizarre sense of self-awareness where they no longer see
themselves as part of the community. They stand apart from those they
watch, like game keepers in a preserve. While their job is to keep the
animals safe, their first priority is their own safety above all else,
fueled by a deep distrust of those they supervise.

It’s not just the town clowns stocked up with surplus army gear paid for
by the Feds. <a href="http://youtu.be/0apyRsZ5IpQ" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">NASA has a SWAT team</a>. They can no longer hurl a man
into orbit, but they have a SWAT team. The <a
href="http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2011/06/beware-the-us-education-department-swat-team"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Department of Education has a SWAT
team</a>. Again, a lot of this is due to the unlimited access to funding
for status items that are popular with the managerial class. The streets
of DC are jammed with armored SUV’s toting minor officials for the same
reason. No matter the reason, it is no way to run a civilized nation.

The managerial class, which the cops are a part, although at the lowest
rung, must always attack and undermine the institutions of traditional
social life if its power and interests are to prevail. Freedom of
associations, along with its subordinate right, freedom of expression,
are always under suspicion. These are the breeding grounds for
resistance to the managerial class

It’s why Europe has little sympathy for the Charlie Hebdo victims. The
rulers make a show of it while the issue is in the press, but they
immediately go back to suppressing speech and association. The European
rulers don’t fear Islam or Islamic terror. France is not going to
convert to Islam. They do fear their own citizens, deciding for
themselves and amongst themselves that they may prefer different
arrangements. That’s a real threat. As far as the managerial elite is
concerned, the shooters did them a favor.

This will not end well.
