---
title: "Altered Reality"
date: "2015-06-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4627"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4627"
---

If you want to know a society, study their money. I no longer remember
who told me that, but I always circle back to it when noodling through
the issues of our day. We think of money as the bits of paper in our
wallets, but money is simply a store of value that is easily
transferred. For most of us, money is electronic bits of data these
days. Almost all of my transactions are done electronically.

We live in the information age and that means information has become a
form of currency. It always has been, but it has not always been very
portable. Fifty years ago the guy who knew something big about a
publicly traded company could trade that with a small circle of people,
mostly in person. Today he can sell it to the world in seconds. Just as
sound societies have sound money, sane, well run societies have sound
information.

In the Cold War, the Soviets routinely told lies to their people. They
did this to devalue information, to make it useless. If the people
cannot trust their currency, they don’t use it. If they can’t trust
information changing hands, they won’t act on it. We don’t think of
information as currency, but it is probably our chief currency today.
Most of our labor is put to the task of creating information.

It’s why I’m surprised governments have not become much tougher on <a
href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_FUZZY_MATH?SITE=AP&amp;SECTION=HOME&amp;TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&amp;CTIME=2015-06-08-03-06-52"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this sort of stuff we see going on with
public companies</a>.

*Those record profits that companies are reporting may not be all
they’re cracked up to be.*

*As the stock market climbs ever higher, professional investors are
warning that companies are presenting misleading versions of their
results that ignore a wide variety of normal costs of running a business
to make it seem like they’re doing better than they really are.*

*What’s worse, the financial analysts who are supposed to fight
corporate spin are often playing along. Instead of challenging the
companies, they’re largely passing along the rosy numbers in reports
recommending stocks to investors.*

*“Companies are tilting the results,” says fund manager Tom Brown of
Second Curve Capital, “and the analysts are buying it.”*

*An analysis of results from 500 major companies by The Associated
Press, based on data provided by S&P Capital IQ, a research firm, found
that the gap between the “adjusted” profits that analysts cite and
bottom-line earnings figures that companies are legally obliged to
report, or net income, has widened dramatically over the past five
years.*

*At one of every five companies, these “adjusted” profits were higher
than net income by 50 percent or more. Many more companies are in that
category now than there were five years ago. And some companies that
seem profitable on an adjusted basis are actually losing money.*

The stock market is vitally important to modern societies. In fact, it
is the tent pole holding everything up now. It used to be said that Main
Street is not Wall Street, but no one says that anymore. Everything
counts on the equity markets, often in ways no one understands. The
mortgage bubble is a great example. Even the pros did not fully
understand what was happening. As soon as it faltered, however, everyone
knew it had to be fixed no matter the cost.

That may be why the Feds are turning a blind eye to this. When they can
no longer keep the plates spinning, maybe they put someone in jail for
faking their numbers. As long as the lying works to keep the markets
levitating, there’s no reason to clamp down on this stuff. Like it or
not, the business of America is to keep the plates spinning.

Of course, the Feds could very well be faking their numbers too. Every
month they tell us that unemployment is low, but that record numbers are
not working. The BLS does this thing where they report numbers that seem
good compared to last month, but then adjust those numbers down so that
the next month’s figures look good in comparison. It’s a maddening game
of whack-a-mole.

Regardless of the motivations, it is increasingly difficult to accept
the official data at face value. Is inflation really averaging 1.9%
since the crash? Is the unemployment rate really just 5.5%? Has the
economy really been growing by 2% a year since the crash? I have no idea
and I don’t know many people who would take those numbers at face value
and most of the people I know are Progressives, who worship the state.

I think that’s what is at the heart of <a
href="http://www.people-press.org/2014/11/13/public-trust-in-government/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">these record low public trust figures</a>.
It is assumed that the low trust ratings reflect dissatisfaction with
public policy. Maybe it simply reflects the fact no one can trust the
information we’re supposed to rely on as a society. Everything is a con
where disinformation is peddled to the public so some sharp insider can
profit. We are becoming a low trust society buried in bullshit data.
