---
title: "Ruminations on the Great Game"
date: "2015-11-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5821"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5821"
---

If you are floating around on your yacht in the Black Sea and decide to
visit your home on an island in the wine dark Aegean, you will have to
first pass through the Bosporus into the Sea of Marmara and then through
the Dardanelles into the Aegean. If you keep going, you end up in the
Mediterranean. It’s reasonable to say that a lot of the important stuff
in Western history happened in and around what we call the Turkish
Straights.

It’s also reasonable to say that a lot of what is going to happen in
Western Civ will be happening in and around this area. Those Muslim
hordes pouring into Europe are mostly crossing Asia Minor into Greece
and the Balkans and then making their way to your town. The Turks have
found a clever new weapon to lever concessions out of the Germans. They
now control the flow of terrorists into the heart of Europe.

The downing of the Russian plane by the Turks is a reminder that the
place where civilization started could very well be when it ends too.
The Turks and the Russians have fought wars going back to the
16<sup>th</sup> century. It may go even further back as there are a lot
of blond haired, green-eyed Turks. There are a lot of swarthy looking
Russians who can grow a beard in hours. In other words, the two sides
have been swapping wives the old fashioned way for a long time.

The most recent was 100 years ago when the Turks decided to try to
recover some lost lands from the Russians during The Great War. With the
Russians fighting the Germans and struggling to keep their army
supplied, the Turks figured it was a good time to strike so they
launched an attack into the Caucuses. It did not end well for the Turks,
but it *really* did not end well for the Armenians. Anyone who has ever
known an Armenian knows they will never forgive the Turks.

One of the many reasons America has no business mucking around in that
part of the world is we know pretty much nothing about that part of the
world. On the other hand, the people in that part of the world know
everything about that part of the world. History for them is a nightmare
from which they can never awake. All sides have old scores they would
like to settle for no reason other than that’s who they are and that is
what they do.

It’s why the Russians getting into Syria should be our sign to get the
bleep out of the region and leave the locals to settle their disputes.
The Turks should be told that NATO will not get involved in any war they
start with the Russians. Maybe deliver it with a copy of Churchill’s
*The World Crisis*, Volume II where he describes the thinking behind his
plan to seize the Dardanelles. American leaders are too stupid to
appreciate their own stupidity so we will blunder along regardless.

Of course, it is not just the Turks and Russians. The collapse of Syria
is the latest chapter of the intra-Islamic war that is playing out in
fits and starts between Saudi Arabia (Sunni) and Persia (Shi’a). The
former is willing to [destroy
OPEC](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11989469/Saudi-Arabia-risks-destroying-Opec-and-feeding-the-Isis-monster.html)
in an effort to throttle Russia and Iran. The latter is willing to risk
war with Israel (a war they would lose) in order to get a nuke, which
would make them the regional hegemon.

The Russians, of course, have long range goals that have little to do
with the war within Islam. They are just seeking advantage where they
can find it. The Turks are Sunni, so it is convenient for the Russians
to play the game in order to provoke the Turks. It will not be long
before the Russians figure out how to “help” the Kurds and maybe
encourage them to demand a separate homeland. The odds of a full blown
war between the Turks and Russians are small, but an unconventional war
with the local variety of “little green men” popping up in Asia Minor is
not out of the question.

Putin may have dreams of sacking Constantinople, driving off the Muslims
and repopulating the place with Cossacks, but that seems unlikely.
Instead, he probably sees an opening to regain influence over the
Balkans. That fits with Putin’s pattern of casting himself as the
protector of the Slavs. Plus, control of the Balkans means another
pressure point on Europe. When your best customer is also paying you to
keep the frontier under control, you become the indispensable man.

More important, increased influence in the Balkans means it is another
entry point for Iranian oil and gas. Look at the map and you can see
that Russia controls a third of the Black Sea coast. Building strong
relations with the Balkan states and that control grows to more than
fifty percent. If the Turks are pinned down with the Syrians to the
South and restless Kurds in the east, they will not be much of a problem
in the Balkans.

The Russians have been at this a long time. It is in their nature.
Americans, on the other hand, can’t stop thinking about Hitler. It’s
tempting to think the West is simply [allergic to
nationalism](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/30/world/europe/2-nations-split-by-the-similarities-of-their-presidents.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&clickSource=story-heading&module=second-column-region&region=top-news&WT.nav=top-news),
but it may not be that sophisticated. Fear of Hitler keeps the defense
dollars from Washington flowing. Millions of people make a tidy living
watching out for Hitler. Reality simply does not pay as well.

Even so, 100 years ago conventional wisdom said war was a thing of the
past. A 1910 best-selling book, *The Great Illusion,* used economic
arguments to demonstrate that large scale wart had become unprofitable.
Global commerce had eliminated war. You hear the same arguments today.
If a country has a McDonald’s, it is no longer interested in war. Not
long after *The Great Illusion* was published, war became inevitable and
it started in the Balkans.
