---
title: "ISIS and the West"
date: "2015-08-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5171"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5171"
---

The rise of fundamentalist Islam has perplexed and outraged the West for
a few decades now. The prophesies all said the brown people would
rejoice when the good thinkers welcomed Islam into the West. Instead,
the muzzies have gone bonkers, rejecting the West and retreating into a
medieval philosophy that rejects everything the West believes about the
world.

I thought about that while reading <a
href="http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2015/aug/13/mystery-isis/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this book review in the New York Review
of Books</a>. Why it is written by “anonymous” is a mystery to me. Maybe
the Economist style is coming to America. It always seem to me that the
propaganda arm of the custodial state should use that style. That way it
is hard for the masses to dismiss the lectures. Anyway, the article is
worth reading, but this bit is what got my attention:

*The thinkers, tacticians, soldiers, and leaders of the movement we know
as ISIS are not great strategists; their policies are often haphazard,
reckless, even preposterous; regardless of whether their government is,
as some argue, skillful, or as others imply, hapless, **it is not
delivering genuine economic growth or sustainable social justice.** The
theology, principles, and ethics of the ISIS leaders are neither robust
nor defensible. Our analytical spade hits bedrock very fast.*

I’m highlighting that bit as there was a time when using the phrase
“social justice” would get you laughed out of most rooms. Even lefty
outposts like the New York Review of Books would flinch at that phrase.
That’s because everyone knew it was a ridiculous idea, held only by the
naive and stupid. Today, “everyone knows” the point of government is
social justice. Go figure.

Interestingly, the “genuine economic growth” line has crossed the street
in my life as well. There was a time when only black-hearted right
wingers talked about economic growth. Decent people understood that
there was much more to life than money. Now, even the most fanatical
Progressives thinks that every tree must grow to the sky, no matter
what.

*I have often been tempted to argue that we simply need more and better
information. But that is to underestimate the alien and bewildering
nature of this phenomenon. To take only one example, five years ago not
even the most austere Salafi theorists advocated the reintroduction of
slavery; but ISIS has in fact imposed it. Nothing since the triumph of
the Vandals in Roman North Africa has seemed so sudden,
incomprehensible, and difficult to reverse as the rise of ISIS. **None
of our analysts, soldiers, diplomats, intelligence officers,
politicians, or journalists has yet produced an explanation rich
enough—even in hindsight—to have predicted the movement’s rise.***

I’ve argued often that American Progressive faith has a lot in common
with Islam. Some of my comparisons are meant to be snarky, but there’s a
lot of points of comparison. One area is the inward looking nature of
the two faiths. Progressives fixate on communal salvation in the same
way Muslims do, the two just have different ends.

The main difference is that Islam knows a lot about the West. Most
people don’t know that Islam was the the center of intellectual life
before the Mongols came calling. The Sack of Baghdad in 1258 is viewed
as the point at which Islam fell behind the West and the East
culturally. Muslim Arabs are well aware of this, having grown up in the
shadow of the West, often living in the West.

*We hide this from ourselves with theories and concepts that do not bear
deep examination. And we will not remedy this simply through the
accumulation of more facts. It is not clear whether our culture can ever
develop sufficient knowledge, rigor, imagination, and humility to grasp
the phenomenon of ISIS. But for now, we should admit that we are not
only horrified but baffled.*

I’ve come to think of Progressives as the decedents¹ of the Puritans for
a number of reasons. The one reason important here is the inward looking
nature of both Puritan and Progressive culture. The Puritans saw
salvation as a community activity. Internal discipline and cohesion were
paramount so they focused on it exclusively. A certain studied ignorance
of the outside world was critical to maintain discipline. That’s a
Progressive quality as well.

The result is the people in charge not only misunderstand the world
beyond their understanding, they have no way of understanding it. To
understand the draw of Islam to young Arabs, you need to consider the
possibility that life in the West is not on the road to paradise. You
also have to contemplate the possibility that there are many ways to be
happy as a people.

The innate intolerance of Progressives prohibits this sort of
speculation. There’s also the deep rooted belief that bad things happen
to God’s people when those people fail in their duty as God’s servants.
That means 9/11 was America’s fault for not abiding by the Progressive
virtues. The rise of ISIS was due to bad US policy in the region (Bush).
The muzzies lack agency of their own so they are not blamed.

That’s why Progressives are so vexed with ISIS. President Obama, peace
be upon him, has been running policy in the region for a long time.
Everything has been done properly and yet these people hate us as much,
if not more, than they did in the Bush years. Their “analytical spade”
hits bedrock very fast because it does not exist. They have not thought
for a second that the Muslims could have a point of two to make.  
¹Yes, that is on purpose.
