---
title: "The Limits of Selling Me Crap"
date: "2015-01-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3674"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3674"
---

I was paging through Twitter and [saw this posted by Gavin
McInnes](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/jan/22/detroit-man-who-murdered-two-white-teens-declares-/).
The story itself is not the point of this post. It is an example of how
race is covered in America. If a white guy executed two black guys, the
major news companies would devote all of their coverage to it for a
year. That’s because it fits into the mythology that animates the
liberal narrative. But, that’s a topic for another day.

I was thinking about writing something about it when sound mysteriously
started coming through my speakers. For some reason I was using Chrome
rather than Mozilla, the former not having the array of pop-up blockers,
script blockers and flash blockers installed. I hunted around and found
the offending video and stopped it. If you have clicked on the above
link, you will be doing the same thing in a few seconds.

The story was actually blocked until you took a survey. The page is
plastered with ads, in addition to the video crap in the middle. Just
doing a little estimating, I’m going to say that the page is 60%
advertisement. The story takes up maybe 10% of the page. The rest is
promotions for the site and other features on the site. They are
perilously close to the point where the story is so hard to find in the
clutter that we’ll need an app to help find it.

This is happening all over and not just on the Internet. Websites have
no way to make money other than ads and even then the money is small.
They have no choice but to pack their pages with ads. The weaselly
tactics some use is not wise, but maybe they are desperate. Breitbart is
a useless site, as far as I’m concerned, because it is so cluttered with
ads and embedded audio. *I really hate the embedded audio*.

I was talking to a friend the other day after one of the football games
about how a 60 minute game is now a five hour event. A football game is
a three hour commercial with a football game woven into it. The
promotion of it and other games before and after the game is just more
marketing, disguised as content. Even replays have sponsors now so that
we end up with “this replay brought to you by Viagra shows…” I’m all for
the NFL making money, but do they really need to sell so many ads?

I read the other day that the NBA will start placing ads on the
uniforms. It will not be long before technology allows them to have
rotating ads on the uniforms. The courts will soon be plastered with
ads. The NHL is using video technology to digitally place ads on the ice
for TV viewers. During World Cup, they had ads crawling on the screen
because there are no breaks in the game to run ads. That means the rules
of the game will be changed so they can run ads during games. “This
water break brought to you by…”

Getting back to the web page ads, there’s a limit. I don’t go to
Brietbart because I hate the ads. Even if they don’t care about old
hate-thinkers like me, there is a limit to the number of ads they can
post on their site. Similarly, there’s a limit how much crap they try to
sell us on our phones and TV’s. What happens when the limit is reached?
The whole economic system of the west is based on never ending growth
and that includes advertising.

What happens when there’s no more room to grow?
