---
title: "Reading Moonbats"
date: "2015-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6041"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6041"
---

It is easy to read and learn about the beliefs of others when those
beliefs have nothing to do with your beliefs. Reading about the beliefs
of the ancient Greeks, for example, is fun because we know it is all
nonsense and it in no way threatens our own beliefs about the world,
natural and supernatural.

On the other hand, tune into the Democrat debate show last night and a
normal person will struggle to not fly into a rage and throw the remote
at the television. It’s not just the lies and nonsense all of the
candidates are fond of saying in public. It’s the fact that all of these
people believe things that are antithetical to what you believe and even
who you are.

As a result, it is very hard to watch, listen and learn. I bet most
normal people find it easier to read the pronouncements of ISIS than
listen to Hillary Clinton. ISIS makes more sense. You can relate a
little bit to what they are thinking and feeling. They want their
culture and people to prosper. It’s crazy and violent, but not
irrational. That’s not the case with the Democrats or the Republicans.

Anyway, I was thinking about that when <a
href="http://www.salon.com/2015/12/17/r_i_p_gop_party_of_old_disillusioned_white_people_is_dying_a_slow_death_report_says/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this popped up</a> on twitter the other
day. I started to read it, but felt coming over me that urge one
associates with the smell of spoiled food. It’s the old reflex arch
telling your body to get away from something foul. That’s not a habit I
try to cultivate so I came back to it with a more clinical approach.

One of the habits I’ve developed is to look up the author of Progressive
tirades. They have an odd habit of misrepresenting themselves. The smug
sneering is always based in the mistaken belief they are super smart
people. Look up their bio and you inevitably learn they were a poli-sci
major at a state college. Alternatively, they hold a degree from a
private school in a nonsense field like black studies or feminism.

In this case, Salon does some of the work for me:

*“Sean Illing is a USAF veteran who very briefly taught political
science at Loyola and LSU. He is currently a staff writer for Salon.”*

I’m always suspicious of people who list their military service in their
bio. This comes from my grandfather who said there are two types of
people who wave around their service time. There are those who peaked
during the war and those who are lying to you. My grandfather grew up
with men who served under Grand Duke Nicholas so he was a little jaded.
Still, it is something I have often observed in my own life.

The worst offenders, of course, are politicians. John McCain has been
waving around his own bloody shirt for decades. Recently, female
politicians have started listing “combat veteran” at the top of their
bios, giving the impression they at one time hiked up their skirts,
fixed bayonets and went over the top to face the Huns.

Sean Illing, [according to his
resume](https://www.linkedin.com/in/seandilling), is a fanatic who has
struggled to hold a job and gets by writing these screeds for a tin foil
hat website. That’s not disqualifying, but it makes it easier to read
his posts knowing that he is struggling with reality. It’s why looking
up the bio is a good tool for reading material produced by the Left.

What you’ll notice about these guys is they truly believe the Great
Liberal Pumpkin is about to rise from the Moonbat Patch and bring about
the eschaton. I’ve been reading about the death of “old white men” for
forty years now, at least. Back in the Reagan years this was a favorite
of Progressives smarting over the rise of middle America. It’s where we
got the phrase, “Angry White Males.”

What’s humorous about this is the people predicting the demise of old
white people just assume they have escaped the march of time. Sean
Illing, faster than he can imagine, will be an old white guy, hiding in
his apartment from the gangs of brown people on the streets polar bear
hunting.

The other thing that you always see when reading the industrial strength
crackpots is the comical hive mindedness. For Sean, the world is a
simple place. Inside the walls are the good thinkers. Outside the walls
are the bad thinkers, an undifferentiated other about which he knows
nothing, other than the fact they are on the other side of the wall.
Bees stink indiscriminately for a reason.

If you’re reading this, most likely you are a crime thinker with a head
full of hate facts. Despite your evilness, you have noticed that the
people outside the Hive walls don’t get along with one another. There is
a wide diversity of opinion outside the Hive, while inside it resembles
a Hitler Youth camp.

One of the central insights of Steve Sailer is that the current
Progressive coalition is way to fringe to hold together for much longer.
A coalition of working class ethnics, blacks and rural whites has a lot
in common. A coalition of deviants, criminals and the deranged is not a
recipe for success. Sean Illing is functional, but you can’t count on
guys like that to keep it together over the long haul.
