---
title: "The Cloud People’s Trump Problem"
date: "2015-07-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5044"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5044"
---

<a href="http://freebeacon.com/columns/revenge-of-the-radical-middle/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mathew Continetti has a piece up in The
Washington Free Beacon </a>that is interesting for a number of reasons.
One is that it is a direct rip-off of Sam Francis without ever
mentioning Sam Francis. <a
href="http://www.vdare.com/posts/radical-middle-or-middle-american-radicals-sam-francis-unmentionable-influence"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">VDare picked up on that aspect</a>, but
they assume it is because Francis was purged back in the early 90’s.
Many of the old guys on the Dissident Right still nurse a grudge over
it.

My interest here is to point out that Continetti is 34 years old and so
the 1990’s were like a long time ago. When Francis was purged,
Continetti was 14 and probably more concerned with his new
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Sega-Genesis-Mod2-Set.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Sega Genesis</a>. In our solipsistic age,
there’s what we experienced and then there is the long long time ago,
which no one has time to remember. Continetti relies on Newsweek as his
source because that’s what he found on-line.

That sounds mean, but it is a strange aspect of our age. The past is
mostly imaginary, where emotionally charged events loom large and feel
like they happened yesterday. Other events are swept away into the
distant past or simply airbrushed out of existence. Still others are
invented to confirm current mythologies. The latter habit has become
increasingly popular.

The other interesting thing about the piece is it gives some insight
into how the establishment is noodling through their Trump problem.
Placing him into the line of past failed efforts to topple the
accommodationist wing of the political class is probably more comforting
than correct.There’s a dismissive tone there suggesting wishful thinking
more than hard headed analysis.

To my eyes, Trump is more like an indictment of the political class as a
whole, while Perot and Buchanan were mostly about the corruption of the
Bush clan. Perot really hated Bush and Buchanan hated what Bush
represented. Trump, as far as I can tell, has avoided making it about
the GOP establishment or about any of the candidates. He’s just taping
into the general unhappiness in the public with the ruling elite.

This incredibly long sentence is also interesting to me:

*What Republicans are trying to figure out is not so much how to handle
Trump as how to handle his supporters. Ignore or confront? Mock or treat
seriously? Insult or persuade? The men and women in the uppermost ranks
of the party, who have stood by Trump in the past as he gave them his
endorsements and cash, are inclined to condescend to a large portion of
the Republican base, to treat base voters’ concerns as unserious,
nativist, racist, sexist, anachronistic, or nuts, to apologize for the
“crazies” who fail to understand why America can build small cities in
Iraq and Afghanistan but not a wall along the southern border, who do
not have the education or skills or means to cope when factories move
south or abroad, who stare incomprehensibly at the television screen
when the media fail to see a “motive” for the Chattanooga shooting, who
voted for Perot in ’92 and Buchanan in ’96 and Sarah Palin in ’08 and
joined the Tea Party to fight death panels in ’09.*

This is incredibly condescending and says more about the writer than his
subject. My read is people are cheering Trump because it is a good show
and the people moaning are mostly barnacles and parasites. John McCain
would be living under a bridge if not for government checks. Most of the
people in Conservative Inc. have no marketable skills, beyond the sort
of ball washing you see in the political press.

In other words, the Trump surge has nothing to do with Trump and
everything to do with the people he upsets. Mathew Continetti can be
forgiven for not accepting this reality. He and his coevals in the
chattering classes like to think they are tribunes of the people,
helping educate the hoi polloi, speaking truth to power and other
delusional nonsense. In reality most people detest the media with the
intensity of a thousand suns.

The other interesting thing about this is that the commoners are finding
out that their masters hate their guts. You see it in [the comment
section at
NRO](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/421589/donald-trump-radical-revenge),
which reprinted the article. The glory years of America after WW2 gave
Americans a sense that ours is a uniquely egalitarian meritocracy.
Finding out that it is no longer that way is tough to swallow so people
are understandably ticked off about it.

Since the founding of the country there has always been a tension
between egalitarian democracy and aristocratic republicanism. Founders
like Jefferson, Adams and Madison talked about liberty, but they
certainly did not mean democracy or even social equality. But, the new
country needed the support of the Scots-Irish rabble, as well as the
Yankee commoners, the result being a republic.

When the balance gets out of whack we see political instability. The
growing divide between the ruling elite and the people is throwing off
this balance. <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Coming-Apart-State-America-1960-2010/dp/030745343X/ref=asap_bc?ie=UTF8"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Charles Murray</a> and <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Our-Kids-American-Dream-Crisis/dp/1476769893"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Robert Putnam</a> have written about this
growing divide. I refer to it as the Cloud People versus the Ground
People. Murray and Putnam think all that’s needed is a little tinkering,
but history seems to say otherwise. We’ll see.
