---
title: "Travelogue: Cambridge Mass"
date: "2015-02-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3733"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3733"
---

If you are an American and you are curious about what it would be like
to live in a world run entirely by aging hippies, a good place to go is
the Whole Foods Market in Cambridge Massachusetts. On the way visiting
friends, I stopped into the one in Central Square, which is the heart of
MIT. Cambridge is basically a city owned and managed by two elite
universities, Harvard and MIT. Lagos to Cambridge is like a guy from
Detroit getting dropped into Reykjavik.

That’s the thing about New England and cities like Cambridge in
particular. It’s the stunning whiteness. Not wholesome Midwestern white
or Scots-Irish white like West Virginia. It is a creepy Potemkin white.
Central Square is now populated with fashionable young people sporting
well cultivated beards. The older people all have the aging hippie vibe.
The near total lack of diversity is what’s unsettling. Cambridge would
make the Klan blush.

According to the census, Cambridge is a city of 105,000 people, with
12,000 of them black. Where they stash those black people is a mystery
to me. Even in the old days before MIT and Harvard bought the city, it
was hard to find a black guy. Central Square was the exception. Drug
dealers, pimps and hustlers would hang around the banks of pay phones at
night. All of that is gone now and the black people with it, but to
where I cannot say. According to the census data, the percentage of
blacks dropped by a third in the last twenty years so that may be it.

Today, Central Square looks like every other hipster-ville. There are
loads of little retail stores servicing the college community. Housing
is stuffed in where space allows. MIT has built infrastructure on just
about every block. It’s impossible to know the lines between the city
and the school. For all practical purposes, that part of Cambridge is
owned and operated by the school. The same is true of Harvard down Mass
Ave from MIT. The school has gobbled up every bit of land not gobbled up
by school employees.

Whole Foods is another example of why libertarian economics is utter
nonsense. If humans were transactional, value seeking machines, they
would not be squandering money on sustainably grown fair trade instant
coffee, processed by one-legged transgendered midgets. I picked up a jar
about the size of a grenade for $10. I also got some organic antibiotic
free milk and a tray of cinnamon buns (preservative free). As I picked
up my products I listened to two middle-aged homosexual males bicker
over what I think was quinoa.

Like Apple, Whole Foods is about signalling. An iPhone is just a more
expensive version of every other phone, but you have one to let people
know you are the sort of person who has an iPhone. You’re
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mmb7TU0OrOI" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">not like everybody else</a>. Something similar is going
on with Whole Foods. Everything they sell can be found at a normal
grocery store at a fraction of the price. But, regular stores are
utilitarian and transactional. The stores are just selling stuff for a
profit. Whole Foods is conformational and affirming.

That’s the thing that jumps out to me when I visit college towns like
Cambridge, Boulder, New Haven etc. They are cultivated little utopias
based on the ideological inclinations of the modern college faculty.
Unlike normal-ville, they are very white and very Asian. There’s little
in the way of crime or social pathology. There are no poor people.
There’s also scads of money flowing in to support these little utopias,
most from the taxes of normal people. MIT and Harvard, for example, get
billions in research money. The students are all on some sort of federal
aid program. Pull away the government crutch and these little hot houses
collapse.

That’s why the politics of these places gets so crazy. Most of the
people wandering around Cambridge are not worried about their company
laying them off if the new product does not sell. The money spigot is
never shut off so most of the people attached to these schools can
indulge whatever strikes their fancy. These elite academies operate like
a cultural and political black hole sucking the rest of the areas
politics and culture into the void. Massachusetts is a different sort of
Utah and Cambridge is Salt Lake with better bars and looser women.

 
