---
title: "The Future is Not Now"
date: "2015-07-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4843"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4843"
---

In my experience, the people most obsessed with disruptive technology,
the robot future, AI and revolutionary technology are small bore
liberals. These are the sorts who pass themselves off “nerds” having
grown up on science and comic books. In reality they have never had much
interest in any of that and they are usually innumerate and devoid of
science.

It’s why my bullshit detector pegs at eleven whenever I hear someone
prattling on about some new thing that will change the world. Inventions
that changed the world were almost always accidents. In most cases the
inventor did not know he was changing the world. Heck, in most cases
there was not an inventor. Things just evolved to an inflection point
and then took off like magic.

On the other side of the coin, most “revolutionary inventions” turn out
to be Segways. Fifteen years ago Dean Kamen said he was about to change
the world. Then he unveiled his two-wheel scooter that only managed to
change our airports, letting fat cops on double time get from one
doughnut stand to the next.

I’ve always thought 3-D printing was headed down the same path. There
will be a narrow use of the technology, but otherwise it will be an
expensive toy for hobbyists and weirdos. Exactly no one has ever sat
around dreaming of the day they could manufacture their own household
products. We used to do that. It sucked. That’s why we had the
Industrial Revolution.

<a
href="http://redef.com/item/55909afdc0a3e45d1e742fc5?curator=MediaREDEF&amp;source=http://www.dezeen.com/2015/06/25/3d-printing-industry-stagnant-francis-bitonti-interview-intellectual-property-makerbot"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">My skepticism seems to have been
right</a>.

*The [3D-printing](http://www.dezeen.com/tag/3d-printing/) industry “is
choking off its own revolution” with a combination of toy-like machines,
over-priced materials and legal wrangles according to [Francis
Bitonti](http://www.dezeen.com/tag/francis-bitonti/), the designer
behind the [printed dress for Dita von
Teese](http://www.dezeen.com/2013/03/07/3d-printed-dress-dita-von-teese-michael-schmidt-francis-bitonti/) (+
interview).*

*“3D printing has just become incredibly stagnant,” said New
York-based <a href="http://www.francisbitonti.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Bitonti,</a> who feels that many of the machines on the
market are little more than “tinker toys”.*

*“A toy is not going to create the next industrial revolution,” he
said. “The biggest barrier that we have in the studio is just scaling
products because the price points are so high.”*

*Printing materials are too expensive, he added: “You’re paying 65
dollars for a kilogram spool of PLA, which is crappy plastic, and you
can’t compete with injection moulding or any other type of production.”*

*Speaking to Dezeen in New York last month, Bitonti said that the
3D-printing industry needed to open up its intellectual property so that
the design and manufacturing community could help drive forward
improvements.*

*“They’ve got to open up,” he said. “It’s not that they need to open up
all of their IP, but it’s a lot of things. You see a lot of tinker toys
because they’re treating it like a copy machine. I think they need to
change their mind and understand that it’s a manufacturing technology.”*

*He added: “The industry is just completely choked by intellectual
property law right now.”*

Maybe. It’s also possible that there’s not a lot of benefit to having a
3-D printer. If you are hobbyist who tinkers with things that have a lot
of small plastic parts, maybe it makes sense for you. If you are
producing volume, then this is a waste of money as you can get the work
done better and cheaper by professionals.

The thing is, most people are not very creative or imaginative. Yeah, a
creative mind with design skills can create magic on a 3-D printer. The
other 99.99% of humans lack the creativity and design skills to create
anything. We learned this with the PC. Even today, most people spend
their time playing games on them, not doing productive work.

I could not leave this without my other criticism, which is that 3-D
printing is whittling for the lazy. If you believe there was a huge
barrier keeping a hungry populace out of the whittling game, then 3-D
printing makes sense. If you really have an urge to make small things
from big things, buy a pen knife and some wood. Put the $5K to better
use.
