---
title: "The Struggles of Conservative Inc."
date: "2015-04-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4221"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4221"
---

The war on Christian pizza makers has the professional Right sorely
vexed. I think most of their outrage is legitimate. They truly are
offended by this latest assault on normal Americans. The fund raising by
the pizza joint in Indiana suggests normal Americans are growing weary
of the lunatics and their causes. Still, I think a part of what vexes
the professional Right is their fear of stating the obvious conclusion.

That conclusion is you cannot have freedom of any sort without freedom
of association. If you must get permission from the state to associate
or *disassociate* from others, you have no freedom. The state may allow
you some options, but everything you do must come with a permission
slip. Otherwise, putting two people who hate one another in the same
room ends up with blood on the walls.

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/416318/religious-liberty-and-lefts-end-game-andrew-walker"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a recent screed</a> from National
Review struggling to avoid stating the obvious.

*Policies come to us with principles attached to them, and when debating
public policy we should consider the principles not only of legislation
that has passed but also of legislation that has been rejected. No one
to my knowledge is discussing where the principles implied in the Left’s
rejection of the RFRA lead. Responsible statecraft entails an
examination of a principle’s logical conclusion. In the case of
liberalism, the conclusions to which its principles lead help us see
just how deeply opposed those principles are to the constitutional order
we’ve inherited.*

*When the Left rejects the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, it invites
compelled speech. When photographers are forced under threat of fines to
shoot weddings or religious services that they believe are immoral, the
assumption is that we are sometimes legally bound to participate in
certain kinds of speech, and the state becomes the arbiter of what that
speech is in specific instances.*

Well, no. Forcing someone to work for someone else is not forcing them
*speak*. It is forcing them to *participate*. Put another way, it is
compulsory association. The state is saying to the photographer, “We
really don’t care about your opinions of these people. You must do what
we say, act as we say or else.”

Of course, the reason Andrew Walker of the Ethics and Religious Liberty
Commission, the guy who wrote the piece in question, must fetishize
speech is he cannot mention association. To do so, to draw the obvious
conclusion from the events in Indiana and elsewhere, would risk his job
and career. Rand Paul almost saw his career come to end in 2012 because
he dared utter this conclusion.

The reason, ostensibly, is that letting stores refuse service to homos
would lead to stores not serving blacks. That has things exactly
backwards. Separate public accommodations in the South were falling
apart on their own. Basic economics makes such practices self-limiting
and self-destructive. The reason Progressives pushed through laws
against private discrimination was to eliminate private association.

It’s rather amazing how easily Americans were willing to surrender their
liberty, but there it is. Now, there’s no reason to think things like
Christianity, private clubs, fraternities, etc will hold up much longer.
After all, if you cannot deny admissions based on your own peculiar
criteria, why have an organization at all?

The thing I think is vexing to the professional Right is the mounting
proof that they were wrong about the Left. They were convinced that the
“other side” (as if there are only two sides) was acting in good faith,
but just need convincing. Recent events show that to be nonsense, but
Conservative Inc. can’t bring itself to admit it.

*Which leads to my final point. When the Left rejects the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act, it invites the imposition of state-enforced
morality. The Left requires obedience and punishes dissent. It insists
that all citizens must, against their will, act only in a manner that
liberalism judges to be accommodating and politic. Anyone acquainted
with progressive thought knows that it is founded on unexamined
assumptions, but seldom until now have we seen its unhinged hostility
unmasked, as the Left reacts to our defense of a cherished freedom
written into our Constitution.*

There’s no evidence from Progressives that they see any of this as a
flaw or even unintentional. Yes, they fully expect to impose their
morality – at gunpoint if necessary – on the rest of us. That’s how
political cults operate. Hell, it’s how Christianity operated for over
1,000 years. But, admitting this is the case would point out that
Conservative Inc has been wrong for thirty years now.
