---
title: "More Nazis"
date: "2015-02-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3891"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3891"
---

<a
href="https://news.yahoo.com/jewish-heirs-sue-germany-us-131124059.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Heirs of Jewish art dealers</a> sue
Germany in US, demanding restitution of medieval art treasure

*The heirs of Nazi-era Jewish art dealers say they have filed a lawsuit
in the U.S. suing Germany and a German museum for the return of a
medieval treasure trove worth an estimated $226 million.*

*The suit, which attorneys said was filed late Monday in the U.S.
District Court in Washington, D.C., is the latest salvo in a
long-running campaign by the heirs for return of the so-called
Welfenschatz, or Guelph Treasure — which they claim their ancestors sold
under Nazi pressure.*

*Originally collected over centuries by the Braunschweig Cathedral, the
Welfenschatz includes some of the outstanding goldsmith works of the
Middle Ages, among them ornate containers in the form of cathedrals used
to store Christian relics. Many of the silver and gold pieces are
decorated with jewels and pearls. Some are more than 800 years old.*

*Attorney Nicholas O’Donnell told The Associated Press in an interview
in Berlin that the suit asks the Washington court to declare an American
and a British descendant of a consortium that owned the collection in
1935 — when it was sold to the German state of Prussia — the rightful
owners today.*

*“Any transaction in 1935, where the sellers on the one side were Jews
and the buyer on the other side was the Nazi state itself is by
definition a void transaction,” O’Donnell said.*

*The organization that oversees Berlin’s museums, the Prussian Cultural
Heritage Foundation, says that the collectors were not forced to sell
the pieces, arguing among other things that the collection was not even
in Germany at the time of its sale.*

*Last year, a German government commission created to help resolve
restitution claims evaluated both arguments and recommended that the
collection stay in Germany. The commission wrote that after thoroughly
investigating the sale process, it came to the conclusion that it was
not a “forced sale due to persecution.”*

I love these stories for some reason. For as long as I have been alive
we have have lived in the shadow of *you know who* and his minions. No
matter the topic, eventually it will devolve into some comparison to
*you know who*.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin%27s_law" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Godwin’s Law</a> is an example of just how thoroughly we
have been marinated in Nazi lore. What gets forgotten, of course, is
that in the early days of the Internet, most people on line were open
minded sorts who enjoyed arguing about everything and anything. Then the
addle-minded liberals showed up and started calling everyone Nazis.

The typical commenter at Taki is convinced we have a *you know who*
fetish because the secret, international Jewish conspiracy controlling
America. These are the types who load up the
<a href="http://www.fivefeetoffury.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Kathy Shaidle columns</a> with comments about “the
Joos.” I think it is accurate to say American Jews punch way above their
weight as an ethnic group, but I’m pretty confident there’s no Hebrew
Dr. Evil holed up in a mountain lair controlling the world.

My sense is *you know who* and the Nazis cast such a long shadow because
they are the alter ego of the American Left. The European fascists
borrowed a lot from American Progressives. So much so Hollywood was
planning a <a
href="https://books.google.com/books?id=rVAGAgAAQBAJ&amp;pg=PA123&amp;lpg=PA123&amp;dq=mussolini+son+movie+1930&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=V1sFaSv2WJ&amp;sig=P5UCq9IAYqrUik8ONmmSxhmD5E4&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=dRXtVLOXEseZNsDFgpAM&amp;ved=0CFkQ6AEwCg#v=onepage&amp;q=mussolini%20son%20movie%201930&amp;f=false"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mussolini movie</a> back in the bad old
days. More than a few Progressives admired the fascists before World War
II and some even admired *you know who*. Joe Kennedy was such a *you
know who* fan, FDR had to recall him from his post as Ambassador to the
Court of St. James.

The thing is, we are just about out of Nazis. The war ended 70 years
ago. Even if you assume teenage boys were able to lie their way into
service, the youngest Nazi soldier alive today is 85. <a
href="http://www.ibtimes.com/germany-opens-new-nazi-investigations-how-many-former-nazis-are-still-alive-321435"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This old article</a> says there may be
fewer than 1,000 camp guards alive. At this point, all of them are over
90 and that means the number could be in the hundreds now.  Within the
next decade, the final Nazi veterans will die and then what? We no
longer fret over the Kaiser or King George. They’re long gone. At some
point the books have to be closed on *you know who* and the Nazis.

Closing of the books on the Nazis seems long overdue when it comes to
the claims in that Yahoo story. I think survivors had every right to try
to get their property back after the war. If someone had their money,
art or land stolen, then after the war they should have a chance to get
it back. Land would be easiest. Money would be tougher, but there were
plenty of records to track much of it. Other possessions might be
tougher still and there should be a time limit. Once the claimant dies
then that would be it. Letting great grandchildren of Jews killed by the
Nazis make these claims seems like a stretch to me.

There’s also the little fact that just about every bit of the collection
in question was stolen at one point from someone. That’s just the way it
works. Everything from the Bronze Age in museums was stolen, for
instance. If an Egyptian came forward with proof he was a descendent of
Ramses II, we’re not giving him he contents of our museums. These people
suing for their ancestors stuff seem like grifters playing the Hitler
card. You can’t put your grievances in your will.
