---
title: "Thinking About Stuff"
date: "2015-11-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5925"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5925"
---

Thinking about things is both easy and hard. It is easy to sit around,
like the mass of our academics, frittering away the day dreaming of
nonsense that is of no consequence to anyone. If you are, for example,
<a href="http://folkmyth.fas.harvard.edu/people/leah-lowthorp"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Leah Lowthorp</a> of Harvard University,
thinking about the world is easy. She is the Harvard College Fellow in
Folklore & Mythology so she spends her days thinking about elves and
sprites.

If on the other hand, if you wish to understand something about the real
world, thinking about the stuff you see and hear for the purpose of
discovering truths about the world is hard. The world is complicated.
There are easy to recognize trend lines, but seemingly infinite
variables underlying them. Even the stuff we think we now <a
href="http://gizmodo.com/a-new-way-of-thinking-about-spacetime-that-turns-everyt-1741498475"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">can be turned on its head</a> quickly.

I would imagine that most of my readers have heard about the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Many-worlds_interpretation"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">many worlds interpretation</a> and some
of you may even know the math. I used to have a reader who was a
doctoral candidate in physics, but I have not heard from him in some
time. Regardless, this is extremely tough stuff that is well beyond what
most of us can comprehend. I suspect most people reject the “Big Bang”
because it makes no sense to them. <a
href="https://www.newscientist.com/article/mystery-bright-spots-could-be-first-glimpse-of-another-universe/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It does not make that much sense to
physicists</a>.

Anyway, this came to mind when reading
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/are-white-democrats-a-dying-breed/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this post</a> by Steve Sailer today.
Sailer is a smart guy, but he has his blind spots and knowledge holes
just like everyone else. My first reaction was to jump on the fact that
political parties are not very good proxies for ideological groupings.
One of my pet themes is the broader, more subtle cultural groupings that
define American political life.  Somewhere in the comments I make that
point.

In those comments is something that got me thinking about how hard it is
to think about this stuff in a clear way.

*Worth reading all of the posts Jayman links to. He has written on this
extensively.*

*It is also worth considering how much the political orientation gap
among white Republicans and white Democrats has widened over time. In
the mid-seventies, white Republicans were only slightly more likely to
self-identify as politically conservative than white Democrats were.
That <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2009/11/political-orientation-by-partisan.html"
rel="nofollow"
title="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2009/11/political-orientation-by-partisan.html">difference
has trebled</a> in the last four decades to the point that white
Republicans are now far more likely to identify as conservative than
white Democrats are.*

*Political orientation is probably more heritable than partisan
affiliation. I’d guess the gap will appear wider on the
liberal-moderate-conservative spectrum than on the
Democrat-independent-Republican one.*

*Two <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2012/06/education-religiosity-and-fecundity.html"
rel="nofollow"
title="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2012/06/education-religiosity-and-fecundity.html">variables
that are stronger predictors of fertility than political orientation or
party affiliation</a> are educational attainment (inversely correlated,
especially for women) and religiosity (positively correlated–to the
extent that high IQ people who attend religious services regularly
outbreed the irreligious at every level of intelligence, social class,
race/ethnicity, etc.*

*Parenthetically, educational attainment looks to be the driving force,
not intelligence. Fertility by wordsum score varies little once
educational attainment is controlled for, but educational attainment is
a strong predictor even after wordsum score is controlled for–put more
clearly, <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2012/05/education-iq-and-fertility.html"
rel="nofollow"
title="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2012/05/education-iq-and-fertility.html">educational
attainment is 5x as strong a predictor of fertility as IQ is</a>.*

*The strong inverse relationship between education and fertility <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2009/01/educational-gender-parity-and.html"
rel="nofollow"
title="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2009/01/educational-gender-parity-and.html">shows
up strongly on the international level as well</a>.*

For as long as I have been alive, the official religion has claimed
education results in fewer children. Specifically, educated women have
fewer children. Even more specifically, stupid uneducated women have
litters of rugrats because they are too dumb to work a rubber. This is
the automatic response from Progressives anytime the topic of fertility
comes up. I have heard it since forever.

That’s always struck me as ridiculous. Stupid teenage girls know where
babies come from and how they are made. Humans have understood the
mechanics of baby making since the dawn of time. The ancients knew about
the use of **Silphium** as a contraceptive and abortifacient. The women
of Rome were not heading off to the university to study folklore, yet
they seem to have known where babies came from and how to prevent
pregnancy.

Further, there are plenty of examples to the contrary. In the English
speaking world, there was a time when the upper classes had loads of
kids as a way to signal their success and intelligence.Then we have
modern Iran where women don’t have ready access to formal education and
their TFR is below replacement. The connection between education and
fertility, if one exists, is not necessarily causal.

That’s where things get hard and maybe why the official response is the
official response. There’s something that drives women to seek out
credentials and it also may drive them to avoid motherhood. In other
words, there’s some third element that explains the correlation between
education and fertility. But, thinking about that is hard and it may
reveal things that are unpleasant. Best not to get too close to those
truths.

Watching the iceberg of life is easiest from a distance. Get too close
and you discover unpleasant things, like there is a big portion of it
under the waterline ripping a hole in the hull of your ideological ship.
Everyone on the Titanic was wiser about the human condition after the
ship started taking on water, but it came with a dear price. Most people
are happy to not know and you can’t blame them for that.

Even so, fertility rates tend to fall when a society’s prospects are on
the wane. In times of stress, we typically see a spike in religious
observance. Yet in the West, church attendance has collapsed along with
fertility rates. At the same time, the quest for credentials by women is
at an all-time high. The women of the West are telling us something
through their behavior, but no one seems all that interested.
