---
title: "The Free Speech Fallacy"
date: "2015-01-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3608"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3608"
---

Since the Charlie Hebdo attack, the usual suspects in America have been
hooting and bellowing about “free speech.” Sadly, the usual suspects
include many on the Right who should know better, but are overcome by
the appeal of standing next to the hippies, shouting down the
dissidents, in the name of free speech.

An example of that last point is <a
href="www.nationalreview.com/corner/396427/pope-francis-freedom-expression-andrew-stuttaford"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this posted on National Review</a>. It is
the inspiration for this blog post. Some at National Review have an
obsession with the current Pope. I suspect it due in part to the fact
this Pope is a Marxist. But, many are Catholic so it is understandable
that they would have a particular interest in the Pontiff. Naturally,
when he came out with his position on speech offensive to religion, they
jumped all over him. The claim being that the Pope wants to bring back
blasphemy laws.

First off, I would hope the Pope and every other religious leader, for
that matter, would want to bring back blasphemy laws. It is a weak and
dying religion that invites the scorn and mockery of non-believers.
Strong religions are tough and they don’t take any guff from heretics
and infidels. If given the opportunity, they will stifle dissent and
punish the critics. That’s what religions do. It is what they have to do
or at least try to do. Otherwise, they stop being religions and instead
become a list of suggestions supported by magic.

Of course, the Pope speaks for the Catholic Church. That’s his job as
God’s intermediary. It is perfectly reasonable for the Pope to oppose
mocking religion and to command his flock to avoid doing it as well. It
makes even more sense for the Pope to convince non-Catholics to avoid
criticizing *his* religion and *his* church. Getting non-Catholics to
sign off on that would be very good for his church. That horse left the
barn a long time ago, but you can’t blame the guy for trying. Islam is
proving the value of that strategy.

As a general principle, it is probably bad form to mock religion. That’s
not to say it should be illegal or even strongly discouraged. It just
means it is one of the many things we can judge one another on, like our
tastes in clothes and foods. <a
href="http://samhateseverything.files.wordpress.com/2009/10/westie.jpg?w=604"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">A guy with a mullet and wife beater
swilling cheap beer</a> is judged differently than a guy in a suit
having a salad. Similarly, someone who gratuitously mocks religion is
judged differently than someone who is respectful of other faiths. Even
in our degraded age, people appreciate politeness.

What’s dangerous about this latest burst of “free speech” fanaticism is
it distracts from what is important and cedes ground to the Left by
adopting their choice of language. Specifically, the formulation “free
speech.” There’s no such thing as free speech. It is an abstract idea
that conflates official censorship with social custom at the expense of
the latter. The Left sees no limit to the state and no place for the
organic culture that flows naturally from ethnicity, created over
thousands of years of trial and error.

The fact that the
<a href="http://market-ticker.org/akcs-www?post=229739" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">libertarian weirdos</a> are trying to out bellow the
liberals on this issue once again proves that the former suffer from the
same defects as the latter. I’ll grant that the increasingly deranged
Karl Denninger is probably a bad example. He obviously knows nothing
about religion or self restraint. Charlie Cooke is the house libertarian
hipster at National Review and <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/396438/pope-got-it-completely-and-utterly-wrong-charles-c-w-cooke"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he is ululating about free speech</a> as
well. Again, the defect here is the the very idea of “free speech.”

Rights do not exist in the abstract any more than left handedness exists
in the abstract. People have natural rights based solely on the fact
they are a living human. One of those rights Americans believe humans
posses is the right to speak freely and publicly on public issues, such
as politics and policy. It is not an absolute right. Speech that
involves incitement, false statements of fact, obscenity, child
pornography, threats, and speech owned by others are all completely
exempt from First Amendment protections.

In other words, Americans give the government very limited powers to
regulate speech. The state must pass a high threshold in order to limit
what I can say, where I can say it and to whom I can say it. But, and
this is a big one, *the state does have that authority*. Every society
gives the civil authorities this power, some more than others. That’s
the place for debate. What can the state regulate and what proof must
they muster in order to exercise that authority. The reason the Left
hates this line of reasoning, the view of the Founders, is it means a
natural limit on state power, something the Left rejects.

The worst part, is that these free speech mavens conflate state
censorship with social custom. Every society has taboos. These are
things we prohibit by custom. The reasons for prohibition may be
sensible or magical, but every human society has them. It’s called
culture. If you doubt this, start talking about your sexual interest in
children at the next dinner party. It will be your last dinner party
because decent people in our culture think sex with children is
monstrous. It is one of our more serious taboos.

Sex with minors is illegal, but talking about your desire to have sex
with a minor is not. That type of speech is permitted to a point, based
on local obscenity laws. Custom, however, is not so permissive. It
rarely is as permissive as the law. That’s why every human society has
counted heavily on custom, the unwritten rules of society, to regulate
most behavior. Being cast out from your own has always been one of the
worst things that can happen to a human. The threat of it is a powerful
corrective.

Conflating social custom and taboos with state power is the dream of
ever liberal. It is why they keep demanding more laws. It is why o<a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052748704471504574438900830760842"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ur legal code has ballooned beyond the
comprehension of the citizens</a>. The Left imagine a state that more
than dominates life. They imagine the state as the medium in which the
citizen is defined. A system where your very humanity is defined by your
relationship with the state and there’s no space between the public and
private. Accepting this premise by treating the utterances of a
religious leader as equal to those of a state actor gives the game away.
All that is left is the time and place of surrender.

Making the made up concept of free speech a fetish obscures the real
issue that is worthy of debate. The state should have power to regulate
speech only at the fringes. The people, through their customs and
traditional institutions should be free to sort these issues out as they
see fit, without seeking permission from the state. Freedom of speech
and *freedom of association* go hand and hand and always mean freedom
from state coercion. When a group of citizens are free to not associate
with another group of citizens because of the things being said, the
unwritten rules are able to work and the state is not needed to referee.

That last part is important. You’ll note that the phrase being bandied
about is “protect free speech.” This is only necessary when the citizens
are not free to leave the room when they hear things they find
objectionable. Instead of protecting freedom from the state, the state
is protecting our rights from one another – at a price. Before long the
state is no longer a referee but a game warden.
