---
title: "Failing Up"
date: "2015-07-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4927"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4927"
---

I’ve taken my turn mocking Ellen Pao, but her story is hardly original.
Failing up is so common today it feels like it is new, but it has been a
feature of the human condition for a long time.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alcibiades" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Alcibiades</a> is a guy who would be comfortable in
today’s culture of failing up. Instead of screwing up the invasion of
Syracuse, he would have run a bank into the ground and then run for the
Senate.

In prior ages, society could afford precious few of these sorts of
people. Mistakes were simply too costly to tolerate having too many
idiots in powerful positions. In the post scarcity world of today, it
feels like we can tolerate an unlimited supply of losers, grifters and
charlatans. Hillary Clinton is 50/50 to be president, despite being a
colossal screw-up for the last forty years.

Ellen Pao would have been a non-story, but the Cult thought they could
turn her into a Rosa Parks. She was an Asian female with a gay black
husband suing a gaggle of Pale Penis People, who make it their life work
to oppress women. That’s what makes her interesting to the Cult. Her
scam is not in trying the shake down the PPP. Her scam was to con the
Cult into making her a *heroin*. Edit:That’s right. Inject her right
into the veins of the culture!

I was thinking about Pao when <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/421070/carly-fiorina-iran-every-major-goal-president-obama-set-has-been-abandoned-time-walk"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reading this on NRO</a>. A fair number of
people who think of themselves as diehard conservatives are fans of
Fiorina. She is polling in the single digits, but the GOP will find some
reason to get her on the debate stage. The reason, of course, is she is
a woman. To her credit she says the sorts of things you expect a
Republican to say, which says a lot of about the state of the party, but
the only thing that matters is she lacks a penis.

That’s part of the con, of course. Fiorina was playing the vagina card
when Ellen Pao was figuring out what to wear to her high school prom.
Twenty years ago Fiorina was doing the vagina hustle to work her way up
the ladder in Silicon Valley. Like Pao, she interviewed great, put on
great presentations and was outlandishly incompetent in one job after
another.

In 1995 she was put in charge of Lucent Technologies, a spin-off AT&T. I
knew people who worked at Lucent in those days and they still tell
stories about the madhouse management culture ushered in by Fiorina.
Bell Labs was part of Lucent at the time and was one the great research
facilities on earth. By the time Fiorina was done with it, it had been
reduced to an R&D lab for a half-assed phone company.

Then she moved onto HP. Her tenure there is talked about to this day as
a cautionary tale about hiring the wrong CEO. It is easy to forget that
HP was one of the great Silicon Valley companies. In the 90’s, they were
the model for tech companies all over the world. After six years of
Fiorina, they were a smoking ruin that has never recovered. Share
holders had parties upon hearing of her firing. The stock jumped 10% the
next day.

Now here she is playing the vagina card in the GOP primary. The climb up
the corporate ladder, by an otherwise talentless hack, is accomplished
by showing great loyalty to key superiors. The hack also is good at
displaying loyalty to the firm in front of the right people. That was
her game in business and she is doing the same in politics. She’s making
nice to the leaders and defending the party like a lioness defending her
cubs. She’s also going after Hillary tooth and claw.

Fiorina is smart enough to know she is not winning the nomination. This
is the long con and that means angling for the VP spot or maybe a
cabinet position. She will get on the stage and look good in the
debates. By spring of next year she will be out of the race and have a
good idea as to who will win the nomination. She will make a big show of
endorsing that person and campaigning on their behalf.

In 2017 she will be nominated as Secretary of HHS and she will do to
health care what she did to Bell Labs.
