---
title: "The Hate That Dare Not Speak Its Name"
date: "2015-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4144"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4144"
---

The riots in Baltimore the other day were pretty mild by the standards
of these things. The riots in the late sixties burned out big chunks of
major cities, including Baltimore. This riot broke a few windows, mostly
in neighborhoods that can’t get much worse. A few broken windows is not
going to change much. The big damage was to the tourist trade as the
news made it appear that the city was just sacked by the Goths. As a
result conventions have been cancelled and who knows how many holiday
plans have been altered in order to avoid the city.

The funny thing about these things is we have three narratives. [There’s
the one from the Cult of Modern
Liberalism](http://www.thenation.com/article/205537/dispatch-baltimore-praying-peace-living-another-reality)
we get from just about everywhere in the media. That’s the one where the
poor, dispossessed blacks have been brutalized by the Pale Penis People
to the point where they revolt. Their peaceful protest against the PPP
is turned into a riot by overzealous cops, the same cops who killed the
poor innocent black body, this time named Freddy Gray.

The trouble with this narrative is it is never supported by the facts.
In most of these cases, the truth makes the liberal narrative appear
insultingly stupid. Michael Brown was a giant thug. The guy in New York
was a career criminal. Freddy Gray appears to have died by accident. Of
course, Baltimore is a black city run by blacks and it has a black
police force. Whatever problems they have are not the fault of the
blue-eyed devil.

Conservative Inc. swings into action with its own spin on things. [This
piece by Kevin
Williamson](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/417601/riot-plagued-baltimore-catastrophe-entirely-democratic-partys-own-making-kevin-d)
is fairly typical of their role in the public drama. They point out that
the people in charge are all members of the CML and have been following
all of the favored policies of the Left for generations. Their argument
is that the riots and the squalor are the logical result of liberal
policy making. Kevin’s article makes that case in the specific as well
as the general, referencing other dilapidated cities.

The problem here is other cities have extremely liberal governments yet
they manage to avoid the mayhem we see in Baltimore or Detroit. Kevin
briefly mentions San Francisco, but prefers to focus on the black
arrests rates, as if they are somehow unwarranted or out of line with
black arrest rates nationwide. He’s ham-handedly trying to argue that
the pasty-faced lefties running these cities are bigots. The fact that
the Hispanics and Asians seem to be doing just fine in these places is
conveniently avoided.

Then there’s the other narrative, the one no one dares say for fear of
being labeled a monster. On the television you see young black males
mugging for the cameras as they commit pointless acts of mayhem. You see
blacks running from burning stores with arms full of goods. Of course,
the liquor store is robbed and you see blacks carrying away the liquor
and beer. These scenes are narrated by the same old voices saying the
same old things. To spice it up, they interview a local, who mumbles
through the interview, confirming everything you see on TV.

This, of course, is the simple reality of places like Baltimore,
Detroit, East St. Louis and so on. When the government banned private
discrimination in in the 1960’s, whites fled the cities to avoid having
to send their kids to school with blacks. Responsible and intelligent
blacks tried to keep it together, but they threw in the towel in the
80’s and 90’s when crack turned American cities into war zones. They
headed for the suburbs to live with the whites. What’s left in these
urban reservations are low-IQ violent nitwits.

Of course, no one is allowed to say any of this in public. Racial
solidarity requires blacks, who know better, to defend their dimwitted
brothers rioting in the streets. Liberal whites think there’s profit in
the riots so they cast about for a black hat on whom to pin the blame.
Crime thinkers like John Derbyshire believe that [the truth of things
will eventually will
out](http://www.vdare.com/articles/john-derbyshire-the-american-political-system-can-solve-the-race-problem-for-a-given-meaning-of-solve).
I think John is right that reality will always win eventually, but I
know I’ll never live to see it. Everyone alive today is too deeply
invested in the myth that if we just turn the right knobs and push the
right buttons, biology will be overcome. Fantasy is powerful stuff.

The fantasists may be onto something though. Baltimore has about 200,000
people that are useless. The males just want to commit crimes, get high
and screw. The females just want to get high and screw. The city would
love to ship them off somewhere, but somewhere does not want them
either. John Derbyshire’s dream of race realism is not going to change
the fact we have a lot of useless people and nowhere to send them.

Maybe we’re better off leaving reality as the hate that dare not speaks
its name. The fantasy keeps everyone committed to papering over reality
and doubling down after each failure. Ferguson will fade away and those
people will go back to doing what they were doing before they got
famous. Baltimore will go back to being Baltimore. The dogs will bark
and the caravan will move on.
