---
title: "China Learns From Obama"
date: "2015-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4449"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4449"
---

I’ve made the point a many times here that Obama’s health care bill was
mostly an assault on the remaining Christian holdouts in American
society. It may have started as an “honest” attempt to move the country
closer to state run health care, but it became an excuse to take aim at
Christians. As is always the case with the Left, economics is
subordinate to culture.

If you look at the controversial bits of that bill, they all revolve
around making Christians do things that are against their faith. Making
Churches offer health coverage to homosexuals couples or making
Catholics buy rubbers for their employees has nothing to do with health
and everything to do with the culture war. If you force people to act in
contradiction of their faith, they will eventually lose their faith.

At least that has been the thinking for 2000 years. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2015/05/05/china-orders-muslim-shopkeepers-to-sell-alcohol-cigarettes-to-weaken-islam/?postshare=9381430871510902"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Now we see the ChiComs doing the same
thing with their Muslims.</a>

*Chinese authorities have ordered Muslim shopkeepers and restaurant
owners in a village in its troubled Xinjiang region to sell alcohol and
cigarettes, and promote them in “eye-catching displays,” in an attempt
to undermine Islam’s hold on local residents, <a
href="http://www.rfa.org/english/news/uyghur/order-05042015133944.html%20"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Radio Free Asia (RFA) reported</a>.
Establishments that failed to comply were threatened with closure and
their owners with prosecution.*

*Facing widespread discontent over its repressive rule in the mainly
Muslim province of Xinjiang, and mounting violence in the past two
years, China has launched a series of “strike hard” campaigns to weaken
the hold of Islam in the western region. Government employees and
children have been barred from attending mosques or observing the Muslim
fasting month of Ramadan. In many places, women have been barred from
wearing face-covering veils, and men discouraged from growing long
beards.*

American Progressives can only dream of such heavy handed tactics, but
they are not deterred. The next round of “health care reform” will
probably mandate homosexual marriage for Catholics. That sounds
ridiculous, but consider that two guys getting married was a punchline
just twenty years ago. There are men alive today who recall when being
on welfare was shameful.

In the weird theocracy of empire America, yesterday’s absurdities are
today’s conventional wisdom. Today’s commonly held truth is tomorrow’s
heresy. In 1982, everyone knew that you could not become president if
you led a private life of perversion. In 1992 everyone knew that you
would not run for president, much less win, if you were a black guy
raised overseas and were named after the dictator of Iraq.

Having government minders in churches making sure no one says anything
unapproved may sound crazy today, but how far fetched is it really? The
mayor of Houston demanded the right to pre-approve all church sermons
not so long ago. The Supreme Court just heard a case where one side was
demanding that large chunks of Christianity be ruled a thought crime.

This will not end well.
