---
title: "The TWS Party"
date: "2015-10-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5694"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5694"
---

In the 1980’s, the Republican Party became the party of National Review.
It was a blend of the Old Right and the New Right, but mostly the Old
Right. American Conservatism of that day was about free markets, free
trade, personal liberty, preservation of the traditional culture and a
tough stand against Soviet authoritarianism. Reagan famously said “In
this present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem;
government is the problem.”

Imagine a modern politician of any stripe saying something like that
today. Watch this speech from Reagan and try to imagine, without
laughing, a modern Republican saying similar things about the American
Left today.

Most people reading this understand that the National Review of today is
not the National Review of yesterday. In the 90’s Buckley started to
lose his marbles and then gave way to a new group of editors who think
<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/418515/yes-same-sex-marriage-about-equality-courts-should-not-decide"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">homosexual marriage is a sacrament</a>
and citizenship is a vice. That said, the GOP is no longer the party of
National Review. It is the party of The Weekly Standard.

In the last quarter century, the Republicans have held the White House
once and members of The Weekly Standard held key jobs in that
administration. No man is more important to the Republican Party today
than Bill Kristol, who was a Bush consigliere. He has selected their
last two nominees and their running mates.

Long before the 2008 election, he “predicted” McCain would beat Romney
and the others and then he “predicted” McCain would take an unknown
governor from Alaska as his running mate. The next cycle he “predicted”
that Romney would win and select Paul Ryan as his second. Kristol is
really good at “predicting” these things.

But, the truth is the modern GOP is the party of The Weekly Standard.
There you find the technocratic authoritarianism that embraces the
universal state, but with a alpha male veneer as opposed to the feminine
version offered up by American Progressives. Neo-conservatives want the
state, for example, to encourage family formation so women can have
babies. Progressives discourage family formations so women can have
abortions. Same gun, different target.

That’s why it is a good idea to pay attention to Bill Kristol when he
starts talking about Republican politics. Back in the summer he somewhat
jokingly said he would start a third party if Trump win the nomination.
Now he is quite serious about it and
<a href="http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/article/2574661/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he is letting us know who he will select
as the party’s nominee</a>.

*The Weekly Standard editor Bill Kristol predicted Thursday that Florida
Sen. Marco Rubio and Carly Fiorina will eventually lead the Republican
ticket, and that Donald Trump would fade.*

*“Now there’s this Trump thing going on, I gather he’s going to do OK in
the polls for a while, but he’s not going to be the nominee. We’ll be
fine,” Kristol told MSNBC. “Rubio-Fiorina or a Fiorina-Rubio ticket’s
going to win in November everyone should calm down.”*

*After MSNBC’s panelists prodded him into acknowledging Trump has a
chance of winning the nomination, Kristol indicated it might be time for
him to leave the GOP if Trump becomes its standard-bearer.*

*“If all the other candidates remain as pathetic as they’ve been so far,
I suppose it’s conceivable he’ll \[Trump\] be the nominee and then we’ll
have to support a third party,” Kristol said.*

There you have it. It will be war or it will be Rubio- Farina. I think
given the way men are now portrayed in modern America, the proper ticket
here will be Farina – Rubio, but Ben Carson will be taking over the
important running mate duties, while Rubio watches from the side, maybe
filming it for the campaign website.

All joking aside, Kristol could be whistling past the graveyard, but he
is the man behind the GOP curtain. He was not right all those times
before because he is a good guesser. He was right because his iPhone has
the contact information of every major donor, campaign staffer and fund
raiser in the country on it. He is the most connected man in America or
at least one of them.

The problem, of course, is that the formula The Weekly Standard prefers
works great if you are <a
href="https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/3d/41/ef/3d41efa0736ecc3c18befcc17b052591.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mr. Roarke</a> and your resort offers
realistic fantasies about being a successful politician. In the real
world, there’s little appetite for invade the world-invite the world
polices. Rubio- Farina might play well on the cocktail circuit in
Georgetown, but they will get destroyed by Clinton in the general
election.

But, maybe that’s what it will take. The years from 1964 through 1976
saw Progressives running wild while normal people figured out what was
happening and then fashioning a party to represent them. Perhaps the
site of Clinton auctioning off national monuments for cash to the
Clinton Foundation will finally focus the minds of people who really
should know better.
