---
title: "Tom Brady: Victim of Racism?"
date: "2015-05-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4512"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4512"
---

Every day, we are told by our betters that it is impossible for blacks
to get a fair shake from whites, which is why we need to stack the
courts, schools, HR departments and so on with blacks, regardless of
qualifications. The bedrock of modern civil rights is set-asides and
quotas to increase diversity, even when that means discriminating
against whites.

At the same time, Michelle Obama says it is impossible for black people
to escape their blackness. After all, if <a
href="http://www.alternet.org/civil-liberties/michelle-obama-i-was-knocked-back-racist-perceptions-me"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Obama family is “knocked back” by
racism</a>, despite ascending to the heights of society, it is
reasonable to think all black people are consumed with this issue. The
woman is middle-aged and still obsesses over it, despite living like
royalty so I guess she has a point. Black people can’t see past race.

Now, the drumbeat from the sporting press has been that Tom Brady must
face a harsh penalty because black players get punished all the time.
The perception is the only people getting punished are the black
players. The fact that <a
href="http://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/nfl/2013/11/29/racial-profiling-nfl/3779489/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">black players are ten times more likely
to be arrested than white players</a> does not figure into this. The
heads on ESPN have been saying for weeks that the league has to be tough
on Brady to make things seem equal.

The punishment announced this week is the same as players get for
throwing their old lady down a flight of stairs or getting jammed up on
rape charges. Serious stuff for maybe letting the air out of a few
balls. In fact, it struck me as absurd until someone I know who has done
legal work for the NFL told me the commissioner is scared to death of
the media so he does what they want in these matters.

That got me curious. Who came up with the punishment?

Turns out it is this guy:

<img
src="http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/9c/TroyVincentSr1.png"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="216" height="216" />

The guy who wrote the report is this guy:

<img src="http://s.wsj.net/media/TedWells_G_20140529115501.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="553" height="369" />

Here’s his bio from Wiki:

*Theodore V. “Ted” Wells, Jr. (born April 28, 1950) is a prominent
criminal attorney. A litigation partner at the New York law firm of
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, the National Law Journal
has selected Wells as one of America’s best white-collar defense
attorneys on numerous occasions. Wells received his B.A. from College of
the Holy Cross, his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, and his J.D.
from Harvard Law School. He and his wife, former Secretary of State of
New JerseyNina Mitchell Wells, reside in Livingston, New Jersey.*

*Wells attended Holy Cross at the same time as Clarence Thomas, now a
Supreme Court justice. Both participated in a walkout based on their
beliefs of unfair racially motivated practices, on the part of the
college. The two were part of the same organization for African-American
students at Holy Cross.*

Let’s see. We have a howling mob demanding racial justice. We have black
people running the investigation. We’re told that even wildly successful
black people focus only on race. We have the whitest of white bread
defendants.

Reverse the roles and what do you think our better would be saying?
