---
title: "Bitcoin: Cisgendered, Transphobic and Heteronormative"
date: "2015-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4406"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4406"
---

Religions only work if they saturate the life of the believers. Without
universalism they lose their utility and their rationale. If you flip it
around, the way to identify a religion or a theodicy is to see if it is
all consuming. If the people espousing a particular point of view judge
everything within the context of that point of view, then you’re dealing
with a religion of some sort.

<a
href="http://fusion.net/story/124655/why-bitcoins-male-domination-will-be-its-downfall/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This strange article on Bitcoin</a> is a
good example.

*Nathaniel Popper’s new book, [Digital
Gold](http://www.harpercollins.com/9780062362490/digital-gold), is as
close as you can get to being the definitive account of the history of
Bitcoin. As its subtitle proclaims, the book tells the story of the
“misfits” (the first generation of hacker-libertarians) and
“millionaires” (the second generation of Silicon Valley venture
capitalists) who were responsible for building Bitcoin, mining it,
hyping it, and, in at least some cases, getting rich off it.*

*The tale is selective, of course: not everybody involved with Bitcoin
talked to Popper, and the identity of Bitcoin’s inventor, Satoshi
Nakamoto, remains a mystery. But Popper did talk to most of the
important people in the cryptocurrency crowd, and he tells me that he
put real effort into trying “to find a woman who was involved in some
substantive way”.*

*The result of that search? Zero. Nothing. Zilch. Popper’s book features
no female principals at all: the sole role of women in the book is as
wives and girlfriends.*

To a non-moonbat, this is nutty as squirrel poop. What sort of diseased
mind cares about the sexual demographics of Bitcoin’s founders? The
answer is the Modern American Moonbat. The MAM’s are obsessed with their
crotch the crotch of everyone else. It’s all they can think about all
the time.

*There are nasty consequences of this. If you are a woman involved with
Bitcoin, you are invariably going to get treated like an outsider. As
[Victoria Turk](http://motherboard.vice.com/blog/bitcoin-needs-women)
says, “it seems that the only Bitcoin community that particularly
welcomes female participation is the NSFW subreddit r/GirlsGoneBitcoin”,
which is basically a site where women get paid in cryptocurrency to pose
nude.*

I’ll just note that Bitcoin went from weird technological hobby to
social statement to mass movement rather quickly. Bitcoin meetups?
Bitcoin clubs? Replace Bitcoin with “small denomination bills” and you
see why this is weird.

*Men make up an estimated
[96%](http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-03-10/demographics-bitcoin) of
the Bitcoin community, which means that if Bitcoin does end up
succeeding, as its adherents think it will, and if the people who own
Bitcoin see their holdings soar in value, then all of the profits will
end up going to what [Brett
Scott](http://suitpossum.blogspot.com/2014/01/crypto-patriarchy-problem-of-bitcoins.html)
calls the “crypto-patriarchy”. Not many men, to be sure: as [Charlie
Stross](http://www.antipope.org/charlie/blog-static/2013/12/why-i-want-bitcoin-to-die-in-a.html)
says, the degree of inequality in the Bitcoin economy “is ghastly, and
getting worse, to an extent that makes a sub-Saharan African kleptocracy
look like a socialist utopia”. But it’s not many men, and effectively
zero women.*

That’s why the MAM’s are calling in the SJW’s to attack the cult of
Bitcoin. They suspect it is a deviationist sect orchestrated by the Pale
Penis People to undermine the progress of the One True Faith.
