---
title: "Signs of Collapse"
date: "2015-01-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3619"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3619"
---

Increasingly I find myself reading about how systems decay and collapse.
It is a subject that appeals to me because I like finding patterns in
things. As a kid, I enjoyed taking IQ and personality tests because it
was fun to deconstruct the exam and figure out how the test maker was
filtering the answers. Figuring out how a puzzle works or how a system
is designed tells you something about the person who created the test or
system. At least I think so. I could be completely nuts on that score.

There’s not a lot of literature on the subject of collapse. [This is
probably the best known
book](http://www.amazon.com/Collapse-Complex-Societies-Studies-Archaeology/dp/052138673X)
on the subject. [This may be a better known
book](http://www.amazon.com/Collapse-Societies-Succeed-Revised-Edition/dp/0143117009/ref=pd_sim_b_4?ie=UTF8&refRID=057RPRZ2QDP1AVP5AEG2)
or at least as well known. I don’t know of a way to compare them in that
regard. I run across more references to Tainter on this subject than
Diamond, but maybe that’s just due to hanging with a bad crowd. You
never know about these things. Sometimes it is not the world; it is you.

Anyway, the common element in social collapse is that the leaders cannot
break free of their traditional mode of thinking in order to address a
new challenge. The Late Bronze Age featured a series of cities
collapsing, but being rebuilt as they were before the revolt,
earthquake, invasion or famine. It is as if they learned nothing from
the calamity. Eventually, the destruction was so thorough the city was
abandoned or the society was swept away.

That’s what comes to mind reading [this in the
Spectator](http://www.spectator.co.uk/features/9416542/religion-of-peace-is-not-a-harmless-platitude/).

* The West’s movement towards the truth is remarkably slow. We drag
ourselves towards it painfully, inch by inch, after each bloody Islamist
assault.*

*In France, Britain, Germany, America and nearly every other country in
the world it remains government policy to say that any and all attacks
carried out in the name of Mohammed have ‘nothing to do with Islam’. It
was said by George W. Bush after 9/11, Tony Blair after 7/7 and Tony
Abbott after the Sydney attack last month. It is what David Cameron said
after two British extremists cut off the head of Drummer Lee Rigby in
London, when ‘Jihadi John’ cut off the head of aid worker Alan Henning
in the ‘Islamic State’ and when Islamic extremists attacked a Kenyan
mall, separated the Muslims from the Christians and shot the latter in
the head. And, of course, it is what President François Hollande said
after the massacre of journalists and Jews in Paris last week.*

*All these leaders are wrong. In private, they and their senior advisers
often concede that they are telling a lie. The most sympathetic
explanation is that they are telling a ‘noble lie’, provoked by a fear
that we — the general public — are a lynch mob in waiting. ‘Noble’ or
not, this lie is a mistake. First, because the general public do not
rely on politicians for their information and can perfectly well read
articles and books about Islam for themselves. Secondly, because the lie
helps no one understand the threat we face. Thirdly, because it takes
any heat off Muslims to deal with the bad traditions in their own
religion. And fourthly, because unless mainstream politicians address
these matters then one day perhaps the public will overtake their
politicians to a truly alarming extent.*

This may be comforting to some, but where is the evidence to suggest the
ruling elites think anything of the sort? If they really think Islam is
a violent antagonist to western society, the easiest step to address it,
without admitting error, is to cut off immigration to Muslim countries.
If after 9/11, American elites concluded Islam is the problem, [why did
they increase](http://www.cis.org/immigrant-population-record-2013) the
number of immigrants form Muslim counties?

[This bit from Tony Blair posted on
NRO](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/396488/tony-blair-islamic-terrorism-not-something-weve-caused-something-weve-been-caught)
today seems to confirm that it is not just a pretty lie. Blair is the
Prime Minister who ramped up immigration into Britain in order to
increase diversity. He and his coevals remain convinced that diversity
is the answer to every problem, even the problems that arise from
diversity, like Muslim terrorism. The madness is so through that many
have declared themselves experts on Islam, claiming the terrorists are
simply bad Muslims.

The evidence is all pointing in one direction. The people in charge have
no answer for the current threats. To take on the Islam problem means a)
admitting prior error and b) abandoning the keystone of their ideology.
To do either undermines their legitimacy as a ruling class. Even if they
could plausibly claim we have reached peak diversity and therefore are
shutting off immigration, the implications are obvious.

In the palace system of the Bronze Age, the rulers existed to control
the palace economy. All goods flowed through the palace, which was
pretty much a distribution center with ceremonial buildings. Even though
a centralized system could not work beyond a certain scale, what else
was there? A distributed system would not need a king so it was
unthinkable. Instead they kept trying to make the palace system work
until they failed utterly.

That’s what we seem to be seeing in the West. Cultural Marxism may be a
dead end street, but what else is there? If the alternatives cannot prop
up the pseudo-meritocracy and the attendant exam system, what’s in it
for the people in charge? The answer is nothing so alternatives are
unthinkable. Instead they keep racing around, trying to keep an
increasing number of plates spinning.

At some point, it simply stops working.
