---
title: "My Theory of Everything: Part II"
date: "2015-11-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Theory of Everything
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5885"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5885"
---

Yesterday I got started on this project by [blabbering on about my view
of the dominant mode of thought](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5666)
in America. Today, I’m going to get into the chief alternative to it.
I’m using the word “alternative” loosely as few people of any
consequence subscribe to this view.  Those that do tend to come from the
parts of the country and culture that are unrepresented in the American
elite.

One of those areas, and one that is a convenient example, is the US
military. The great innovation Americans brought to war fighting is the
prioritization of training over discipline. Put another way, the
prioritization of *what* gets done over *how* it gets done. Soldiers and
officers are encouraged to be creative in their problem solving and be
mission focused.

This was most evident in the Great War at the **Battle of Belleau
Wood**. German commanders ordered an advance through the woods onto the
Marine’s position. The French commander ordered a retreat, but American
General James Harbord refused the order and told his men to hold their
position. Both the French and the Germans marveled afterwards at the
ferocity and improvisational tactics of the American Marines.

On the afternoon of 3 June, German infantry attacked the Marine
positions through the grain fields with bayonets fixed. The Marines dug
shallow individual trenches so they could lie concealed, but still fight
while lying on their bellies. The Marines waited until the Germans were
within 100 yards and then opened fire. The German infantry was mowed
down and the remainder was forced back into the woods.

The legend of the United States Marine Corp was born in the **Battle of
Belleau Wood** not because they had great leadership, or they had
superior numbers. It was not technology that gave the Marines their
edge. It was their tenacity, improvisational prowess and unrelenting
ferocity in pursuit of the mission. “The deadliest weapon in the world
is a United States Marine and his rifle,” was said by General Pershing
after this battle.

The philosophy at work here is you solve problems by giving competent
people the tools and the support to go solve the problem. How they solve
the problem is secondary. In small business, this is the dominant mode
of thought. The owner can be seen washing the toilets then signing
payroll checks. Alternatively, his second in command could take over the
toilet washing and then hire a new person for accounting. The point is
to get the job done, whatever it takes.

It is in sales that this way of looking at the world is still dominant
most everywhere. No matter the industry or scale, salesmen are always on
some sort of commission system. They are also given more freedom of
action than other employees. You hire a good salesman, train him on the
product, give him a quota and let him go, trusting that your best weapon
is a salesman and his commission check.

Hold on. My meth dealer is here.

The pithy and patriotic examples aside, this way of thinking is most
popularly understood as using “the right tool for the job.” It may not
be the perfect tool and the completion of the job may not be ideal, but
often, good enough is, in fact, good enough. Underlying this mode of
thought is the understanding that the human condition is immutable.
Perfection is for the afterlife. In this life, human error is a feature,
not a bug.

For most of Western history, this has been the dominant mode of thought.
Even in the age of kings, finding the right man for the job was the way
things were done. No one had grand, complex schemes for creating the
perfect society. In fact, having grand schemes for creating heaven on
earth was a good way to get burned at the stake.

The Antichrist’s deception already begins to take shape in the world
every time the claim is made to realize within history that messianic
hope which can only be realized beyond history through the
eschatological judgment. The Church has rejected even modified forms of
this falsification of the kingdom to come under the name of
millenarianism, especially the “intrinsically perverse” political form
of a secular messianism.

The last time this utilitarian mode of thought was dominant in America
was at the founding. The first shot at a national government was pretty
much just leaving most everything to the states to figure out on their
own. The Articles of Confederation did not work, because the impotent
national government was the wrong tool for the job, so we got the US
Constitution.

The men of the Tidewater who crafted it understood that we needed a
strong central government for managing trade, national defense and the
courts. At the same time, they knew the Puritan lunatics in New England
would immediately try to pervert the national government so they could
dominate the rest of the country. James Madison had no illusions about
the nature of John Adams. The result was a government based on negative
liberty.

While this mode of thought is common in the lower classes, the people
who run the country reject this completely. Therein lies the rub. The
people are asked to validate the decisions of the rulers with their
ballots, but no one on the ballot thinks like the people standing in
line to vote. To remedy this the parties make noises about American
values and talk about the Constitution, but that’s just for show. Thus,
the inevitable conflict.

Thus, concludes Part II
