---
title: "Obama’s To Do List"
date: "2015-07-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4991"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4991"
---

Watching the hooting and hollering about Obama’s Iran deal, I’m reminded
of something I thought I noticed about this administration from the
start. It is two things actually, but both related. The first thing is
Obama seems to work from a checklist of action items. An item on the
list is lined out after a law is passed, an executive order is issued
or, in some cases, he gives a speech about. Once it is marked as
completed, he is done with it. It becomes old news.

That does not sound odd until you think about how the world works. A
problem is identified then a solution is proposed. The solution is
applied and it is a process to make sure the solution is working and the
problem has been addressed. In a business, management does not write a
memo and consider the matter closed. They follow up to make sure their
policies are being implemented successfully.

In politics, an administration will judge itself and be judged by the
success of its policies. If they make a deal with another country, they
don’t throw it down the memory hole once the deal is signed. They keep
talking about it and bringing it up if it is successful. If it is a
failure then they spend time claiming to have fixed it. With Obama, once
the law is passed or the order given, they have a press conference and
forget about it. If someone brings it up later, we hear that the
administration is not willing to “re-litigate” the matter.

That’s a strange tick, but what’s even odder is what’s on the list.
[I’ve written before about the Progressive
timeline](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4819). Instead of viewing time
as a linear thing, they see events on an emotional timeline. Events with
great significance are close while those with lower emotional pull are
further away. The Civil Rights Movement was yesterday, while their total
control of American cities may as well have never happened it was so
long ago.

With that in mind, Obama’s to-do list reads like a laundry list of
slights and wounds to the liberal narrative. The deal with Iran and the
deal with Cuba came out of nowhere. No American cared about either
issue. The political class had no interest in Cuba and only cared about
Iran in so far as whether Israel was going to nuke them. Out of the blue
Obama does a deal with Cuba and then makes a comically bad deal with
Iran, just to get a deal.

To Progressives, both Cuba and Iran have emotional resonance, because
they are black marks on the narrative. Kennedy lost Cuba to the Soviets
and was embarrassed by the Bay of Pigs. Therefore, finishing the job and
bringing Cuba back into the fold was on Obama’s list. Similarly, Iran
was Carter’s great failure. Progressives have always believed it is why
the evil Ron Reagan became president. Proving once and for all that
making a deal with Iran was the right policy, therefore, became an
agenda item for Obama.

Early in the Obama administration, the big thing was resetting relations
with Russia. It was always a strange thing as no one could quite explain
what it meant. They had a big ceremony with the Russian ambassador and
gave him a red button for some reason. In the minds of the Obama people
it was “fixing” the Reagan legacy. To Progressives, the “belligerence”
of the Reagan years was a big black mark on the narrative. Obama fixed
it by giving Putin big red reset button.

That circles back to the first point. Fixing relations between two
counties is a process. You have the breakthrough and then build on it
over time to find common interests on which both sides can benefit by
cooperating. For Team Obama, they ticked it off the list after the
presser and then forgot all about it. The fact that relations with
Russia are worse now than in the Cold War is irrelevant. All that
matters is they ticked “reset relations with Russia” off their list and
they forget about it.

The big one, of course, is health care. Obama spent all his good will
with the public pushing through a bill that was nothing like he ran on
as a candidate. In fact, it was pretty much what he said would never
work when Hillary Clinton proposed it as a candidate. That’s not what
mattered. What mattered was fixing the mistake of 1993 when Clinton
failed to get health care done. Team Obama ticked it off the list and
popped the champagne. All of the complaints and challenges ever since
have been met with “we’re not re-litigating the issue.”

I suspect much of this is due to the fact that this is one of the least
talented administrations in a long time. There’s not a lot of talent.
Their best people are technocrats from the academy who see the world as
a series of exams. Take the test, get a good score and move onto the
next semester. That’s a strange aspect of the new meritocracy. They tend
to think like college kids filling up their transcripts with grades,
rather than as adults solving problems.

I also wonder if there’s not something else at work. Progressives have
won all the big battles and most of the small ones. They have run out of
bogeyman to rally the faithful. Forty years ago they could get the
blacks so angry they burned down major cities. Today they can only rip
up a few blocks in nowhere-ville and burn a few Confederate flags.
There’s simply no one else left to fight that’s worth fighting so they
going back and tidying up the past to fix the narrative.
