---
title: "David Brooks and the Long War"
date: "2015-07-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4841"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4841"
---

One of the ways you tell who is winning and who is losing is to look at
which way the advice is flowing. Losers never give advice because no one
takes advice from a loser so even if they have something to offer, no
one pays much attention. Winners, on the other hand, love talking about
how they won and will offer anyone and everyone tips as to how to be a
winner.

There’s also something else. Winners are confident. They are willing to
offer help to the loser because they are sure they are better than the
other guy and have no fear he will use the advice to turn the tables. In
other words, it is safe for the winner to be magnanimous as he perceives
he has little to lose and will gain much by looking magnanimous. The
loser, in contrast, must play close to the vest in the hope of scoring
an upset.

That’s why we see in American public debate, a flow of advice and
suggestions from Progressives to their alleged opponents. Democrats are
always brimming with tips for Republicans. Progressives are always out
lecturing extreme right-wing extremists about the folly of their extreme
right-wing extremism. <a
href="http://mobile.nytimes.com/2015/06/30/opinion/david-brooks-the-next-culture-war.html?_r=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s an example</a> from David Brooks
the other day.

*These conservatives are enmeshed in a decades-long culture war that has
been fought over issues arising from the sexual revolution. Most of the
conservative commentators I’ve read over the past few days are resolved
to keep fighting that war.*

*I am to the left of the people I have been describing on almost all of
these social issues. But I hope they regard me as a friend and admirer.
And from that vantage point, I would just ask them to consider a change
in course.*

*Consider putting aside, in the current climate, the culture war
oriented around the sexual revolution.*

*Put aside a culture war that has alienated large parts of three
generations from any consideration of religion or belief. Put aside an
effort that has been a communications disaster, reducing a rich, complex
and beautiful faith into a public obsession with sex. Put aside a
culture war that, at least over the near term, you are destined to
lose.*

You get that? David Brooks is generously offering you his sage advice ,
which is you need to give up and join the winning team. He wastes a lot
of time tarting it up, while casting himself as something other than a
conventional Progressive. That’s just part of the act. William Safire
perfected this a half century ago and now it has become a feature of
Progressive agit-prop.

Of course, this is not advice offered in the spirit of fellowship. David
Brooks thinks social conservatives are sub-human and he would gladly
sign up to slam the oven door on them. This is mostly gloating. Brooks
is taking a victory lap. He also hopes that social conservatives will
keep fighting. His cult is reactionary and they need bogeymen. When the
day comes that the Left clears the field of enemies, it is the day it
collapses.

It’s why the Left is so good at inventing monsters. Its identity is
based on struggle, something they inherited from Continental communists.
Despite the fact Brooks has never known a time when he and his
coreligionists have not been in control of the culture, they still
believe they are struggling to set things right and break the spine of
the WASP oppressors.

After every battle, the Left celebrates, but then says there is much
left to be done. This Brooks column always turns up in the transition
phase, They partied and now they are sobering up, being reminded that
“those evil social conservatives are still out there, plotting and
scheming to take back our victory. If only they would just give up!”

In one of life’s great ironies, America is being cleared of Christians
by a religious cult that habitually nails itself to the cross and then
blames the Christians.
