---
title: "A Gore For All Seasons"
date: "2015-03-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4086"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4086"
---

In an unreasonable age, when crazy people seem to be a feature of the
dominant culture, who better to lead the Empire than a man suffering
from mental illness? As a practical matter, it is a bad idea to put
crazy people in charge, but given what’s happening it would be poetic to
put a madman in charge. We often hold up guys like Caligula and Commodus
as examples of what happens when the ruling class falls into chaos.
America is now run by ululating fanatics so
<a href="http://www.vox.com/2015/3/16/8220537/al-gore-president-2016"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">putting Al Gore on the throne makes
sense</a>.

*Democrats need a debate about where their party goes next. Obamacare’s
passage marked the rough completion of the social safety net that
liberals began constructing during Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s
presidency. The end of the Iraq War drained Democrats of their foreign
policy fervor. The rapid acceptance of gay marriage has robbed them of
the next civil rights fight. There is work left to be done in all these
arenas, but over time, the party will need to discover new dreams, much
as Republicans have found the Ryan budget.*

I’m a bit torn on Ezra Klein. Serious people on the Left don’t seem to
think much of him, but, but they don’t publicly trash him. I think of
him a flaky millennial airhead, but I’m not his target audience. Even
so, he does hit on something once in a while and this is a good example.
Progressivism has been seriously short of practical ideas for a long
time and now that they have exhausted health care, they are running on
fumes.

They also need bogeymen. When this Progressive cycle started, they had
Bush and the Iraq War to motivate them. Then it was the Tea Party and
now it is white men. Hating the pale penis people is not without its
merits, unless your a white man. Of course, Jewish males are finding out
that they cannot play the victim card as they have been declared white.
 So, the Tribe needs to  wind down the war on whitey and find a new
villain.

*The closest thing Democrats have to an organizing concern is income
inequality. But their solutions are neither sufficient to the scale of
the problem nor quickening to the pulse. Raising the marginal tax rate
on dividend income is not the clay from which political movements are
crafted.*

*To many Democrats, the fight the party needs is clear: Hillary Clinton
vs. Elizabeth Warren. But the differences between Warren and Clinton are
less profound than they appear. Warren goes a bit further than Clinton
does, both in rhetoric and policy, but her agenda is smaller and more
traditional than she makes it sound: tightening financial regulation,
redistributing a little more, tying up some loose ends in the social
safety net. Given the near-certainty of a Republican House, there is
little reason to believe there would be much difference between a Warren
presidency and a Clinton one.*

*The most ambitious vision for the Democratic Party right now rests with
a politician most have forgotten, and whom no one is mentioning for
2016: Al Gore.*

*Gore offers a genuinely different view of what the Democratic Party —
and, by extension, American politics — should be about.*

*<a href="http://www.vox.com/cards/global-warming/what-is-global-warming"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Climate change</a> is a real and growing
threat to the world’s future. In 2009, nearly every country in the world
agreed that global warming must be held to less than 2 degrees Celsius.
We’re on pace to [blow through
that](http://www.vox.com/2014/4/22/5551004/two-degrees) — warming the
planet four degrees or more is horrifyingly plausible. No one really
knows what that kind of temperature change — a swing that approaches the
difference between most of human history and the Ice Age — would mean
for humankind. The World Bank says there is “no certainty that
adaptation to a 4°C world is possible.”*

*Income inequality is a serious problem. But climate change is an
existential threat.*

The key to picking a bogeyman is making sure you can control him. That
means making sure the bad guys does not look too much like you. that’s
even easier if the bogeyman is supernatural or imaginary. Villains are
not much use if you can actually beat them. Imagine if in Barman \#1 the
police rounded up all the goofy villains in one shot. What’s the point
of having Batman around? A good bad guy is alien and impossible to ever
defeat.

Climate change has the advantage of being as fickle and elusive as the
weather, because it is the weather. No matter what happens, the Gaia
worshipers can point to the heavens and swear Gaia is angry with us. If
it is unusually cold, man is causing global cooling. if it is too hot,
it is global warming. If it is normal, it is a temporary respite,
because climate change is always lurking around the corner. There’s a
crisis for all seasons.

The thing with Gore, peace be upon him, is that he has purged himself of
all the deviationism he picked up in the Clinton years. He has submitted
himself to the self-criticism sessions and has emerged like a butterfly,
a pure man of the one true faith. The big thing here is Gore could shift
the focus from the corrosive war on whites, which is dangerous to guys
like Ezra, and refocus attention on something less like Ezra.

As ridiculous as it sounds, Gore has won a lot of elections and he grew
up in politics. If not for his nervous breakdown, Gore probably would
have won in 2000. But, Gore is a white guy and it is hard to imagine the
SJW’s standing aside while
<a href="https://youtu.be/odDO4cGh2RQ" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Hymie the Robot</a> attacks Hillary Clinton in the
primary. Vagina trumps Gaia on the piety pyramid. That’s just another
reason to hope it happens. Moonbat on moonbat violence is the best.
