---
title: "The Ik People"
date: "2015-01-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3624"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3624"
---

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ik_people" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Ik people</a> are a tribe living in the mountains of
northeastern Uganda near the border with Kenya. The only thing
interesting about the Ik people is their near total lack of social
structures. They have no government, not hierarchy, no religious customs
or anything one would associate with human society. The members of Ik
tribe spend all of their time foraging for food as their environment is
extremely harsh.

Each member is able to get enough food and water to survive so there is
no sharing of resources. Men will let their wife starve while they eat.
Brothers will steal food from one another, even if it means death for
the one. Children are usually expelled from the home at 3-5 years of age
and left to forage on their own. Husbands and wives spend little time
together as they are always hunting for food, which they never share
with one another. In fact, marriage does not exist. They are just mating
pairs and their time together is accidental.

The only reason to care about the Ik is from an anthropological
perspective. It is largely assumed that early humans had social
structures similar to chimps and bonobos. These social structures
evolved as man evolved and therefore “society” has been a part of
humanity since before there were modern humans. The Ik show that maybe
it was not necessarily so. But, they could simply be a rare exception
due to their unusual environment. Still, there are conditions in which
humans will lose all traces of society.

I was thinking about the Ik on my run this evening. The temperature was
in the low 40’s so the black males were out loitering. It is still too
cold for the Hispanics to hang outside and the whites will remain
indoors until it is wife beater weather. The ghetto is an unnatural
environment that humans are distinctly unfit occupy, but we insist on
jamming our poor into ghettos anyway. Like the Ik, people in a hostile
environment will develop some strange habits.

The inside/outside life is what I was thinking about tonight. Black men
look to get out of the house as soon as possible. They live off the
women who dominate the house so the men have to go outside to be free to
be themselves. There’s simply no place for them inside. Like male lions,
they live on the edge of female life, quarreling with one another on the
streets.

Hispanics seem to have evolved a different set of habits. I see
underclass Hispanics outside using the cell phone and my hunch is that’s
for privacy. The custom around here is for twenty people to pack into an
apartment so there’s no privacy, but there is family life. As a result,
they tend to remain indoors. Hispanic males will walk miles to get beer
or food so you see guys walking home carrying beer on payday, but they
do their drinking indoors.

Poor whites are an inside animal. Here’s where things are most obviously
different. The males run the house and women are secondary. The males
will do their drinking and drug taking in their own place with their
friends and family. They will get high right in front of their kids. In
the summer, I’ll ride through a white trash section of town and smell
reefer coming from adults on their front steps, watching their kids
play.

The age old argument is whether it is the environment that makes the
people or is it the people who make the environment. It’s both, of
course, which is why the black ghetto is different than the white
ghetto, which is different from the Hispanic ghettos. At the same time,
the organization of these ghettos shapes the people. Places like West
Baltimore or Detroit eventually become distilled versions of the worst
the people and environment can muster.

The Ik people did not end up in the mountains of Uganda by accident.
Odds are they were driven their by hostile tribes. Relegated to the
worst possible environment, the worst aspects of these people
concentrated as the other qualities boiled off. Just as Amish have
become more Amish over time, the Ik got more Ik-y the longer they were
stuck in that terrible place. It seems to me that our ghetto system has
the same results, concentrating qualities that should be diluted and
boiling off qualities that should be cultivated.
