---
title: "Ben the Magic Negro"
date: "2015-09-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5400"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5400"
---

Spike Lee popularized the term “Magic Negro”, 15 years ago as a way to
describe the noble black guy character so popular in movies. Richard
Brookhiser probably deserves credit for describing the concept in <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/220766/numinous-negro-williumrex"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this piece from 2001</a>. It may go back
much further, but I have not found anything further back than last
decade. Jim from Huckleberry Finn may be the first appearance of this
character in American fiction.

I’ve taken to calling black people “sacred people” because of the
widespread embrace of this literary concept of the magic negro. It’s a
lot like how middle aged women will get into Native American
spirituality or Chinese medicine. It’s a weird form of worship based on
ethnicity, that is wholly untethered from the reality of ethnicity.

Anyway, this came to mind when I saw <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/ben-carson-immigration-plan-ian-tuttle"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this post on National Review</a> the
other day. The author and many of the commenters are falling all over
themselves to praise Ben Carson and his immigration plans.

*With respect to “cutting off the goodies,” there are a number of
“goodies” that are all but impossible to cut off. As I’ve noted, many
illegal immigrant households receive welfare benefits through
American-born children. There is no realistic way to withhold those
entitlements. With respect to the illegal immigrant population residing
in the U.S., Carson’s plan does seem far more practicable than Trump’s
(which, it is worth noting, was not in the immigration plan released by
his campaign). But it’s not clear whether Carson’s alternative will be
amenable to conservative voters.*

If you read Ben Carson’s book, he makes clear he is in favor of
wholesale immigration. He also makes clear that he has not thought much
about the issue so he just repeats the things he heard on TV because
they sound nice. His repeated call for a guest worker program, suggest
he does not know there are two dozen guest worker programs in place
right now.

Carson’s immigration statements are mostly gibberish. In fact,
<a href="http://www.ontheissues.org/Ben_Carson.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">his positions</a> on everything make little sense. He
claims blacks are arrested for <a
href="http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/Ben-Carson-race-divide-cameras/2014/11/30/id/610131/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">driving while black</a> and largely
agrees with the claims about police mistreatment of blacks. This is the
sort of stuff you see on TV, not the sort of stuff you see when looking
up the facts. In other words, Be Carson is not very well informed.

No one dares say this, of course, because that would be bad, very bad.
In fact, not gushing over the man is very bad too. The only appropriate
response to Ben Carson is to compete with everyone else complimenting
him on his wonderfulness. Conventional conservatives are going through
what Progressives went through eight years ago. They think they have
found their Black Jesus.

In fairness to Carson, I don’t think he is playing it that way, but he
is riding the wave for now. He does strike me as a decent man with good
intentions. I have no idea if he is really as nice as he appears on TV,
but I have found nothing to suggest otherwise. By now someone would have
come forward if Carson had a dark side or a bunch of skeletons in his
closet.

None of which changes the fact that he is where he is because he is a
black guy being nice to conservatives. If he were an Irish guy with the
same resume and presentation, he would be
<a href="http://2016.republican-candidates.org/Sherman/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this guy</a> or
<a href="http://2016.republican-candidates.org/Bickelmeyer/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this guy</a>. No one would have any
reason to know him and friends would assume he has lost his marbles.
But, he is a sacred person and that means he gets to be on the big stage
running for president.

Unintentionally, Carson is proving a point the revolting have been
making for a while now. That is, Conservative Inc.is just the
dull-witted little brother of the Progressives, tagging along behind
them, imitating whatever they do. The Left got their magic negro in 2008
and the Right gets their magic negro in 2016. The fact that neither man
has any business being in the White House is off-limits because only bad
thinkers say such things.

The shame of it is that Carson is a great story, regardless of his race.
He should be running for Senate right now in Maryland. Having a smart
guy who knows about the medical system in America, serving in the Senate
would be good for the country. Baltimore City, where he lives, is in
need of a mayor and in need of a sober sensible man to address that
city’s troubles. Carson could probably do a lot of good in either of
those roles.

Instead, he has been carried up on multicultural thermals purely for the
pleasure of the chattering classes looking for grace on the cheap.
Inevitably, they will tire of him and he will be replaced by some other
novelty. Multiculturalism is the B-side of racism, in that it addresses
the same emotional itch. The object in both cases is stripped of their
humanity and they become nothing but a means to an end.
