---
title: "My Theory of Everything: Part V"
date: "2015-12-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Theory of Everything
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5946"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5946"
---

After The Yankee North destroyed the South in the Civil War and assumed
the dominant position in America, the first President following Lincoln
was a Southerner named Andrew Johnson. He was born in the Tidewater but
raised in Appalachia so you could say he was not really from the Deep
South, but he was certainly not a Yankee.

Regardless, the ruling majority hated him and never trusted him, so they
did everything to scuttle his presidency, even trying to remove him from
office. When you hear Progressives talk about the worst presidents, they
always include Johnson on the list, either by the transitive property
through Nixon (Impeachment) or as a benchmark.

Johnson left office in 1869 and the next time a man of the South
dominated the political culture of the nation was never. Benjamin
Harrison was from Indiana, a state settled mostly by red necks from
Appalachia, but Harrison was a proto-Progressive. Wilson, of course, was
a man *from* the South, but no one in their right mind would consider
him a man *of* the South. Most consider Wilson the model for modern
Progressive politicians.

Wilson is an interesting topic for a lot of reasons, but for my purposes
here his participation in the founding of The Presbyterian Church in the
United States is instructive. Wilson went from being a Private
Protestant to a Public Protestant, from a Cavalier to a Roundhead. His
accent to the top of Progressive America was arguably the result of his
conversion. Wilson was an inscrutable man and that is mostly due to him
being a Yankee convert from the South.

Anyway, the point here is that American political and cultural life has
been dominated by the northern regions, particularly the old Yankee
region. The political culture that developed was explicitly exclusive of
the defeated regions of the country. Instead, it was a battle between
the more conservative midland culture on one side and the more activist
Yankee culture on the other. German Protestants on the one hand and
English Protestants on the other.

As the defeated parts of the country, we brought back into the fold, the
two warring halves of the political elite fought over the new
constituencies. Similarly, as the frontier populations of the West
emerged as states, the ruling elite battled to bring these cultures into
their coalition. These coalitions have never been fixed as we saw with
Grover Cleveland, Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.

As times changed, the coalitions changed, but the organizing ethos has
remained the same ever since the Reconstruction. One side is the Grover
Cleveland wing and the other is the Teddy Roosevelt wing. They assemble
electoral majorities from the scraps of the other regions of America. At
one point the South was formally in the Democrat camp but had no voice.
Now they are in the Republican camp and have no voice.

From Reconstruction through the World War II, one wing used moral
crusades to force the other side into going along with their proposals.
Prohibition, for example, was mostly about the old Yankee scolds trying
to reign in the Catholic immigrants. Women’s suffrage was a tool to
expand the voter base of one side at the expense of the other. This
dynamic has been with us for over 100 years. One side starts a revival
and the other cleans up after it runs its course.

In mid-century, what we now call the Left landed on the ultimate moral
cause – race. Instead of hustling votes with promises to give the
Negroes free stuff, Progressives figured out how to make race a moral
issue that can pry open other areas of American life to their meddling.
More important, as a moral issue, it forced the other side of the ruling
coalition into a partnership.

The most obvious example to see this is with public education. From the
founding, this was a local issue. The race angle allowed Progressives to
make it a national issue on moral grounds. Blacks were not getting a
proper education because of racism so that meant a federal takeover of
the schools. Those who opposed them were immoral racists and therefore
excluded from the debate.

This new weapon had the immediate effect of gutting American
conservatism by taking freedom of association off the table. At its
core, American conservatism has always been based on the idea that you
have the right to be left alone. That can only be possible if you have
the absolute right to associate or disassociate with whomever you
please. Once racism became a mortal sin, freedom of association was
lost.

The secondary impact was to permanently make “the south” morally
inferior and therefore prohibited from joining the ruling elite. The sin
of slavery and then segregation has forever stained the soul of every
southerner and every conservative. In order for a man of the right to
gain acceptance he has to grovel endlessly and abandon most of what it
means to be a conservative. Racism as the highest sin made certain that
The South could never rise again. At least that’s the theory.

The denouement of [this historical
cycle](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5907) is coinciding with the
unraveling of the ruling coalition. Part of it is the collision of the
prevailing orthodoxy with biological reality. It turns out that all men
are not equal after all. More importantly, diversity and proximity do
not mix. Another part is demographics. The number of people without
representation in the ruling elite outnumber the number of people with
representation in it. There’s no avoiding mathematics.
