---
title: "Standing Heads"
date: "2015-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4553"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4553"
---

In the newspaper business, a standing head is a special label for any
regularly appearing section, page or story. The typesetters would put
the letters together in a block and keep them as a set because they
would use them frequently. It’s also a snarky way to indicate that a
recurring story has something to do with long held stereotypes. For
instance, “Rapper Killed in Drive By” would be a standing head.

<a
href="http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2015/05/17/rapper-chinx-killed-in-queens-shooting/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">So it is with Lionel Pickens, aka
“Chinx.”</a>

*A Queens rapper who was part of French Montana’s group, Coke Boys, has
been killed in an early morning shooting.*

*Lionel Pickens died at a Queens hospital, police said. The 31-year-old,
who performed as Chinx, had been shot multiple times in the chest around
4 a.m. Sunday at Queens Boulevard and 84th Drive in Briarwood.*

*Another man was also shot. He was in the hospital in critical
condition*

*The two men were in a Porsche when another car pulled up alongside, and
multiple shots were fired, police said.*

*Pickens’ management team issued a statement on Instagram saying his
“dedication, humor and vision will always be remembered.”*

*“It is with a heavy heart that The Legion Media Group and 4 Kings
Management announce the passing of Lionel “Chinx’ Pickens this morning,”
it wrote.*

*No arrests have been made. An investigation is underway.*

*As CBS2’s Steve Langford reported, Pickens grew up in Far Rockaway, his
roots were often featured in his music videos.*

*Pickens had played a show in Brooklyn on Saturday night, before he was
ambushed.*

*“It was a black Mercedes that came right next to that car and they let
off shots,” witness Raymond Rivera said.*

*River said he saw the shooting from up the block and watched Pickens
fall to the pavement.*

*“Police came. They put a blanket over him. They came took him in the
ambulance,” Rivera said.*

*Just hours after the shooting there was a major show of force by the
NYPD in Far Rockaway.*

*Police took at least two men into custody and were questioning in
connection with the murder.*

*At the crime scene a sobbing woman declined to speak, while friends and
fans watched in stunned silence.*

*“Those were young kids. Young kids that I watched grow up. Man this is
like sad right,” Vasco Alder said.*

*Alex, a fan of Chinx’s music, wonders if perhaps someone was jealous.*

*“He was headed to the top,” he told 1010 WINS’ Carol D’Auria. “He was
with the right team. And some people didn’t like that.”*

*Pickens did have a rap sheet, with arrests for attempted murder,
robbery and drugs, D’Auria reported. He spent more than three years in
prison.*

The image white people get from TV is that gang bangers are killing each
other for drug turf. Libertarians imagine that the hoppers are just
off-the-grid entrepreneurs, marketing, selling and defending a product.
Liberals imagine they are victims thrust into this life because honest
work is not available.

Reality is something different. Most of the killing is over respect. One
banger looks at the other the wrong way and someone starts shooting.
Sometimes they shoot one another for sport because they have nothing
better to do with their time. “I don’t know. Because I felt like it” is
the most common answer for why someone shot someone in the ghetto.

Whether or not it is nature or nurture can be debated, but what’s not
debatable is whether there is any hope of fixing these people. It’s the
thing no one wants to discuss because there can only be answers that no
one wants to face. A population of violent morons must be isolated and
set apart from the rest of society.

Maintaining urban reservations let’s everyone pretend we doing something
other than isolating and controlling a trouble population. It is largely
out of sight and therefore out of mind. Maybe that’s as good as it gets,
but it is that lie that gives liberals and lunatics a lever to use
against civil society.
