---
title: "The Tax Man"
date: "2015-08-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5269"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5269"
---

Since the 80’s, it has been an article of faith, for anyone not in the
Cult of Modern Liberalism, that all taxes are bad. Robert Novak used to
say that “God put Republicans on earth to cut taxes.” That generation of
conservatives were convinced tax cuts would lead to spending cuts and
that thinking still infests the modern mind, despite the evidence to the
contrary.

Tax cuts have become a get out of jail free card for “conservatives” and
Republicans. They can prattle on about moving commas around the tax code
and sound butch about small government, without actually doing anything
about it. Worse yet, they get to do social engineering through the tax
code on the sly with gimmicks like child tax credits.

That’s why [this bit from
Trump](http://news.yahoo.com/trump-says-tax-code-letting-hedge-funds-away-155930927--sector.html)
got my attention. Everyone has focused on his immigration statements,
but this is radical stuff on taxes. I’m not talking about [the details
of his tax
plan](http://www.thepoliticalinsider.com/donald-trump-unveils-his-bold-income-tax-proposal-this-is-a-big-deal/),
which is not terrible, but not very detailed. The radical bit is
challenging the idea that some forms of income are sacred.

You never hear pols from either side talk about this because their
donors would never tolerate it. Both parties love the special treatment
of capital gains, because it makes their donors happy. It’s good for the
financial class. The same is true of the labyrinth of loopholes and
subsidies on the business side. It lets both sides cater to the donor
party, while mau-mauing their voters.

Sensible people know that taxes are merely how we pay for government.
They should never be a tool for social engineering, and they should
never be a tool for looting the country. The former inverts the
relationship between citizen and his government and the latter leads to
social instability.

Both parties and their media arms work hard to keep such talk out of the
public. The reason for that is it would reveal the truth of modern
politics and that is both parties work in concert. It’s no longer an
adversarial system. It is a game of good cop/bad cop, and the American
voter is the perp. Progressives get their social engineering and
Conservatives get their looting.

That’s why Trump’s line about hedge fund managers is so radical. When
was the last time anyone, even a lefty, said anything like that? Once in
a while Elizabeth Warren will waddle out of the wetus and say bad things
about rich people, but otherwise hedge fund managers and their clients
have become sacred people. Hell, we make movies glorifying the Wall
Street tycoons.

What should really jump out is this line. “The hedge fund guys didn’t
build this country. These are guys that shift paper around and they get
lucky.” Trump is essentially correct. Hedge funds have about a three
year run of wild success and then reversion toward the mean kicks in and
they run out of juice. Usually, their good run is based on inside
knowledge.

What’s radical here is the notion that dumb luck plays a part in getting
rich. This is obviously so, but a taboo topic. Mark Zuckerburglar hit
the lottery. Mark Cuban hit the lottery. Say that in polite circles and
people start thinking you’re a communist. But it is correct. These men
hit the lottery.

Acknowledging that reality is dangerous because it turns the tables on
the social engineers. If we are going to use the tax code to alter
behavior, shouldn’t we tax the hell out of lottery winners, while
lightly taxing people who, I don’t know, build tall buildings in big
cities? The building will become a part of the nation’s stock of
capital. Facebook will become another
[Broadcast.com](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broadcast.com).

Worse yet such talk inevitably leads to talk about how the pols decide
who to tax and who to subsidize. These are not conversations we have had
for a very long time and that’s intentional. When one side shouts, “tax
the rich” and the other side yells “tax cuts for children!” there’s no
room to talk about the daily auction of tax breaks to the connected held
by the political class.
