---
title: "Greek Drama"
date: "2015-05-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4583"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4583"
---

I often wonder what it was like to live in third century Italy, say a
city like Milan. For the first half of the century or so, emperors were
a dime a dozen. A general would win a battle, his men would proclaim him
emperor and he would go kill the the current emperor. This went on for
roughly half a century from the death of Severus Alexander. There were
22 emperors between him and Diocletian.

There were also endless wars, invasions and re-invasions during this
period. Most people find this period of Roman history dull, but the fact
that the Western Empire did not collapse in the third century is one of
the great lessons of history. Human societies have great momentum that
can carry even the most inept ruling elites along for generations before
the energy of society is drained.

There’s also the fact that without a plausible alternative, people tend
to bugger along as they have always done, despite their terrible rulers.
This is true of the ruling elites as well. Rome stuck with the old ways
long after those ways no longer made any sense. The cost of maintaining
domination of Gaul and Germania far exceeded the benefits, but that’s
all they knew so they exhausted themselves maintaining it.

That came to mind when reading <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11626969/Greece-to-miss-IMF-payments-amid-fears-of-catastrophic-eurozone-rupture.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story about the latest act in the
Greek drama</a>. This thing is now in its sixth year and no one has the
slightest clue as to how to resolve it. The Euros are stuck in a mode of
thought that says the Greeks must be brought into alignment with the
Frankish core of Europe, no matter the cost to the Greeks. The Euros
will consider no other option, because they can imagine no other option.

The Greeks, to their credit, understand that this can never happen. But,
they are locked into a mode of thought that says they must have their
debts forgiven so they can start over, while maintaining their
traditional social welfare state.  In other words, they will be Greek
and there’s no other alternative they can imagine, much less consider.

This stand-off will eventually reach some sort of conclusion. The
betting seems to be that the catalyst will be a default and then either
the Greek people yield and submit to their European rulers or the
Germans yield and let the Greeks walk away from some or all of their
debts. Strangely, no one ever discusses a middle option between the two.
The only alternative mentioned is catastrophe, however you wish to
define it.

That’s the stuff in the news. On the street, Greeks go about their
lives, arranging their affairs around the machinations of their rulers,
real and de facto. That means moving money into foreign accounts, hiding
it under beds and scheming around the tax system. In other words, Greeks
go on being Greeks, regardless of what the people in charge have to say
about it.

That, I suppose, was the way thing were in the third century, to circle
back to where I started. The average guy in a town on in the fields was
largely immune to what was going on in imperial politics. Young men
joined the legions because that was what you did. It afforded a chance
at a better life than as a peasant in the fields. Then as now, people
choose from the options available to them and live their lives
accordingly.

That’s not without consequences. Once people stop caring about the
legitimacy of their rulers or even the identity of their rulers, there
can be no law, just the strong ruling the weak. The Western Roman Empire
collapsed when there was no one left to defend it. Once being a Roman
went from being an asset to being a liability, the die was cast, so to
speak.

Something similar seems to be happening in Greece. Being a citizen has
no benefits. Being in the Euro, a citizen of Europe, still has value
because the money has value, but how much longer that remains true is
open to debate. Whether or not the Greeks have the will to riot, much
less revolt is the big question.The evidence suggest they lack the will
to govern themselves so revolt does seem unlikely.

That’s what brings me back to thinking what life was like in third
century Italy. Did the average person suspect the end was near? Did they
know their culture was in decline? Was there a pervading sense of
foreboding that haunted the people? The evidence suggest not. Just as
today, it appears the people just went about their business and the
rulers did as they always did, trying to keep it all together.
