---
title: "Something’s Happening Here"
date: "2015-08-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5252"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5252"
---

I must admit I have enjoyed the Trump-a-palooza this summer. The truth
is, I have thrown in the towel on America, so I don’t think our
elections mean very much. It’s just a question about how fast we intend
to drive into the abyss. Being old I should be rooting for slow as that
means I can reach escape velocity before it gets ugly. On the other
hand, life is for living and sticking around long enough to see the
collapse has its attractions.

I can go either way, so the elections are just entertainment at this
point.

Six months ago, I was thinking the Democrats would anoint Hillary, after
the usual dalliances with a true believer, who excites the fever swamp
types. It’s the GOP’s turn so this is when the party hands out their
lifetime achievement award. The GOP would be figuring out if they can
run Bush or if they have to find someone with the same polices, but a
different last name.

Now, I think something is happening here. Clinton is now immersed in
what could very well be the scandal of the century. There’s no way to
wriggle free of the mishandling of classified data. You can finesse
financial laws and ethics rules. You can’t finesse this stuff. News
reports suggest there may be dozens of people who have violated the law
and conspired to hide their involvement. This is Watergate level stuff
given her position.

On the GOP side, Donald Trump just gave a speech in a stadium. If you
are a member of the Party leadership or an advisor to one of the
candidates, you should be in a panic. Trump went from sideshow at the
start of the summer to leader of a revolution at the end of the summer.
In-between, the GOP took their best shots at the man and did not leave a
mark. Watching Trump’s crowd last night I kept thinking, “something is
happening here. What it is ain’t exactly clear.”

One thing that is clear is I was the only guy to figure out that Trump
was [Beppe Grillo](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2942). The other
thing is the ossified and blinkered chattering classes are wholly
unprepared for what’s happening to them right now. They spend their time
reading each other’s tweets, promoting each other’s work, and chatting
with one another at play time. They are not even aware of the vast
network of writers, bloggers and troublemakers out there complaining
about the status quo.

The best evidence of that is the deranged ranting of Kevin Williamson at
National Review with regards to Donald Trump. It’s like watching a robot
whose CPU errors out and the robot goes berserk, smashing itself into
walls. When it is a bunch of metal it is funny. When it is a human being
having a nervous breakdown, it’s sad and pathetic. In this case it is
emblematic. Conservative Inc. is cracking up over what’s happening
outside the Acela corridor.

Trump may turn out to be a poor spokesman for the massive crowds mobbing
his events. I’m not a big fan of his style and I don’t think he has
thought much about any of these things, other than immigration. That
puts him way ahead of the dreary dishrags running for office, but the
leader of a revolt needs a coherent platform. Maybe that comes, maybe
not, but the crowds are not going away.

That’s why the rest of the candidates should be scared. To get these
crowds for Bush or Walker or Kasich, you would have to round up the
people at gun point. Even then, you would probably have to lock the
gates to keep the people from fleeing the arena once the dreary dullard
started talking. Those people at the Trump rally are not buying what the
GOP is selling, even if they may not be sold on Trump as a candidate.

I don’t know what they do at this stage. These things can burn out on
their own or they can break up like the Tea Party. The trouble is the
GOP had corrupted the grass roots long ago so they could tear apart the
Tea Party movement without too much trouble. The trouble here is this is
ad hoc and completely outside the control of the “grass roots”
organizations that exploited the displeasure over Obama. This is a
revolt *against* those organizations, especially the GOP establishment.

I’m skeptical about Trump. I think his lack of restraint will be his
undoing. But we’re seeing a collapse of the middle. The parties and the
press are now bullhorns aimed at the public and the public gets it. This
is not about Trump. He’s just the flag around which the dispossessed can
rally. You can take down the flag and the people may disperse, but the
dispossessed are still there. Someone will come along with a new flag
eventually.
