---
title: "The Bust Out"
date: "2015-11-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5505"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5505"
---

My grandfather had an expression he used so often I cannot disentangle
it from him in my memory. The expression was “a dog that will bring a
bone will take a bone.” The meaning is that someone who will loyally
steal *for you* will just as quickly steal *from you*. Stealing is
stealing and the sort of person who steals is not someone you should
ever trust. I never understood why people would use dogs to steal bones,
but that was long ago in a land far far away.

Anyway, it is one of those things that often pops into my head when
thinking about the great pressing matters of our age. The temptation, at
least for me anyway, is to confuse what I would like to see happen with
what I think will happen. Being a man of the Right, it really means I
confuse what I fear will happen with what I think will happen. Having
that old pithy expression rattling around in my head reminds me that I
have my biases like everyone else.

The worst bias to have, of course, is the bias of hope, particularly
when it comes to politics. As soon as you start thinking your side might
win, the pol on your side will turn around and stab your side in the
back. The reason conservatives hate evolution so much is they have seen
too many of their guys evolve into liberals as soon as they hit
Washington.

One of the things I find baffling about so many Republican voters is
that they can’t seem to learn this lesson. They pour their heart into
the party only to have the party crap all over them. <a
href="http://www.wnd.com/2015/11/house-gop-seeks-flood-of-foreign-guest-workers/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a story coming out of DC</a> that
is a perfect example.

*The first immigration bill introduced under Rep. Paul Ryan’s
speakership Wednesday would bypass the annual 66,000 cap on H-2B work
visas by allowing foreigners admitted in any of the three previous years
to remain and not be subject to the cap.*

*Critics say it will lead to more competition for what are often
middle-class American jobs and will eventually lead to more illegal
immigrants as the foreign workers overstay their visas.*

*The H-2B is considered a “seasonal” work permit for lower-skilled
workers such as cooks, construction workers, hospitality, theme park
employment, maintenance, forestry, seafood processing, cruise ship
employees and truck driving among many other jobs.*

*It differs from the H-1B, which is for skilled guest-workers and also
is the subject of pending legislation sponsored by Sen. Marco Rubio,
R-Fla., who wants to triple the number issued to foreign workers each
year.*

*The cap exemption on the H-2B expired in 2007. At the time, it doubled
the number but it could as much as quadruple, legislative sources told
WND. This is the same way the total number of existing H-1B visa workers
got so much higher than the annual inflow.*

*The H-2B visa program, though referred to as a “seasonal” guest worker
program it is not an agricultural guest worker program.*

The promise from Paul Ryan and his supporters in the party was that all
immigration bills would be tabled until the new president was in office.
Obama was too feckless and devious to trust and the issue was too
divisive for Republicans. The main opposition to Ryan was over the fact
he is an open borders fanatic that dreams of turning your town into
Tijuana or Lagos. But, here we are anyway.

Politicians lying is nothing new, but this is a rather egregious
example. Still, outlandish lying is what we have come to expect from
Republicans. The outrage, of course, is how these dirt bags behind the
bill are crapping all over their fellow citizens. Bringing in legions of
foreigners to take the jobs of Americans is horrible in itself. Teaming
up with business to screw the guys and gals at the bottom of the income
scale is loathsome.

It’s tempting, of course, to think that these pols are just, wink, wink,
helping local business get around labor laws that would otherwise force
them to hire locals who, well, you know. We all know what I mean. Those
Mexicans work so hard and they never complain, never call out sick and
never steal. You don’t want to see the price of your Big Mac go to forty
bucks, do you?

Except, the next guys they sell out will be you because the dog that
will bring a bone will carry a bone. If they will sell out the white
trash and blacks down at the bottom, they will have no qualms about
selling you out the next time. In fact, they look forward to it. It is
what they do. It is their nature. They will keep auctioning off bits and
pieces of this country until there is nothing left.

It’s what used to be called a “bust out.” In the olden thymes, the mafia
would get its hooks into a local business man who maybe had a gambling
problem, a thing for boys or something else he would just as soon not
disclose. The mafia would use this to get their tentacles into his
business with the vague promise that there was some price he could pay
to satisfy them.

Instead, they would run up his lines of credit, skim off all the cash
and sell whatever they could out the back door, pocketing the results.
Eventually, the business could borrow no more and it would be squeezed
dry. At that point they would burn the place down, collect the insurance
if any existed and the owner would turn up wearing cement sneakers.

That’s a big part of what’s driving the immigration issue. For sure,
many are romantics with heads full of nonsense. Others imagine a Utopian
world without borders. The guys doing the work to make it happen,
however, are just gangsters in suits selling off every part of the
country they can grasp.

Steve Chabot, Bob Goodlatte, Andy Harris, and Charles W. Boustany are
not ideologues. They’re crooks, stealing anything and everything. A lot
of people voted for them thinking, “they may be crooks, but they’re our
crooks.” Nope. They are just thieves who steal because that’s what
thieves do.

Fundamentally what ails America is that we have a ruling class that
despises the people and nation over whom it rules. That’s why they have
hung a sign on the door that reads, “Fire Sale: Everything Must Go!”
Just as there’s no bargaining with the mafia, you don’t beat these
people by getting more of “your guys” in the Estates-General.

Meantime, the bust out continues.
