---
title: "Free Trade Fantasies"
date: "2015-05-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4519"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4519"
---

Yesterday <a
href="http://thefederalist.com/2015/05/13/this-is-elizabeth-warrens-party-now/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the guy who wrote this piece</a> tried
picking a fight with me on twitter over my observation that some trade
deals are good and some are bad.  Libertarians hear the phrase “free
trade” and they fall into a trance-like state. I think if you labeled
dog poop “free trade” they would gobble it up like candy. That would be
after they name-dropped David Ricardo and Adam Smith.

I’ve never had a twitter fight and I would certainly be willing to give
it a shot. The trouble is
<a href="http://thefederalist.com/author/dharsanyi/" rel="author"
title="Posts by David Harsanyi">David Harsanyi</a> started by using
uptalk which makes me think of punching people in the face. There’s
nothing that screams smug pussy more than slapping a question mark onto
a statement. I’ve made it a rule to ignore people who do it. Reading his
twitter feed, I get the sense he wears his ignorance like a shield and
there is no point in debating such people.

But, I don’t know him or his work so I could be all wrong. Still, life
is too short to waste time on finding out. My sense is his site is
mostly libertarian spank material and I have no interest in it. I know
all the arguments and much of what libertarians say is reasonable, but a
lot of it is nonsense too. Humans are not moist robots and our
relationships are not transactional. Economic man has never existed and
that’s why libertarianism has never been tried.

Anyway, after all the red Team-Blue Team stuff, he laments that many
Republicans and Tea Partiers think trade has hurt the country. To
libertarians, this is like learning that half the country believes in
witchcraft. As I wrote earlier, the phrase “free trade” has a narcotic
effect on these people.

Shockingly, <a
href="https://lionoftheblogosphere.wordpress.com/2015/05/12/liberal-economics/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the former Half Sigma has a post up</a>
that gets at the problem with libertarianism in general and free trade
in particular. I don’t think his idea for socialized banking is a great
idea, but the point about pure markets existing only in the imagination
is important. Political systems work as long as they comport with
reality. Libertarianism works only in a world with perfect economic men
ruled by saints.

Similarly, free trade is a boon to both countries as long as both
countries have the cultural ethics of Canada. That way, people in both
parties can expect their claims to be upheld in both countries. When one
party to a contract is not holding up his end, the state must step in
and enforce the contract. When that party’s home government is just as
corrupt or incompetent, you get something other than free trade.

Not all countries have Anglo-Saxon sensibilities. Canada is not going to
invest much into competing with America because both countries are
culturally similar so cooperation is natural and mutually beneficial.
China, on the other hand, is vastly different from the US. They see
American and Americans as competitors, even adversaries.

That’s not to say there should be no trade with China. Like
progressives, libertarians tend to see things in black and white. You’re
either in favor of unfettered trade with everyone or you’re a close
minded protectionist. Only libertarians and lunatics think this way.
Most people fall into the middle area that thinks prudent trade deals
with friendly countries are good, while reckless trade deals with rogue
nations are bad.

All of this is germane to the TPP deal Obama is pushing. This deal is
mostly a give-away to globalopolies, rather than a trade deal. The
reason it is a secret deal is to keep people from seeing what’s in it,
obviously. You don’t do that if you think the details are going to win
you praise from the public. But, a lot of it has been leaked through
various channels and it is what one would expect from a deal drawn up by
global corporations.

It’s a reminder that being for free trade is like being for leprechauns
riding unicorns. All of these deals should be looked at skeptically. The
debate is not between free trade and no trade. The debate is over over
how much power we want to cede to global corporations and foreign
governments. Sometimes it makes sense to do deals with less than
sterling countries. Sometimes the interests of multinationals coincides
with those of Americans.

It can only be decided on a case by case basis.

 
