---
title: "Loserville"
date: "2015-06-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3701"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3701"
---

Anyone who has played sports knows that strange feeling where you look
up and see you’re not just losing but getting clobbered, despite feeling
like you were doing well. Maybe the last time you looked up it was close
and now it is a blowout. Perhaps you feel like you’re competing, but the
other side just keeps pulling away. When you’re in the heat of the
battle, it is easy to not only lose sight of the bigger picture, but get
a wildly incorrect view of that bigger picture.

Reading conservative sites the last week, I’m getting that vibe from
both the chattering skulls and their readers who show up in the
comments. There’s a state of shock at what has transpired over the two
weeks.Their preferred party sold them out to please global finance. The
court untethered itself from the English language and made itself the
enforcer for the Cult of Modern Liberalism. Not only was the Right not
winning, they were blown off the field.

As I pointed out the other day, the gay marriage ruling is the biggest
assault on religious liberty in the history of the nation. One cannot
read the majority opinion without wondering how long before the courts
declare Christianity illegal.

The ObamaCare decision is the most radical in the history of the court.
Judge Roberts literally declared that the English language is no longer
a constraint on the court, which means they no longer have to read the
relevant laws in future cases.

Most of the Right is in shock, unable to muster more than the old
complaints that sound rather silly given what has just transpired.
Surprisingly, [Rod Dreher gets
it](http://time.com/3938050/orthodox-christians-must-now-learn-to-live-as-exiles-in-our-own-country/),
as far where things stand for people of his faith. That’s a well written
essay displaying the right amount of sadness for what he and his
coreligionists face in the coming years.

*No, the sky is not falling — not yet, anyway — but with the Supreme
Court ruling constitutionalizing same-sex marriage, the ground under our
feet has shifted tectonically.*

*It is hard to overstate the significance of the Obergefell decision —
and the seriousness of the challenges it presents to orthodox Christians
and other social conservatives. Voting Republican and other failed
culture war strategies are not going to save us now.*

*Discerning the meaning of the present moment requires sobriety,
precisely because its radicalism requires of conservatives a realistic
sense of how weak our position is in post-Christian America.*

What Rod and others got wrong is they thought they were in the fight.
They truly thought they were giving the other side a battle over who
will control society. The fact is, they never had a chance. They were
getting their butt kicked for decades. The last week is just the part
where the other team does the outrageous celebration on the loser’s team
logo.

Last week was part of the mopping up phase of the culture war. The major
institutions of the West have all been converted to the Cult of Modern
Liberalism. There are no cultural institutions that stand in opposition
to any of this stuff.

Their breathless support is seen in the speed with which retailers
banished the rebel flag. A white guy shoots up a black church and the
Cult demands a sacrifice in return. Hours after the gay marriage ruling
major companies [were celebrating it in TV
commercials](http://reason.com/blog/2015/06/26/brand-tweets-about-gay-marriage-decision).
You would not be cynical to think that maybe this has all been
coordinated.

It’s tempting to think that normal people will resist, but history says
otherwise. [The Catholic Church is maneuvering to join the Cult on
global
warming](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/jun/28/pope-climate-change-naomi-klein).
The Pope has already made noises about embracing the homosexual agenda.
Everyone with something to lose is figuring out that it is time to join
the winning side. You can be sure that the rest of the Christian sects
will follow the Catholics into the abyss.

I received an e-mail from Paul Gottfried a while back, in response to
one I sent him. I don’t know Professor Gottfried and he does not know
me. I doubt he knows of this blog. Today, no one thinks twice about
firing off an e-mail to a stranger and I’m no different. I sent off my
query after reading [this
column](http://www.unz.com/article/prof-harry-v-jaffa-founder-of-modern-american-conservatism/).

It occurred to me that we are losing a lot of important knowledge as the
geezers of the Old Right die off. They are the last ones to remember the
old fights and why we find ourselves where we are. Professor Gottfried
would do us all a great service by putting together a list of writers
and books that the next generation could use in the resistance.

He was not interested and sounded a bitter tone in his response.
Professor Gottfried, like many on the Old Right, has been shunned and
forced to live on the fringes. The fringes of the public intellectual
space, that is. Almost all of these guys used to write for mainstream
publications and conservative publications with wide circulations. One
by one they were proscribed starting in the 1980’s.

I really don’t blame these guys for being bitter, assuming they are
bitter. They were right from the start. In the 80’s, when being Right
was suddenly cool, all sorts of faddish sorts jumped on board, but few
possessed the social core required to carry the fight to the
Progressives. Instead they went in for whatever was fashionable to sell
books, radio shows and ugly ties. Instead of building a movement that
could displace the Left, they sucked it dry. The so-called paleo-cons
predicted this result.

That’s all water under the bridge now. There’s value in learning from
past defeats, but the time for that has passed as well. The only job
left is to pack up the old books and articles in the hope that some
future generation, looking for a way out, discovers them and find some
inspiration.
