---
title: "Voting Nations"
date: "2015-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5862"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5862"
---

The news brings word that Bobby Jindal has dropped out of the
presidential race. I can’t say I had strong opinions about him one way
or the other. He always struck me as one of the earnest strivers that
infiltrated the GOP in the 90’s when the Boomers took over politics in
America. These are men and women who planned their elections from the
womb, tailoring their education and early employment with the sole focus
on running for office.

The dominant feature of these modern politicians is the obsession with
apple polishing. In school, they studied hard not so they could become
educated. They studied hard so they could repeat to the instructor the
answers that most pleased the instructor. Out of school, they became a
toady for a local politician or maybe a judge. Having proven their
skills at toadying, they moved up the party ranks getting prime
appointments and then running for office on their own.

As politicians, they have carefully crafted positions that are designed
to bore the voters into a trance. The idea is to curry favor with the
locals, but not sound like a yahoo from the sticks. All of them dream of
being president so that last part is critical. No thick accents. No
local color. No nothing other than generic poll tested positions
approved by the party and its donors.

That was the problem for Jindal in the primary field. He said all the
same things the others said but did it sounding like the guy from
accounting telling us how he saved money on envelopes. The worse part
for Jindal is that Indians are a successful migrant group in America, so
they don’t get any piety points. If Jindal were black or Hispanic, he
probably would be in the thick of it trying to be the donor party
candidate.

His other problem is regional. The GOP, like the Democrat Party, is run
by people living in the Acela Corridor and financed by people in the
great financial, cultural, and technological centers. Money men from
Hollywood, Silicon Valley, New York, and Boston own the two parties and
exert a tremendous amount of influence over the management of the
parties. The result is the leadership is Yankee and Midlands, with a few
members from the other regions of the country.

<img
src="https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/govbeat/files/2013/11/upinarms-map.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="600" height="410" />

Louisiana is one of those outlier regions that Woodard called New
France, but most people think is Deep South. I’m not sure any state,
outside of West Virginia, carries a worse reputation outside the South
than Louisiana. The typical person in the Northeast, for example, thinks
Louisiana is a place full or spindly legged rednecks speaking gibberish
while wrestling alligators.

But, the Deep South, Tidewater, Appalachia, and the Far West have little
say in the management of either party and that’s clear in these
primaries. On the Democrat side, Clinton is a Midlander with Yankee
predilections. Sanders is a Yankee Jew. Bill Clinton was probably the
last national Democrat we will see those hails from outside Yankeedom or
the Midlands.

The GOP field is similar. Trump is from New York and representative of
what Woodard labeled New Holland. Carson is a Midlander. The Party Men
may hail from areas outside the two dominant regions, but they reflect
Yankee culture. Ted Cruz is perhaps the one exception. There’s an
Appalachian dodginess to him that I can’t quite put my finger on with
him. Regardless, the only member of the Deep South is Caitlyn Graham,
and he is a joke.

For Democrats, it makes perfect sense for their party leaders to be from
their strongholds. New England, the upper Midwest and the West Coast are
where the Cult is strong, so it makes sense that they get their
political talent from these areas. Modern Progressivism is the religion
of Yankeedom now and to a lesser degree The Midlands. It makes sense
that their leaders are the truest of true believers.

In the GOP things are different. They rely on votes from the Tidewater,
South, Appalachia and the far west, yet they pick their leaders from
Yankeedom and The Midlands. Boehner was from Ohio, but he represented a
district with a strong Yankee culture. Look at the place names in his
district. Hamilton, Fairfield, Middletown, Springfield, Eaton,
Greenville, and Piqua are place names brought by the Yankee settlers
from New England.

His replacement is a man from a state that votes just like
Massachusetts. Paul Ryan would have been a moderate Democrat thirty
years ago. If you look through the GOP leadership in both houses, you
find very few people outside the two dominant regions. Mitch McConnell
is the glaring exception, mostly because he is a glaring exception.
Otherwise, the GOP is a Southern Party with Northern leaders.

Some of this is an accident of history. You rise up in a party by
sticking around a long time. The American South just went fully to
Republicans in the last generation. There’s a lot of young guys from
these areas, while old farts from the dominant regions fill up the
leadership jobs based on their seniority. Father Time will remedy this.
But the time is rapidly approaching when the voters will not tolerate
the foot dragging and deal cutting of the GOP leaders. Donald Trump says
“Hello.”

Minnesota is a good place to use as an example. They have a deranged
lunatic as governor. Mark Dayton has repeatedly said that people not in
his cult should leave the state. Looking at the neighboring states in
Yankeedom, one has to assume he is wildly out of step with the people.
There’s also the fact that Trump is drawing huge crowds in these states,
solely on the issue of immigration.

I’m trying to make a few points at the same time with this post so
forgive the length. On the one hand, we see a sharp divide between
Yankeedom and the rest of the country culturally. The Midlands is
currently aligned with Yankeedom. The leaders of both parties are from
these dominant regions. Demographics and the calendar say the GOP is
about to break loose from the ruling coalition.

Parallel to that process is the one issue that seems to unify the nation
and that’s immigration. The loopy logic of the Left does not do well
outside the faculty lounge. The average person in Yankeedom is paranoid
of outsiders and hostile to strangers. In the South, familiarity with
diversity makes people wary of adding more of it. The one thing everyone
agrees on is we don’t want any more immigrants.

Putting the two together you have one party that maybe can continue to
dominate Yankeedom but is struggling with core issues that contradict
the cultural instincts of the people. Open borders and multiculturalism
sell very well in New England as long as they are not applied locally.
Otherwise, the locals will look elsewhere for their political leaders.
Again, [Trump is running the table in New England, for
example](http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/presidential-races/257568-poll-trump-dominates-gops-2016-race-in-mass).

On the other side of the street, the GOP is soon to become a very
southern and southwestern party. Mark Steyn famously said that the
future belongs to those who show up and right now it is the people from
these nations showing up to vote GOP. They will get leaders that reflect
their values and desires. Cultural Marxism is not going to be on the
table, but maybe [a divorce will be in
order](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5663).
