---
title: "2016 Predictions"
date: "2015-12-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6144"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6144"
---

When you’re in the blogging rackets, there are some things you have to
do if you want to survive. The most important thing to do is let
everyone know you’re badass. You can, for instance, pick out the biggest
blogger on the yard and beat the hell out of him to send a message to
the other bloggers. Alternatively, I went for the hand over the candle
move, as I found it more aesthetically in tune with my oeuvre.

The other thing you have to do is write a New Year’s prediction post. [I
did one last year](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3471) and one [the
year before that](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=745). Last year I got
most everything wrong, but in my defense, I was not trying very hard. I
was going for yuks. I did think the economy would perform better and the
stock market to bubble up, so I was wrong on both scores. The GDP will
come in under 3% for the year and the DOW finished a shade below where
it started.

On the political front, I missed the Trump story entirely, but I can be
forgiven for that as he was not running when I wrote that post. On the
other hand, I would never have predicted his campaign anyway. I have
been right on the larger theme of disintegration, just not in the
details. I figured the Democrats, for example, would be in full meltdown
by now. I think Trump sucking all the air out of the room has been a
great benefit to Clinton, so far.

That’s enough of that. Let’s dust off the crystal ball and look at what
it says about 2016.

The Fed will settle into a pattern of incremental rate hikes, showing a
willingness to err on that side in order to claw back toward normalcy.
Obama is a lame duck, so the politics are right for taking the pain of
rate hikes in 2016. The quarter point hike was shrugged off by markets,
so we’ll see similar hikes through the first half of the year as long as
the waters remain calm.

The Federal Reserve has a tricky problem to solve in that they have to
rebuild their tool case so they can address the next emergency, but they
have to do so slowly so they don’t touch off a new emergency, requiring
them to blow their reserves. The best time to do that is when one party
is on the way out and the other is on the way in. That way, a recession
can be blamed on the loser.

The political class is in a full panic over the rise of Trump in the GOP
and the disastrous performance so far by Hillary Clinton. Not much
attention has been paid to Hillary and her terrible campaign thus far,
but that’s about to change. Donald Trump has played the Bill Cosby card
on the Clintons and so far, the liberal press is playing along. The Post
and the Times have signed off on discussing Bill’s rape problem as a
legitimate campaign item.

I’ve been saying for years that the Cult will eventually purge the
Clintons. As valuable as they have been to the Democrats, their
verminous rapacity offends the sensibilities of the typical Progressive.
In many respects, the Clintons represent a part of the past the Cult
would like to memory hole and this election may be the perfect time.
2016 will be the year the liberal media turns on the Clintons, even if
it scuttles the Democrats chances of winning the White House.

Speaking of Trump, I’m going to say he finishes third in Iowa, but close
enough to make it meaningless. Cruz will win because he has the support
of the religious groups and they tend to rally around one candidate.
Rubio looks like the horse the establishment plans to ride. My guess is
the Carson vote goes to him as they have always been the most skittish
voters. The final totals will be a virtual three-way tie so while Trump
will be third, he can pitch it as a tie.

Trump will win New Hampshire and by a big margin. His performance in
Iowa will be enough to dispense with the idea that he will fade away. It
will also reassure New Hampshire voters that he is not a religious wacko
or beholden to them. This means more to these voters than commonly
understood. Trumps big win in the Granite State will cause the Old Man
of the Mountain to spontaneously reassemble.

Shifting to something lighter, I’ll pick the New England Patriots to
make the Super Bowl and they will face the Arizona Cardinals. Similarly,
I will pick the Red Sox to win the American League and make it to the
World Series. The shocker will be that the New York Yankees become the
first team in baseball history to finish 0-and-162.

English soccer leagues will not go bankrupt this year as I expect to be
in attendance for games in the spring. That means I’ll either have to
find some other excuse, but I’m leaning toward sucking it up and
indulging in some good old fashioned hooliganism. If my British readers
hear of an old man speaking with a funny accent leading a soccer riot,
it’s probably me.

On the technology front, cord cutting will accelerate through the year
and begin to threaten the current arrangements. The math of cord cutting
is obvious and now the technology is making it easy. Old habits die
hard, but they die faster when the new habit is easy to acquire.
Plugging in a magic box and watching TV on demand is reaching the point
where anyone can do it. By this time next year content providers will be
scurrying to find a way to survive in an on-demand world.

Finally, let’s make some predictions about the foreigners. The collapse
of oil prices will further destabilize the Middle East leading to more
migrants flooding into Europe. The story of 2016 will be the sudden
shift in the political consensus with regards to immigration as the
established parties seek to check the rising parties of the Right.
Suddenly, it will be Ok to talk about borders, deportations and
assimilation.

The Russians will quietly begin to court the Kurds, offering low-level
military aid with promises of more aid to defend against the Turks. The
Turks will respond with even more aggressive acts against Russia air and
sea assets. The first real crisis of NATO since the Cold War will be how
to handle the potential outbreak of war between Turkey and Russia.

North Korea will test a fusion weapon setting off a true crisis in Asia.
China can tolerate a crude atomic weapon in North Korea, but she cannot
tolerate them having a fusion weapon. Similarly, South Korea, Japan and
Taiwan will have to fundamentally rethink their defense posture. The
great shift in 2016 will be from containing China to working with China
to deal with the NORKS.
