---
title: "The Homoverse"
date: "2015-01-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3569"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3569"
---

Something I’ve always found odd is how stories about homosexuals on
sites that allow comments are instantly filled up with comments from gay
militants. National Review has been sleepy for a while now, not
generating tons of comments. Ramush Ponnuru is one of the least
interesting posters there so his stuff gets cobwebs on it before anyone
posts a comment. Today <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/396231/frank-bruni-vs-religious-liberty-ramesh-ponnuru#comments"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he posted this</a> about <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/11/opinion/sunday/frank-bruni-religious-liberty-bigotry-and-gays.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">some professional homosexual bitching
about normals not wanting give up their religion to please
homosexuals</a>. Immediately it was flooded with deranged commenters
making a nuisance of themselves.

I asked how these weirdos organize troll attacks. Who has the time? I
was informed that there’s actually a blog that organizes them to bomb
sites they don’t think are sufficiently deferential to their cause. It’s
called <a href="http://joemygod.blogspot.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">JoeMyGod</a> and it is about what you would expect from
a site devoted to the crotch. It’s littered with pictures of naked men.
It appears to to be the work of rabid lunatics. They have a link to
*Right Wing Watch*, the journal of the aluminum foil hat crowd so the
blog owner is a crackpot.

I’m going to assume the thrust of the site, so to speak, is the cause of
homosexual marriage. That and the abolition of religion. Homosexual have
had a long running feud with Christianity to the point of obsession.
That’s why these nuts are running around harassing bakeries and caterers
they think are Christians. Homosexual marriage, 0f course, is just a
tantrum against tradition, they incorrectly associate with Christianity.
The fact that marriage as a social custom integral to human settlement
dates back thousands of year prior to Christianity is lost on these
people.

I’ve written in the past that I think homosexual marriage to be a most
harmless insanity. Basing public policy on rants against biology and
serendipity is probably a bad idea with unknown downstream consequences.
The most obvious argument against is it weakens normal marriage and thus
undermines social cohesion. My argument against it is the grounds of
general stupidity. Homosexual marriage is absurd and it is stupid to
pretend otherwise. But, I can be convinced it is just harmlessly stupid.

What’s striking about the Pink Mafia is the inherent fascism in their
cause. The image of homosexuals and Nazi cavorting together makes me
laugh just typing it, but they say <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/national-security/2013/05/09/new-evidence-from-his-doctors-shows-hitler-was-gay/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Hitler was probably a man who preferred
the company of other men</a>. He did have a thing for leather. Anyway,
the underlying argument from homosexual activists is that you must get
permission to use your private property and you must get permission from
the state before deciding with whom to associate. Everything within the
state, nothing outside the state.

I doubt the people reading and responding to JoeMyGod have the capacity
to think that through. They are just angry and they want to strike out
at society. People who join movements do so from self-loathing. The
homosexuals harassing Christian bakers are seeking to exchange their
hated self for the identity of the group. It’s why Islam seems to have
an unlimited supply of suicide bombers. The self-loathing see
obliteration as the ultimate goal of their membership in the cause. Mass
movements have a lot of those people by definition.

<a
href="http://joemygod.blogspot.com/2015/01/national-review-attacks-self-deluded.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The comments section of the post</a> that
started all of this is interest in that the hive mind is on full
display. Each comment is another way of shaking the fist at those
outside the hive. The naked hatred of Christians is pathological. The
neologism “Christianist” must be an epithet in their cult, but maybe it
has origins elsewhere. A quick Google search suggests
<a href="http://spectator.org/articles/46818/kicking-christianists"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">it started with Andrew Sullivan</a>, but
I’m not interested enough to research it further. It’s just another
reminder that you
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3345" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">never put weirdos in charge</a> and you’re best off
keeping them out on the fringe where they can’t break anything
important.
