---
title: "The Elite Monoculture"
date: "2015-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3769"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3769"
---

Libertarians and some conservatives often argue that Western political
thought is divided into two camps, the heirs of Hobbes and the heirs of
Locke. One camp wants to impose their vision of society on the people,
while the other camp wants to let the people figure it out on their own.
There’s really no third choice, so it is not a terrible way of looking
at political philosophy. Democratic political systems would fall into
the latter group and everything else would end up in the former group.

That’s fine but not useful beyond labeling the bad guys as
authoritarians, which is probably the point. Both Locke and Hobbes
started from a premise that we now know is ridiculous. Early man was not
in a state of perpetual war or perpetual cooperation. Early man, before
settlement, lived in small bands of no more than 150 members. Within the
group, there was most likely little violence and communal property.
Between groups, violence was common and brutal at times.

Putting that aside, the better way of looking at the great divide is
between those who think there is a perfect social arrangement and those
who do not. The former imagine there is a perfect way to order human
affairs to achieve maximum happiness. That perfect way is both
discoverable and achievable. Morality dictates that anything and
everything be done in order to reach this state of social perfection.
The Rousseau camp is focused on the end and prepared to use any means
necessary to achieve it.

The other mode of thought rejects the human perfectibility. The best we
can do is incrementally improve the material state of society by adding
a few grains of sand, each generation, to the foundations of society.
That necessitates preserving the traditional institutions, while adding
to them as they are the storehouse of knowledge, built up over countless
generations through trial and error. The Burke camp focuses entirely on
the means knowing the ends are beyond the ability of man to perfect.

Obviously, that’s a very simple way of looking at things. Since the
French Revolution, the Team Rousseau and Team Burke have been battling
over the shape of western society. One side trying to create the perfect
society, whatever it takes, and the other side trying to stop them from
pulling the roof down on everyone. It’s a one way fight, of course, as
the Team Rousseau attack and the Team Burke defends, but it takes a long
time to pull down 2,000 years of cultural institutions.

This is supposed to be reflected in the American political system. The
Democrats are Rousseau-ist fanatics and the Republicans are the Burkean
Conservatives, defending America from the rage zombies of the Left. A
lot of people believe that is how things work. Sensible people are
convinced that if the GOP can get control, they will roll back the
welfare state, chase the sodomites from the Temple and bring America
back in line with her constitutional past.

At the same time, liberals are sure the other guys are going to roll
back the welfare state, chase the sodomites from the Temple and bring
America back in line with her constitutional past. They toss and turn at
night over the prospect of another Bush siting on the throne. They think
Sarah Palin is hiding under their bed, ready to stuff their uterus with
Bibles and sew their legs shut. It’s why they never quit, no matter how
disastrous their schemes.

Kevin Williamson goes goes down this road in <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/398133/brute-force-left-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">his piece on the authoritarian
impulses</a> of the Left.

*The Right is finally coming around to the understanding that what
mainly distinguishes it from the Left is not its general preference for
muscular foreign policy, its not always convincing defense of the
Judeo-Christian tradition, or even its relatively faithful reading of
the Constitution, as important as those things are. Rather, the fight
between Right and Left is about coercion.*

One side is willing to use any means necessary to reach the promised
land. The other side is restrained by the means they will tolerate and
they are willing to accept less than optimal results. If the people
prefer high tariffs, for example, that’s fine as long as it is debated
and enacted in a constitutional process. The Right can argue for
something on rational grounds, but accept less knowing that people are
seldom rational. That’s the claim, least ways.

That would be great, if it were true, but it has not been the case for a
long time now, at least in American politics. In fact, what we call
“conservative” is pretty much just the same stuff we call “liberal” but
with slightly different ends. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/398125/supporting-new-mothers-without-punishing-employers-reihan-salam"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This thread on NRO</a> is a good example
of what I mean.

*Abby
McCloskey [supports](http://www.nationalaffairs.com/publications/detail/clearing-the-way-for-working-women)
a universal maternity benefit on conservative grounds. **Some women,
including many high-wage workers employed by large firms, already have
access to paid leave through their employers.** The women who’d benefit
most from a universal maternity benefit are low-wage workers employed by
small firms, for whom paid leave is virtually unheard of. These women
tend not to have the savings or the family support they’d need to ride
out a long spell without paid work. When they fall out of paid work to
care for a newborn, it can be difficult for them to find their way back
in. Moreover, lengthy interruptions in work experience can lower one’s
wages considerably over time. That’s why McCloskey, [writing
in Forbes](http://www.forbes.com/sites/abbymccloskey/2015/01/27/if-the-president-really-wanted-paid-maternity-leave-hed-pay-for-it/2/),
has suggested that a modest universal maternity benefit is best
understood as a way to keep working mothers from falling into hardship
without punishing employers. Because the benefit she proposes is fairly
small, to help ensure that it doesn’t crowd out more generous paid leave
policies currently offered by employers, McCloskey
[estimates](http://www.nationalaffairs.com/publications/detail/clearing-the-way-for-working-women)
that it would cost only $2.5 billion to provide six weeks of paid leave
to workers without other paid leave options, an amount she believes can
be raised by eliminating waste from the $93 billion spent on
unemployment benefits in 2012 and the $200 billion spent on disability
insurance each year.*

Those ruling class women have all sorts of privileges that come from
their status. They have private trainers and dieticians so they can
remain slim and attractive, even into late middle-age. Maybe we should
mandate that too. What you see here is a fight between green eye-shade
types over which Utopian fantasy is more cost effective. Abby McCloskey,
I’m sure, considers herself a conservative firebrand, yet she accepts
every key premise of the Rouuseau-ists. Namely, the perfect arrangements
are discoverable, achievable and we have an obligation to pursue them –
no matter what.

The typical Republican and most so-called conservatives accept this
without question.
<a href="http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/?pid=63752" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Bush the Minor famously said</a> that
“<span class="displaytext">We have a responsibility that when somebody
hurts, Government has got to move.</span>” This is the very definition
of the custodial state, the dreamed of end result of every Rousseau-ist
cult since 1789. It is simply impossible to believe that and think they
can be any limit on state coercion of the citizens. Those are the words
of the police state. Yet, he was applauded by his party and most of the
professional Right.

Young people can be forgiven for thinking a Ted Cruz is a far right
conservative. It’s what they know and what they have been sold. Reality
is a different thing. Our political culture now functions within a broom
closet of the main room of western political thought. Within that small
intellectual space, everyone agrees on the big stuff and most of the
small stuff. The big fights over who gets to parade around in purple
while the semi-permanent custodial state keeps a lid on things, like
game wardens at an animal preserve.

At the risk of incurring the wrath of some readers, the Roman Republic
came to an end in no small part because the ruling elite of Rome was
unable to think critically about their dominant paradigm. The French
Revolution was as much about the calcified ruling elite’s inability to
understand the threat, much less respond to it. As the American
political culture narrows and the factions close ranks, their ability to
reform and respond to new threats diminishes. Correspondingly, the
people’s ability to make their demands know through democratic processes
also diminishes.
