---
title: "The Crisis Period"
date: "2015-06-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2938"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2938"
---

John Derbyshire regularly makes the point that in Europe, what defines
Right and Left is not economics, but immigration. The only reason they
continue to use the old terms of “right” and “left” to describe the
mainstream parties is habit. While there are some differences of opinion
on economics, foreign policy and regulation between the German CDU and
the SDP, for instance, those differences are trivial.

The real difference between modern mainstream parties in Europe is the
aesthetics. This is expressed in the leaders they choose. It varies from
country to country, but usually one side prefers a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cavalier" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Cavalier</a> and the other a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roundhead" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Roundhead</a> in terms of presentation. Otherwise, the
parties agree on all the big stuff, particularly immigration.

What’s happened in Europe and starting to happen in America is the rise
of a new Right. These new voices are all over the map in terms of
economics, social liberty and foreign policy. What unifies them is
patriotism and immigration. The Danish People’s Party is a bunch of old
style socialist and pro-EU, but they want a halt to immigration. The
Swiss People’s party is libertarian, Eurosceptic, but anti-immigration.
These parties simply want to maintain and preserve their countries.

The whole left-right political spectrum is itself a relic of a bygone
era. It arose in the French Revolution when members of the National
Assembly divided into supporters of the king to the president’s right
and supporters of the revolution to his left. This divide was more than
aesthetic. On one side was the future and on the other the past, as far
as how the French would be organized as a people.

What’s important to keep in mind is this binary view of politics arose
when one form of social organization was collapsing. The divine right of
kings made a lot of sense when people accepted the divine. By the end of
the 17th century, the ruling elite of Europe was not all that sure God
existed, much less cared all that much about who was in charge of each
country.

Now, nothing springs from nothing. Just as the right-left politcal
spectrum grew out of the French Revolution, the EU and other
extra-national organizations did not magically appear for no reason.
Individual countries competing for advantage nearly snuffed out western
civilization in two great industrial wars. The whole point of the EU is
to keep the peace in Europe.

The trouble is it is rests on the new organizing ethos that I call the
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4744" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">New Religion</a> of egalitarianism, multiculturalism and
anti-racism. In the EU, there’s no difference between a Frenchman, a
German and a Greek. In fact. all people are the same, regardless of
national origin. Further, all cultures are the same and arguing
otherwise is racist.

The problem with that is two-fold. One, people outside the West are not
the same as Europeans. <a
href="http://www.spectator.co.uk/features/9560982/the-invasion-of-italy/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The millions of them trying to head
north</a> into Europe pose the greatest threat to Western Civilization
since Abd-al-Raḥmân was defeated at Tours. Current estimates say there
are at least 500,000 migrants in Libya planning to cross the
Mediterranean this summer. Given our inability to count, that number is
probably double or triple and it is just the start. Tens of millions
more are behind them.

As if having millions of Africans pour into your lands is not enough, it
turns out that all Europeans are not equal after all. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11689460/Greeks-make-last-ditch-Merkel-appeal-as-day-of-reckoning-approaches.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Greeks are about to usher in another
financial crisis</a>, which could very well <a
href="http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/3f0bb524-1823-11e5-8201-cbdb03d71480.html#axzz3dk1cu53w"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">invite the Russians into the south of
Europe</a>. The Italians, Spanish and Portuguese are not far behind. It
turns out that the people of the Mediterranean do not share Germany’s
sense of frugality.

When explaining the revolts that led to the French Revolution,
historians will point to the intellectual rumblings of the Enlightenment
or the changing class structure of Europe. While important,the
precipitating events were more mundane. Europe experienced extremely
cold weather where springs came late and summers ended early. Crop
failures followed and then starvation.

In the book <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Collapse-Complex-Societies-Studies-Archaeology/dp/052138673X"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Collapse of Complex Societies</a>,
Joseph Tainter explains how human societies develop complex systems for
solving the problems they face. That includes complex economic systems,
social systems, war fighting systems, etc. These systems buckle and
collapse in the face of new threats when the cost of reforming and
modifying them exceeds the benefit of preserving them. When their value
exceeds their cost, people invest in reforms.

In the case of the French Revolution, the highly complex economic and
social systems that evolved out of the feudal period were all wrong for
the emerging post-Enlightenment world. The financial crisis, bad
harvests and mistakes by the ruling elite were just the final grains of
sand to bring the old system down. There was no value in preserving
<span class="st">Ancien Régime</span> so it collapsed.

The point of this walk down memory lane is to point out how societies
can evolve down a cul-de-sac. The Greeks, the current ones, invested a
good chunk of their national wealth in an attempt to join Europe. They
even borrowed to pay for it. That has turned out to be a disastrous
decision. All of those arrangements they made are now useless to them in
the current crisis and arguably part of what plagues them now. The cost
of reform exceeds the benefit of reform so there will be no reform.

Circling back to where we started, the reordering of the politics of the
West is in response to the stresses faced by the people of the West. The
people working to form the new Right in response to the present crisis
could very well be in the same tradition as the men who met at [Rue
Saint-Jacques](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rue_Saint-Jacques,_Paris "Rue Saint-Jacques, Paris").
When the current arrangements are no longer able to secure the rights
and prosperity of the citizens, people begin to think about what comes
next.

The Left, of course, is convinced they are the vanguard of the
revolution, pushing social evolution toward the promised land. They view
the rise of these parties as a reactionary rearguard action by yesterday
men afraid of the bold new future. In the abstract, they may be correct,
but people don’t live in the abstract.

The Greeks stashing money under their beds only know that the people in
charge have failed. The Dane seeing his taxes propping up a growing
community of Africans in his ancestral home wonders why the people in
charge permit it. Western elites are facing a crisis of legitimacy
because they cannot contend with the basics people expect from their
rulers.

Periods of crisis are defined by their precipitating events and their
resolution. The current crisis has been brought on by mass immigration
and economic stagnation. Its resolution will be one of two
possibilities. One way is the existing arrangements reform and adapt in
order to mitigate the migrant invasion and economic stagnation. The
other way is they are wiped away and replaced by something new. There is
no third option.
