---
title: "Bioethics is a Farce"
date: "2015-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4410"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4410"
---

If you are a Christian, you believe the ethics and morality of your
faith are transcendent. Muslims believe that the gobbledygook in their
holy book is revealed truth and applicable at all times and all places.
The Spartans believed the gods Ares and Apollo favored the Spartans and
their ethics. Being a strong warrior was the ultimate good so leaving
defective infants in the woods or tossing them off a cliff was
considered perfectly logical and ethical.

Even murder has been, to some degree, within the bounds of acceptable in
Western society. The weregeld in the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salic_law" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Salic Code</a> was literally the price of a man. Kill a
man and you paid his family or clan a fee. There was no distinction
between murder and manslaughter so it did not matter if you accidentally
killed the man or hunted him down, the fee was the same.

The point here is that ethics and morality are not universal in
humankind. There are common threads, but the prevailing religion of the
society codifies the attitudes of the people. If the people’s culture
permits sex with children then sex with children will be ethical
according to their religion. If the culture of the people prohibits
adultery, then you get a all sorts of religious and ethical prohibitions
against adultery like forcing women to wear blankets over their heads in
public.

In modern America, it is more difficult to stake out the ethical turf
because our religion is invisible to us. The people in charge are all
adherents to Cultural Marxism, but they not only deny it, they don’t
think of it as a religion. Instead, they think “science” and “maths”
lead them to their ethics. The results are [these weird debates like the
one over gene
editing](http://reason.com/archives/2015/05/01/gene-editing-human-embryos-is-ethical#.w05kpy:MPbd).

*A bioethical firestorm erupted last week when Chinese researchers at
Sun Yat-Sen University [published
research](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13238-015-0153-5/fulltext.html)
in the journal Protein & Cell detailing how they had tried to use the
CRISPR gene-editing tool to change the genomes of 86 human embryos. The
team, led by the gene-function researcher Junjiu Huang, used embryos
from IVF clinics that had been double-fertilized, giving them three sets
of genes instead of the usual two. Such triploid embryos cannot grow
into babies.*

*The researchers sought to make changes in a gene that causes the
sometimes fatal blood disorder beta-thalassemia. The aim is to find out
just how effectively and efficiently CRISPR can make changes to genes in
human embryos, with the ultimate goal of altering embryos such that any
subsequently born babies will be disease-free. This is known as
germ-line modification, since the corrected gene will be passed down to
subsequent progeny.*

*The Chinese scientists essentially ignored recent calls for a
moratorium on editing human reproductive cells and embryos. The month
before their paper appeared,
Science[recommended](http://longnow.org/revive/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/15Science.pdf)
that such research be “strongly discourage\[d\]” while the “societal,
environmental, and ethical implications of such activity are discussed
among scientific and governmental organizations.” Meanwhile, Nature had
[editorialized](http://www.nature.com/polopoly_fs/1.17111%21/menu/main/topColumns/topLeftColumn/pdf/519410a.pdf)
that “genome editing in human embryos using current technologies could
have unpredictable effects on future generations. This makes it
dangerous and ethically unacceptable….At this early stage, scientists
should agree not to modify the DNA of human reproductive cells.” Some 40
countries have preemptively banned germline genetic engineering. (The
United States is not among them.)*

*Not too surprisingly, both Science and Nature reportedly declined to
publish Junjiu Huang’s study on “ethical” grounds.*

*The research naturally provoked some bioethical handwringing. “No
researcher has the moral warrant to flout the globally widespread policy
agreement against altering the human germline,”
[declared](http://www.geneticsandsociety.org/article.php?id=8528) Marcy
Darnovsky, the executive director of the Center for Genetics and
Society. “The medical risks and social dangers of human germline
modification cannot be overstated.” She further urged, “We need to act
immediately to strengthen the global policy agreements that put human
germline modification off limits.” In The Christian Science Monitor,
University of Wisconsin at Madison bioethicist Alta Charo
[asked](http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2015/0424/Chinese-researchers-alter-embryo-DNA-Do-results-cross-ethical-tripwires),
“Do we really want to have the power not just to select among the
choices given to us by nature, but to create entirely new choices of our
own specification?”*

Catholics have little problem with these problems, having had 2,000
years to work out the details of the nature of man. Most Christians,
getting their ethics from the Catholics, have an easy answer, too.
Having a supernatural source for your ethics naturally makes these
things easier to sort. You look in the holy book or ask the holy man and
you have your answer.

In the materialist world of today, the utopians always fall on the side
of trying to perfect life on earth. That means anything that can be done
should be done. Eugenics, after all, was about “fixing” the mistakes of
nature by eliminating from the breeding stock those people deemed unfit.
This lack of a limiting principle means anything goes. The only check is
the long hangover from the Christian era.

That’s what makes the very idea of bioethics laughable to me. From what
authority do these people derive their authority? They can’t point to
science as their authority for obvious reasons. God is dead so he has
nothing to say on these matters. Ultimately, bioethics is just the
opinion of men and the loudest voices will prevail.

When it comes to altering the human genome, all the megaphones are on
the utopians side so that’s what will become “ethical” in the coming
years. How that will unfold is a mystery, but my hunch is no one reading
this will live long enough to see a race of super intelligent chimps
enslaving humanity.
