---
title: "Myötähäpeä"
date: "2015-08-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5271"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5271"
---

Years ago, I was having problems with the cable and for the fourth or
fifth time in a month I found myself on the phone with the cable
company. The customer service woman had me push some buttons, reboot the
box and report back the results. We did this a few times without
success.

After the the fourth or fifth time I finally asked her why she thought
another reboot would have a different result than the previous reboots.
To her credit, she said she had no idea, but it was the only option she
had to help me. I wondered at the time how long we would have gone on
rebooting if I had not broken the loop.

I decided to cancel the cable at that point. She may not have had
choices, but I had options. That event came to mind reading <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2015/08/24/two-state-gop-leaders-reportedly-plot-strategy-to-slow-down-trump/?intcmp=hpbt1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story about the GOP in the Tidewater
trying to run the same old scam on Trump</a> that Fox tried during the
debate.

*Republican leaders in two states reportedly are plotting to make
presidential candidate Donald Trump’s quest for the GOP nomination a lot
harder.*

*Party leaders in Virginia and North Carolina told Politico.com that
they are considering a push to require candidates entering their
respective Republican primaries to pledge their support for the eventual
nominee and not run a third-party candidacy — a pledge Trump, the
current frontrunner, would not make when asked to during the Fox News
debate earlier this month in Cleveland.*

*“Anybody who wants to seek the Republican nomination should have to
commit to supporting the ultimate Republican nominee,” Virginia’s former
Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli told Politico. “I don’t see anything
wrong with that.”*

*Republican party officials in North Carolina announced a similar
proposal, and told Politico they already are in talks with lawyers to
draft language for a provision that asks each candidate to support the
GOP nominee.*

*“Everything is on the table,” an official told Politico.*

*Party leaders in North Carolina and Virginia say they hope their ballot
proposals will help convince the billionaire businessman to fully commit
to the Republican Party.*

*The primary requirements must be submitted to the Republican National
Committee by Oct. 1, Politico reports.*

*“Ballot access usually is regarded as a party function,” former RNC
Chief Counsel Tom Josefiak told the website. “It definitely would be
left up to the state party to decide how it’s going to operate.”*

This is just the party pushing the same button and hoping this time they
get a better result. Fox News and the GOP schemed for a month about how
to box in Trump on this issue and they came up with the very lame hand
raising business to start the debate. That was a flop with the voters
and failed to accomplish anything. I guess we can expect state party
dimwits to push the same button over and over now, thinking this time is
the charm.

What we are seeing here is something you hear in sports all the time.
Pressure reveals character. It’s easy to be a principled man when there
is nothing at risk. Sticking to your guns when you are at great personal
risk is a different matter altogether. More than a few “honorable” men
have been revealed as something less when faced with real risk.

The Republican Party and its media wing are being squeezed by their
donors on the one side and their voters on the other. This is not
unusual as rich people try hard to buy politicians from all parties. A
fundamentally sound party can rely on its organizing principles to
strike a balance. Right now the party and its media arm are lurching
about from one crackpot scheme to the next, unmoored from anything
resembling principles.

Similarly, the media wing of the party is struggling to mount an
affirmative argument in favor of their team. Instead we have been
treated to childish rants that resemble a baby banging his rattle on the
high chair. I used to enjoy reading some of them. Now, I’m embarrassed
for them. I get the sense, reading the comments in these rants about
Trump, that I’m not alone. A lot of people are learning the meaning of
myötähäpeä.
