---
title: "Post-Christian West"
date: "2015-08-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4579"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4579"
---

On this day 1374 years ago, give or take, A Northumbrian army assembled
on a field in the West Midlands, which is on the west (left) side of
England. North Umbria was in the northern most territory of England,
bordering Scotland. Their leader was a man named
[Oswald](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oswald_of_Northumbria) and he was
the king of Bernicia. He was the most powerful king on the island, the
[Bretwalda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bretwalda), and the man often
credited with the Christianizing the north of England.

On the other side was King
[Penda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penda_of_Mercia) of Mercia, one of
the other kings of the
[heptarchy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heptarchy). Mercia covered the
area that is now called the Midlands, which is conveniently located in
the middle of England. Penda was a pagan, the last pagan king of
England. Mercia was not very powerful, but they stood in the way of
Oswald dominating the south, so they were a natural target for the
Northumbrians.

On the day of the battle, Oswald, no doubt, stood before his men and
prayed to the new God for victory over their pagan enemies. The custom
of the age was to promise gifts to the Church and maybe a daughter or
son to the Church in exchange for victory. This was one of the many
pagan habits the Church tolerated in order to bring the people slowly
into the Church.

On the other side, Penda most certainly made offerings to the old gods,
along with promises of additional sacrifices if they were victorious.
The origins of King Penda are a bit murky, but we do know he was a
pagan, and the pagan faith of Britain was **Wodenism**. It most likely
came over with the Saxons and there’s some evidence that Penda was a
Saxon.

The Battle of Maserfield probably lasted just a short while. The
“armies” of the day were warbands under the command of an Althing or
head chief. No one really knows, but the consensus is that armies were
at most a few thousand men and probably numbered in the hundreds. In the
end, Penda was victorious. Bede describes the outcome as a field made
white with the bones of the saints. Oswald, when the battle was lost, is
claimed to have knelt and prayed for the souls of his soldiers. Penda
had him chopped into pieces and displayed on stakes.

If you were alive at the time, particularly if you were a Mercian, you
probably thought Christianity was on the run and the old gods were
reasserting their dominion. Certainly, Christians had their doubts. But,
a dozen years later Oswald’s brother killed Penda at the Battle of
Winwaed and a dozen years after that Oswiu presided over the Synod of
Whitby where the secular and Christian authorities codified Christianity
for the whole of England, including Mercia.

The point of this blast from the past is to illustrate how the culture
can seem to shift very quickly. Even in the slow moving medieval period,
a nation could switch religions within a generation. One day you’re
helping your father burn the Christian missionary, the next day your son
is packing wood under your pagan feet at the behest of the local priest.
In a world where the religion of the king is the religion of the people,
things can change quickly.

A little closer to our time is the matter of homosexual marriage. In the
US, as is usually the case, the rulers impose their fads on the people
through the mockery of the court system. That makes it easier for the
people to pretend they are a conservative people with a liberal
government. The reality is Christianity is dead in America so the people
in charge know they will face no resistance.

In Ireland, a place to played up by Hollywood as an austere Catholic
country, the people rushed to the polls to vote for homosexual marriage.
It’s not that they really cared about the gays or that they were smiting
the Church. They simply stopped being Catholic. In 1990, 80% of the
people went to church each week. Today it is half that number so voting
for homosexual marriage was just what the cool kids were doing.

The point here is that what you see happening today is a lot like what
happened with the spread of Christianity through Europe. It was slow and
proceeded in fits and starts. Early Christianity in Britain, for
example, was hilarious due to the heavy drinking and fornicating of the
priests. The commoners could hardly be held to account by such men, at
least on moral issues. Over time, a critical mass of true believers
gained the upper hand and Christianity became a defining force in
English life.

That’s what we’re seeing with the New Religion. It’s not ready to wipe
Christianity out completely. It’s simply too ridiculous to be taken
seriously by enough people. But it is making steady progress. If you
look at [this post from a blogger with a name that is too hard to
spell](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2015/05/post-christian-america.html),
what you see is the steady erosion of Christianity in America. A third
of people under 30 have “no religious affiliation” which means they are
not Christian.

[About half the country does not attend
church](http://www.familyfacts.org/charts/620/church-attendance-is-declining)
at all. In New England, the home of liberal fanaticism, church
attendance has collapsed, now resembling Europe. The number of church
closings in America suggests that self-reporting of church attendance is
wildly inflated. Even in the South, which has always been the most
religious part of the country, there’s been a decline in church
attendance.

The Battle of Maserfield seemed to stall or even possible signal a
rollback of Christianity, but it was just a blip. Similarly, the
eradication of Christianity by people of the New Religion has stalled
from time to time, but it is winning and will win in time. Today
Christians are stripped of their property for disobeying homosexuals. In
a generation they will be banned from public. Like Wodenism,
Christianity will be a weird part of the past for future generations.
