---
title: "Nazi Art Racket"
date: "2015-05-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4575"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4575"
---

I suspect if I live for a thousand years, I will see Nazi stories right
up until my demise. No man has had a greater impact on the Western world
than you know who. Even though his youngest followers are now well into
decrepitude, governments are still putting them on trial for the
gratification of the usual suspects. None of it has anything to do with
justice. <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/books/2015/feb/06/why-obsessed-nazis-third-reich"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It is all propaganda at this point</a>.

<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4345" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I wondered the other day what happens when we run out of
Nazis to hunt</a>. The actuarial tables tell us that day is coming soon.
Even anti-racist loons will have a tough time putting an old guy on
trial, who was enrolled in the Hitler Youth when he was five by his
parents at the end of the war. With the youngest former Nazis in their
80’s now, the only living example left in a few years will be those who
were children in the 40’s.

I think I have the answer and that will be the centuries long hunt to
find the Nazi art and return it to the “rightful owners”, as long as
they are Jewish, by returning it to their decedents. There’s no expiry
date on that game as almost all European art was touched by the Nazis at
some point. That means the provenance of just about every piece can be
disputed if you try hard enough.

What got me thinking about it is <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/dutch-art-sleuth-helps-german-police-track-down-103456412.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story about Nazi art</a> from last
week.

*A Dutch art sleuth best known for identifying works looted from Jewish
owners by the Nazis said he helped German police recover two massive
bronze horse sculptures crafted for Adolf Hitler, as more details
emerged Friday about an amazing trove of Nazi-era art seized by
authorities this week.*

*Arthur Brand provided tips to German detectives who made the stunning
discovery in a series of coordinated raids, capping a long investigation
into illegal art trafficking. Berlin police spokesman Michael Gassen,
who confirmed authorities worked with Brand, said so far some 100 tons
of art has been loaded onto trucks in the southwestern spa town of Bad
Duerkheim where they were found in warehouses.*

*Eight suspects, whose identities have not been released by police, are
under investigation on suspicion of dealing in stolen goods and fraud,
Gassen said.*

*But Attorney Andreas Hiemsch, who represents the Bad Duerkheim man who
was in possession of the art, denied the allegations, telling The
Associated Press that his client had rightfully obtained the pieces from
the Russian army more than 25 years ago.*

Apparently, possessing art created by or for the Nazis is against German
law. Given that the Nazi were nuts about creating display items, all of
which could be construed as art, that means hunting for Nazi art is a
never ending racket. There can never be a time when all of it has been
recovered.

The real selling point here to the fascist loons in charge of the West
is that they can also rewrite history in the process of “righting those
historical wrongs.” That means taking the gaudy display items like these
horses in the story and hiding them away from public sight. Before long
it will be extended to books and personal items in private collections.
The real Nazis will be erased and replaced with the mythological ones.
