---
title: "Open Carry"
date: "2015-04-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4321"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4321"
---

<a
href="http://www.houstonchronicle.com/news/politics/texas/article/First-to-ban-open-carry-Texas-could-be-one-of-5974401.php"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">A friend sent this to me</a> wondering
why anyone would want to open carry. He lives in New Hampshire where
open carry is permitted. You need a permit to conceal carry, but any
legal gun owner can open carry. Go up above the notches in the fall and
it looks like a scene from a Western. Everyone is carrying.

*For most Americans, Texas conjures images of gun-toting vaqueros,
cowboys wielding six-shooters and epic battles over independence and
secession. Gun manufacturers Colt, Mossberg and Magpul call the Lone
Star State home, and a concealed carry license grants you a fast-pass
into the state Capitol.*

*All the more surprising, then, that Texas was the first state to ban
its citizens from carrying handguns, a restriction that remained on the
books for 125 years. Now, 20 years after the Texas Legislature OK’d the
carrying of concealed handguns with a license, some lawmakers want to
make it legal to carry holstered weapons in plain sight.*

The rest of the piece is weeping about how people were mean to blacks in
the old days, but no one cares about that. The people interested in this
issue wonder why it is anyone would want to carry in the open. I’m a
Second Amendment absolutist. If you are allowed to own a gun, you have
the right to carry it around with you. I’m against any and all
permitting of firearms.

That said, I can’t think of a reason why I would want to open carry. I
get why cops do it. It is part of their uniform and we want them to have
ready access to their firearm in order to shoot those unarmed, fleeing
black people. A a private citizen, I think I’d prefer it if my fellow
citizens don’t know who is and who is not armed.

The more I think of it, the more it strikes me that open carry is
problematic for a number of reasons. In every state the cops have a
right to inspect your firearm. If you are carrying and a cop asks for
your gun and permit, you are required by law to produce them. But, cops
are not randomly stopping people asking for their permit.

In Virginia I was pulled over for speeding and had my pistol bag on the
front seat. The cop came up to the window and I had my permit out, along
with my license. That let him know I was a good guy and following the
law. That’s all he needed and we went about the business of a traffic
stop.

Open carry complicates this. Every cop is going to be on the lookout for
a dodgy looking character carrying a pistol. Maybe that’s a good thing,
as criminals are stupid. They will end up self-reporting, so to speak,
by carrying their illegal gun openly. Still, I’m puzzled as to why
anyone would want to open carry, other than small dick syndrome.
