---
title: "Abortion Treatment Center?"
date: "2015-11-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5812"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5812"
---

I’ve always been mildly opposed to abortion as birth control mostly
because it is barbaric. It strikes me as something people will look back
on in the same way we look back on bleeding or the use of incantations.
Reaching up inside a woman and ripping out her baby is a nasty business,
even under the most extreme threat to the life of the mother. Doing it
for the heck of it is barbarism.

Every society tolerates a certain amount of barbarism, but it’s never
something to be encouraged. In another age, torturing animals was a form
of public entertainment. Steve Pinker describes 19th century cat burning
in one his books. Recruiting the slow-witted to bash one another to
bloody pulp is a form of entertainment we call “boxing.” The point is
barbarism is always a part of human society.

Just because we tolerate something does not mean we endorse it. Boxing
is tolerated, but we don’t see it on free TV much as it is not something
we want our kids to do so we subtly discourage it. Animal cruelty is
banned because we don’t have to tolerate it. The difference here being
that men fight by nature, while torturing animals is not part of our
nature. Abortion is somewhere on the barbarism scale between tolerable
and intolerable.

There’s also a matter of logic. Go into any pharmacy or grocery store
and you will find racks of contraceptives. The cost of the most
effective options is trivial. Even the poorest person can afford a box
of rubbers. Therefore, demanding abortion as a form of contraceptive
simply fails the logic test. It is, outside of rare cases, entirely
unnecessary. Closing that door would make men and women more prudent
about the legion of other choices on the shelf.

That said, I’ve also thought it best worked out locally. Abortion mills
are businesses and subject to local laws. If towns in Mississippi don’t
want them, then they can ban them. If Massachusetts wants to put them in
grammar schools, that’s their business. Fundamentally, the thing that
has always turned me off about abortion is that proponents are just
using it to meddle in the lives of others. That and the creepy lying.

*While nearly 100 percent of the controversy surrounding Planned
Parenthood involves its abortion practices, the group says that
abortions account for only 3 percent of the services it provides. What
do abortion treatment and recovery rooms look like? And what other
services does Planned Parenthood provide? On a day when a new Planned
Parenthood facility in Queens, N.Y., was closed to the public, Yahoo
Global News Anchor Katie Couric went behind the scenes to learn more.*

*The building is complete with a metal detector, bulletproof windows and
round-the-clock security. In addition to medical consultants and
clinicians, the facility offers social services and has a financial
planner on site. Clinic director Latasha McGriff told Couric that since
the facility opened on Sept. 1, clinic staffers have seen more than
1,200 men and women, representing 63 countries.*

Abortion treatment? I guess we are supposed to think of it as just
having some ointment rubbed on your arm to cure a disease. After all,
who can really tell the difference between athletes foot and a child?

But that’s what you get from people who think more of plants and animals
than human beings. Instead of being honest about the practice, they lie,
which is not surprising. It’s how they lie that is creepy and demented.
They think an abortion is no different than having a mole removed.

That’s where I always come back to on the abortion issue. The women
holding up a picture of a fetus outside a clinic is motivated by a
respect for human life. It may be over the top or even unhinged, but at
least they have the moral clarity to understand the difference between
an abortion and a manicure. Only a sociopath sees abortion amorally.

It’s not just the lack of morality. There’s a very weird celebration of
abortion on display here. These people are proud of what they do and go
out of their way to portray it as the truest form of feminism a woman
can achieve. I’ve heard feminist say that you can’t be a woman without
ever having had an abortion. It’s become a death cult for these people.

I guess that’s why I count myself as mildly opposed to abortion. I
respect the religious arguments against it. I respect the moral and
logical arguments against it. Those are to be hashed out locally where
these issues are best handled. But what I can never get past is the
unhinged enthusiasm of abortion fanatics. No matter where you come down
on the morality of it, enthusiasm is simply beyond the pale.

It’s that enthusiasm that prevents me from being indifferent to the
issue. People who think abortion is a rite of passage for women are one
small step from celebrating infanticide and euthanasia. As soon as the
line is crossed, where’s the next line and why would these people
respect it? If snuffing out life in the womb as a matter of convenience
is OK, then why not infanticide?

I know that’s the slippery slope argument, but some slopes are slippery.
A core question any man of the Right must ask, with regards to public
policy, is what are the consequences of being wrong? Banning abortion
leaves open room for exceptions. Sanctifying abortion leaves open room
for grizzly things like eugenics and infanticide. If you’re going to
err, err on the side that does the least harm.
