---
title: "The Invasion"
date: "2015-09-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5329"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5329"
---

The invasion of America from the south has been largely peaceful.
Hispanics have a crime rate slightly higher than the whites, but nothing
like blacks. Most whites are happy when a neighborhood transitions from
black to Hispanic. <a
href="http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2015/09/01/immigrant-welfare-use-report/71517072/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Even though most will be on welfare</a>,
they are not robbing and murdering like the blacks. Plus, a fair number
who do work, work very hard and that flatters the typical white person
in SWPL-ville.

Europe has a different problem. Their immigration is coming from two
places, the MENA and sub-Saharan Africa. These populations have high
degrees of clannishness, fanaticism and violence. The Czechs and Slovaks
parted ways with a handshake and good wishes. Syria is breaking up in a
bloodbath. Similarly, sub-Saharan Africans slaughter one another for
sport.

There’s also a different cultural history on the Continent than in the
US. Despite all the happy talk and multicultural nonsense belched forth
by the ruling elites, the natives have maintained their suspicions of
the “other.” Further, they don’t have the same hangups about race as we
do in the US. Europeans don’t look at Africans as sacred objects of
worship.

That’s why the Euro elites are playing with fire when it comes to the
invasion from the south. The natives of Europe are not going to be
shamed into suicide, but they will be irate over <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/italy/11834743/Murder-of-elderly-couple-in-Sicily-fuels-Italys-growing-anti-immigrant-sentiment.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">homicide committed by “refugees” from the
south</a>.

*Italy’s simmering anti-immigrant sentiment has been stoked by the
murder of an elderly couple in their home in Sicily, allegedly by an
African asylum seeker.*

*Mamadou Kamara, an 18-year-old from the Ivory Coast, allegedly slit the
throat of Vincenzo Solano, 68, and then attacked his Spanish-born wife,
Mercedes Ibanez, 70.*

*Ms Ibanez fell to her death from a second-floor balcony, during a
robbery that turned violent.*

*Mr Kamara is one of thousands of migrants and refugees living at a vast
reception centre at nearby Mineo, in south-eastern Sicily.*

*They are accommodated there after arriving by boat from Libya, and wait
sometimes for months to have their asylum applications assessed.*

*The migrants are allowed to come and go freely from the facility, a
former US military base where prostitution, links with organised crime
and the trade in illicit goods is said to be rife.*

*Mr Kamara, who was rescued in the Mediterranean on June 8 and brought
with other migrants to the port of Catania in Sicily, allegedly broke
into the pensioners’ flat in the village of Palagonia, six miles away,
and slit the throat of Mr Solano.*

*The elderly man’s wife was found dead in the courtyard of their
three-storey apartment block. Investigators believe she may have fallen
over the balcony in panic after trying to flee the attacker.*

*Mr Kamara was arrested after police searched his bag on Sunday as he
returned to the migrant centre.*

*Inside they found a mobile telephone, a laptop computer, a video camera
and a pair of trousers, allegedly belonging to Mr Solano, that were
covered in blood.*

*The young African man claimed to have “found” the items, but police
arrested him and are expected to charge him with two counts of murder.*

Here’s a tip to my European readers. Get used to hearing the words, “The
young African man claimed to have “found” the items.” The other line you
will hear a lot from the mother of the criminal is “He’s a good boy. He
was turning his life around.” For reasons we have yet to discover here
in the States, sacred people have a habit of committing major crimes
just when they are about to turn their life around.

*Sebastian Maccarrone, the director of the Mineo migrant centre, said:
“If it was him, it is a tragedy within a tragedy – for the people
killed, and for integration. We are all shocked. I have spoken with many
migrants and they all want to disassociate themselves from what
happened.*

*“For each small step we have taken forward in terms of integration,
this has put us 10 steps backwards.”*

*The trousers were identified as belonging to Mr Solano by one of his
daughters, who was contacted by police.*

*The pensioner had retired back to his native Sicily a decade ago after
working for years in a Mercedes car factory in Germany. Detectives
believe that other migrants may have been involved in the burglary.*

*More than 100,000 refugees have arrived by boat in Italy this year,
making the crossing from Libya in overcrowded rubber dinghies and leaky
fishing boats. Last year, a record 170,000 arrived on Italian shores.*

Here’s another thing you need to get used to hearing. Every time an
invader kills a local, the tragedy will be that it hurts the cause of
diversity and integration. You’ll note the word “assimilation” has been
replaced with “integration” now, meaning you wreckers better not insist
on keeping your old habits. You will meet the invaders “half way” and
adopt their culture – or else.

*Patience is wearing thin among many Italians, with some of the
country’s 20 regions refusing to accommodate any more migrants and
centre-Right parties accusing the centre-Left government of Matteo
Renzi, the prime minister, of having lost control of the country’s
borders.*

*“Italians fear for their lives inside their own homes,” said Gianluca
Buonanno, an MEP with the Northern League, a staunchly anti-immigrant
party of the Right.*

*“This is Renzi’s national security strategy. What kind of country are
we living in?”*

*Giorgia Meloni, another centre-Right politician and a close ally of
Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister, said: “The instigator of
the murder of these two innocents is the Italian state, which is
responsible for having kept open a facility … which we said should be
closed down.”*

*“The murdered couple had returned from living in Germany to enjoy their
retirement in Sicily,” a relative told La Stampa newspaper. “They
shouldn’t have died like this, slaughtered like goats.”*

Well, to the people in charge, the goats are a bigger concern than the
natives. The typical Western government cares more about animal welfare
than the safety of its native people. Being slaughtered like goats is
going to look like a good result in a few more years.
