---
title: "Post-National America"
date: "2015-03-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4032"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4032"
---

Another example of how the American ruling elite, endeavoring to break
free from the constraints of national loyalty, is rendering citizenship
pointless is in the area of foreign policy. In the American system, the
President is tasked with negotiating treaties<sup>1</sup>. For those
treaties to become law, they must be ratified by the Senate. In contract
law, this is the same as a deal requiring board approval. The executives
can sign what they like, but the contract is not enforceable until it is
approved by the board.

The Founders recognized the dangers of giving the President sole
discretion in treaty making. He could use this power to circumvent the
power of the legislature by striking deals with other countries that
trumped US law. Imagine Obama striking a deal with Mexico, giving Texas
back, so their votes would not count in the next election.

It has always been a quarrelsome process and intentionally so. Treaties
are the most important and dangerous activities performed by government.
They start wars, end wars, start economies and end economies. They are
not to be taken lightly so the American system has high hurdles built
into the process. Presidents hate this, but they hate a lot of things
that are safeguards against mischief.

[The emerging Iran deal is revealing how the Obama administration is
plotting to circumvent
Congress](http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/03/12/us-iran-nuclear-idUSKBN0M82IS20150312)
and avoid submitting the matter to the Senate.

*Major world powers have begun talks about a United Nations Security
Council resolution to lift U.N. sanctions on Iran if a nuclear agreement
is struck with Tehran, a step that could make it harder for the U.S.
Congress to undo a deal, Western officials said.*

*The talks between Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States
— the five permanent members of the Security Council — plus Germany and
Iran, are taking place ahead of difficult negotiations that resume next
week over constricting Iran’s nuclear ability.*

*Some eight U.N. resolutions – four of them imposing sanctions – ban
Iran from uranium enrichment and other sensitive atomic work and bar it
from buying and selling atomic technology and anything linked to
ballistic missiles. There is also a U.N. arms embargo.*

*Iran sees their removal as crucial as U.N. measures are a legal basis
for more stringent U.S. and European Union measures to be enforced. The
U.S. and EU often cite violations of the U.N. ban on enrichment and
other sensitive nuclear work as justification for imposing additional
penalties on Iran.*

*U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told Congress on Wednesday that an
Iran nuclear deal would not be legally binding, meaning future U.S.
presidents could decide not to implement it. That point was emphasized
in an open letter by 47 Republican senators sent on Monday to Iran’s
leaders asserting any deal could be discarded once President Barack
Obama leaves office in January 2017.*

*But a Security Council resolution on a nuclear deal with Iran could be
legally binding, say Western diplomatic officials. That could complicate
and possibly undercut future attempts by Republicans in Washington to
unravel an agreement.*

Now, the Supreme Court has ruled repeatedly that international law does
not trump US law. That’s not an issue here. The issue here is that Obama
is trying avoid the whole treaty process by getting the UN Security
Council to order its member nations to abide by this deal. Failure to do
so would, technically, be a violation of the UN Charter. The fact that
Iran, for example, has been in violation of the UN Charter for decades,
as are other nations, is not important.

What Obama is attempting to do is shift the focus from the law, which is
against him, to a future political fight waged by the next president. If
Jeb Bush rejects this deal, for example, he would have the added problem
of dealing with the UN and, presumably, US allies. Even though he would
be well within the law, the politics of taking on the UN would
complicate things.

In the near term Obama would argue that the failure of the Senate to
approve his deal with Iran is putting the US at odds with the
“international community.” The word “community” is a magic word on the
Left so that means all the left-wingers in the American media will be
out in the streets ululating about how Republicans are committing
treason.

It won’t result in approval, but it lets Obama and future presidents
avoid compliance with the law in future treaty deals. Instead of going
to Congress, they will go to the UN, giving France more say in these
matters than the American people.

As we see with open borders, the end game is about rupturing the ties
between the rulers and the ruled. In a nation, the rulers have a natural
loyalty to their host nation and its people. Their success is the
nation’s success. Citizenship, therefore, has value. Being an American,
even if you were a field hand or factory laborer, had benefits just for
being an American citizen.

In the post-national system our rulers are ushering in, citizenship has
no value. Your elected representatives have no power as Congress (or
parliament) becomes ornamental. The laws offer preferences to those that
are not legal citizens in areas of employment and welfare benefits.
Being a legal citizen becomes a sucker’s play. Once the people figure it
out, the ruling classes are free to drop all pretense of loyalty to
nation and citizenship.

The next phase is a world of cloud people, untethered from the ground
below them. Like medieval lords, they extract rents to finance their
lavish lifestyles, but unlike those lords they will have no sense of
obligation to their subjects. In Brazil, the elite live in the hills,
guarded by private armies. The rest are left to their own devices. What
services provided by the elites are to mitigate against unrest.

The administrative class of the managerial elite will function as game
keepers, making sure the people are fed and given minimal care. They
will try to suppress violence and crime, but their main duty will be
keeping the people in their pens.

Whether this will work is debatable. So far, human organization has been
about scaling up the kin-tribe. The post-national cloud people look more
like colonizers, which eventually ends with one side swinging from a
noose. But, there was a time when no one thought a country could work.

<sup>1</sup>I Know that technically the Senate simply permits the
President to ratify the treaty as part of its advice and consent
authority.
