---
title: "Burn, Baby! Burn!"
date: "2015-10-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5685"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5685"
---

During the unrest in Baltimore, an unreported element was the revenge
and score settling. The news people painted a picture of aggrieved brown
people going into the streets to make their case the only way they knew
how, but that was just the TV show part. Most of it was good old
fashioned looting, stealing and pointless mayhem. But, a small portion
was gang bangers taking the opportunity to settle scores, rearrange the
map and make some points.

In every community on earth, there are people who have revenge on their
minds and when the opportunity comes along to get some payback, they
take it. It’s just a part of human nature. Fear of going to prison or
fear of being found out keeps most of it under control, but in a place
like Baltimore or Detroit, it does not take much to set off a round of
score settling.

Revolutions, when they come, unlock all of those doors at once and you
get a lot of bloodletting that has nothing to do with the revolution.
Sure, the revolutionaries hold public trials, humiliate their former
masters and hang enough of them to satisfy their lust for revenge.
That’s just part of the deal, but the common people settle their scores
too. The revolutionaries eventually have to reign it in which is when
the revolutionaries start looking a lot like the guys they overthrew.

Anyway, I was thinking about that when reading this story.

*SunTrust Banks in Atlanta is laying off about 100 IT employees as it
moves work offshore. But this layoff is unusual for what the employer is
asking of its soon-to-be displaced workers: SunTrust’s severance
agreement requires terminated employees to remain available for two
years to provide help if needed, including in-person assistance, and to
do so without compensation.*

*Many of the affected IT employees, who are now training their
replacements, have years of experience and provide the highest levels of
technical support. The proof of their ability may be in the severance
requirement, which gives the bank a way to tap their expertise long
after their departure.*

*The bank’s severance deal includes a “continuing cooperation” clause
for a period of two years, where the employee agrees to “make myself
reasonably available” to SunTrust “regarding matters in which I have
been involved in the course of my employment with SunTrust and/or about
which I have knowledge as a result of my employment at SunTrust.”*

*The employees were informed of their layoff at the end of September,
and the last day of work for some is Nov. 1. This is according to
several of the affected employees, who requested anonymity for fear of
retaliation.*

*The severance is seen by affected employees as a requirement to provide
ongoing technical assistance as needed. The severance agreement itself
says that this assistance from former employees “will be requested at
such times and in such a manner so as to not unreasonably interfere with
my subsequent employment.” An employee shared the severance clause with
Computerworld.*

*This assistance can be by telephone or in-person meetings, and it may
be provided without “additional consideration or compensation of any
kind,” the clause says.*

*“How do they think this is acceptable?” said one affected IT worker
about the clause. He said he couldn’t fathom how the bank can cut its IT
staff and yet insist that former workers be available to fix problems.*

You come into work and learn you will be laid off. That sucks, but it
happens. Then they tell you that you have to train your replacement.
That more than sucks. That’s humiliating. Then you learn that your
replacement is a turd eater from the other side of the world. Now you’re
pissed. Then some smug asshole from HR says you will have to agree to
help the guy for two years on your dime.

Here’s a wild guess on my part, but if things get out of control in
America, a whole lot of bank managers are going to turn up with their
throats cut. Of course, this sort of spiteful treatment of Americans by
people who no longer think they are Americans is common these days. The
Cloud People who imagine themselves cut loose from the bounds of
citizenship seem to take pleasure in humiliating the Ground People.

Thinking about it, I wonder if revolutions are not just the accumulation
of slights and humiliations to a point where the damn breaks and they
wash away the old order, leaving a vacuum for someone to fill. Those
avant garde revolutionaries that end up in charge are not the vanguard.
They are just the people smart enough to ride the tidal wave of
resentments.

I don’t know enough about revolution to know and I don’t think much
about it. I have my revenge fantasies like any other normal man, but
those are for my own entertainment. It just seems to me that our betters
are in a hurry to heap as many slights and humiliations upon as they
can. It’s as if they think they are at war with us. At some point, the
other side of that war is going to wake up and decide to join the fight.
I would not want to be a SunTrust Bank manager when that happens.
