---
title: "Travelogue: Airports and Stuff"
date: "2015-02-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3729"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3729"
---

Travel challenges your assumptions about many things. People who have
traveled a lot tend not to hold provincial ideas, for example. It’s hard
to think your town is unique once you see that every other town is
pretty much the same. It also gives you time to think and maybe look at
things with a fresh set of eyes.

For instance, I was in the airports on Friday and I now think the
greatest American alive is the guy who invented yoga pants. My goodness.
I looked him up. <a
href="http://www.tommiemedia.com/opinions/the-stretchy-pant-comfy-chic/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">His name is Ryan McLatchy</a> and he is
credited with the spread of this wonderful trend. May his
<span class="st">descendants multiply and become many nations! It makes
being a dirty old man so much better…</span>

Anyway, the thing I was puzzling over was why terrorists target airlines
and airplanes. In America, the place with the maximum amount of
government and the least amount of freedom is the airport. Everyone is
watched and filmed everywhere except the bathrooms. Even there, they
film you on the way in and out.

Security people are constantly watching for anything out of the
ordinary. They now have K-9 units sniffing passengers in the terminal.
They also have security people randomly stopping people and asking them
questions. I was stopped at Logan by a nice young fellow who politely
asked me a series of questions about my life. This is a tactic used by
El Al Airlines and others.

It seems to me that there are much better targets than airports, but for
some reason the Muslims keep attacking them.

I think part of it could simply be habit. Back when the Muslims started
making trouble in the 60’s and 70’s, airports were great targets. You
had lots of people in small areas and the chance to make it on the world
news. There were loads of strangers at the airport, so being out of
place was not a big deal. A  Muslim wandering around with bad intentions
was just another guy at the airport.

Obviously, security was not what it is today. If you wanted to do
something big, an airport job was a great choice. That’s no longer true.
In fact, it is the exact opposite. I’m a smart guy and I can do the
security math. Getting passed the initial security check is not that
hard, but all the random checks is where you leave things to chance and
those odds are not great.

The other motivation, I suspect, is stupidity. A thousand generations of
cousin marriage have not done the Mohammedan any favors. The regions
where we see the bulk of the Muslim terrorists have mean IQ’s in the
mid-80’s, which is at the bottom of the human family. Throw in the
cultural and religious issues and you have some uncommonly stupid
terrorists….

Airports are why libertarians and central planners should never be
trusted. Five minutes at an airport shows you that people do not
naturally self-organize. Left to our own devices, the mob gets out of
control until someone imposes some discipline. People like order and
expect it, which is why no one ever complains about signs telling you
where to stand or where to go.

That’s obvious. What’s not always obvious is the general awfulness of
central planners. Our airports should look nothing like they do and they
should not be giant money pits, but they are and there’s nothing to be
done about it. In the 1950’s the people who knew best designed the
American airport system and we have to live with it.

That said, it is a miracle that we can live with it and do so quite
easily. The reason air travel works so well in Europe and America,
despite the volume and inefficiency, is the smart fraction. A dozen
times I saw some low level types struggle to make something work, only
to have a smart person come over and help them through it. Our world may
be a house of cards, but we have a lot of people good at keeping it
going…

That’s the difference. In places like sub-Saharan Africa, the smart
fraction is tiny. There’s not enough of them to supervise the rest so
the result is the wacky keystone cops quality to their public services.
Socialism works only where you have enough smart people around to make
it work, despite the infinite number of internal contradictions.

Reading about Greece while I was waiting around for planes, I kept
hoping to see someone note that Greece is the way it is because it is
full of Greeks. German-style socialism is simply never going to work in
Greece, even at gunpoint. Western-style democracy will never work in
Arab lands. Central planning results in horror when applied to big man
cultures in Africa.

In the future, something historians and possibly archeologists will
puzzle over is the strange mania for homogeneity that has swept western
elites.  The demand that everything and everyone be the same in all
places, in the name of diversity no less, is as close to mass insanity
as you get and still remain functioning as societies.

Greece has no place in the Euro. For that matter, the Spanish and
Italians have no place in the Frankish economic system either. Liberal
trade, open borders with the rest of Europe and economic help when
necessary should be enough to keep everyone happy. Instead, the European
keep making war on their own history by demanding everyone be European….
