---
title: "Ruminations on the Russians"
date: "2015-09-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5404"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5404"
---

I’ve been reading a little bit about The Great War, when time permits.
The 100th anniversary has unleashed a lot of good books, articles and
even a podcast on the subject. Dan Carlin’s series on the war is
excellent if you’re into podcasts. I have a dozen books on my list, that
have come out in the last few years, unread on my shelf, but I’m hoping
to knock them out in the fall.

The Great War is on that list of things you have to know about in order
to be an educated man. The 100 Years War, the Thirty Years War, The
English Civil War, the American Civil War and the Great War are events
you simply have to know in order to know the modern age. You don’t have
to be an expert, but you need the basics. In the case of the Great War,
I don’t know if you *can* be an expert. The **Battle of the Marne** is
enough to keep a first rate mind busy for a lifetime.

What has always intrigued me about this war is two things. One is
everyone went into it, even the German military, with out of date
notions on warfare. Some of their attitudes were pre-Napoleonic, in
regards to the rules of war. The biggest error was in not understanding
how the changing technology would change war fighting. They could not
imagine it. Instead, they learned it in a massive bloodbath.

This is not a post about that war, but about our next one. At the start
of the last century, lots of smart people thought war was no longer a
possibility. Globalization, trade, “smart” managers and technocrats had
made territorial expansion unprofitable and counter productive.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norman_Angell" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Norman Angell</a> wrote a very influential pamphlet
arguing that the integration of the economies of European countries had
grown to such a degree that war between them would be entirely futile,
making war obsolete.

We hear the same arguments today. The addition now is that American
military hegemony, along with the nuclear stockpiles of China, Russia
and the US, makes war an impossibility. No one would risk it. What
everyone hangs their hats on is the global capital markets. War at any
scale would make the global elite poor and that means there will never
be another war of any scale.

Just because these claims echo those of 100 years ago does not make them
invalid. They may be right, as it seems unlikely that we will see tanks
racing across Germany again, but that’s not the way to bet. Great
economic upheavals have always ended in great wars so this great
economic upheaval is probably going to end in a great war. The question
is what will it be like?

I think the place to start is with the Russians. Again, hailing back to
the Great War, Russia, like the Germans 100 years ago, is the country
trying to get a place at the table, but is instead being ignored. France
and Britain controlled 70% of the globe a century ago. Today, the West
controls 100% of the world economy. Finland gets more respect from
Western powers than Russia. They have a lot of reasons to cause trouble.

The way the Russians handled Crimea and Ukraine should be one of those
things that keeps western planners up at night. It was asymmetric
warfare at a level no one thought the Russians possessed. It’s not just
that they have evolved their military strategies; its that they have
clearly learned a lot about how Western strategies have evolved. Those
“little green men” who popped out of nowhere did not pop out of nowhere.
That was well planned and well executed.

What the Russians clearly learned is that the old rule of war is still
true. The side that gets there firstest with the mostest usually wins.
In the case of Crimea, the Russian got their forces in control of the
ground before the West knew what was happening. Instead of tanks and
infantry units, the Russians used irregulars in anonymous uniforms,
mixed in with local elements sympathetic to the Russians

Now we see the Russians, to everyone’s surprise, <a
href="http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2015/09/14/russias-expanding-military-presence-in-syria"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">are putting boots on the ground</a> in
Syria. <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/russia-positioning-tanks-syria-airfield-u-officials-144236303.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They have tanks guarding an airfield</a>
that they appear to be building up, presumably for the purpose of basing
fighter planes. Coincidentally, there are a million Syrians heading to
Europe as refugees. Those refugees will certainly maintain links back to
the home country. Inevitably, Russian intelligence will be working with
Syrians in the region, developing lots of contacts that could be used
later.

This may sound far fetched, but consider another example from the Great
War. The guy who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand was a guy named
[Gavrilo
Princip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gavrilo_Princip "Gavrilo Princip").
He was part of a conspiracy run by a member of the Black Hand. Their
leader was a man named [Danilo
Ilić,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Danilo_Ili%C4%87 "Danilo Ilić") who
was controlled by Serbian intelligence. The people who poisoned
[Alexander
Litvinenko](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Litvinenko "Alexander Litvinenko")
with polonium are not going to fret about running Syrian terrorists in
the heart of Europe.

This partnering with locals the Russians are doing has another benefit.
It lets them cheaply extend their influence to weak spots of the West.
Setting up camp in Syria means they can create mischief through the
Middle East and North Africa. They are, in effect, extending the front
lines north to the Baltics and south into the Mediterranean. Instead of
being surrounded by the West, Russia and its partners is now surrounding
the West.

The Industrial Revolution ended with two massive wars that nearly
obliterated civilization. If not for the Anglosphere, civilization would
have ended. maybe the technological revolution ends with something less
dramatic. Maybe the next great war is a low grade affair between
irregulars. I don’t know, but it seems like the folks to watch are the
Russians.
