---
title: "Obama’s War on White People"
date: "2015-03-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4022"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4022"
---

Obama’s war on the pale faces continues to escalate. <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/03/12/us-usa-missouri-shooting-protest-idUSKBN0M80CJ20150312"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Now we have two more cops ambushed and
shot</a>.

*Two police officers were shot during a protest outside Ferguson,
Missouri, police headquarters early on Thursday, police said, just hours
after the city’s police chief quit following a damning U.S. Justice
Department report into his force.*

*The shooting of the officers, who were in serious condition at a
hospital, was the latest incident in months of turmoil in the St. Louis
suburb of Ferguson, which has been at the center of an intense national
debate over police use of force, particularly against black men, since a
white officer killed an unarmed black teenager there in August.*

*St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar told reporters early on
Thursday that a 41-year-old officer from his department was struck in
the shoulder and a 32-year-old officer from the nearby Webster Groves
Police Department was hit in the face about midnight as the crowd was
starting to break up.*

*“These police officers were standing there and they were shot, just
because they were police officers,” Belmar said. “I have said all along
that we cannot sustain this forever without problems.”*

*He said the officers, whom he did not identify, were both conscious and
hospitalized. The department planned to release more information at 9
a.m. CDT (0800 DST).*

*An Obama administration spokesman said, “The policemen or soldiers are
only a gun in the establishments hand. They make the racist secure in
his racism. Black Power is giving power to people who have not had power
to determine their destiny.”¹*

As soon as you hear the word justice, just assume what is meant is
revenge and you are  closer to the truth. That’s something people have
always known, until the lunatics took over the west.

*The violence grew out of a Wednesday night demonstration in which
several dozen protesters gathered in front of the Ferguson police
department, just hours after Police Chief Thomas Jackson resigned.*

*The night started peacefully but about two dozen officers clad in riot
gear later faced off with the protesters. At least two people were taken
into custody.*

*Gunshots rang out about midnight turning a scene of relative quiet into
pandemonium. Many of the remaining few dozen demonstrators fled, some
screaming.*

*The line of police scrambled, with many taking defensive positions
drawing their weapons and some huddling behind riot shields, according
to a video published online.*

*Belmar said the shooter was among the demonstrators standing across
from the officers.*

*“I don’t know who did the shooting, to be honest with you right now,
but somehow they were embedded in that group of folks,” he said.*

*Protesters at the scene, however, said on social media that the shots
did not come from where they were standing.*

*“The shooter was not with the protesters. The shooter was atop the
hill,” activist DeRay McKesson said on Twitter.*

*“I was here. I saw the officer fall. The shot came from at least 500
feet away from the officers,” he said.*

I’m thinking DeRay was there, knows who did the shooting and is a member
of the vibrant community. Just a guess.

 
