---
title: "Death Spirals"
date: "2015-03-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4177"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4177"
---

*Go, go, go, said the bird: human kind*

*Cannot bear very much reality.*

So said Eliot and he was certainly correct. Much of what we take for
human culture is an elaborate defense mechanism allowing us to avoid
facing the reality of our existence. I suppose there’s nothing wrong
with it. Our species has carried on a good while now so there must be
something of value to the trait. Still, it is not without its downside.

An example is in [this story on US health
care](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/mar/26/susan-parnell-the-obamacare-death-spiral-may-have-/).

*The Supreme Court decision in King v. Burwell, the case challenging the
Obama administration’s decision to award tax credits for health
insurance sold through federally established exchanges, could turn on
the question of whether a ruling that ends the tax credits on federal
exchanges might cause something known as a “death spiral” in health
insurance markets.*

*The good news is the answer is probably no, but the bad news is that’s
only because the death spiral has probably already started.*

*A death spiral generally occurs when insurers are forced to raise
premiums sharply to pay promised benefits. Higher premiums cause many of
the healthiest policyholders, who already pay far more in premiums than
they receive in benefits, to drop coverage.*

*When healthy policyholders drop coverage, it leaves the insurer with
little choice but to raise premiums again because they now have a risk
pool that is less healthy than before. But another premium increase
means many of the healthy people who remained now drop their policies,
too, and this continues until the only people willing to pay the
now-very-high premiums are those with serious medical conditions.*

Europeans, to their credit, have accepted the fact that the laws of
supply and demand apply to health care, just as they do every other
product and service. That means there must be a rationing mechanism.
Europeans prefer their authoritarianism straight so they turn the
rationing over the to the state. Americans can’t accept that supply and
demand applies to health care so we keep inventing new crackpot schemes
that promise to suspend the laws of nature.

Health care reached the point of diminishing returns about fifty years
ago. 100 years ago America spent 3% of GDP on health care and people
lived to about 60. Today we spend about 15% on health care and people
live to about 80. A good portion of that increase in life expectancy is
due to better food and less violence. It is axiomatic that as things
like health care improve, the cost of further improvement escalates. The
marginal return on investment declines.

This is true in all areas of human endeavor. The initial burst of
productivity from the Internet was cheap. The phone lines existed and
most Americans could read and write. As we have gone on, the cost of
further productivity gains have escalated as new infrastructure has to
be built out and new skills mastered. Again, this is phenomenon that
social science has documented for a long time. Marx, while not framing
it the same way, was talking about it in the surplus value of labor
theory.

The fact is, we have about as much health care as we need. Until
genetics begins to offer up solutions that reset the baselines, spending
more on current health care is a negative investment. That’s the defect
of the central planning model of Europe. There’s no hope for new
technologies to reset the baselines and spur new high return
investments. It’s why all the heavy lifting is done in the US these
days.

This brings me back to the supply and demand aspect. Rationing is best
done by price. People want BMW’s more than they want Dodge Darts and
that is reflected in the price. No everyone can have a BMW so the
clearing price determines who gets a BMW. In the American health care
system, this process is retarded by government intervention. The result
is rising prices and diminishing services. That’s the real death spiral,
the death spiral of the monopolist.

America has the greatest health care system on earth. It is super cheap,
with lots of options and a high degree of customer satisfaction. It is
called veterinary medicine. American pets get better health care that
95% of the world population for pennies. The reason is there are few
barriers to suppliers so there are many options along the price curve.
There’s also incentives to innovate. My Vet has world class lab
equipment because it helps attract business.

But, we would rather pamper our pets and starve out children than accept
the reality of the human condition.
