---
title: "The Backlash™"
date: "2015-10-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5724"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5724"
---

I have a friend, who is a typical moonbat in that he repeats all the
current opinions in The Hive, but insists he reasoned his way to these
positions. On more than a few occasions I have pointed out to him that
his “reasoned opinion” is identical to what is in the lefty media, often
word for word. The result is silence as members of a cult just filter
out anything that contradicts the faith.

This is a common feature of mass movements. The people inside don’t
think of themselves as members of cult. They think the opinions and
beliefs they adopted from the movement were arrived out by reason. They
don’t notice that their opinions are identical to their coreligionists.
They just think the people who think like them are smart like them. This
insider/outsider mentality is a feature of every cult.

You see this in the Cult’s never ending fear of The Backlash™ that has
become a staple of modern news stories. After 9/11, all of the moonbats
were wringing their hands, fearing that the sight of the Trade Center in
rubble would cause those evil white men in the provinces to go bonkers
and attack innocent Muslims, who just want to live in peace because
Islam is the religion of peace. After all, nothing is worse than The
Backlash™.

This obsession with The Backlash™ was on display with [Clock
Boy](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/10/23/clock-boy-mohamed-finally-shows-his-suspect-device/)
in Texas. The narrative says Texas is the epicenter of evil white men so
they must really hate Muslims. If The Backlash™ is going to appear
anywhere, it will be Texas, or maybe South Carolina, when they are not
busy hanging negroes. That’s why the Cult was so easy for Clock Boy’s
old man to troll. He grew up around fanatics. He knows how they tick,
pun intended.

The frustrating thing about The Backlash™, from the point of view of the
Cult, is that there is no such thing as The Backlash™. It’s imaginary.
That’s why it fails to show up and do its thing as all the prophesies
predict. The solution is to simply fake it so the faithful will not lose
faith and there is no better place to do it than the college campus.

The American college campus is a land of make believe where every sort
of lefty lunacy is celebrated and indulged. Professors who are not
sufficiently enthusiastic for the latest fads are hounded mercilessly.
Those who are not of the One True Faith keep their heads down and avoid
notice, fearing the lunatics in the same way people avoid the <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Committee_for_the_Promotion_of_Virtue_and_the_Prevention_of_Vice_%28Saudi_Arabia%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Religious Police</a> in Saudi Arabia.

That’s why the list of
<a href="http://www.thecollegefix.com/post/20532/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">college hoaxes</a> is so long. You have the highest
density of fanatics, absolutely convinced The Backlash™is going to
appear at any moment,
<a href="http://www.campusreform.org/?ID=6921" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">so it is conjured</a>.

*A coalition of interest groups wants the U.S. Department of Education
to require colleges to monitor social media and protect students from
threatening and offensive comments.*

*The request was made last week by 72 women’s and civil rights groups,
who claimed that harassment and threats on anonymous apps like Yik Yak
are an emerging Title IX issue, according to Inside Higher Ed. “Students
on college campuses throughout the country have with increasing
frequency used anonymous social media applications, such as Yik Yak, to
target women students, students of color, and sexual minorities with
harassment, threats, and other forms of intimidation with impunity,” the
coalition said in a press release. “Earlier this year, students at the
University of Mary Washington (UMW), for example, were threatened
through Yik Yak with rape and murder after they spoke out against rape
culture.”*

*The groups complain that the typical response to such incidents by
university administrators has been “to disclaim responsibility for
harassment and threats that occur on that platform” because the site is
anonymous and accessible without using university servers.*

*In the UMW case, Feminists United on Campus (FUC) and Feminist Majority
Foundation (FMF), both members of the coalition requesting federal
intervention, filed a Title IX suit against the school, charging
administrators with a “systemic failure to protect students from a
sexually hostile school environment, from sex-based cyber assaults, and
from threats of physical and sexual violence.”*

The pattern is always the same. The lunatics make a nuisance of
themselves and then say they are the victim of The Backlash™, claiming
death threats or now, rape threats. In this case we have two imaginary
bogeymen, The Rape Culture™ and The Backlash™. The Social Justice League
is real, but it’s enemies are not as there is no such thing as a rape
culture or a backlash.

These prurient scolds calling their group Feminists United on Campus
(FUC) cannot see how this looks to normal people. They lack that
capacity. They think they are being provocative, when they are simply
being vulgar. The insider/outsider logic, however, only sees the
outsider as an undifferentiated other. The people inside the group all
think it is funny and meaningful and that’s all that matters.
