---
title: "The Greek Complexity Problem"
date: "2015-04-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4186"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4186"
---

Watching the Greeks cast about for a way to make math go away has been
fascinating to me. Everyone knows the Greeks can never repay their
debts. Everyone knows they will never make the reforms required to keep
receiving aid from the rest of Europe. Yet, everyone keeps pretending
otherwise and not just for appearances. It seems they really believe
that mathematics will yield to wishful thinking.

Anthropologists assume that in modern times, complex societies cannot
collapse. They can weaken and go through a process of reform, but they
cannot collapse. The reason is every society is adjacent to another
complex society. Collapse would lead to being taken over by a neighbor.
Even a screwed up society like Greece will suck it up and do what is
necessary to fix their walls and rebuild their core rather than become a
province of Turkey or Bulgaria.

But, we don’t know that. It is just assumed to be true because it has
always been true.  Things are true until they are not. Not so long ago,
it was inconceivable that a member state would face financial collapse
and now <a
href="http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c5964f9c-e1ef-11e4-bb7f-00144feab7de.html#axzz3XFLn6WzN"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Greeks are now preparing for
bankruptcy.</a>

[*Greece*](http://www.ft.com/intl/topics/places/Greece "Greece news headlines - FT.com")
*is preparing to take the dramatic step of declaring a debt default
unless it can reach a deal with its international creditors by the end
of April, according to people briefed on the radical leftist
government’s thinking.*

*The government, which is rapidly running out of funds to pay public
sector salaries and state pensions, has decided to withhold €2.5bn of
payments due to the International Monetary Fund in May and June if no
agreement is struck, they said.*

*“We have come to the end of the road . . . If the Europeans won’t
release bailout cash, there is no alternative \[to a default\],” one
government official said.*

*A [Greek
default](http://www.ft.com/indepth/greece-debt-crisis "Greece debt crisis in depth - FT.com")
would represent an unprecedented shock to Europe’s 16-year-old monetary
union only five years after Greece received the first of two EU-IMF
bailouts that amounted to a combined €245bn.*

*The warning of an imminent default could be a negotiating tactic,
reflecting the government’s aim of extracting the easiest possible
conditions from Greece’s creditors, but it nevertheless underlined the
reality of fast-emptying state coffers.*

*[Default](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/2e2e735e-d78c-11e4-94b1-00144feab7de.html "Spectre of Grexit back as cash runs out - FT.com")
is a prospect for which other European governments, irritated at what
they see as the unprofessional negotiating tactics and confrontational
rhetoric of the Greek government, have also begun to make contingency
plans.*

*In the short term, a default would almost certainly lead to the
suspension of emergency European Central Bank liquidity assistance for
the Greek financial sector, the closure of Greek banks, capital controls
and wider economic instability.*

*Although it would not automatically force Greece to drop out of the
eurozone, a default would make it much harder for [Alexis
Tsipras](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/4f522c4e-dc49-11e4-a6f7-00144feab7de.html "Alexis Tsipras’s soft fruit ploy with Moscow set to antagonise EU - FT.com"),
prime minister, to keep his country in the 19-nation area, a goal that
was part of the platform on which he and his leftist Syriza party won
election in January.*

No one really knows what will happen if the Greeks default. There will
be lots of hooting and hollering. Capital will rush out of the country
as Greeks try to stash their savings abroad, but that’s most happened
anyway. The banks will fail and close down. The economy, for a short
period will seize up. Civil unrest will be inevitable. A military coup
is not out of the question, as in times of turmoil, the guys with the
guns tend to have an edge.

To the average Greek, this could feel like the end to the world, but it
does not qualify as a collapse by the standards of anthropology. Greece
is in no risk of dissolving. A coup would just mean new leaders in
charge of the same society. Similarly, Tsipras crowning himself king
would simply be a modification of the organizational chart and small one
at that. Reform would simply be handed to an authoritarian.

It’s tempting to pin the reason for all of this on democracy. Critics of
democracy have always pointed to the quote allegedly from Alexander
Fraser Tyler, “A democracy is always temporary in nature; it simply
cannot exist as a permanent form of government. A democracy will
continue to exist up until the time that voters discover that they can
vote themselves generous gifts from the public treasury.” In short,
democracy becomes organized looting that accelerates into chaos.

That’s pithy and useful, I suppose, but not accurate. It’s easy to pin
the blame on the freeloaders and loafers. Democracy may increase their
influence, but it also strengthens more responsible elements in society
too. Modern elections are always over some problem that needs solving
and the winner is almost always the one promising a solution.

Even in Greece, the main parties representing the ruling elite tried to
force through changes in the face of their fiscal crisis. When all of
your options on the ballot are calling for the same things, democracy
has been suspended. It was only when the main parties failed to come up
with a way to address the crisis that the lunatic parties moved to the
fore, offering nothing of substance, just a catharsis.

It seems to me that what is happening in Greece is a part of a longer
process that is happening in the West. The Greeks joined the Euro for a
reason. The Euro, of course, was not created to give bureaucrats
something to do during the day. The whole project, including the
addition of Greece, was an attempt to solve a problem.

Publicly, the problem they claim to be addressing is the long history of
conflict in Europe. Economic cooperation, then a single currency and
eventually, political unity. That’s the part above the waves. The part
below the waves is the diminishing returns of the organizational model
developed over the last two centuries. They are grasping about for some
way to make work the mathematics of social democracy.

The math of social democracy is all about diminishing marginal returns.
The first big programs like public education and aid to the poor had big
returns, far more than the costs. Subsequent investments in complex
social management netted smaller returns, but still more than the costs.
Over time, the inertia of progress forced greater investment in
complexity, aimed at mitigated or ameliorating the human condition, well
past the point of diminishing returns.

In this regard, the Greeks are an example of what lies ahead for all of
Europe and the West. They joined the Euro because it looked like a
solution to their problem, but it only delayed the inevitable. Now they
desperately try to kick the can further down the road, but there’s not
much road left. What comes next is anyone’s guess. Perhaps it will
simply be a disorganized dismantling of decades of social complexity, a
national version of a reorganization through bankruptcy.
