---
title: "Grinding To A Halt"
date: "2015-02-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3874"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3874"
---

There’s an old bit that goes something like this. A community has a
problem and they turn to local experts for help solving it. The experts
come up with a plan, no one but the experts can understand, to tackle
the problem. The plan is implemented and the problem remains. Worse yet,
new problems arise from defects in the plan to solve the old problem.
New experts are brought in to solve the new problems. Coincidentally,
they happen to be proteges of the first experts. Their complex plan
cures the first problem, but adds new problems to the now growing list
of problems.

Some variation of this gag has been kicking around for as long as I can
remember. It’s usually a criticism of the role of experts, but it is is
a good example of what’s happened with government in the last couple of
decades.
<a href="http://mercatus.org/publication/rise-capita-federal-spending"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The steady rise in the size and scope of
government</a> is part of it. Each new generation of politicians needs
to have some reason to cut a ribbon, convene a commission or appoint a
czar. I think the Feds are up to 45 czars now, all of whom need a team
of experts to fix what the other czars have done.

It’s safe to say that the vast majority of experts are now employed by
the state to address the problems created by their mentors. The
ObamaCare bill, for example, was an overly complex solution to the
problems created by fifty years of previous government solutions.
There’s no money in just getting rid of the old defective solutions so
this cycle continues until the whole thing eventually collapses. Or,
grinds to a halt. The complexity reaches a point where no one can
predict the outputs from the inputs so everything stops.

Here’s a good example of how the <a
href="http://www.wired.com/2015/02/boston-partnering-waze-make-roads-less-nightmare/?mbid=social_twitter"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">gears eventually grind to a halt</a>.
Keep in mind that Boston has had near record snow, which has exposed the
public transportation boondoggles to enough stress to cause breakage.
The trains have not been running and bus service has bee halted in many
places. Money that should have been going to maintenance and repairs had
been diverted to batshit crazy schemes like the one in that link.

There are other problems, but they follow the same pattern. <a
href="http://mbta.com/uploadedfiles/Documents/Financials/Born_Broke.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This report</a> from five years ago
covers the rinse-repeat process of never solving a problem, but always
spending on new solutions. That’s an inherent problem with democracy.
The system attracts sociopaths, who get elected by showing off display
items purchased with tax payer money. Buying tools and spare parts for
the buses is boring. Showing off a new “smart initiative” with the
Google execs is a vote getter.

It gets worse as much of this stuff is financed with debt that the
government never intends to repay. The financial legerdemain required to
pay for these schemes creates downstream problems that eventually jam up
the gears like we see with the Greeks. At the state and local level, the
lack of a printing press means complex, laddered <a
href="http://www.bostonmagazine.com/news/blog/2012/02/29/mbta-big-dig-debt/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">borrowing schemes</a> that eventually
lead to insolvency. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/28/nyregion/to-pay-new-york-pension-fund-cities-borrow-from-it-first.html?pagewanted=all"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">New York allows cities and towns to
borrow</a> from their pension funds in order to pay their pension fund
obligations.

The galling thing is that most of the state and municipal problems can
be solved by the state and municipal governments doing their jobs as
they used to do fifty years ago. Cities need to police the streets, put
out fires, run the schools and keep the streets repaired. That’s it.
States have other things like ports and highways, but there are no new
challenges facing human societies that require novel solutions. But, the
sociopaths in politics can’t bray about those mundane things so they
launch new programs and abandon their duties.

It’s the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antoninus_Pius" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Antoninus</a> problem. Antoninus was the emperor who
followed Hadrian. Everyone knows something about Hadrian, the guy who
left the famous wall in Britain. No one knows anything about Antoninus
because nothing interesting happened in his 23 year reign. There were no
wars, great economic troubles or revolts. It was one of the most
peaceful and prosperous times for the empire. But, no one one remembers
him because nothing big happened. Our pols want to be remembered so they
are always casting about for something big to do.

The trouble is, layer after layer of new programs, new rules and new
departments eventually leads to paralysis. The people shivering in the
cold waiting for a bus or train in Boston are getting a taste of what’s
coming. In Massachusetts, RomneyCare, the great health care reform of a
decade ago, has made everything worse. Another rounds of “reform” and
they will have to leave the state to get health care as the whole system
will seize up. That’s where it is all headed.

 
