---
title: "The Carnival of Lunacy"
date: "2015-11-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5784"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5784"
---

One of the reasons I like the formulation “custodial state” to describe
where the West is heading is it conjures in the mind the image of a
nursery school or kindergarten. Sometimes I’ll tack on the phrase “game
warden” to focus the mind on the image of a human zoo, like we saw in
the movie <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planet_of_the_Apes_%281968_film%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Planet of the Apes</a>.

This formulation has a lot of uses. When discussing technology, for
example, we see that much of it is about removing human to human
interaction and replacing it with robot to human interaction, with the
robot filling the role of the nanny who looks after the children.The
technology prevents the user from “making mistakes” or nudges them into
the preferred choices.

Warehouse automation, for example, is about technology babysitting the
employees so the supervisor does not have to do it. The magic barcode
scanner did not fall from the sky. Managers wanted a way to keep their
employees from making mistakes that did not require them correcting the
employees face to face. Instead, the software does it.

The point here is that we live in an age where adults are in retreat,
increasingly afraid to play the role that adults have played since the
dawn of time. Nowhere is this more obvious than the college campus.
There you find overgrown adolescents living a Peter Pan existence,
afraid of adulthood, lest they be thought of as old squares like their
parents.

This is on display in <a
href="http://espn.go.com/college-football/story/_/id/14078494/missouri-tigers-football-players-strike-embattled-tim-wolfe-resigns"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a> about race trouble at
Missouri University.

*A group of black players on the
[Missouri](http://espn.go.com/college-football/team/_/id/142/missouri-tigers)
football team says it will stop participating in football activities
until university system president Tim Wolfe resigns.*

*The announcement came via Twitter on Saturday night in a post by
Missouri’s <a
href="https://twitter.com/MizzouLBC/status/663177684428566532?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Legion of Black Collegians</a>. It comes
after several recent racial incidents on Missouri’s campus, and with
Wolfe under fire for how he has handled them.*

*The tweet included a photograph of 32 black men, including starting
running back [Russell
Hansbrough](http://espn.go.com/college-football/player/_/id/531382/russell-hansbrough).*

*“The athletes of color on the University of Missouri football team
truly believe ‘Injustice Anywhere is a threat to Justice Everywhere,'”
the tweet read. “We will no longer participate in any football related
activities until President Tim Wolfe resigns or is removed due to his
negligence toward marginalized students’ experiences. WE ARE
UNITED!!!!!”*

This is the result of adults allowing children run wild out of fear of a
monster of their own creation. Instead, the idiot coach is taking the
side of the players and the university officials are cowering. The
correct response is to explain to these players that regardless of what
is happening in the world, they have responsibilities. If they go on
strike, then they will be expelled and lose their scholarships.

Adults are supposed to teach children about responsibility. Taking a
brave stand on some issue that has nothing to do with you is fine, but
it’s only brave if you pay some price for it. More important, there’s
always a price, even when you don’t get a gold star for bravery from the
social justice warriors, so think carefully about your choices.

That would require the adults to act like adults and that’s never
happening on a college campus. Instead, they indulge every bit of
childish nonsense from the students, as well as the adults. So much so
they are willing to overlook <a
href="http://espn.go.com/blog/ncfnation/post/_/id/111520/otl-missouri-had-second-highest-number-of-athletes-alleged-in-sex-assaults"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a crime wave by athletes</a> in order to
have silly games to attend and, of course, not notice who is committing
the crimes.

*Missouri had 63 criminal cases involving 46 athletes \[between 2009 and
2014\]. Twelve athletes were involved in more than one incident, Outside
the Lines found, and Missouri had the second-highest number of
allegations of sexual assault, violence against women, and harassment.
Florida State had the most.*

One of their gentle giants named Dorial Green-Beckham (guess the race)
was a one man crime spree. In his two years at Missouri, Green-Beckham
was arrested twice for marijuana-related issues and was the subject of a
burglary investigation. In that last instance, that police report stated
he allegedly threw a woman down a flight of stairs. Nice guy.

The American college campus is a land of Eloi. The only difference
between the adults and the children is that the adults charge the
children an extended entrance fee to gain admittance. Otherwise, the
adults carry on like overgrown coeds. Since there are no real Morlocks
to fear, they invent them in the form of rape hoaxes and imaginary
racism. The result is a carnival of lunacy that mocks commonsense.

Perhaps the worst aspect of this is it encourages an ever widening
vortex of lunacy. Some students make a nuisance of themselves and the
adults do nothing. Then a group of overgrown adolescents in the faculty
decide to top it by making a bigger display on campus. <a
href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_UNIVERSITY_OF_MISSOURI_TURMOIL?SITE=AP&amp;SECTION=HOME&amp;TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&amp;CTIME=2015-11-09-07-30-50"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Missouri campus is now well on its
way to becoming Lord of Flies</a> because there are no adults to put
their foot down and call an end to it.

https://youtu.be/XvuM3DjvYf0
