---
title: "Wall Street Versus Americans"
date: "2015-06-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4751"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4751"
---

Back in the Clinton years, a main paleo-conservative argument was that
Wall Street had bought both parties. The tradition counters to big
business were unable to compete with the vast amounts of money pouring
into the parties from global corporations and their bankers. The old
conservative aphorism, “the trouble with capitalism is capitalists” had
given way to unanimous support for <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gramm%E2%80%93Leach%E2%80%93Bliley_Act"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Gramm-Leach</a>.

At the time, I was a little skeptical as it seemed to me that the rich
and powerful would always have the whip hand in politics. It has always
been thus so why should the future be any different? If America was
transitioning from an industrial power to a financial and technological
power, then the people in charge would the titans of finance and
technology.

I think that the thing that no one saw coming is the class awareness of
the global elite. For all of human history, the rich and powerful were
tied to their country of origin by blood, language and tradition. The
rootless cosmopolitan was a fringe character, never to be trusted. The
new elite are different in that they are much more like the rootless
cosmopolitan, with infinitely more money and, consequently, power.

The consequences are becoming apparent to many grassroots Republicans.
They rallied to give the GOP majorities in both houses only to see the
GOP embrace the Obama agenda with an enthusiasm of a fanatic. If you
trundled out to vote in 2010 and 2014 and you don’t feel like a fool
right now, you’re not paying attention. Just wait until the court rules
against ObamaCare and the GOP rushes a fix through both houses. Maybe
then you’ll see.

If not, the people with the whip hand are about to make sure you know
who is running things now. Business Insider reports that the <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/wall-street-and-social-conservatives-2015-6"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">paymasters have grown tired of appeasing
the provincials and their primitive customs</a>.

*For years, when it came to presidential candidates, Wall Street made
huge compromises in order to support the Republican Party.*

*The money men in New York City set aside their socially liberal views
in order to support fiscally conservative candidates because that was
the only way to get on the same page as the GOP base.*

*The result has been a series of candidates Wall Street’s big donors
didn’t really want.*

*It seems those donors are getting tired of that outcome.*

*Hedge fund billionaire Leon Cooperman recently vented his frustration
with this arrangement on an episode of [Wall Street
Week.](http://wallstreetweek.com/watch/?cat=full-episodes)*

*“I tend to be more Republican in my views, but socially very liberal.
**I’m going to have trouble with any Republican that does not disavow a
fixation with social issues,”** he said.*

*“Republicans have to understand that because young people in our
country are not grabbed by those issues.”*

*“Republicans have to understand that because young people in our
country are not grabbed by those issues.”*

*Republican candidates are not getting the message.*

*In fact, some social conservatives are actually hardening their stances
before a new wave of younger voters has the mass to make a difference at
the polls.*

*A recent Pew Research poll found that Republican Conservatives are the
only group in America who have become [less accepting of homosexuality
over the last two
years.](http://www.businessinsider.com/pew-homosexuality-poll-accepted-discouraged-breakdown-2015-6)*

*This is not what Wall Street wants to see.*

As an aside, the obsession over young people is a strange psychosis that
you don’t see in the history books. Up until the birth of mass culture,
people just assumed young people did not know enough to be trusted so
they had to be taught. Suddenly, that got flipped on its head and
everyone claims to be living on a knife’s edge over the choices made by
teenagers.

Anyway, the old crime thinkers who were run out of conservative politics
decades ago are being proven correct about the culture war. Culture
trumps everything. The plutocrats living off the financial system will
do business with the either party, but they will favor those who share
their worldview. Leon Cooperman will give money to Elizabeth Warren over
Ted Cruz because Warren is better for the gays.

If you look at how the people who invented Christianity converted
Europe, you’ll see it was not a bottom up approach. They went for the
top guys, knowing they would compel their people to convert. That’s
exactly how Augustine went about converting the Anglo-Saxons. He
baptized Æthelberht, the king of Kent, assuming the people would follow.

That’s a lesson to consider here. The people in charge of the two
political parties are wholly owned by the financial class. That
financial class is culturally at odds with the people, but they control
the means of public expression, as well as the dominant cultural
institutions. History says they win, no matter how many times you vote
Republican.
