---
title: "Fake War Nerd"
date: "2015-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3693"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3693"
---

I would not consider myself a regular reader of the War Nerd blog. I
probably check in once a month or so when I am regularly reading it. In
fact, I went a long time not reading it until John Derbyshire mentioned
it a few months back. The fact is there are too many sites and too many
writers to keep up with all of them regularly. I have a lot of interests
so I’ll drift away from a site or a writer if they are not writing about
what is interesting to me at the time.

Anyway, Derb’s mention of the War Nerd brought me back to it. The other
day <a
href="http://pando.com/2015/01/19/the-war-nerd-getting-women-warriors-wrong/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this entry</a> got my attention. Reading
it, my bullshit detector was pegged to eleven. Right out of the shoot,
this struck me as very weird from someone claiming to be living in
Kuwait.

*I read a long article called <a
href="http://www.newrepublic.com/article/119772/my-night-afghanistans-only-female-warlord-commander-pigeon"
class="external" rel="noopener" target="_blank">“My Terrifying Night
with Afghanistan’s Only Female Warlord”</a> last month. It was utter
crap, and so similar to a lot of utter crap I’ve been reading about the
women fighters of the Kurdish YPJ militia in Syria that I realized it’s
time somebody called foul on the offensive, ignorant crap going around
about what the media likes to call “women warriors.” I don’t
particularly enjoy the role of progressive scold, and it don’t hardly
come natural to me, but somebody’s gotta do it.*

*What happens, in every case where writers and TV reporters with no
background in military reporting try to describe “women warriors” is
that they sexualize everything, ignore the real context, and betray a
deep misogyny in every word they write or speak on camera. I mean, to
the point that it’s surprising, at least to me, because a lot of these
people make a big deal about being progressive. I’m kinda shocked,
actually, how crude their gender bias is. Nobody seems to be even trying
to hide it.*

That’s not the voice of the usual guy writing about the <a
href="http://pando.com/2014/11/27/a-war-nerd-thanksgiving-all-you-drunks-be-thankful-youre-not-in-kuwait/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">drinking in Kuwait</a> or the <a
href="http://pando.com/2014/12/18/the-war-nerd-more-proof-the-us-defense-industry-has-nothing-to-do-with-defending-america/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">bureaucratic insanity</a> of the American
defense procurement system. Instead, it sounds like a middle-aged white
women from a typical American state college. The word “sexualize” is the
thing. You only ever hear that from lefty scolds in the academy.

Then there is this:

*I’m an American, and it wasn’t until I’d lived in the Middle East for
years that I could see just how American I was, above all in my notions
about gender and bodies. Americans see everything as a sexual hierarchy,
and that seems so natural to us that you have to work very hard to
realize it’s not a universal human pattern of thought, but a
particularly American one. Percy hasn’t taken that time, doesn’t even
know she needed to if she was to see what this Tajik matriarch is doing.
The results…well, they’re pretty durn funny, and then infuriating, by
turns.*

That’s the sort of thing a young writer pens when they are trying to
write travel fiction from their parents vacation house. It’s the sort of
thing a non-traveler thinks experienced travelers have learned. It just
sounds fake to me. The bit about how Americans “see everything as a
sexual hierarchy” is right out of the womyn’s studies department of
third rate state college. It’s the sort of line I write when making
sport of feminism.

That led me to consult wiki.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gary_Brecher" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Wiki on the blogger</a> is fascinating and I feel
confirms my suspicion. This bit is what I mean:

*Gary Brecher is the pseudonym of John Dolan, author of The War Nerd, a
twice-monthly column discussing current wars and other military
conflicts, published originally in the eXile, then NSFWCorp, and
currently in PandoDaily. A collection of his columns was published by
Soft Skull Press in June 2008 .*

When you look up
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Dolan_%28writer%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">John Dolan</a> you get this:

*John Dolan was born in Denver, Colorado in 1955. Dolan taught and
studied at UC Berkeley, where he completed a PhD thesis on the literary
writing of the Marquis de Sade.*

*He has published poems in many US and New Zealand literary journals and
his first collection won the Berkeley Poetry Prize in 1988. In 1993, he
moved to Dunedin, New Zealand, where he lectured at the University of
Otago. During his time in Dunedin, Dolan contributed regularly to the
Otago literary journal Deep South. In 2001 Dolan resigned his academic
post, and moved to Moscow to become co-editor of the eXile, a bi-weekly
English-language publication based there. He was the first reviewer of A
Million Little Pieces by James Frey, a bestseller featured on Oprah’s
monthly bookclub, to correctly expose this alleged memoir as fraudulent
years before that was officially brought to light (the title of Dolan’s
review was “A Million Pieces of Shit” and the first line was “This is
the worst thing I have ever read”) . He is married to his former
student, Katherine Liddy. Dolan relocated to Canada to teach at the
University of Victoria in Canada in 2006. He claims to have been fired
for encouraging students to criticize George Monbiot in 2008. Until
spring 2010, Dolan was an associate professor of English composition and
literature at the American University of Iraq – Sulaimani. He was fired
in 2010 and wrote a lengthy article on his experience there.*

I don’t want to belabor it, but it seems pretty clear that the guy
behind the War Nerd blog is mostly full of baloney. He had a brief time
in Iraq a few years ago and has created a fictional character as the
blogger “War Nerd.” That’s my sense of it, least ways. The reason some
of the posts sound like the howlings of a third wave feminist is they
are probably written by his wife and former student.

Maybe this is old news and I’m late to the party. Like I said, I’m an
infrequent reader. Still, just goes to show that you can’t take anything
at face value.
