---
title: "Israel"
date: "2015-09-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5525"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5525"
---

Someone asked me the other day if I supported Israel. Specifically they
asked “Would you say you are a supporter of Israel or not?” This implies
it is a binary issue. My interlocutor thinks you are either fully in
support of the country or against it. I may be misinterpreting his
intentions, but that was my reading of the question.

My answer was that I had no strong feelings about Israel, one way or the
other, but I wished her the best. I have the same emotional response as
I would if the topic were Canada or Lichtenstein. Israel is a country
just like any other country. Where her interests coincide with the
interest of my country, I expect my government to work with Israel.
Where our interests collide, I expect my government to put our interests
first.

That’s a cutesy pie answer that is not entirely honest. I’m a human
being born into a culture and therefore I have a cultural outlook. Like
any normal American, for example, I don’t care for the French. They
could be building the paleo-conservative utopia over there and I would
have a tough time cheering for them. On the other hand, I’ll always root
for the Brits, even when they are doing stupid things.

The reason, of course, is that the Brits are a lot like Americans.
Familiarity and a commonly held sensibility makes it easy for Brits and
Americans to get along. That’s where I come down on Israel and the
Middle East. I’ve known a lot of Jews and I’ve done business with
Israelis. They are familiar to me and I have some insight into their
world view and I can navigate it. Arabs, on the other hand,  are
inscrutable and <a
href="http://qz.com/506932/saudi-arabia-is-preparing-to-behead-and-crucify-a-21-year-old-activist/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">their ways</a> often strike my western
mind as barbaric.

*A young Saudi Arabian Shi’a activist, who was sentenced to death last
year, has lost his final appeal for justice and is due to be executed by
beheading, followed by the mounting of his headless body onto a crucifix
for public viewing.*

*Human rights groups and Saudi critics are appalled by both the nature
of the execution and the flimsy case against Ali Mohammed al-Nimr,
though neither of these factors are unusual in today’s Saudi Arabia.*

*Al-Nimr was arrested in 2012, at age 17, in the predominantly Shia
province of Qatif, and accused of participating in anti-government
protests and possessing illegal firearms. He has repeatedly denied the
latter charge, although he was reportedly tortured into confessing the
offenses after his arrest. According to Amnesty International, al-Nimr
spent a short time in a juvenile detention facility before being
transferred to prison when he turned 18, and was sentenced to death in
2014.*

*Al-Nimr was likely targeted because he is the nephew of Sheikh Nimr
Baqir al-Nimra, a prominent Shi’a cleric who was also sentenced to death
in 2014. Al-Nimr’s father is also a political activist.*

*“Ali was a vulnerable child when he was arrested and this ordeal
began,” said Maya Foa of the legal charity Reprieve, in a statement.
“His execution—based apparently on the authorities’ dislike for his
uncle, and his involvement in anti-government protests—would violate
international law and the most basic standards of decency. It must be
stopped.”*

*US talk show host Bill Maher raised al-Nimr’s situation on television a
few days ago, encouraging viewers to stop fretting about the American
Muslim who was arrested for bringing a clock to school and instead show
some concern for the Saudi who’s going to be crucified for attending a
protest. “If you haven’t used up all your heroism hashtagging for the
clock kid, maybe do it for this guy,” Maher said.*

I’ll stipulate that my bias here , which comes from ignorance, probably
excludes the very real crimes committed by this guy. I’ll also stipulate
that the death penalty is seen as a reasonable punishment by most
people. I’ll even go so far as to accept beheading as humane, assuming
it is swift like the guillotine. As a matter of science, there can be no
more humane way of killing someone than the swift removal of their head.

Where I draw the line is on displaying the corpse. The story calls it
crucifixion in order to elicit strong feelings from their intended
audience. The use of the <a
href="https://books.google.com/books?id=RedBBAAAQBAJ&amp;pg=PT318&amp;lpg=PT318&amp;dq=w%C3%A6lsteng&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=AsHqhPSgMJ&amp;sig=rJmDAYsPrx4y2fFM9_BlVjt5Wdw&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ved=0CCQQ6AEwAWoVChMIkYuxu56SyAIVSKUeCh2-rwtd#v=onepage&amp;q=w%C3%A6lsteng&amp;f=false"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"><span class="st">wælsteng </span></a>went
out of fashion in Europe about 1500 years ago. The last guy to make
regular use of this practice was
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vlad_the_Impaler" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Vlad the Impaler</a> and that was 600 years ago. He has
been remembered for his outlandish cruelty. In other words, we are well
past this sort of barbarism.

Israel is a country that is much more similar to what I know than are
the Muslim countries around her. Given the choice, I’ll root for the
Israelis, because to do so is to root for civilization, my civilization.
Israel is not perfect and there are plenty of bad Israelis. The Saudis
are stuck in the fifth century and most of the Near East is populated
with <a
href="http://abusaeedawlaki.tumblr.com/post/128405472143/culture-clash-understanding-the-syrian-race"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">people I never want to see in my
neighborhood</a>.

That said, this is a matter of degrees. I would just as soon never have
to think of the entire region and the people from that region. It is
like picking between gruel with bits of insect in it and gruel that
looks insect free. I’m not enthusiastic for either option, but one is
better than the other. That is how I feel about Israel. if I’m forced to
choose between  the Jews and Arabs, then I reluctantly pick the Jews,
but I would much prefer it if such a choice was never on the menu.
