---
title: "The L Word"
date: "2015-06-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4682"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4682"
---

No, this is not a post about <a
href="http://allenbwest.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/141231-hillary-clinton-mn-2130_14257f8a4ebbc2bf8806b492060dd415.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">lesbians</a>. I’m talking about Liberals.
Well, that’s the term the Wall Street Journal still uses for the people
of the New Religion. According to <a
href="http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2015/06/07/liberals-make-big-comeback-in-2015-poll-analysis-finds/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this post on their site</a>, Liberals are
enjoying a renaissance of late.

*There are signs that liberals are making a comeback — and not just
because a socialist is running for president, gay marriage is spreading
like wildfire and pot legalization is gaining acceptance.*

*A new analysis of Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll data finds a marked
 increase in the share of registered voters identifying themselves as
liberals, and an even bigger drop in the share saying they are
conservatives.*

*In three national polls conducted so far in 2015, the analysis found
that 26% of registered voters identified themselves as liberals — up
from 23% in 2014. At the same time, the share of voters identifying as
conservatives dropped to 33% from 37% in 2014.*

*<img
src="http://si.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-IU001_LIBCON_G_20150605150858.jpg"
class="size-full wp-image-5" decoding="async" width="553"
height="369" />*

The defect in this sort of thing is that no one bothers to define the
terms. To the people of the WSJ editorial board, conservative means
global capitalism, open borders and permanent war on the periphery of
the empire. To
<a href="http://www.unz.com/article/what-is-a-conservative-these-days/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">old guys who were once regarded as
typical conservatives in America</a>, none of this makes the least bit
of sense. Today’s conservatism looks a lot like what was called
liberalism 35 years ago when Reagan ran for president.

That would, in part, explain why more people are inclined to say they
are liberal. If the people calling themselves conservative are embracing
most of the liberal causes, the only way to remain on the trendy left is
to race further into the extremes. On the other hand, people like me no
longer describe ourselves as conservative because we are at odds with
everything the modern conservative supports.

That’s what never gets picked up on these sorts of surveys. Using a
two-dimensional scale for describing ideological inclination is fine,
but ours was defined for the purpose of reinforcing Progressive
identity. At one of their spectrum is Hitler and at the other is Stalin.
The former is a typical person outside the hive, while the latter is a
well intentioned, but horribly maligned member of the one true faith.

The result of this bizarre left-right axis is that the folks at Reason
Magazine are on the same side as Hitler, a socialist and nationalist. It
places Mussolini and FDR at extreme opposites ends, when both men
greatly admired one another until you know who came along. The fact that
modern Progressives fully embrace the corporatism of European fascists
is another paradox of this way of thinking.

I suspect there’s something else going on now. This Great Progressive
Awakening has not followed others. There’s no sense that we are about to
see a return to normalcy and a snap back toward traditional American
patterns. Christianity has collapsed in America and is no longer an
anchor of the culture. In 1968 Nixon could count on the silent majority.
In the 70’s the Evangelical movement joined politics, leading to the
Moral Majority that helped elect Reagan.

Today, nothing like that exists. Evangelicals are spent as a political
force. The Catholic Church is in tatters with most of its members either
worshiping the NFL on Sunday or ready for the grave. The mainline
Protestant faiths are dead, for all practical purposes. The culture has
been turned over to homosexuals and blacks, whose extreme intolerance of
normalcy makes even the cartoon villains of the Civil Rights Movement
look tame.

If you pay any attention, no one could blame you for thinking that it is
all over. The lunatics have won and it is now an uninterrupted slide
into the abyss. Young people could not be blamed for joining the winning
team and making the best of it. They have lives to live. This is, after
all, how Christianity spread in Europe.
