---
title: "Burning Man"
date: "2015-06-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4825"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4825"
---

There’s an old gag in DC about and it goes something like this. The city
seizes a building for tax reasons and while the tax case is being
litigated they will have to take care of the building. They put up a
fence and hire a security guard.

It becomes clear that they need more than one guard so they hire a team
of them to guard the building 24×7. Those guards need a supervisor so
they hire one of those and an administrator to process their paperwork.
Each year the budget for the building security staff gets bigger and
they add staff until one day Congress cuts their budget so they lay off
the security guards.

Some variation of that gag has been kicking around, I bet, since
Diocletian. Bureaucracy tends to proves things about human nature that
the people in favor of bureaucracy vigorously deny.

One of those things is that humans are naturally tribal. Group a bunch
of strangers under a banner and they will quickly be a team. Give them a
common incentive and they will quickly acquire a collective identity
that transcends their individual identities.

It’s why bureaucracies become self-aware. The people inside soon put the
needs of the group ahead of all else, including the stated purpose of
the group. The people at your local department of motor vehicles
(Ministry of Transport for my British readers) are more focused on
what’s good for the department than on serving the public.

<a
href="http://apnews.myway.com/article/20150626/us-burning-man-requests-6a7736905f.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a> from the
upcoming Burning Man.

*Burning Man festival organizers are pushing back after the U.S. Bureau
of Land Management requested upgraded accommodations for its officials
at this year’s event in the Nevada desert.*

*The federal agency asked for flush toilets, washers and dryers, hot
water, air conditioning, vanity mirrors, refrigerators and couches at
its on-site camp, called the Blue Pit, The Reno Gazette-Journal reported
(http://on.rgj.com/1GxU4Bb) Friday. The toilets are also to be cleaned
daily by Burning Man staff.*

*Festival leaders have refused the request, saying those amenities alone
would cost $1 million and hike its permit fees to about $5 million.
Burning Man holds the largest special-recreation permit in the country,
but its cost has steadily increased in recent years. In 2011, the permit
fees were $858,000.*

*“We want to work this out. We’re getting close to the event, but we
feel that there are more common-sense and cost-effective solutions,”
Burning Man spokesman Jim Graham said.*

*But the Bureau of Land Management said state and federal officials will
use the accommodations and that they’re needed for security. Staff was
added after a fatal crash last year, according to the Reno
Gazette-Journal.*

*“It’s safe to say that if you were working 14 to 16 hours a day in
white-out conditions on the hot playa, you don’t want them to be
unrested. Safety, security and health are paramount. That, I will not
forgo,” said Gene Seidlitz, the bureau’s Winnemucca District Manager.*

*It’s a preliminary proposal and a compromise is possible. But Seidlitz
said Burning Man leaders hadn’t yet outlined their issues.*

*After the Reno Gazette-Journal’s report, U.S. Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada
weighed in with a letter to Interior Department Secretary Sally Jewell.
He called the requested accommodations unprecedented, extravagant and
“outlandishly unnecessary.”*

In other words, the BLM wants to build a vacation land for their people
at the expense of the event organizer. In a few years they will get
their congressman and senators to sneak this into the budget so
permanent vacation facilities will be build for them. BLM employees will
be planning their family vacations around working Burning Man.

In the last few decades, America has seen the government class become
self-aware. Spend any time around DC and what jumps out is the mass of
government contractors. These business often do nothing more than
provide services to government employees. The extravagant pay and
benefits has made the region around the Imperial Capital one of the most
expensive areas on earth.

What’s clear is the game now is to loot as much from the dwindling
middle-class as possible. The government class is one group doing the
looting. In theory government is supposed to guard against monied
interests looting the country. Instead they are one of the looters.
