---
title: "Managerial Meta Language"
date: "2015-03-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4073"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4073"
---

David Brooks fills the William Safire chair at the Times. That means he
fills the role of “good conservative”, as imaged by the Left. That means
he will disagree with orthodoxy, but always avoiding anything that may
vex his paymasters. His job is to put a little shine on their otherwise
dreary conventional liberalism.

Since most of what’s important has been ruled off-limits, Brooks has to
root around for something about which he can write in a non-liberal way.
I don’t think you can call Brooks a conservative. He’s more of a faculty
lounge elitist. He may think his coevals are nuts, but he’ll take them
over <a
href="http://www.glaad.org/sites/default/files/phil-robertson-duck-dynasty.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this guy</a> any day.

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/17/opinion/skills-in-flux.html?hp&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;module=c-column-top-span-region&amp;region=c-column-top-span-region&amp;WT.nav=c-column-top-span-region&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Last week he had this up</a> and for some
reason people were discussing it. Here is the opening graph:

*Several years ago, Doug Lemov began studying videos of excellent
teachers. He focused not on their big strategies but on their
microgestures: How long they waited before calling on students to answer
a question (to give the less confident students time to get their hands
up); when they paced about the classroom and when they stood still
(while issuing instructions, to emphasize the importance of what’s being
said); how they moved around the room toward a student whose mind might
be wandering.*

This is classic Brooks. He starts with a reference to some obscure guy
tickling the feet of managerial class types. Then he touches on the high
points so you believe he has spent a lot of time on the subject and then
it is off to the usual stuff about the usual stuff. That means lots of
catch phrases and new age word combinations.

The managerial class is adopting their own meta-language.
<a href="http://www.atrixnet.com/bs-generator.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I blame the MBA schools</a> for most of it, but it has
an internal momentum now. For example, later in the piece he writes:

*Since it is easier to think deductively, most people try to turn cloud
problems into clock problems, but a few people are able to look at a
complex situation, grasp the gist and clarify it by naming what is going
on.*

*Such people tend to possess negative capacity, the ability to live with
ambiguity and not leap to premature conclusions. They can absorb a
stream of disparate data and rest in it until they can synthesize it
into one trend, pattern or generalization.*

I have a 1% IQ and I have no idea what he is getting at, at least with
any certainty. Maybe he means that some people are big idea guys and
others are “make the big ideas work” guys. The phrase “negative
capacity” is a phrase without meaning, at least in English.

*We can all think of many other skills that are especially valuable
right now:*

*Making nonhuman things intuitive to humans. This is what Steve Jobs
did.*

This is classic signalling. We’re suppose to believe that before Steve
Jobs, we were all staggering around like zombies, banging into one
another.

*Purpose provision.* Many people go through life overwhelmed by options,
afraid of closing off opportunities. But a few have fully cultivated
moral passions and can help others choose the one thing they should
dedicate themselves to.

I’m at a loss as to what this is supposed to mean.

*Opposability.* F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote, “The test of a first-rate
intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in mind at the
same time and still retain the ability to function.” For some reason I
am continually running across people who believe this is the ability
their employees and bosses need right now.

I doubt Brooks knows many plumbers or computer programmers. In fields
where there is a tangible work product, holding the right answer in mind
is what the boss needs right now.

*Cross-class expertise.* In a world dividing along class, ethnic and
economic grounds some people are culturally multilingual. They can
operate in an insular social niche while seeing it from the vantage
point of an outsider.

Is it possible for someone to be more insular than David Brooks and his
coevals at the Times? Even monks in a monastery mix it up with the hoi
polloi more than the trust fund babies at the Times.

When I started this post, I was going to riff on the general
crackpottery about new ways of thinking, but the weird use of language
got me side tracked. If you are ever in a room with these people, it is
like being the one zebra without stripes. But, that’s the point. You’re
not supposed to feel like you belong unless you belong.

We are in the consolidation phase now. The managerial class is closing
ranks and blowing the bridges and tunnels connecting them with the rest
of us. If you find yourself on the wrong side of the river when the
bridge is blown, you’re
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Left_Behind" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">left behind</a>. That’s why the people who read David
Brooks read David Brooks. They need to know which way the herd is going.
<a href="http://southpark.cc.com/clips/165200/canada-wins"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Maybe the Canadians have the right
idea</a>.
