---
title: "IQ Science Versus The Left"
date: "2015-04-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - IQ
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4291"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4291"
---

<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/estimating-iq-with-brain-scans/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Steve Sailer has a post up on IQ</a> that
hits on a favorite theme. One of the things I have always found amusing
about the HBD world is their naivete about the people in charge. This is
a common problem on the Right and is found a little with the handful of
thoughtful Progressives. They think that being right is enough. That
eventually, the rightness of their science has to prevail over the
oogily-boogily of the Standard Social Science Model.

Unless and until IQ science, HBD or even plain old evolution, becomes
useful to the prevailing ideology, it will remain in an intellectual
backwater. That’s too hard to accept so they often fall back on the myth
of Galileo. That is, Galileo triumphed over the Catholic Church because
his science was irrefutable.

The trouble with that, in addition to being untrue, is that the
prevailing ideology of today is not as generous in spirit as the
Catholic Church.The Church leaders in the Middle Ages were not
anti-science. They were responsible for rescuing much of the knowledge
from antiquity so that science could blossom. No, they were concerned
about the orderly working of society, the faith of the people being a
big part, the part concerning the Church. Fumbling through it was their
responsibility and their burden.

The reigning ideology of today is a different animal. Cultural Marxism
shares much more in common with Islam, in this regard. It’s Islam
without an afterlife. The faithful, instead of living in bliss after
death, can live happily in *this life*. Similarly, the unfaithful, the
heretics and the blasphemers, will suffer in *this life*. What completes
the circle are the ideological enforcers, sorting the chosen from the
damned. Guess who fills that role.

Science really does not fit into this ideology. Egalitarianism, however,
fits quite nicely. Everyone is equal and therefore unequal outcomes
means someone is benefiting at the expense of another. That can be proof
that the one is pious while the other a heretic. That also keeps
everyone doubling down on the one true faith in an effort to reach the
utopian end point, where all that is left are those in perfect equality.

It also is a never ending source of dragons to slay. Inequality is
caused by *someone*. If it is not the impiety of the less, then it must
be the impiety of the superior. Attacking that inequity becomes a holy
cause. Egalitarianism, therefore, takes up the slack that the super
natural used to handle in the olden thymes.

The other problem is that the people will never accept the implicit
determinism of HBD and IQ science. No one wants to believe they were
decanted as a ‘Gamma’, ‘Delta’ or ‘Epsilon’ so they will never believe
it. If we started using IQ tests to sort school children into
appropriate tracks, there would be riots. SWPL-ville mothers would
demand some way to game the system so their little flower can be at
least a beta.

The narcotic of egalitarianism is more potent than science. It’s not so
strong down here at the bottom of the social order. Here. reality is
simply too vibrant to deny. In the plusher suburbs of the middle-class,
that’s not the case. They get to ape the mannerisms and ideas of the
managerial elite and believe that one day their little angel will
something better than them.

In fairness, believing nonsense has not been a deterrent to material
progress. Perhaps one day the people in charge will be of another
ideological persuasion that embraces IQ science and biological realism.
I will not see it in my lifetime. Instead, crime thinkers like Steve
Sailer will be forced to slave away in the mines at the edges of
society.

That’s probably the natural order.
