---
title: "Non-payment of BBC License"
date: "2015-04-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4207"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4207"
---

Here’s the difference between America and Europe. In the States, a TV
tax would never fly. Instead, the government taxes the TV makers, the
cable guys, the content providers, etc. Then they force the providers
into including channels no one would ever watch like PBS or CNN. All of
this shows up in the monthly bill. We like our taxes hidden so we can
pretend to be free.

In Europe, they prefer their authoritarianism straight. In the UK, the
man taxes you for TV service, regardless of your type of service. That
tax goes to fund government agit-prop pumped out by the BBC. If you
don’t pay the tax, they throw you in prison. That’s right. They don’t
cut off the service. <a
href="http://www.adamsmith.org/blog/media-culture/non-payment-of-bbc-licence-fee-accounts-for-10-of-prosecutions/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They throw you in jail. Over 10% of
criminal cases are for failure to pay the TV tax</a>.

*The BBC is responsible for more than one in 10 criminal prosecutions.
Culture Secretary Sajid Javid reports that 10% of magistrate court cases
are for non-payment of the BBC licence fee. Non-payment is a criminal
offence, punishable by a fine of up to £1,000. Every week about 3,000
people are fined for non-payment, and about one person a week is jailed
for non-payment of the fine.*

*Women make up about 70% of those prosecuted and convicted, and half of
those jailed for not paying the fine. When people fail to pay other
utilities, such as energy companies, they are guilty of a civil offence,
not a criminal one, and they cannot be prosecuted and fined for falling
behind with their payments. Civil action can be taken for recovery, but
without fines and jail terms.*

*Several newspapers have had reporters visit magistrate’s court to
describe what goes on. They all tell harrowing stories of frightened,
distressed people, mostly women, facing fines they cannot pay under
threat of imprisonment if they do not. Many are single mothers, many on
benefits. They have not paid the licence fee because they cannot afford
to. The sum of £145.50 per year is huge for a young mother struggling to
feed and clothe children. Many weep in court, unable to pay the fine for
the same reason they couldn’t afford the licence fee; they don’t have
the money.*

*Everyone with a TV, except the over 75s, has to pay, whether or not
they watch BBC programmes. If people fail to pay for other services,
such as a Sky subscription, for example, the service is withdrawn
without them being taken to court and fined.*

The reason for this, of course, is to make sure every citizen is getting
their instructions. The BBC is about crowd control. TV serves the same
purpose in the US, it’s just funded indirectly. Still, I can cut the
cord and not pay anything. As an American, I will not be thrown in jail
for not watching the agit-prop beamed over TV.

America! Yeah! We’re number one!
