---
title: "The Die is Cast"
date: "2015-08-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5160"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5160"
---

Watching the GOP “debate” the other night, I started thinking about how
my bias will effect my judgement of the results. That’s what you always
see with these things. Everyone wears their bias on their sleeve. I know
Kasich fans who swear he carried the night. Trump fans are on twitter
claiming Trump had a good night. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/422247/donald-trump-republican-debates"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kevin Williamson needed his meds
doubled</a> in order to avoid being committed.

That last bit is a good example. Williamson hates Trump. It is an
irrational, unhinged hatred, which would be fine except that Trump is
doing well. Worse for Kevin is that his readers are mostly enjoying the
show and see Trump as a protest vote. The result is Kevin sounds like a
low-IQ lunatic. Bias can be very powerful stuff.

Anyway, I was watching and wondering how my bias is shaping my opinions.
I want to like Perry, but he’s just not very good so I’m probably doing
OK on that score. I want to like Walker and I’m probably willing to
overlook his wobbly responses to the important questions. I want to hate
Santorum, but I have to admit he says sensible things. I can at least
see why people like him.

The truth is I don’t have a big investment in the Republicans. Thinking
about my biases, that’s the conclusion I hit on. I’m probably more
invested in Kevin Williamson’s nervous breakdown over Trump, as I used
to enjoy reading Kevin’s columns. Who the GOP nominates for their guy is
simply not all that important to me. I’m just not that into them anymore
and they are not into guys like me either.

The last few elections, I went to vote out of habit and loyalty to the
old ways. I was born into a country where people, who were like me,
tried hard to win my vote. I now live in a country where people who hate
me and are nothing like me chase the votes of people who hate me.
Voting, for me, is mostly about remembering the way things used to be.
Occasionally there’s something on the under-card worth considering.

The other night, thinking about this stuff, I was reminded of <a
href="http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2013/06/21/the_case_of_the_missing_white_voters_revisited_118893.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this Sean Trende piece</a> from the last
election. This table explains Trump and it predicts who the GOP *must
pick* for their candidates in order to win:

<img
src="http://www.realclearpolitics.com/images/wysiwyg_images/chart5-6-21.gif"
data-border="0" decoding="async" width="489" height="145" />

Whites are starting to walk away from the process. Not all classes of
whites. The Trende piece shows that it is the rural and working class
whites, that is staying home. He characterizes them as the Perot vote,
which would now be called the Trump vote. The folks on the Dissident
Right, who would not be considered downscale in any other context, are
certainly a part of this dynamic.

My guess is the GOP’s biggest problem is with white men. I know a lot of
white guys who are generally disgusted with the Republicans. I was at
lunch the other day with men who are typical middle-class suburbanites.
The sort you think of as Chamber of Commerce types. All of them were fed
up with the GOP and they were talking about Trump. They know he is a
clown, but they’re just tired of the bullshit from the party.

Now, Trump will never be the nominee. That circus on Thursday night was
just the appetizer. While Trump helps Bush and the surrender wing of the
GOP right now, he is seen as an embarrassment so he has to go. Ideally,
from their perspective, the air goes out of his balloon in the fall and
he drops out over the holidays. That way he is a non-story for the
primaries.

Can they win without these voters?

Here are some math to consider. These are states along with their
electoral votes that are Democrat locks: WA(12), OR(7), CA(55), NM(5),
ME(4), NH(4), VT(3), MA(11), RI(4), CT(7), NY(29) NJ(14), MD(10), DE(3),
DC(3), HI(4). That’s 175 votes and they need 270 to win.That’s just the
states that are a mortal lock. The GOP will not even campaign for
president in these states.

Here are the “swing states” that the media locks in on every year.
CO(9), MN(10), WI(10), MI(16), IA(6), MO(10), OH(18), PA(20), VA(13),
NC(15), FL(15). That looks like a lot, but states like MN have not gone
GOP since the 70’s. Demographics say this can change, but until it does
there’s no reason to think it is going to in 2016. Adding back the heavy
leaners to the Democrat total you get 240 electoral votes.

The GOP has to sweep Ohio, Virginia, North Carolina and Florida and make
sure none of their more reliable states like Missouri swing the other
way. Virginia has been invaded by Hispanics and Yankees, who vote
Democrat exclusively. It went for Obama the last two times for that
reason. Similarly, Florida went Obama the last two times.

Can the GOP win these states if they don’t drive up that white guy vote?
Maybe, but the odds are against them. Can they win with a guy like Bush
at the top of the ticket? There’s where things get interesting. A Bush –
Kasich ticket will give the GOP the White House as they are sure to
carry Ohio and Florida. Similarly, a Kasich – Rubio ticket will get them
the White House. Any other combination is probably a loser.

So, there’s no reason to pay any attention to the GOP primary. The die
is cast.
