---
title: "The Lunacy of Caitlin Dickson"
date: "2015-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3668"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3668"
---

<a href="http://news.yahoo.com/author/caitlin-dickson/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">This was on the front page of Yahoo</a>.

*A simple errand turned violent for Clarence Daniels this week when he
went to Walmart for some coffee creamer and wound up in a chokehold.*

*Upon arriving at the Walmart in Florida’s Hillsborough County on
Tuesday, the 62-year-old Daniels, who is black, grabbed his handgun from
his car and slipped it into a hip holster underneath his coat. Watching
this from inside the store was Michael Foster, a 43-year-old white man
<a
href="http://www.tampabay.com/news/publicsafety/man-shopping-for-coffee-creamer-at-walmart-attacked-by-vigilante-for/2214432"
data-rapid_p="26">described by the Tampa Bay Times</a> as “a
well-intentioned vigilante.” As soon as Daniels walked into the store,
Foster tackled him, shouting, “He’s got a gun!” Ignoring Daniels’
repeated yells of, “I have a permit!” Foster proceeded to put him into a
chokehold. When sheriff’s deputies arrived on the scene, they confirmed
that Daniels was indeed a concealed carry permit holder and Foster was
arrested and charged with battery.*

Think about the thousands of crime stories you read where the race of
the perpetrator is never mentioned. Here, the race of the victim is
mentioned first. If you have any awareness at all, you know what’s
coming.

*Fortunately, no one was injured in the scuffle, which might explain why
the incident was not widely covered and why the local coverage chalked
it up to an honest misunderstanding. And maybe it was an honest
misunderstanding. But Foster’s instinct to take matters into his own
hands and attack a man he thought might pose a threat to his fellow
Walmart shoppers pulls into focus the state of vigilantism in the U.S.,
and Florida in particular.*

*As long as the U.S. has existed, so too have vigilantes: civilians who,
with no legal authority, take it upon themselves to enforce laws and
punish wrongdoers, typically operating under the assumption that
government or police cannot be trusted to do so. Vigilantism, by
definition, is illegal. But throughout history, state and federal laws
have blurred the lines between what is considered illegal vigilante
behavior and what qualifies as justifiable self-defense. Perhaps nowhere
else has that line become more blurred in recent years than in Florida,
where Tuesday’s Walmart tackle took place.*

OK, maybe it was a false alarm. Instead of being a story about evil
white people assaulting black bodies, it is a story about evil white men
and their vigilantism. or, maybe a story about the dangers of concealed
carry laws.

*A decade before the country broke into Civil War, the budding abolition
movement prompted Congress to pass a collection of bills known as
<a href="http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/aia/part4/4p2951.html"
id="yui_3_16_0_1_1422027132176_1502" data-rapid_p="27">the Compromise of
1850</a>. One of those bills was the Fugitive Slave Act, which, among
its provisions, included the requirement that citizens help in catching
fugitive slaves. The spread of abolition — and later desegregation—was
met with the creation of groups like the Ku Klux Klan and the White
Citizens Council, that sought to restore “order” and intimidate civil
rights-seeking African-Americans as well as their allies — often through
violence.*

*Though much more loosely organized and existing further out along the
societal fringe, racism is still at the heart of today’s larger
vigilante groups. Only instead of free blacks and civil rights
advocates, modern-day groups like the Minutemen militia target
immigrants, sometimes even
<a href="http://rt.com/usa/175028-minutemen-project-operation-normandy/"
id="yui_3_16_0_1_1422027132176_1500" data-rapid_p="28">acting as
volunteer Border Patrol agents</a> in an unauthorized effort to crack
down on illegal immigration.*

Of course. It all makes sense now. Hyper vigilant white guy trying to be
a good guy is really another racist like those slavers from last week
who built the country on black bodies. Not only that, this incident
shows that the very idea of borders and border control is a vestige of
white racism!

*Of course, not all vigilantes are motivated by race; nor are most of
them affiliated with any sort of group. Benjamin John Francis Fodor,
better known by his superhero name, “Phoenix Jones,” claimed to have
been interested in breaking up brawls when he took to the streets of
Seattle armed with a hooded mask, pepper spray and a stun gun before <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-superhero-arrest-idUSTRE79B4DI20111013%20"
data-rapid_p="29">he was arrested</a> in 2011 on four counts of
suspected misdemeanor assault.*

*In attempting to enforce the law, vigilantes like Fodor often end up
breaking the law themselves. This recent Walmart case is no exception.
Because Florida is a “concealed carry” state, Foster had no legitimate
reason to assume that Daniels was breaking the law before asking him to
see his concealed carry permit.*

Whew! It turns out that not all vigilantes are racists. There are some
exceptions, like <a
href="http://www.nbcnews.com/id/45143935/ns/us_news-crime_and_courts/t/seattle-superhero-phoenix-jones-loses-day-job-after-arrest/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the one black guy arrested for
vigilantism</a>. But otherwise, all the white ones are racists!

*In attempting to enforce the law, vigilantes like Fodor often end up
breaking the law themselves. This recent Walmart case is no exception.
Because Florida is a “concealed carry” state, Foster had no legitimate
reason to assume that Daniels was breaking the law before asking him to
see his concealed carry permit.*

*Florida is also, however, a Stand Your Ground state, a wide-ranging
self-defense statute best known as the basis for the acquittal of George
Zimmerman of the 2012 shooting death of unarmed teen Trayvon Martin. In
the wake of the controversial Zimmerman verdict, <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/florida-lawmakers-stand-your-ground-law-doesnt-allow-vigilantism-2014-3"
data-rapid_p="30">Florida lawmakers met last year</a> to clarify that
Stand Your Ground does not permit vigilantism. Still, the Hillsborough
County Sheriff’s Department’s response to Tuesday’s Walmart incident
suggests vigilantes aren’t necessarily discouraged as much as they are
urged to patrol responsibly.*

You see, even when good-hearted black people break the law it is because
the laws were written by white racists. You know, the concealed carry
laws are all written by the KKK to facilitate the war on black bodies.
C’mon! Everyone knows that!

Given the lunacy on display here, I suppose it is fitting that she winds
it up with the Cult’s favorite myth. That is the nonsense about “Stand
Your Ground” laws having anything to do with the Zimmerman defense. That
was a case of lethal force in self-defense. When a guy is bashing your
head against the curb, you get to shoot him. That’s been true for about
15,000 years.

You would be forgiven for thinking that this was written by some angry
black person. At least that would make some sense, but that’s not how it
goes these days. It was written by a
<a href="http://www.thedailybeast.com/contributors/caitlin-dickson.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">pampered, upper middle-class white
girl</a>. As soon as she lands a husband, it is off to Connecticut and a
whites-only neighborhood and a lifetime of lecturing the rest of us
about racism.
