---
title: "Reefer Madness"
date: "2015-02-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3919"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3919"
---

There are good arguments for and against legalizing various drugs. The
libertarian claims in favor of drug legalization are mostly ridiculous,
but there is a cost of prohibition that has to be respected. There’s a
cost to legalization as well. Anyway, I stopped reading Peter Hitchens
regularly because he seems to have been <a
href="http://hitchensblog.mailonsunday.co.uk/2015/02/obviously-no-connection-here-.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">driven mad by cannabis</a>.

*Can you put two and two together? Have a try. The authorities, and most
of the media, cannot.*

*Did you know that the Copenhagen killer, Omar El-Hussein, had twice
been arrested (and twice let off) for cannabis possession? Probably
not.*

*It was reported in Denmark but not prominently mentioned amid the usual
swirling speculation about ‘links’ between El-Hussein and ‘Islamic
State’, for which there is no evidence at all.*

*El-Hussein, a promising school student, mysteriously became so violent
and ill- tempered that his own gang of petty criminals, The Brothers,
actually expelled him.*

*Something similar happened in the lives of Lee Rigby’s killers, who
underwent violent personality changes in their teens after becoming
cannabis users.*

*The recent Paris killers were also known users of cannabis. So were the
chaotic drifters who killed soldiers in Canada last year. So is the
chief suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings of April 2013.*

*I might add that though these are all Muslims, who for rather obvious
reasons are to be found among the marginalised in Europe and North
America, it is not confined to them.*

*Jared Loughner, who killed six people and severely injured
Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords in Arizona in 2011, was also a
confirmed heavy cannabis user. When I searched newspaper archives for
instances of violent crimes in this country in which culprits were said
to be cannabis users, I found many.*

*One notable example was the pointless killing of Sheffield church
organist Alan Greaves, randomly beaten to death by two laughing youths
on Christmas Eve 2012. Both were cannabis smokers.*

*By itself, the link is interesting. I wonder how many other violent
criminals would turn out to be heavy cannabis users, if only anyone ever
asked.*

I wonder how many violent criminals drank milk as a child? Ate cookies?
Were heavy beer drinkers? I could probably run through a few hundred
items that are common to all violent criminals that have nothing to with
making them violent. It’s the same nonsense drug warriors used to employ
back in the old days. They would claim that marijuana was a gateway
drug, leading to harder drugs. They would point out that heroin users
all started with pot, as if all potheads are going to be chasing the
dragon.

There is some evidence that chronic cannabis use leads to mental health
trouble. In my youth, I knew a few guys who became stoners. They clearly
got dumber and slovenly. The term “fried” has been applied to chronic
pot smokers for forty years. It’s not called “chronic” by accident.
Still, there’s a big difference between daily use and occasional use.
There’s a world of difference between being a burnout and being a
violent criminal. The available science suggest the link between
cannabis and violence is non-existent.

The more probably issue is that regular pot smoking triggers severe
mental illness in certain populations. Given the ubiquity of pot use,
that population is tiny. Alcohol makes some men frighteningly violent,
but that’s not a reason to ban alcohol. As I said at the start, I’m
skeptical about the benefits of legalization, but these claims by
Hitchens suggest he has been drive mad  by the demon weed.
