---
title: "Fear the Brown Tide"
date: "2015-09-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5483"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5483"
---

The Left is a religion, a secular version of Public Protestantism. The
adherents deeply believe that the promised land is over the next hill.
All that is necessary is to eliminate the sins of society so that the
elect can be freed to reach the Utopia that has been promised. They are
not much different from the Muslims who believe the hidden Imam will
return when the righteous have the final showdown with the infidels.

To the true believer, everything passes through the filters of their
belief. Anything that contradicts the faith is either filtered out or
re-imagined so that it fits the narrative. Extraneous data is worked
into the narrative to give it weight, so that the believer can believer
harder. All of it, so to speak, points to the day when the Great Pumpkin
rises out of his pumpkin patch and flies through the air with his bag of
toys for all the children.

A great example of this is the Latin King. Since the Reagan years, it
seems, the Left has been telling us that the Latin King is coming and he
is going to be pissed unless we get our bleep together. That means
lifting up his little brown children on our shoulders and carrying them
to the top of American society. Otherwise, when the Latin King arrives,
the tide of brown will wash all the gringos out to sea or something.

<a
href="http://www.politico.com/story/2015/09/donald-trump-hispanics-213831"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This column in Politico</a> is a good
example.

*Hispanic activists have two words for Donald Trump — thank you.*

*“I think the greatest thing to ever happen to the Hispanic electorate
is a gentleman named Donald Trump, he has crystalized the angst and
anger of the Hispanic community,” U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
President & CEO Javier Palomarez told POLITICO in an interview. “I think
that we can all rest assured that Hispanics can turn out in record
numbers.”*

*Trump has rankled the Hispanic community from Day One of his
presidential run when he called many illegal Mexican immigrants
“rapists” and drug peddlers during his rambling announcement speech in
June. Since then, he’s driven the GOP field further right on immigration
issues, in part with his aggressive proposal to have Mexico pay for a
wall along the border with the U.S. and to deport 11.3 million
undocumented immigrants in short order.*

*While many activists find his comments downright offensive, they also
see an opportunity. Trump has managed to get Latinos engaged with the
2016 race, and activists plan to exploit that to the fullest extent
possible.*

*“He really is just outrageous, he’s built his entire campaign on
attacking our community and really playing to the worst element of
American society,” said José Calderón, president of the Hispanic
Federation, a nonprofit membership organization. “In some ways, he’s
helping us out, the base is energized —I think people are really eager
to stand up and say this is not who we are and show that through our
electoral process.”*

*Calderón said in nonelection years, the Federation, which represents
100 community-based organizations across the country and is leading
voter outreach efforts, can register about 25,000 Hispanics and on
election years it’s about 60,000. But with Trump’s comments driving
people to the polls, Calderón believes they can register even more.*

*“It’s become easier, right, to do it now. The community is very
mobilized, there is this anger,” Calderón said. “We will respond in
kind, through our votes.”*

One of the stock features of this form of Progressive fairy tale is to
have a super-white WASP lady do the reporting. There’s nothing more
compelling than a lecture about diversity from a girl who makes Eva
Braun look like a mulatto. But, from her end of the telescope, those
little brown people look threatening so she’s scared that the mean old
Trump guy is getting them worked into a frenzy.

There’s also the suicidal impulse on display. The choice presented is
either resist the brown tide flowing north from below the equator and
incur the wrath of that brown tide or lie back and enjoy the brown tide
washing away your culture and people. This does not occur to the nice
white people as they can only focus on one thing at a time. Their focus
is on the bad whites whose sinful ways are keeping everyone else from
grace.

This is what has always perplexed conservatives about their Progressive
antagonists. Rational people see the suicidal implications, but they
can’t believe it is intentional so they try everything to talk the
moonbats out of it. There’s no convincing a fanatic and these fanatics
think burning the village in order to save it is rational, even when it
is their own village. The elimination of the sinner is all that matters.
