---
title: "The Final Rounding Up of the Christians"
date: "2015-03-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4198"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4198"
---

The always restrained and sensible <a
href="http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/03/30/questions-for-indianas-critics/?module=BlogPost-Title&amp;version=Blog%20Main&amp;contentCollection=Opinion&amp;action=Click&amp;pgtype=Blogs&amp;region=Body"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ross Douthat has a restrained and
sensible response</a> to the latest moral crisis over the sodomites. The
equally sensible and restrained Ed Whelan has <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/416223/progressivism-ed-whelan"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a response to that column</a>. From what
I can gather, the folks on the Right are racing to get out into the
public their very best restrained and sensible opinions about the latest
outrages from the Cult of Modern Liberalism.

As is always the case, the comments are where you find the interesting
bits. This from the NYTimes is a good example:

*Religious views about sexuality are inconsistent with the reality that
gay people are human beings who deserve the same rights and privileges
as other people. The fact that they are sexually attracted to their own
gender is clearly biologically based. Gay people have been abused for
centuries because of ignorance of biology, and because the majority of
straight people, unable to imagine not being straight, assumed that the
gay minority was in diabolical cahoots with the prince of darkness, or
some other such theological nonsense.*

*When the religious view of the world congealed centuries ago, it did so
based on many wrong assumptions that were the result of profound
ignorance of the true origin and nature of human beings. We now know
better, and a tipping point has been reached in which people suddenly
realized that gay people were not perversions, but were our neighbors,
our co-workers, our friends and our families.*

*The answer to every question that Mr. Douthat asks is the same. No
person, no gay person, no black person, no female person should be
treated with disdain because of their biology. Those who might do so are
acting out of ignorance. They will now have to experience the social
pain and rejection they they’ve inflicted with impunity on others. They
will lose their relevance, their dignity and their tax exemptions. They
will become what they have abused and hated. I’m a little embarrassed to
admit that I will enjoy their pain. But I’ll get over it.*

The person who wrote that echoes what was commonly said during the
French Revolution about the aristocracy. The person who posted that
would be perfectly fine with banning the religions they don’t like even
if it meant killing the adherents. That’s always been the point of
homosexual marriage, to give moral authority to the wrecking ball
smashing through the churches.

You’ll note that “No person, no gay person, no black person, no female
person should be treated with disdain because of their biology”
explicitly leaves out white males. The person writing that could be male
or female, black or white. It really does not matter because they have
given themselves over to the cause so thoroughly, they no longer
“identify” with their own biology. They are now The Borg.

The restrained and sensible people on the Right who post their replies
to people like the commenter I quoted are going to a gun fight with the
intent of talking the other side into surrender. It’s why we have gone,
in a little over a decade, from “civil unions” to throwing people in
jail for “treating the anointed with disdain.”

If you are a church going person, my suggestion to you is this. Disband
your church and give up your faith. Run and hide. If you can’t bring
yourself to do that, then you better get used to the idea of shooting
back – literally. There’s no talking the other side out of their vision
of the future, which does not include you.
