---
title: "Liberal FieldTurf"
date: "2015-01-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3605"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3605"
---

Nancy Pelosi famously called the Tea Party “AstroTurf” alleging it was a
synthetic grass roots movement just as AstroTurf is synthetic grass. It
was a clever line and whoever wrote it for her deserves credit. Pelosi
then went on to repeat a million time like some sort of malfunctioning
robot. The rest of her cult followed suit, like chanting monks in a
monastery. Within a week it was self-parody.

The person who came up with the line is also a member of the cult and as
such assumes the world beyond the walls works just like the world within
the wall. Inside the walls, everything is carefully choreographed.
Nothing is spontaneous. Unity and conformity are essential to the
functioning of a hive so the adherent naturally assume their enemies
operate the same way.

Reality, as we often see with the Cult of Modern Liberalism, is 180
degrees out of phase with their perceptions. It is primarily their group
that is responsible for synthetic protests and marches. It turns out
that the attempts to angry up blacks in Ferguson was a <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/jan/14/george-soros-funds-ferguson-protests-hopes-to-spur/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">George Soros operation</a>.

*There’s a solitary man at the financial center of the
[Ferguson](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/ferguson/) protest
movement. No, it’s not victim [Michael
Brown](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/michael-brown/) or Officer
Darren Wilson. It’s not even the Rev. Al Sharpton, despite his
ubiquitous campaign on TV and the streets.*

*Rather, it’s liberal billionaire [George
Soros](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/george-soros/), who has
built a business empire that dominates across the ocean in Europe while
forging a political machine powered by nonprofit foundations that
impacts American politics and policy, not unlike what he did with
MoveOn.org.*

*[Mr. Soros](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/george-soros/)
spurred the [Ferguson](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/ferguson/)
protest movement through years of funding and mobilizing groups across
the U.S., according to interviews with key players and financial records
reviewed by The Washington Times.*

*In all, [Mr.
Soros](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/george-soros/) gave at
least $33 million in one year to support already-established groups that
emboldened the grass-roots, on-the-ground activists in
[Ferguson](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/ferguson/), according
to the most recent tax filings of his nonprofit [Open
Society](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/open-society/)
Foundations.*

*The financial tether from [Mr.
Soros](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/george-soros/) to the
activist groups gave rise to a combustible protest movement that
transformed a one-day criminal event in Missouri into a 24-hour-a-day
national cause celebre.*

The proof that the opposition to the Cult is non-existent is right here.
Soros should have died of lead poisoning long ago. If the opposition had
any strength at all, someone would have made the call. Instead, Soros
operates with impunity in the US.

*“Our DNA includes a belief that having people participate in government
is indispensable to living in a more just, inclusive, democratic
society,” said [Kenneth
Zimmerman](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/kenneth-zimmerman/),
director of [Mr.
Soros](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/george-soros/)‘ [Open
Society](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/open-society/)
Foundations’ U.S. programs, in an interview with The Washington Times.
“Helping groups combine policy, research \[and\] data collection with
community organizing feels very much the way our society becomes more
accountable.”*

I’m working on a longer post that goes into the consequences of letting
the Cult control the language. Mr. Soros is a fascist and pours tens of
millions into stifling dissent. Everything about his operation is
intended to stifle debate and silence dissent. Yet, he calls his
operation the Open Society Foundation. By open, he means closed. It’s
the <a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Opposite Rule of Liberalism</a>.

The other proof that the opposition is non-existent is this story took
months to get out into the public domain. Surely the GOP operatives knew
what was happening. Team Obama was trying to whip up black anger in
order to get their base out on election day. That meant the money men
were there paying for the riots. Waving the Soros connection around
would have been good business for the GOP, but they couldn’t muster the
resources to get the story out.
