---
title: "Interest Rate Trap"
date: "2015-07-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5098"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5098"
---

<a
href="http://freebeacon.com/issues/fed-keeps-interest-rates-near-zero-but-increase-may-come-later-this-year/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This was on Drudge the other day</a>. For
it seems like forever, I have been reading stories about how the central
banks are holding rates at near zero, but may be ready to raise rates at
some point, but not now. I suspect most people have stopped paying
attention because it just seems like the same story recycled once a
quarter.

*The Federal Reserve is keeping interest rates near zero and is waiting
for further improvement in the labor market and inflation measures
before allowing any increases, according to the latest Federal Open
Market Committee (FOMC) <a
href="http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/monetary/20150729a.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">statement</a>.*

*The Committee says it will evaluate the progress of the economy,
focusing on its twin goals of maximum employment and 2 percent
inflation, in determining how long to maintain the current low target
range for the federal funds rate.*

*The Committee says it will raise rates when it is “reasonably
confident” that these two criteria have been met.*

*Fed Chair Janet Yellen signaled that the Fed may raise rates later this
year when she discussed the Fed’s semiannual report to Congress on <a
href="http://www.c-span.org/video/?327076-1/janet-yellen-testimony-us-monetary-policy-economy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">July 15</a>.*

*“If the economy evolves as we expect, economic conditions likely would
make it appropriate at some point this year to raise the federal funds
rate target, thereby beginning to normalize the stance of monetary
policy,” said <a
href="http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/testimony/yellen20150715a.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Yellen</a> in her testimony. “Indeed,
most participants in June projected that an increase in the federal
funds target range would likely become appropriate before year-end.”*

*The Fed has held the federal funds rate near zero since
<a href="http://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/openmarket.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">December 2008</a>.*

Let that sink in for a second. We are going on seven years since the Fed
lowered rates to what people thought was the floor of the possible. Now,
we know central banks can and will lower rates below zero, but the US
has yet to go down that road. Still, near zero for the better part of a
decade is not without its consequences.

*Tim Kane, an economist at the Hoover Institution, is one of these
critics.*

*“The Fed funds rate has not been raised in nine years, and interest
rates this low create an illusion that the escalating national debt is
(and will remain) easy to bear,” <a
href="http://news.investors.com/ibd-editorials-viewpoint/072315-763130-declining-jobless-claims-suggest-time-raise-rates-is-now.htm?p=2"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">states</a> Kane. “With interest rates
kept too low for too long, the Federal Reserve can turn a boom into a
bubble.”*

That’s not the half of it. Corporate and sovereign debt is now fully
structured around near zero rates. Most of this debt is rolled over when
it matures so a rising interest rate environment means suddenly rising
interest payments. That’s what happened to Greece. Rates jumped and the
operating deficit increased. That was met with more borrowing, which
drove rates higher. Eventually, they could no longer borrow at rates
they could pay.

In America, pension funds, which used to rely on the steady returns of
bonds to remain solvent are now invested in all sorts of synthetic
instruments based on equities, housing and speculation. Those pension
funds are wildly underfunded and the returns are below market on their
current investments. Rising rates will drive down the value of equities
putting pension funds in deeper trouble. The word “catastrophe” gets
throw around a lot in the pension world for a reason.

Rates will return to their natural level eventually. The question is
whether it will be an orderly recession that comes with raising rates or
whether it will be a chaotic depression as central banks lose control of
monetary policy. Those are not great choices and they are political
choices. The Fed is a political institution, which is why they keep
delaying the pain. In politics, tomorrow is the best time to take the
pain and tomorrow never comes.

This is a pretty good example of something Joseph Tainter described in
*The Collapse of Complex Societies*. When the Fed first started cutting
rates, they got a big return, in terms of the impact on the economy. As
they kept lowering rates, the return got smaller, thus forcing them to
chase the desired results by lowering rates further. As rates approached
zero, returns reached zero. It appears to be a classic example of
diminishing marginal returns.

At first blush it sounds like a simple thing to let rates return to
normal, but that is not a cost free endeavor. At the same time,
maintaining artificially low rates also has a cost. The spiraling
sovereign debt is a pretty good example of the cost that comes from
distorted debt markets. Some economist argue that the ultra low rates
are actually hindering economic growth as evidenced by the anemic
recovery.

The Fed understands this, but it is a political entity and the choices
are all politically difficult. Slowly raise rates and you risk
recession, which brings the political class down on the Fed. Leaving
rates low means the cost of unwinding the low-rate regime keeps
climbing. Worse yet, some new crisis will have to be addressed with
cutting rates further, exacerbating the long term problems that come
from ultra low rates.

The Romans never figured out how to make an orderly retreat from empire.
They exhausted themselves financially and culturally trying to keep the
empire together, eventually leading to collapse. America is not about to
be invaded by Visigoths. Collapse is unlikely, but a very painful and
disruptive reordering is on the horizon. The question is how painful and
orderly.
