---
title: "L’affaire Cankles"
date: "2015-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5188"
---

Americans are conditioned to think that what is reported in the news is
a fair representation of reality. Everyone understands there is
considerable bias in the news, but everyone assumes it is deliberate.
The news people know, for example, that Obama is lying about his Iran
deal. They just like him and therefore cover for him on it. In other
words, there’s no secret conspiracy or deep state maneuverings going on,
just good old fashioned partisanship in the reporting. If you look close
enough, you can figure out what’s going on in the world.

Palace intrigue, cloak and dagger capers and Byzantine conspiracies are
for movies and history books. In the old days, conspirators worked
behind the scenes to undo the king or subvert his enemies in court, but
that’s long over. Most people today subscribe to Franklin’s maxim that
the only way three can keep a secret is if two are dead. Only tin foil
hate loons talk about conspiracies, the “deep state” and clandestine
plots.

I’ve never been a conspiracy guy and I tend to think a conspiracy of
more than a handful of dedicated fanatics is not going to go too far.
Even something like the 9/11 attacks worked mostly because of sloth.
There were plenty of people who knew something was not right, but they
were too lazy or too stupid to do anything about it. Good old fashioned
dumb luck had more to do with 9/11 than conspiracy.

That does not mean things are done in the open. Politics is thick with
plotting and scheming. It’s all they do, even when it works against
their interests. That’s what makes the Hillary Clinton e-mail scandal
interesting to watch. There’s a lot not in the public domain, but we
keep getting these drips suggesting someone is doing the dripping. That
someone has reasons and they have a boss, possibly in the White House.

The thing that the press never bothers to consider is what must have
been known for a long time. Hillary Clinton was at State in 2009 and
supposedly had the private e-mail system on day one. That means everyone
at State knew about it. It means the White House knew about it. Further,
all of these people knew it was unusual and maybe even illegal. The
first question that comes to my mind is why did the White House let this
go on? Why would State not blow the whistle on this?

My hunch is the White House looked at this as mana from heaven. They had
fall in their lap the best piece of leverage possible. Their political
enemy was caught red handed mishandling classified information. Maybe it
was not that way at first, but it was at least a very embarrassing thing
that they now had on Clinton. It’s the sort of thing J. Edgar Hoover
used to collect on people in case he needed leverage on them.

The most obvious explanation for why the White House kept this under
their hat, so to speak, is it was great leverage for later. If they ever
needed a favor from the Clintons or they needed to take down Hillary,
they had the perfect weapon. Presumably they had the NSA or CIA
monitoring the server, maybe even copying the traffic to and from it.
Reports indicate the Clinton people did not encrypt the traffic, which
is amazing. That means they may have other stuff.

Something people don’t know about how the government polices classified
data is they have multiple counter espionage shops looking at everyone,
using all the tools you read about. In the course of their normal work
this off-the-books server would have been in briefings that make it to
the President. At the minimum, they would have been in the briefing
books.

That leads to why this is getting into the public now. In politics, a
standard way to handle dirty laundry is to reveal it yourself to
friendly media who will spin it for you. That way you get it out in the
public on your terms, deal with the initial excitement and then declare
it old news if anyone brings it up again. That does not appear to be the
case here as Team Clinton has been absurdly ham-fisted in their handling
of this thing. They are acting as if they don’t know who knows what
about this thing.

That means the White House or State as the top targets behind the leaks.
People forget that it was State that leaked the information on Valerie
Plame to the press. Scooter Libby took the fall, but it was State that
was playing politics. In the Plame case it was just good old fashioned
blabbing that was the cause. In Watergate, Mark Felt allegedly conspired
with the Washington Post against Nixon entirely out of spite. That could
be the case here as the Clintons have a lot of enemies.

The other possibility that comes to mind is the White House is behind
it. I tend to think this is the case as the leaks to the media have a
DOJ vibe to them. The FBI is involved and what’s coming out is the sort
of stuff that comes from an FBI investigation into the mishandling of
classified material. That cannot happen without approval of the White
House. This DOJ is so politicized they don’t take a crap without calling
the White House.

That would raise the obvious question of why now? Maybe it is just
serendipity. Things get out of hand in politics too. My hunch is they
want to get Warren to reconsider and clearing the field of the 500 pound
gorilla would change Warren’s math. Six months ago she was looking at
running as the liberal insurgent. That’s not easy when the “centrist” is
a vicious street fighter who had access to your raw FBI files. If the
gorilla is suddenly out of the picture, Warren could run as the sensible
liberal alternative to Bernie Sanders.

Plan B could be to back O’Malley, but he has a penis and is white. Joe
Biden is too old and too crazy to be a serious alternative. It seems to
me that unless they know Warren is ready to ride in as the white knight,
it makes little sense for Team Obama to be leaking this stuff. Spite is
always a possibility, but these guys are cold blooded when it comes to
politics so I’m not inclined to think that’s the case.

There’s one other reason Team Obama could be behind this and that’s ego.
A Republican in the White House would let Obama be the wise man of his
party and function as a shadow president, questioning anything he does
not like about the new guy. Clinton in the White House takes that away
and it gives Team Clinton a chance to settle any old scores with Team
Obama. With a Republican in the White House, Obama can walk around as
the greatest living Democrat. That was worth $150 million to Bill
Clinton. I’ll also note that Clinton did not help Gore and was not a
great friend to Kerry or Obama.

I’ve written a lot about the comparisons between Hillary and Nixon.
Their lives would make a great dual biography so the reader could
compare the two in real time. Nixon was ultimately undone by enemies he
knew, who were exploiting enemies he never imagined. Mark Felt was a
nobody and no one had a reason to care about him. Alexander Butterfield
was just a guy on Haldeman’s staff. More than a few great men have been
brought low by minor figures just doing their jobs. Maybe that’s what we
have here.

It would be great theater if in the end, Hillary goes to jail and Bill
walks free.
