---
title: "Bill Nye The Nazi Guy"
date: "2015-11-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Religion
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5780"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5780"
---

I’ve never been famous or had a desire to be famous. In fact, it has
always struck me as a miserable way to live. These things are a matter
of taste and not having ever been famous, I may be all wrong about my
reaction to it. My ego has never responded well to flattery so I’m
confident fame would not be fun for me. Having people stopping and
pointing at me sounds horrible.

There are others for whom fame, even minor fame, is a narcotic that
hooks them like a meth addict. They crave it and when they get a taste
of it, they will do anything for more of it. My hunch is this is what
drives people into the entertainment fields. It’s not the money or the
thrill of being good at something. They want to be famous and they will
go through every humiliation in order to get a taste of fame. The
casting couch could not exist otherwise.

That’s what drives a guy like Bill Nye to repeatedly make an fool of
himself. He gained some minor celebrity making kids laugh on TV while
doing parlor tricks and now he is obsessed with getting on TV or
mentioned on-line. <a
href="http://www.salon.com/2015/11/06/bill_nye_demolishes_climate_deniers_im_not_a_scientist_therefore_im_not_going_to_use_my_brain/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That usually means saying asinine things
that the Left can use to claim science proves they are right</a>. It’s
why he peddles himself as a scientist when he is nothing of the sort.

*Yeah, you’re leading to my next point. Part of the solution to this
problem or this set of problems associated with climate change is
getting the deniers out of our discourse. You know, we can’t have these
people – they’re absolutely toxic. And so part of the message in this
book is to get the deniers out of the picture, and along that line –
I’ve been saying this a lot the last few weeks as  I listen to the
Republican debates – maybe one of these people will go out on his or her
own, thinking for him or herself, and say, “You know, I’ve been thinking
about this and climate change is a very serious problem. So if I’m
president, we’re going to address climate change.”*

Anyone familiar with their history will recognize why I call him the
Nazi Guy. He is dehumanizing the people who disagree with him and his
cult’s beliefs. That lets him dismiss them without consideration. It’s a
pretty short trip from where he is now, calling the infidels “toxic”, to
a place where he is demanding they be rounded up and shot.

Again, Nye is just an attention whore saying increasingly deranged
things in order to get people to notice him. He has figured out that his
fake scientist act works on the hard thumping crazies of the Left so
that’s his act. If juggling chainsaws was popular with the public, he
would be out there doing that instead of peddling this nonsense.

The whiff of fascism is particularly strong here because climate worship
has a lot in common with fascism, particularly Nazism. Hitler was a
vegan and a bit obsessed with living what we would consider to be the
granola lifestyle. The Germans, after all, <a
href="http://www.hippy.com/modules.php?name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=243"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">did give us the Hippies</a>. Instead of
rubbing out the mongrel races threatening the folk, the Climate Nazis
want to rub out those who threaten Gaia.

This is not an exaggeration. There was a <a
href="http://epublications.marquette.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1155&amp;context=hist_fac"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">green wing to National Socialism</a> and
it was very influential. The mystique of blood and soil was exactly
that, blood and *soil*. For the Nazis, the folk were inextricably bound
up in the land. Romantic feelings toward nature were an essential part
of the Nazi movement. Preserving Germany for Germans was one side of the
coin. Keeping the natural environment of Germans pristine and unsullied
was the other side.

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/06/science/exxon-mobil-under-investigation-in-new-york-over-climate-statements.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Stories like this from New York</a> make
a lot of sense if you think of these people as they think of themselves.
The climate change warriors are not just defending the environment; they
think they are defending themselves and their kind. It’s blood and soil
mixed with Puritanism. Instead of the elect running around looking for
blasphemers, they are running around looking for deniers. Instead of
bringing sinners to account, they are suing the oil companies.
