---
title: "Penal Colonies"
date: "2015-04-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4294"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4294"
---

I’ve long been an advocate of bringing back penal colonies. At any one
time American has about 1.5 million people in prison and about 150,000
of those are serving life sentences. Then you have a greater number
serving long sentences of 15 years on more. There’s probably about a
third of our prison population who will spend most of their lives in
jail. Many will be released eventually, but as old men.

At the same time, the vast majority of prisoners are doing short stints
on minor crimes. Drugs probably make up the bulk of it, but many of
these cons pleaded down to the drug charge so it is not a good
assumption to make. Libertarians always get this wrong. The guy doing
time for weed is often there as result of a plea, where the more serious
charge was dropped.

Anyway, having a million low-level offenders in with a population of
hard core criminals in for serious violent offenses is crazy. States and
the feds try to segregate the prisons, but it is not always practical.
Of course, the expense of maintaining cages for violent lunatics is
higher when you choose to put those cages close to population centers.
The result is a terrible prison system that costs a lot of money.

There’s another piece. Many of these people will never be able to live
as normal people. Call it evil. Call it bad wiring. They are just
incapable of living a civilized existence. <a
href="http://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2015/04/14/murdered-cellmate-of-lawrence-phillips-was-cousin-of-r-jay-soward/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Former football star Lawrence
Phillips</a> is a great example. This guy was given every chance to
avoid a life of crime, but he just liked hurting people too much. In
prison serving 30-plus years, he is a menace to his fellow prisoners
now. Why put him near people you intend to release one day?

We have lots of small islands we could use for penal colonies. Guys like
Phillips could be shipped off to these places with other violent
lunatics. Yeah, they will probably kill each other, but so what? Why
spend billions stopping nature from taking its course? Stick them on the
island and let them sort it out on their own. That way, they cause no
more harm to decent people.

I’m not suggesting we maroon them on an island without supplies or
medical care. A facility to distribute food and basic health care would
be necessary. Shelters would be provided, but if they destroy their
housing then that’s on them. This is not supposed to be Club Med, just a
place for them to live out their lives in the degree of peace they
choose, away from civilized society

Similarly, an island for sex offenders makes sense. These people are
never going to be cured. Stick them on an island to themselves. You drop
in food and supplies, but otherwise they are on their own to make their
structures, organizes themselves and so on. Maybe a government run
medical facility can be maintained on the island to handle the basics.

It sounds cruel, but is it more or less cruel than putting them into
these sadistic hell holes we call prisons where more men are raped than
women in the whole country. That’s right. More men are raped in prison
than women are raped outside of prison.  At least on the island, you
have some chance to save yourself from that horror.

That’s the other part of it. Libertarians bitch about the cops, but
there are no worse humans than prison guards. If your dream job involves
looking up another man’s ass for contraband, you’re a man with problems.
<a href="http://newsone.com/2789861/tavon-white-bgf-baltimore-jail/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Stories like this</a> are far more common
than people probably realize.

We’ll have to have jails. Locking up drunks and thieves is a necessary
part of society. Maintaining cages for hyper-violent lunatics we never
intend to let free only makes sense if there are no other options.
Hanging them used to be the solution, but that’s no longer possible.
Putting them in a penal colony is possible and more humane. This is
basically what Russia has always done, sending prisoners to Siberia.

The one other change that would have to be made is in sentencing.
Sending a  weed dealer off to jail for 15 years is crazy. At the same
time, giving a violent repeat offender 15 years is just as crazy. Penal
colonies have to be forever punishments so giving out terms of 15 – 30
years would have to end. Punishments would be two tracks. One for those
who can rejoin society and one for those who cannot.
