---
title: "iStupid"
date: "2015-02-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3882"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3882"
---

If you look at the comments section of <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/414186/why-we-cant-be-too-far-silicon-valley-bust-patrick-brennan"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this NRO post</a>, you will see my
unbridled enthusiasm for mocking the Cult of Apple. You will also see
why I enjoy mocking the weirdos who populate the MacCult. That’s not to
say that all Apple users are weirdos or in a cult. My guess is the Apple
user base is divided into three groups. One group simply got used to
using Apple stuff and never saw a need to change. Another group buys the
Apple display items because that is what cool people do. The final group
are people who have turned an electronics maker into a religious
movement.

My guess is the majority of Apple customers are just people who follow
trends. The first group, people who got used to using Apple gear is
probably the smallest. The most vocal by far are the MacCultists who are
convinced Apple is ushering in the utopian future. They are the idiots
who line up at midnight to trade in their iPhone 6 for the iPhone 6.1
that does nothing new or different. They are the ones who will tell you
that their $900 iPad is changing the world, even though they only use it
to play games and surf the web.

These people have been with us for a long time. My first encounter with
them was in the early 90’s, I guess. A woman described herself as a
“Mac-snob” while we were discussing something to do with computers. At
the time most people figured Apple was going to follow Wang into the
abyss. But, the true believers kept the company alive, despite the fact
Apple products were comically bad for a long time.

These were the people Jobs identified as his way out of the technology
trap. If his company could become a social statement, they could move a
lot of product. Apple went from competing with Microsoft to focusing on
clever designs and marketing to the growing hipster community. I don’t
think it is an accident that Apple took off with the Great Progressive
Awakening. The iPod became an ID badge for every liberal hipster in the
90’s.

Here we are at the denouement of this Great Progressive Awakening and I
suspect Apple follows the trend. <a
href="http://nypost.com/2015/02/22/apples-titan-car-could-reshape-the-auto-world/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story in America’s Paper of
Record</a> suggest that’s the case.

*Detroit had a good year in 2014, selling 16.5 million autos — up 1
million from 2013. The stock of Ford and GM has revved on the good news,
jumping 5.7 and 7.8 percent, respectively, in 2015.*

*That’s better than the S&P 500, which has risen 2.5 percent.*

*Motorists responded well, not only to low-interest-rate loans but to
all the technology in cars today — everything from touch screens, Wi-Fi
hotspots, hybrid technology and back-up cameras.*

*But in just one week, Detroit’s vibe has gone from hip to has-been.*

*With reports last week that Apple hopes to bring a car to market in
five years, every motorist who remembers the pre-iPhone era of
smartphones must be feeling like their new car will go the way of
BlackBerry, Nokia or Palm Pilot.*

I’m continually amazed by the social amnesia. I remember life before the
iPhone. I had a Palm and it was a nice phone. Apple took the idea and
applied what they learned from the iPod to it. That is, make it look
cool and let the army of iDrones in hipsterville market it. The touch
screen was a nice upgrade, but hardly revolutionary.

*Currently, at a secret location near its Cupertino, Calif.,
headquarters, Apple is said to be working on a car design — code-named
“Project Titan” — at breakneck speed. While auto companies can take as
long as seven years to develop a car, Apple is said to be hoping to
start shipping its vehicles in five years — or as early as 2020.*

*Elon Musk’s Tesla is currently the No. 1 electric car maker — with
vehicles ranging from $70,000 to $100,000 — and Google is working on
George Jetson-like driverless cars. But neither is close to cornering
the market on mass-affordable electric cars.*

*My sense is this is where Apple will attack — just as it had with
smartphones, laptops and tablets.*

Elon Musk is the biggest parasite in the world. Tesla does not exist
without tax payer money. The driverless car is a solution in search of a
problem and it is far from being practical. I’ll note that Apple’s
“success” with laptops was quickly cannibalized by the iPad, a cheaper
display item than a $4,000 Powerbook.

*Former Ford Engineer Steve Zadesky is heading up Titan.*

*Efforts to fast-track the car project got Apple in a little jam last
week when a car-battery maker, A123 Systems, sued it over alleged
poaching of its executives.*

*How badly does Apple CEO Tim Cook want to get this car out the garage?*

*Well, Apple has been offering the best and the brightest in the
car-battery field $250,000 signing bonuses plus salaries 60 percent
higher than what they currently earn, Musk told
[Bloomberg Businessweek](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-02-19/apple-said-to-be-targeting-car-production-as-soon-as-2020)
this month.*

*Take Marc Newson, who just so happens to be close friends with Apple’s
design guru Jony Ive. Newson, hired last September by Apple, is
considered one of the more elegant engineers in the world.*

*The guy has works archived by MoMA — not something you hear about a lot
in Detroit.*

*Zadesky, the boss, besides holding 90-some patents, was the sole
signatory on a 2010 business contract with an organization called
Liquidmetal. It is known for Moldable Metal — “Nanophosphate metal” —
which can be shaped like plastic.*  
*Detroit still welds.*

This is another weird thing with the MacCult and the fake nerd crowd.
They carry on like they are cutting edge technologists when most of them
can’t count their balls twice and come up with the same number. Detroit
is not the hub of the car building universe and it hasn’t been for
generations now. Toyota is one of the best run companies on earth and
they have been pushing the envelope in automotive engineering for a long
time. Mercedes is another example of leading edge technology in the car
building business. Frankly, Apple has nothing on these guys.

Building cars is hard. The reason Tesla remains a welfare queen for rich
people is it takes more than mock turtlenecks and clever marketing plans
to make a car company. Apple’s habit over the years has been to steal
someone else idea and then dress it up in their minimalist stylings and
peddle it to their followers as innovative. Silicon Valley looks more
like the boxing business these days than an industry. It’s all about the
pump and dump. That’s unlikely to work in the car business, which is
very mature with highly complex supply chains.

This all has the feel of a company and an era jumping the shark.

 
