---
title: "Not Welcome"
date: "2015-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5846"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5846"
---

<a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/politics/trackers/2015-11-16/trump-calls-for-study-of-mosques-after-paris-terror-attacks"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The pearl clutchers are no doubt
scandalized by Trumps suggestion we shut down the <del>terrorist
training centers</del> mosques</a> in the US in light of the obvious
fact that Muslims make terrible citizens of a civilized country. No one
wants them here, outside of the suicidal lunatics in the elite, who may
be the only people who hate the West more than ISIS.

There are over 50 majority Muslim countries practicing every conceivable
brand of Islam. There’s no need to have them in America so let’s take
all necessary steps to keep them out. That’s about as reasonable as one
can expect, given the circumstances. If you have rats in your house you
want the rats removed and the access points they are using to be closed.

The counter argument is that only small number of Muslims will go
bonkers and commit mass murder. Diversity is so important that we have
to just accept a few 9/11-scale terror attacks a year in order to
welcome Muslims into America. The absurdity of that is evident right
here in <a
href="http://www.clickorlando.com/news/orlando-muslim-family-claims-it-was-targeted-by-gunfire/36468470"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this news story from Florida</a>.

*A Muslim family said Sunday that they might be victims of a hate crime
after shots were fired into their Orlando house.Amir and Nehal Elmasri
said when they returned home to their gated community from **feeding the
homeless** Sunday morning, they noticed a bullet hole in their garage
door. The family said that the bullet went through their garage and into
their master bedroom.*

It’s obvious these people are lying from this alone. Feeding the
homeless? Really? Can you come up with a more ham-fisted lie? But, the
low-IQ nitwits running CAIR just assume you will believe this nonsense
because they see it work on TV. It’s why Muslims overseas will decorate
a bomb site with children’s corpses from the local morgue. They know the
gullible dopes in the western media will fall for it.

*The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) Florida said that it
is investigating the case with their attorneys to determine whether the
family was targeted.*

*“The American Muslim community has faced severe backlash™ since the
Paris terror attacks,” said Rasha Mubarak with CAIR Florida. “There have
been two death threats to local mosques in Central Florida alone.”*

*Nehal Elmasri said that she and her daughter wear traditional hijabs in
public, adding that it’s obvious for anyone to be aware of their Muslim
faith.*

A century ago, Irish immigrants were ashamed of their co-ethnics bad
behavior so they worked hard to self-police and prove they belonged.
Jews made a deliberate effort to get out of crime, sports and other
low-class activities in order to prove their value to America. Muslims
can’t bring themselves to condemn their coreligionists and instead blame
Americans. Why would we invite this?

I would prefer it if we didn’t have angry mobs chasing Muslims out of
our communities. I don’t want to see people shooting up mosques or
attacking Muslims on our streets. I just don’t want to see Muslims on
our streets. I don’t want a mosque in my city. I don’t see any reason to
be inviting these troubles onto our shores. Therefore, I want my
government to take the necessary steps to let every Muslim know they are
not welcome here.

Baltimore City has topped 300 murders this year. It is a smallish city
so that’s a big number. The cops are standing aside, letting the crooks
run wild because the politicians refuse to back the cops against the
crooks. What in the hell do they think will happen when they import <a
href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/scottbeyer/2015/09/15/baltimore-looks-to-attract-syrian-refugees/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">10,000 Syrian Muslims</a>? Why in the
world would anyone call down more madness on their head?

CAIR looks at Western leaders and sees nothing but weakness and
stupidity. That’s why they roll out these canned tales of backlash™
after every terrorist attack. They think we are stupid because our
rulers appear to be stupid. If you are a Muslim and you see that America
twice elected an effeminate man with an Arabic name as president, why
would you fear America?

A truth of life is the will of the people wins out eventually, unless
you are prepared to slaughter the people. If the people cannot get
satisfaction from their political leaders, they will elect new ones.
That’s why Trump and to a lesser degree Carson are doing so well in the
GOP primary. It’s not so much what they say or who they are; it is what
they are not.

If the people cannot find satisfaction within the current system, they
will look outside the system. First it is party outsiders and then it is
outsider parties. There’s no reconciling Islam with western society. If
the politicians cannot accept it, then we will get new politicians. If
the political system cannot accommodate this, then we get a new system,
one that allows for the shuttering of mosques and the deportation of
Muslims.

Islam is a fine religion that brings peace to millions of people around
the world. It’s simply incompatible with western civilization. The
people who practice Islam want things that are antithetical to western
liberalism. Therefore, there can be no mixing of the two. The Mohammedan
has to stay in one of the 50 countries that practice Islam and the
western liberals must stay in the West. It is why we have separate
countries.
