---
title: "My Theory of Everything: Part III"
date: "2015-11-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Theory of Everything
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5898"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5898"
---

The American domestic conflicts of the current age are unique in human
history in that they are entirely *caused* by social reformers. In prior
ages, reformers sprung up when there was a need for actual reform.
Social conditions demanded changes so that the people could attain a
higher degree of peace and prosperity. Today, peace and prosperity are
the default, so reformers sow discord and mayhem, like firemen who set
fires, so they have something to do.

It is tempting to assume this is by design, but as Goethe put it,
“misunderstandings and neglect create more confusion in this world than
trickery and malice. At any rate, the last two are certainly much less
frequent.” While there are certainly cases where the people in charge
swing the wrecking ball just for fun, more often it is due to
incompetence, an incompetence that is the inevitable outgrowth of a
u<span hveid="54">niversalist </span>worldview.

One defect of the u<span hveid="54">niversalist </span>mind is the
inability to appreciate the complexity of life.  This is something most
people understand intuitively. What works for you in your life is
probably not going to work for everyone. The proletarian cliche of
“different strokes for different folks” did not spring from nothing. It
is a readily observable phenomenon and why restaurants have menus and
cars come in different colors.

The great minds <span hveid="54">that rule over us just assume that
everyone wants what they want, hates what they hate and loves what they
love. There’s no room in their imagination for valid and legitimate
alternatives to their ethics or even their aesthetics. Instead, when our
betters hear the phrase “different strokes for different folks” they
assume it means varying the application of the whip in order to achieve
conformity.</span>

This is the color of every great blunder made by the American ruling
class over the last half century. They cannot imagine that anyone, at
least anyone worth considering, would have different priorities, values,
or passions. In foreign policy it means blundering into foreign lands
handing out ballots at gun point. Domestically it means toppling over
traditional institutions in favor of technocratic solutions that appeal
to no one but their designers.

Another aspect of this is the inability to grasp the concept of scale.
An old gag in statistics is that quantity has a quality of its own. Many
things simply do not scale up or down very well. An obvious example is
the New England town meeting system of governance. In a small town,
getting the citizens together to hash out problems works very well. Try
that in New York City and you end up with a riot. [Try that in New
Orleans and you have a hip-hop
video](http://www.foxnews.com/us/2015/11/23/at-least-10-injured-in-shooting-at-new-orleans-playground-during-party-after/?intcmp=hpbt4).

The u<span hveid="54">niversalists </span>cannot grasp that what works
for them in their small groups of privilege and plenty cannot scale up
to society as a hole. Caroline Swipple in Greenwich thinks it is great
that Whole Foods does not sell sugary breakfast cereals. She thinks that
should be the case everywhere so she demands government ban the sale of
Fruit Loops. It is baked into the universalist worldview that their
personal choices are universally good so they just assume they will work
for everyone.

From the outside, it simply looks like the people in charge, the
so-called social justice warriors, are just ignorant busy bodies
obsessed with pushing people around. In some cases it appears to be
spite that motivates them. Making smokers huddle in alleyways behind the
pubs looks like the sort of thing one does to someone they hate. But
that is not what is driving it. It is a blinkered view of life that
cannot incorporate the great complexity and variety of human action.

This narrow view of life is the root of another defect and that is the
lack of self-awareness. Stable, sensible people have some regard for
their limitations. They know that some problems are not fixable. The
best you can do is work around them. The people in charge, truly believe
that all problems are solvable, including death itself. Not just that,
but they are certain they are the ones to solve them.

The constant blundering in the Middle East is the most obvious example.
Since the Bronze Age, the people living in and around Mesopotamia have
been at war with one another. This is the nature of tribal people who
have outlandishly high rates of inbreeding. Cousin marriage is near
universal in some parts of the world, the most clannish parts of the
world. Cousin marriage fosters clannishness, corruption and clan
warfare.

Violent, tribal societies composed of low-IQ individuals is not the raw
material for a liberal democracy. Despite these well known facts on the
ground and 5,000 years of history, American leaders have been blundering
around the Middle East for over 25 years. Bush gets most of the blame,
but Obama has proven to be just as incompetent, despite actually being a
Muslim of sorts. Obama, like Bush, just assumes he’ll solve thousands of
years of problems in a few years.

When you roll it all up, America is a country with an abundance of peace
and prosperity, but an overabundance of blinkered blunderers obsessed
with conquering the human condition. Almost all of what ails us as a
people is inflicted upon us by people who simply refuse to leave well
enough alone. There is no version of the social contract that obligates
or even permits the civil authorities to sow discord among the people.
Yet, that is exactly where we find ourselves.

Thus, ends Part III
