---
title: "The Democrats"
date: "2015-04-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4380"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4380"
---

The recent revelations about the Clinton slush fund has reminded
everyone that the very worst said about the Clintons is the tip of the
iceberg. There’s always more slime under the next stone. They are the
Snopes family of the Ozarks. Their vermin-like rapacity is boundless,
unimaginably boundless. Official Washington is not exactly the genteel
Sartoris clan, but the old order of Washington simply lacks the capacity
to deal with a moral nullity like Bill or Hillary.

<a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-journalism/2015/04/26/stephanopoulos-floored-as-gingrich-bloomberg-editors-detail-seriousness-of-clinton-cash/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s why I’m a little skeptical of the
tut-tutting over the latest shenanigans</a>. The American political
class no longer has the will to police itself. The name of the game
these days is to sell/steal everything that is not nailed down and
that’s how dirt-bags like the Clintons have flourished. It was not that
long ago when their kind would not have been welcome in the halls of
power. They would have had to feed off the mountain folk in Arkansas.

Still, the chattering skulls are going on about how this opens the door
for Fake Indian to run. I guess they have to talk about something, but
anyone who knows anything knows she is not running. Even if Hillary
quits the field and leaves a wide open race, Fake Indian will not run
because she knows how things work in the Cult of Modern Liberalism.

One big reason the Left hates Hillary is she is a loser. In 1992 she was
given the job of ushering in a national health care system to replace
the semi-private arrangements we have now. She bungled it badly and
killed the issue for two decades. Worse yet, the resulting political
fallout led her husband to throw the Left overboard to save his skin.

Fake Indian knows that the Left is intolerant of losers. Lose an
election and you’re done. If she were to run for president and lose the
primary, she would be a loser and the vultures would be circling.
There’s a Kennedy warming up on Congress for her seat and you can be
sure he would be running in 2018 if Fake Indian were to run for
president and lose. It’s not like Fake Indian has the support of the
local machine. She’s a carpetbagger who depends on the support of the
Left.

Her better play is to let a stooge like O’Malley run against Hillary.
Meanwhile, <a
href="http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2015/05/04/the-virtual-candidate"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">she can rant and rave from the well of
the Senate about how her billionaire friends</a> don’t do their fair
share. She can run in 2018 with the promise she will step aside to let
the next Kennedy take the seat in 2024. That will take her into
retirement and she will never fall afoul of her coreligionists.

O’Malley, on the other hand, is the perfect off-cycle stooge. He has
nothing to lose and nothing to do right now. Maryland is a small state
located next to the Imperial Capital. That means there’s few local
shakedowns available for ex-pols. He could run for Senate, but running
for president is a better deal right now. It let’s him make connections
all over the country, which means a high paying job at a lobbying firm
after he loses.

Alternatively, he could raise his profile and set himself up for a
Senate run in a couple of years. Ben Cardin is old and ready for the
home so that seat will be open in 2018. A famous liberal with lots of
rich friends will have no trouble winning that seat. It’s a no-lose
proposition for O’Malley so he may as well be the Left’s champion
against Hillary.

My bet is Butch ends up as the nominee.
