---
title: "The Trump Effect"
date: "2015-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5389"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5389"
---

When Donald Trump started making noises about running for president, I
remember thinking, well, nothing. I have never been a Trump fan. I’ve
had no reason to *not* like him, but I’m not a consumer of popular
culture. Therefore, I never had need to come down one way or the other
on Trump.

My sense was that he was like every other successful pitchman I’ve
known. A harmless phony that is good at making people feel good about
giving them money. In the case of Trump, he is a pitchman for himself
and his brand, which helps sell real estate.  Nothing wrong with it, but
nothing for me to care much about one way or the other.

When Trump started talking about immigration, I cringed a little. Trump
has never struck me as a deep thinker so having him lead the charge on
an issue of this magnitude struck me as a bad idea. I know a lot about
it so I have a certain bias toward people who share my level of
knowledge on the subject.

The reaction from elites, however, changed my mind. The pearl-clutching
and fainting on all sides of the ruling elite has been stunning and
enlightening. I’m not alone in this. My sense is much of Trump’s support
is the result of this, a result of the *Trump Effect*.

The most obvious example of this, one I have written about a few times,
is Kevin Williamson at National Review On-Line. He has been driven to
madness over Trump, writing a dozen columns calling Trump everything
from an ape to a Nazi. National Review finally put an end to it,
apparently, as he is back to writing about unicorns and flying carpets.

I used to enjoy his articles, but his bizarre Trump columns, and to a
lesser extent the strange Sanders columns, had me wondering about his
sanity. Williamson was not alone; he was just the guy leading the
parade. All of the allegedly conservative cognoscenti were making
unhinged ad hominem attacks on Trump in what looked like a coordinated
assault.

People notice things and a lot of people noticed that the Professional
Right was treating Trump like a black guy at a Newport yacht club. Trump
was Rodney Dangerfield and the members of the Professional Right were
taking turns being
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VGpQej3o9eo" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Judge Smails</a>. It was country club snobbery, not
thoughtful and respectful criticism.

The other thing people noticed was that the hooting and bellowing
sounded just like what they heard last decade from the Left with regards
to George Bush. Kevin Williamson called Trump a “witless ape” and that
sounded a lot like when the [fever swamp types called Bush a
chimp](http://www.salon.com/2001/01/19/curious_george/).

Seeing the blonde harpy from Fox prattle on about the “war on women” did
more for Trump’s candidacy than anything else, I suspect, because of the
images it conjured of bygone battles with the Left. She sounded like a
cast member from MSNBC, ranting about Dick Cheney and the Haliburton
Hurricane Machine destroying New Orleans.

The galling aspect of the Cult’s dismissal of Bush was the
condescension. It was the beautiful people versus the normals. It was
not George Bush they were dismissing, but his voters and their
issues.The Left regularly made sport of the rubes and hicks they blamed
for George Bush.

We’re seeing the same thing here with the Professional Right and Trump.
The sneering dismissals don’t even bother to discuss immigration, the
plight of the middle-class or the war on traditional culture. Our
betters will not stoop to that level. It’s just sneering condescension.

There’s an aspect of the Trump Effect that makes it different from the
reactionary support of George Bush by many middle Americans last decade.
It is *who* is doing the hooting and to *whom* they are hooting it.

Normal middle Americans who watch Fox News, for example, are horrified
to learn that the genteel types on their television think they are
stupid prols that better know their place – or else. [Jonah Goldberg
thinks the listeners of Rush
Limbaugh](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/423901/donald-trump-conservatives-war)
are not worth his time as they are insignificant bugs.

*The biggest criticism — in terms of quantity, not quality — is that I
am a RINO squish faker fraud no-goodnik lib sucking at the teat of the
establishment blah blah and blah. These usually take the form of angry
tweets and e-mails. So I’ll fold my response to this silliness into my
responses to the longer-form stuff. One of the most popular rejoinders
comes from the Conservative Treehouse, a site I’ve liked in the past.
But if it weren’t for the fact that Rush Limbaugh enthusiastically
plugged it on air, I’m not sure it would merit much of a response.*

*A 2,000-word “Open Letter to Jonah Goldberg,” written by someone named
“Sundance,” it devotes barely a sentence to responding to anything I
actually wrote. Nor does the author really defend Donald Trump — or his
supporters — from my criticisms. Instead it is a long and somewhat
splenetic indictment of the “establishment.” Sundance writes: “The
challenging aspect to your expressed opinion, and perhaps why there is a
chasm between us, is you appear to stand in defense of a Washington DC
conservatism that no longer exists.” He then proceeds to conflate the
GOP’s record with “Washington conservatism” as if they are synonymous.*

*This strikes me as projection and deflection and nothing more. The
whole thing is a non sequitur masquerading as a rejoinder. He lays down
a tediously long list of questions*

The sneering is impossible to miss. Jonah’s view of himself is as a man
of the sophisticated class. His critic is a man of the servant class.
The snotty reply is not intended to correct or even educate the critic.
It is a dismissal.

Goldberg’s audience in that piece is not the critic or the critic’s
readers. The audience is his coevals in the chattering classes, who have
locked arms in defense of their class against the Trumpian onslaught.

That’s the *Trump Effect*.

What offends the tender sensibilities of Jonah Goldberg is not the
issues Trump has championed. To Jonah, those are not to be taken
seriously. What offends Jonah is that Trump is a low-class prol rallying
the field hands in a revolt against the master and his house boys. If
you look carefully at Fox, you can see George Will and Charles
Krauthammer clutching at their pearls, muttering “how dare he!” whenever
Trump is the topic.

I don’t think the people supporting Trump think of him as their
champion. My guess is most would rather vote for someone less caustic
and improvisational.But, it’s not really about Trump and I think they
know it. Trump is a means to an end, they hope.

Middle Americans are looking through the windows of the farmhouse and
seeing Progressives and Conservatives sitting together eating and
drinking together as one. They cannot tell the Conservatives from the
Liberals because their faces seem to be the same and they are saying the
same things.

There was the same hearty cheering as before, and the mugs were emptied
to the dregs. But as the animals outside gazed at the scene, it seemed
to them that some strange thing was happening. What was it that had
altered in the faces of the pigs? Clover’s old dim eyes flitted from one
face to another. Some of them had five chins, some had four, some had
three. But what was it that seemed to be melting and changing? Then, the
applause having come to an end, the company took up their cards and
continued the game that had been interrupted, and the animals crept
silently away.
