---
title: "Star Wars and Fake Nerds"
date: "2015-12-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6092"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6092"
---

The other day, a woman gave me the business over my lack of enthusiasm
for the new Star Wars movie. When she told me about how she was going to
the first night, I said I had saw the original three, but skipped the
reboot. I may have caught clips here and there, but otherwise I had no
interest and I have no interest in the latest rendition. When I called
it cowboys and Indians in space, I seemed to have crossed some line.

In his latest transmission, John Derbyshire takes a similar position,
but for a different reason and probably a better reason than I offered.
John grew up reading classic science fiction, so he knows good sci-fi
and Star Wars is just crap by comparison. I agree with that, and I would
add that Star Trek, the original version, is the gold standard for
Hollywood science fiction.

Way back when Star Wars came out in the late 70’s, it was largely
considered a kids movie. The adult sci-fi weirdos were into Star Trek,
with the first convention happening in 1972. Guys spending Saturday
night playing Dungeons and Dragons or learning to code on their
Commodore PET were doing so wearing Spock ears, not fondling a fake
light saber.

But we now live in the age of the fake nerd, and I think that’s where
Star Wars fits best. The people that “fucking love science!” and watch
Big Bang Theory can’t shut up about Star Wars. It’s another method to
signal their membership in the cult of pseudo-scientism. They may never
have made it past geometry in school, but they swear they grew up on
comic books and were always a nerd.

Fake nerds are everywhere in the media these days. Jonah Goldberg is the
one that always comes to mind when I think about this stuff. He has
invested a lot of time casting himself as a bookish nerd-boy who grew up
reading Batman comics and watching re-runs of Gilligan’s Island. Maybe
it is true or maybe it is just clever marketing. You never can know for
sure with people in the media.

In sports media, the fake nerd is everywhere because statistics are such
a big part of sports. ESPN loves dressing up a millennial as a dork and
having him rattle off numbers on TV. It’s often hilarious as the typical
sports reporter is innumerate, barely able to count to ten without help.
But they dress them up as nerds, anyway, figuring it is what the public
expects.

Of course, turning science into a religion is why we have [kooks like
Bill Nye](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5780) demanding to
have skeptics thrown in prison. He’s a good reminder that you can be
batshit crazy and still be able to design a decent toaster. The
amusement park manager, Neil deGrasse Tyson, made it through a doctoral
program, but found better money in peddling pseudo-scientific nonsense
to rich people.

The funny thing about the fake nerd stuff is that real nerds are usually
active people who enjoy the outdoors, playing sports and doing the sorts
of things normal people do. I used to play hoops with a bunch of
programmers. I know a few body builders who are engineers, one is a
rocket scientist at NASA. In my experience, the highly numerate tend to
be a little nuts and anything but nerdish.

Of course, the fake nerd stuff is just a pose. We live in an age of
marvels where the technology is far outpacing most people’s ability to
keep up. In that regard, our era has another striking resemblance to the
late 19th and early 20th century, before the great wars. When
Wells, Gernsbacker and Verne invented science fiction, it seemed as if
science would conquer the human condition.

A century ago, to be thought of as smart you had to be a tinkerer and
love what passed for science and technology at the time. Everyone was
convinced that all the answers were just around the corner and the pace
of technology would only
accelerate. [Taylorism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_management)
was the economics of its day and everyone that was thought to be
intelligent was into science.

A big difference between then and now is that fake nerdism is probably
filling the void where religion used to reside. A century ago, even the
most empirically minded went to mass, just to keep up appearances.
Today, no one believes in anything, so everyone falls for everything.
Slap the word “study” onto any batshit crazy idea and your fake nerd
friends will be posting infographics about on their Facebook page.
