---
title: "The Greatest Taboo"
date: "2015-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4302"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4302"
---

In my post on Greece yesterday, I came in for withering fire over my
statement about elections. OK, that’s an exaggeration. I’m often
surprised at what gets the attention of readers in my posts, but also in
stuff I read on various sites. The comments sections have become the
place where you can take the temperature of that portion of the reading
public with similar interest to your own.

Anyway, the objection is that elections are not about problem solving
and I can see the point. Often elections are nothing more than beauty
contests. When writing that post I was looking at elections as an
ongoing process. Individually they may be meaningless, but string a few
together and you have a meaningful series that reflects the attempts by
a society to solve a problem.

Still, that leaves the other objection, which is that current elections
are not addressing the *important* problems. The country is being
overrun by foreigners and the pols debate trivial changes to the tax
code or how they look better in a blue suit than the other guys. In
America, the 2016 election will have little to say about immigration,
even though the public is concerned about it. In the UK, the only guy
talking immigration is dismissed as a racist.

That last bit really did not resonate with me until I looked up some
polling on immigration in the UK. In the US, the numbers have been
creeping up, but immigration is still low on the list of issue important
to voters.
<a href="http://www.gallup.com/poll/1675/most-important-problem.aspx"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Americans are still far more concerned
with the economy</a> and the general chaos in Washington, than
immigration issues.In the UK, <a
href="http://www.economist.com/news/britain/21646835-recent-numbers-immigration-pushed-issue-top-voters-concerns-how-they-vote"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">immigration is the top issue</a>. It’s
not just the top worry, it is the top worry of most people.

The people in charge of Britain, however, are doing everything they can
to keep the topic out of the election. So much so that the <a
href="http://admin.dailyexpress.co.uk/news/politics/571294/Nigel-Farage-Ukip-BBC-debate-fixed-Question-Time?utm_content=buffere3f81&amp;utm_medium=social&amp;utm_source=twitter.com&amp;utm_campaign=buffer"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">BBC stacked the audience</a> during the
last debate in an attempt to discredit Nigel Farage.

*He will take audience questions in a 30-minute programme called
Election 2015: Ask Nigel Farage.*

*The discussion, held in Birmingham, will air after the News at 10 and
will be chaired by journalist Jo Coburn.*

*It will be held at the same time as a Question Time special featuring
the Tory, Labour and Liberal Democrat leaders who will take turns
answering questions from the same audience in Leeds.*

*A Ukip insider raised questions over the timing of the announcement
from the BBC amid a growing bias storm engulfing the broadcaster.*

*It earlier emerged that Thursday’s debate featuring the leaders of
“challenger” parties had an audience where just ONE THIRD leaned towards
the political right.*

*The Ukip leader was booed on the programme when he suggested the
make-up of the BBC election debate audience was left wing “even by the
left-wing standards of the BBC”.*

*Host David Dimbleby even insisted the audience had been “carefully
chosen” by independent polling organisation ICM to represent the balance
between all parties.*

*But when the make-up of audience members was finally revealed it showed
that nearly 70 per cent were left wing.*

Think about the people who would risk a scandal in order to get a few
more jeers at the UKIP candidate. There’s a level of fanaticism here
that goes beyond the normal partisanship. UKIP is not going to win the
election. They are taking a bigger bite out of the Tories than the even
more leftist parties. Strategically, UKIP is serving the interests of
the BBC types. Yet, they cannot stop themselves from attacking UKIP.

The question, of course, is why? Immigration should be no more
emotionally fraught than zoning ordinances or garbage collection
budgets. It is just another policy that free people must administer. But
it isn’t to the people in the charge. Flooding their nations with
foreigners has become a holy mission and those who oppose them deserving
of the worst they can throw at them.

Immigration, of course, is tied to citizenship. Limits on immigration
mean there are *benefits* to citizenship, which means there is such a
thing called a citizen and that’s become the greatest taboo in Western
societies. The idea that people are citizens and their government is
obligated to protect their interests is a heresy amongst the ruling
classes. They no longer see themselves bound to their host countries and
the people of those countries.

That’s why immigration may be our greatest taboo now. In the UK, the
people in charge desperately want to fold the country into the amorphous
blob of Europe. The far less sophisticated rulers of America imagine
themselves ruling over it all. The fact that the people may not be
willing to go along with it makes the need to sacralize the immigrant
and demonize the nativist.
