---
title: "Cinderella With a Riding Crop"
date: "2015-03-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4146"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4146"
---

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/22/opinion/sunday/judith-shulevitz-hiding-from-scary-ideas.html?mwrsm=Email"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This article</a> the other day got a lot
of traffic. The weirdness of third wave feminism is that the new model
broads are as tough as any man and so dainty they could very well die if
they hear a discouraging word.

*KATHERINE BYRON, a senior at <a
href="http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/b/brown_university/index.html?inline=nyt-org"
class="meta-org" title="More articles about Brown University">Brown
University</a> and a member of its Sexual Assault Task Force, considers
it her duty to make Brown a safe place for rape victims, free from
anything that might prompt memories of trauma.*

*So when she heard last fall that a student group had organized a debate
about campus sexual assault between Jessica Valenti, the founder of
<a href="http://feministing.com" rel="noopener"
target="_">feministing.com</a>, and Wendy McElroy, a libertarian, and
that Ms. McElroy was likely to criticize the term “rape culture,” Ms.
Byron was alarmed. “Bringing in a speaker like that could serve to
invalidate people’s experiences,” she told me. It could be “damaging.”*

*Ms. Byron and some fellow task force members secured a meeting with
administrators. Not long after, Brown’s president, Christina H. Paxson,
announced that the university would hold a simultaneous, competing talk
to provide “research and facts” about “the role of culture in sexual
assault.” Meanwhile, student volunteers put up posters advertising that
a “safe space” would be available for anyone who found the debate too
upsetting.*

It’s tempting to think this is some sort of attention seeking gag, but
it is something you can observe in the wild. Nancy Pelosi, for example,
almost had a stroke watching Bibi Netanyahu speak in front of Congress.
She was physically pained just sitting there. The psychic torment of
hearing someone say things she does not like became physical agony.

The other day, I had to drop my office manager off to get her car from
the mechanic. She is an old communist. We were making small talk and I
made a passing reference to Whittaker Chambers. Old lefties are still
vexed over the Alger Hiss affair. She was so upset I thought she was
going to hurl herself out of the car.

If that were the extent of feminism, I think we would be OK. But, crazy
does not work that way. <a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/a-better-world-run-by-women-1425657910"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This hilarious story from the Wall Street
Journal</a> provides the whip hand of feminism, so to speak.

<img
src="http://si.wsj.net/public/resources/images/BN-HH030_women_M_20150306125726.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="595" height="402" />

[*Hillary Clinton*](http://topics.wsj.com/person/C/Hillary-Clinton/6344)
*seems to be preparing to run for president, and the former
Hewlett-Packard CEO [Carly
Fiorina](http://topics.wsj.com/person/F/Carly-Fiorina/67) may yet enter
the race on the Republican side. Whoever wins the White House in 2016,
today it seems easily possible that within the next decade, the U.S.
will follow Britain, Germany, Brazil, Argentina, India, Israel,
Thailand, Norway and dozens of other countries in electing a woman to
our most powerful office.*

*Can we predict the consequences? Yes, we can—and the news is good.*

*Research has found that women are superior to men in most ways that
will count in the future, and it isn’t just a matter of culture or
upbringing—although both play their roles. It is also biology and the
aspects of thought and feeling shaped by biology. It is because of
chromosomes, genes, hormones and brain circuits.*

*And no, by this I don’t mean what was meant by patronizing men who
proclaimed the superiority of women in the benighted past—that women are
lofty, spiritual creatures who must be left out of the bustle and fray
of competitive life, business, politics and war, so that they can
instill character in the next generation. I mean something like the
opposite of that.*

*All wars are boyish. People point to Margaret Thatcher, Indira Gandhi
and Golda Meir as evidence that women, too, can be warlike. But these
women were perched atop all-male hierarchies confronting other
hypermasculine political pyramids, and they were masculinized as they
fought their way to the top.*

Despite everything we know pointing to the contrary, the future will be
run by the gals. Hey, it could happen. Of course, the smart ones at our
elite colleges could end up brain damaged with all that fainting at the
sound of discouraging words. So, maybe the meek will not inherit the
earth.

Articles like this and his book are not intended to be serious science
or commentary. The whole point is to titillate the feminists. That will
sell some books and get him some speaking gigs. Who knows? Maybe he can
get a TED Talk out of it. I wish him the best with it.

Looking at the CV of Melvin Konner, the author of the Journal piece, I
can’t help but notice his age. He came of age when his field was ruled
by blank slate fanatics. The action now is in genetics and biochemistry.
I would imagine there’s more than a bit of friction between the two
sides now. Guys like Konner have to sit and watch the young guns in the
lab do all the exciting stuff.
