---
title: "The Birthplace of Multiculturalism is Dying"
date: "2015-06-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4652"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4652"
---

The word “why” is one of the more abused words in the English language.
Today, the primary abuse comes via over caffeinated twinks from the
millennial generation demanding the rest of us explain reality to them.
Over the last half century, the word has been used as an excuse to
overturn large chunks of Western Civilization in pursuit of an earthly
utopia.

The real pity, it seems to me, of our era is no one seems willing to use
the word “why” in the attempt to learn anything about human affairs.
What I mean by that is right here in <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11644660/Germany-dominance-over-as-demographic-crunch-worsens.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story on German’s demographic
collapse</a>. The article details the drop in fertility and how that is
playing out over multiple generations. The writer also covers the
problems with regards to a custodial state suddenly overwhelmed with
geezers.

What you will not find in that article is why, after a 1,000 generations
or more in the middle of Europe, these Germanic tribes decided to stop
having kids. It is a conscious decision as there’s no evidence that
women are suddenly infertile. Contraception sales are better than ever.
Men and women of these tribes have simply decided to not have children.
If <a
href="http://www.dw.de/report-finds-german-teens-having-sex-later-and-less-often-than-before/a-5976349"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reports like this one</a> are correct,
Germans are not even willing to have sex, despite the mountains of free
contraceptives.

It is telling, I think, that no one thinks about this in the same way we
look at fertility of other species. Armies of humans are involved in
understanding why the giant panda stopped reproducing. If the population
of the long-nosed fly gorilla ant drops even by one percent, the full
force of the federal state swings into action to find out why. People
across Europe have stopped reproducing and no one is the least bit
curious.

The closest we get to an answer is the old trope about educated people
having fewer children, as if self-extinction was the height of genius.
Never mind that the smart fraction used to have loads of kids by custom.
Then you have the <a
href="http://knowledge.allianz.com/demography/population/?2657/germany-birth-rates-interview"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hooting lunatics claiming that what
worked just fine for thousands</a> of years is suddenly killing off the
species. Otherwise, no one thinks it is important to know what is
causing Europeans to die out.

David Goldman, also known as Spengler, wrote a book called <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/How-Civilizations-Die-Islam-Dying/dp/159698273X"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"><em>How Civilizations Die</em></a> in
which he tried to answer the question. His main argument is that the
West has lost faith in itself by losing faith entirely. People who truly
believe that there is a reward in the next life for living well in this
life will inevitably be optimistic about the future and willing to bring
children into the world.

The West, in Goldman’s formulation, sees nothing but a pointless dance
to the grave and therefore sees no purpose to life. Not having children
is the same as saying you wish you had never been born. I doubt anyone
thinks of it in those terms, but the old Greek saying is true. Societies
grow great when old men plants trees in whose shade they will never sit.

At the same time, Islam’s violent response to encroaching modernity is a
reaction to the spiritual nullity that is modern Western consumerism and
materialism. Muslim leaders talk about this very fact. They see their
own sudden downturn in fertility as a consequence of Western materialism
destroying their traditional societies.

The book is well worth reading, even though I’m not entirely convinced.
The biological imperative is what makes life possible. Men will not
suddenly decide to overrule their most basic desires just because their
churches have fallen to rubble. Even in the darkest days of humanity,
people still got it on and made new people. There’s a reason why
September is the most common birth month in the northern hemisphere.

Still, I can’t help but wonder if Goldman is not mostly right about
what’s driving this trend. The inspiration has died so the aspiration
has died too, replaced with the cold, transactional ethos of the modern
technological state. Orwell may have been wrong about the brutal
austerity of the future, but the custodial state imagined by Huxley is
just as sterile.

There’s also the central tenet of multiculturalism which has infected
the West. That’s the argument that no society is better than another and
to think so, much less say so, is about the worst thing you can do.
Pride in your people is a big part of that biological urge. Men risk
their lives for their people because to do so means their essence will
carry on through others.

If “your people” are no better or worse than any other people, there’s
no reason for you to sacrifice in anyway for “your people.” At the same
time, if you cannot count on your people to look after your descendents
or even associate with your descendents, why bother having descendents?
The egalitarian, multicultural society is one where no one has any
regard for anyone, beyond the material transactions of daily existence.

In politics, the electorate always has the option to not vote. Often, it
is the next to last resort. Millions of white people have stopped voting
in America because no party represents the interests of traditional core
Americans. That scales up to people declining to show up for the future
when the direction of their cultures is headed to a dead, sterile end.
The future belongs to those who show up and the West has decided the
future is not for them.
