---
title: "Bigfoot, Loch Ness Monster, Chupacabra…"
date: "2015-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4148"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4148"
---

…and the famous backlash coming your way. For as long as I have been
alive, the Left has been wringing their hands, on your behalf, over the
coming backlash over your unwillingness to fall in-line. You heretics
keep making demands and supporting extreme right-wing extremists of the
most extreme kind and one day, <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/mar/23/ted-cruz-immigration-crackdown-advocacy-sparks-fie/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the backlash is going to get you!</a>

*Sen. Ted Cruz announced a bid for the White House on Monday, drawing
praise from grass-roots conservatives but a fierce backlash from
Hispanic groups that said they were appalled at the prospect of the
first Hispanic to announce for president this cycle being such a firm
champion of a crackdown on illegal immigrants.*

*The freshman lawmaker, whose father was Cuban, has been one of the most
vocal opponents of President Obama’s immigration policy. He voted
against a legalization bill in 2013 and helped lead opposition to the
administration’s deportation amnesty over the past six months.*

*Announcing his candidacy at Liberty University, Mr. Cruz sounded
familiar conservative themes and said he believes “God isn’t done with
America yet.”*

*“I believe in you. I believe in the power of millions of courageous
conservatives rising up to reignite the promise in America,” he said.*

*Mr. Cruz is the first elected Hispanic Republican in history to seek
the White House, but Hispanic groups found little to celebrate in the
groundbreaking moment.*

*“We reject Ted Cruz, which is sad, because while he is the first Latino
to declare his candidacy, he may be the most anti-immigration candidate
on stage during the debates,” Cesar Vargas and Erika Andiola,
co-directors of the Dream Action Coalition, said in a joint statement.
“While Ted Cruz has a Latino name and immigration in his past, that’s
where the similarities between him and the Latino community end.”*

At least they did not call him a coconut – yet. You know that’s coming.
When Michael Steele ran in Maryland as a Republican, local black
activist threw Oreo cookies at him. The local press applauded their
efforts to expose a man who was not “authentically black.” They actually
put it that way in one of the papers.

I love how these hacks are trying to define what is and what is not
acceptable thought for Spanish speakers. The proof of their ignorance is
right there. Anyone who has been around Latinos knows they hate it when
people try and speak for them this way. They *really hate it*, almost as
much as they hate being lumped in with blacks.

The fact is, <a
href="http://www.mclaughlinonline.com/lib/sitefiles/National_Hispanic_Presentation_06-21-13_-_FOR_RELEASE.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">most Hispanics agree with Cruz on
immigration</a>. Open borders and illegal immigration are bad for them.
Talk to any *legal* immigrant and they will chew your ear off about the
evils of amnesty and illegal immigration. In this regard, John
Derbyshire is well within the mainstream.

I’m not a fan of Cruz for President. I think he makes a fine senator. I
think he is right about a lot of things. His opinion on legal
immigration is completely nuts, but maybe he is persuadable on that
issue. We’ll see. The fact that a vociferous anti-amnesty candidate is
going to be on the stage offers some hope.

Dave Brat was running on a number of issues, but what stuck was
immigration. He rode that to a huge upset of Eric Cantor. If Cruz starts
to get traction with immigration, events, as they say, can take over and
we could see the other candidates jumping on the issue. It’s how issue
shifts from fringe to acceptable.
