---
title: "German Suicide"
date: "2015-09-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5394"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5394"
---

I have a lot of weird interests. One of them is to imagine, as best I
can, what it was like at some crucial moment in history, wondering if it
was possible to know you were at a crucial moment in history. It seems
to me that smart people, for example, would have known that the attack
on Fort Sumter was ushering in war. In fact, lots of Southerners knew
this and warned against it. Still, even the smartest did not foresee the
bloody mayhem that was to follow. If leaders on both sides could have
foreseen Antietam, would they have gone to war?

But what about the average guy? The people running ports, shipping
operations, teaching school and so forth had access to newspapers. They
knew about the world and the events that were happening in their
country. Did they know, when news of Sumter got to them, that their
world was about to be convulsed? That everything they knew was about to
change and that in a decade they would live in a foreign country?

A good test of all this is World War I. The Austro-Hungarian government
waited three weeks following the assassination of Archduke Franz
Ferdinand, before issuing its formal response to Serbia, which comprised
a harsh ultimatum that could never be accepted. The men in charge of
European affairs knew perfectly well what would happen if war broke out
in the Balkans. Even the dimwitted Kaiser understood the enormity of the
situation immediately after the assassination of Franz Ferdinand. Yet,
the ultimatum was issued.

The leaders of Europe also had the American Civil War and the
Franco-Prussian War as examples of the bloody madness of modern warfare.
They knew war in Europe was suicide, even if they did not fully
understand what was coming. The Franco-Prussian War had close to a
million casualties. Simply adding in the machine gun and the howitzer
had to mean millions of dead. They had to know this, yet they moved
ahead with war anyway.

The Great War is so interesting because it is full of examples where it
is nearly impossible to understand how the actors could be so stupid.
Obviously, hindsight prejudices us, but even accounting for that, it is
hard to understand many of the things that were done by allegedly smart
people. The example that always comes to my mind is how the French
dressed up their officers so they were easier to see on the battlefield.
They wore red pants and white gloves.

It’s hard for us to understand these things because the people of 100
years ago believed things about the world we no longer believe. In fact,
we no longer remember many of the things they believed. The Kaiser was
ruler of a new country and he believed Germany was ready to take its
place atop the world order. National pride drove the Germans, but it
also drove the response to the Germans. This is unfathomable to us
today, but its inverse is all around us.

The Muslim invasion of Europe is irrational in every way imaginable. The
obvious answer to this problem is for France and Germany to come to the
aid of the periphery, particularly those countries in the south and
south east. This is not the Mongol Invasion of the 13th century. These
are economic migrants sensing weakness so they are making a run for the
border. A modest amount of resistance would end the flood.

Such a move by France and Germany would do wonders for the strained
relations within Europe. This is a common issue that could show the
benefits of working in concert to solve continental problems. Instead,
the Germans are trying to commit suicide and demanding everyone else
join them. The result is [new strains to an already strained
relationship](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/13/world/europe/eastern-europe-migrant-refugee-crisis.html).
Hungarians, Poles, Czechs and Slovaks are not awash in blood guilt so
they see no reason to follow the German lead.

Doing the sane thing would require self-respect and that is as alien
today as the national pride of a century ago. Angela Merkel’s popularity
in Germany and Europe is due, in large part, to [her ability to express
national
shame](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/germany/10255833/Merkel-expresses-her-deep-sorrow-and-shame-during-historic-Dachau-visit.html)
better than anyone else. It is an integral part of her appeal as the
German leader. [Elites all over the West envy her ability to
figuratively
grovel](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/on-leadership/wp/2015/09/11/on-refugee-crisis-germanys-angela-merkel-has-found-a-bold-voice/)
on behalf of the rest of us at the feet of the third world.

Nationalism is usually the blame for the two world wars. Excessive
national pride, filling the void of religion, drove sensible men to
slaughter each other by the millions. There was simply no other way to
beat that belief out of them. The sin of nationalism could only be
cleansed by the blood of the nationalists.

What about the sin of excessive, compulsive all-consuming shame? That
certainly seems to be driving otherwise sensible people to the brink of
madness. Germany is a country of 80 million with about 2 million
Muslims. They are taking in another million and history says that these
millions will anchor another four to five million through family
reunification. Will that be enough to satisfy German shame? Or will it
take tens of millions more?

The answer, of course, is there is no number high enough that will lead
the Germans, at least the German elite, to say the sins have been paid.
For the German elite, the sins of their ancestors can only be cleansed
with the blood of their countrymen. The invitation of tens of millions
of Muslims to settle in Germany is a slow motion human sacrifice. What’s
unknown is if the German people will go quietly.
