---
title: "Oh, I Think I Know The Answer"
date: "2015-03-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3995"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3995"
---

This <a
href="https://ca.news.yahoo.com/apple-watch-gadget-fashion-statement-120952226--finance.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">headline</a> is one of those questions
that answers itself. “The Apple Watch: Is it a gadget or a fashion
statement?” I’m fond of pointing out that the correlation between the
mobility of an Apple product and its popularity. The great innovation of
the iPod was not the technology. It was the marketing. Having an iPod
made you hip, youthful and edgy. Don Imus spent a year asking every
guest what they had on their iPod as part of his act. The iPod quickly
became a fashion statement.

*Apple CEO Tim Cook summed up the problem during a conversation with
sales staff at a London Apple Store: “We’ve never sold anything as a
company that people could try on before.”*

*With the expected launch next month of the Apple Watch, the company’s
first new product in five years, Apple will be stepping into new
territory.*

*To conquer the marketplace, the watch will have to appeal not only as a
gadget but as a fashion statement, a fact tacitly acknowledged by
Apple’s decision to launch its advertising campaign with a 12-page
insert in the March issue of Vogue.*

*The company isn’t talking about plans for marketing the Apple Watch in
advance of it’s much-touted “Spring Forward” event on Monday, but it
clearly intends to keep a tight grip on initial sales and distribution,
leaving many retailers guessing about when — or if — they’ll be able to
sell it.*

*Sources with direct knowledge of the matter said that Best Buy Co Inc,
one of the largest sellers of Apple products, may not get the watch at
launch time, though the company wouldn’t comment on the situation.*

*Other large retailers, including Macy’s, Saks 5th Avenue, Bloomingdales
and Barney’s said they had no immediate plans to carry the watch. Target
and Nordstrom,along with all the major phone carriers, declined to
comment on their plans, though a source with knowledge of the situation
said Nordstrom has engaged in discussions with Apple.*

*“Apple is being cautious. There are too many unknowns around how this
product will perform,” said Van Baker, research vice-president,
technology research firm Gartner Inc.*

Another one of my themes is the fact that the big returns from the
communications revolution have been realized. What’s left is marginal
stuff like making the phone smaller or giving it a snazzier exterior.
Turning it into a watch is another example. This is a device with no
practical application so it has to be a fashion item. Apple is about to
become ironic.

The reports I’ve read suggest the response may not be as expected. Even
diehard Apple users have to be wondering why they need a smart watch.
Most probably gave up wearing a watch a long time ago. Putting their
current apps on a watch makes little sense. Apple has been humping this
thing as a fitness tool, but that space is pretty crowded. A bunch of
these things that sync with cloud apps to track anything you want to
track already exist and are popular. All of which is a waste of time, by
the way. Unless you’re an elite professional athlete, you have no need
for these things, but for $100 they are fine toys.

That leaves fashion statement.
