---
title: "The Replacements"
date: "2015-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3819"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3819"
---

It is about ten degrees today, at least it was, so everyone is bundled
up as if they are stationed at the Arctic Circle. I come out onto the
street and I’m greeted by a big talking garbage bag. It has legs and I
see a set of eye peering out at me. Two little boys are tagging along
and the bag is speaking to them in Arabic. Such is life in the ghetto.
it is where you get to see the business end of ruling class social
experiments.

Muslim women walking on the street in the niqab or the burka are not
just following a custom. It is a statement. In Muslim lands the point of
the outfit is to warn off other males. It is a form of modesty and it is
a warning. These women belong to men *not you* and you better keep that
in mind. In America, the outfit is to let you know that the Muslims are
taking over this turf and you better get used to it.

Islam does not play well with others, but Arabs don’t play well with
others either. It is a toxic mix that has left the Middle East a
hyper-violent, chaotic jungle in the desert. When Muslims move out of
their homelands into other lands, they first work to displace the locals
and then they inflict their customs and religion on whoever is left.
[Hamtramck](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamtramck,_Michigan) Michigan
is a [good
example](http://www.nytimes.com/2004/05/05/us/tension-in-a-michigan-city-over-muslims-call-to-prayer.html).
The US government probably plans to put the [Yemeni refugees they keep
recruiting](http://www.yementimes.com/en/1516/news/606/US-embassy-opens-free-visa-lottery.htm)
in Hamtramck.

Sally Howell, a professor in the University Michigan system, has written
extensively about Muslims in America. One of her themes is how Muslim
immigrants can bring down crime in a city. She points to Hamtramck as an
example. What she does not mention, and what never gets mentioned, is
*how* this happens. Of course, we all know the answer to that, it’s just
not proper to say it in public. It’s that old mokita again.

In the Imperial Capital, population displacement became the tool for
urban renewal. The Washington Post ran articles about how the Hispanic
immigrants were lowering crime rates. It was always the same gooey
nonsense you get from immigration romantics, but that was just frosting.
The message being sent to readership was that the immigrants were not
adding, they were replacing. MS-13 tends to take a dim view of the
locals. A rash of machete attacks sent the message. [Washington is no
longer an urban
jungle](http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/18/us/18dc.html?pagewanted=all).

Steve Sailer is fond of pointing out how Section 8 is used to clear out
undesirables from urban areas the Cult wants to reclaim. They move the
problem to some unsuspecting suburb and then move in gays and hipsters
to spruce of the former ghetto. It’s a form of ethnic cleansing. Instead
of shooting the unwanted population, they bribe them to leave. Hell’s
Kitchen, for example, has become [Hell’s Breakfast
Nook](http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/19/nyregion/19hell.html?pagewanted=all).

Immigration serves a similar role for the people in charge. Chicago and
Baltimore, for example, have been desperately trying to attract
Hispanics to “clean up” their cities. The problem is the violence is too
frightening even for Mexicans, who know a thing or two about violence.
Muslims may turn out to be their solution. Baltimore looks pretty good
compared to
[Sana’a](http://i.guim.co.uk/static/w-620/h--/q-95/sys-images/Guardian/Pix/pictures/2015/1/20/1421773224556/7a4f6118-c7c9-4137-b4f8-e1ba1c15e503-620x372.jpeg).

With Jeb Bush the most likely president, you can be sure he will import
millions of Muslims from the countries his family screwed up a decade
ago. There’s more than enough displaced Muslims in the Near East now to
fill up a couple of America cities so he’ll have plenty of support from
the Democrats. His own party just wants Hindu and Chinese slaves for
Silicon Valley and Hispanic slaves for the service industry.

Ask not for whom the talking trash bag ululates. It ululates for you.
