---
title: "Voluntary Obsolescence"
date: "2016-08-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8366"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8366"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, I was chatting with an acquaintance, who
owned a number of small niche publications. Each had five to
ten thousand subscribers, who paid $50 per year for the publication.
These were monthly hobbyist type things. Printing, postage and content
costs ate up most of his revenue, but he was still able to take an upper
middle-class salary from the business. He was never going to get rich
from it, but he liked the action and it let him turn hobbies into a nice
career.

At the time, he was telling me about his plan to move all of his
magazines to the web. This was in the 90’s so it was the new thing.
Newspapers and magazines were putting up websites hoping to reach a
broader audience. He was very excited about it because he saw the cost
savings. Printing and postage were his big line items so going digital
meant a potential windfall. I remember asking him how he expected to
charge people when he was putting his content on-line free of charge. He
responded, “Hits. We’ll get more hits and then we can sell advertising.”

At that point I knew he and many others were about to commit suicide.
I’ve been inside many banks and none of them ever accepted hits or site
traffic as payment. The people rushing to shovel their content on-line
simply had no idea why they were rushing to give their product away, but
they were sure it was going to be glorious. The result has been the
death of newspapers and many magazines. The New York Times, for example,
loses money every quarter and only survives because a Mexican
billionaire wants access to the American ruling class.

I get that same feeling when people talk about Uber and self-driving
cars. From the perspective of an outsider, I see no reason why cities
would sanction Uber or any of the other off-the-book taxi services.
There’s nothing in it for the municipality. Similarly, why would any of
the car companies sign off on robot cars? There’s no advantage for them
to do it. Of course, taxi fleets of self-driving cars is about the
nuttiest thing imaginable as it just means the death of a number of
industries, namely car makers and car insurance firms.

Think about it. Your car sits unused most of the time. You take it to
work where it sits all day. Then you take it home where it sits all
night. You have a car for convenience, mostly. Pubic
transportation,where available, is not good for running errands, going
shopping or other tasks. Cabs are fine for some of it, but hailing a cab
in the rain sucks compared to walking into the parking garage to get
into your car. There’s a reason why rich people have car services and
limos. They get the flexibility of their own vehicle with the
convenience of a taxi service.

Now imagine that anywhere you are you can order up a
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xGi6j2VrL0o"
target="_blank">Johnny Cab</a>, having it pick you up and take you where
you wish, at a low fee. All you do is pull out the phone and order it up
and it comes by to haul you to work or take you to the market. It sounds
wonderful, especially for old people and alcoholics. The question is,
why own a car when you can get the service of a car, without having to
own it, store it and maintain it? Hobbyists would still want a sports
car or off-road vehicle, but most people have cars for practical
purposes only.

Do a little math and you see that you use maybe ten percent of your
car’s useful capacity. The hour commute to work and the hour home means
two hours out of a day. Throw in some driving on the weekend and 90% of
the time your car is sitting idle. Even assuming inefficiency, one care
could serve the needs of five people, which means a world of Johnny Cabs
is a world with about 80% fewer cars. That means 80% fewer car sales
for the car makers. It also means 80% fewer insurance polices, tax
stickers and all the other things that are based on people owning cars.

If you are in the car business, the plan should be simple. Buy enough
politicians to kill off Uber and the robot car people. For their part,
the pols should require little bribing as it is in their interest to
kill the robot cars too. Instead, all of the car makers are announcing
plans to produce robot cars aimed at the for-hire business. <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2016-08-18/uber-s-first-self-driving-fleet-arrives-in-pittsburgh-this-month-is06r7on"
target="_blank">Uber is doing a test run in Pittsburgh with a fleet of
driverless cars</a>. Like those newspaper and magazine guys of the 90’s,
the transportation industry is fashioning a noose for themselves out the
new technology, so they can destroy themselves. Karl Marx must be
laughing in Hell right now.
