---
title: "Art of the Con"
date: "2016-01-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6157"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6157"
---

Over the holiday weekend I read a book titled [The Art of the Con by
Anthony
Amore](http://www.amazon.com/The-Art-Con-Notorious-Forgeries/dp/1137279877).
It is a book about art theft, a specialty of the author, who makes his
living protecting art and investigating art thefts. The book is what I
call a bathroom book in that it is light reading broken into small
sections. I’m a lackadaisical reader and I knocked it out over the
weekend.

If you like true crime and are looking for a quick easy read to kill
time on a train, plane, or stagecoach, it is a good choice. The author
has a good understanding of the world of fine art but is levelheaded
about it. For instance, he acknowledges that Abstract Expressionism is
easy to fake because it takes so little talent to produce. The writing
style is conversational and direct, as you would expect from an
investigator.

One of the interesting data points in the book is that close to 50% of
fine art is fraudulent in some way. Either it is an outright forgery, a
copy or was produced against the wishes of the artist by associates and
understudies. The Great Masters, for instance, often relied on
understudies to do much of their work so passing off the work of an
understudy as that of the master is common.

Of course, art fraud is so common because it is so lucrative. Rich
people collect art as a way to display their wealth within their peer
group. It not only tells the other rich guys that you have loads of
disposable income, but it also suggests you have cultured tastes.
Therefore, high demand from rich people, looking for an emotional high,
drives up prices for fine art and that means huge potential gains
for fakers.

The strangely interesting chapter to me is on lithography where it is
suggested that there are more fakes on the market than real art. The
reason is “real” is not easy to pin down. As far as I can tell, the
difference between authentic and fake in most cases is simply a
signature. Even there, the signatures are often done by someone other
than the artist. Everything about it feels shady, but people keep
spending money on it.

I don’t know if it was intended, but the vibe I get from reading this
chapter is the modern artists are so greedy they are fine with opening
themselves up to massive fraud, as long as they can make a quick buck.
The suggestion is that artists are just a click less dishonest than the
con men that sell fake art to suckers. Either way, it’s hard to feel
sorry for the artists.

If you are a fan of true crime, the strongest chapters are the first
chapters, in fact, the one knock on the book is that it seems like the
author ran out of material at about 175 pages and then filled in the
rest with musings about the internet and infomercials. I found myself
skipping through those quickly. It’s a book that starts strong and
finishes with a whimper.

Those strong first chapters are on some of the great confidence men of
the modern art world, who swindled millions from people that were savvy
about the art game. The thing that stands out in his retelling is
that these grifters are biologically driven to deceive people. Whether
or not they feel guilt is debatable, but they know what they are doing
is illegal and considered to be immoral. Yet, they keep doing it.

Unlike the Hollywood version of confidence men, the real life con-men
confess quickly when caught. These are professional liars gifted at
reading others. Once they see the cops have the facts, they become very
cooperative, trying to earn sympathy points from the court, which often
happens. Their skill at manipulating the emotions of others comes in
handy in front of a judge.

The thing with con men is they see themselves as the victim so when they
are caught, pleading for mercy comes naturally. The same skills they
used to win the confidence of their marks are used to win sympathy from
their captors. The exception is when they get caught and there’s no deal
to be made. That’s when they get as mean as a cornered rat, which is not
a bad comparison.

Ultimately what works for con-men is normal people have trust in others.
That trust is based on altruism, a concern for the well-being of others.
Confidence men lack that quality even within their kin group. It’s not
that they hate their marks. It’s that they have no regard for them
whatsoever. The mark has what the con-man desires to possess so he
employs the necessary strategy to get what he wants.

Anyway, if you’re have an interest in true crime and need an airplane
book, The Art of the Con is a good choice.
