---
title: "The American Alawites"
date: "2016-01-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6172"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6172"
---

Minority populations in any society tend to nurse a grudge against the
majority. It’s perfectly reasonable, as a sane society of any design
will abide by and cater to the desires of the majority population.
Therefore, the minority group will find themselves on the fringes or
under constant pressure to assimilate. This natural friction also
results in a bidirectional animosity between the majority and the
majority.

It’s why a sane society avoids letting the minority population gain
control of the levers of power. While there is some chance it works out
just fine, there is a greater chance that the minority will try to exact
revenge on the majority. Alternatively, it will appear they are favoring
their group over the majority. To paraphrase Lee Kuan Yew, in a
multi-ethnic state, people are loyal to their tribe first, so it is
assumed.

In modern America, this gets squirrely because the ruling cult we call
Progressives, have turned minorities, particularly blacks, into objects
of worship. It’s why we have been saddled with the jug-eared clodhopper,
Barak Obama, for the last seven years. Progressives truly believed he
was the fulfillment of prophecy and would cleanse the soul of the
nation.

As a result, the tendency is to focus on Obama’s racial animosity toward
whites, because like most black people in America, Obama nurses a grudge
against white people. That was fairly clear when he was running for
president. [His comment about rural white guys being bitter
clingers](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/mayhill-fowler/obama-no-surprise-that-ha_b_96188.html)
was largely viewed as one of the good white/bad white signals. Bad
whites go to church, own guns and are racists because they are losers.

I[t is why it is tempting to think Obama’s bizarre executive actions on
firearms](http://www.politico.com/story/2016/01/obama-gun-restrictions-217354)
is just a way to spite the honkies. His policies will do nothing to
abate violent crime. Black guys will keep shooting black guys for
sneakers, respect and other dumbass reasons. Birds gotta fly, fish gotta
swim. The only people who will notice these changes are law abiding
crackers, who like hunting and shooting paper targets.

But that’s the thing. Obama is about as black as Ned Flanders. His tribe
is the cult into which he was born and raised, the Cult of Modern
Liberalism. Like the Alawites fighting the Sunni majority in Syria, he
looks at the majority with contempt, believing they choose to live
outside of grace. This is not a black thing. It is a Progressive thing.
He thinks he is on the winning side of history, so that means his
opponents are losers.

Alawites are *Twelvers*, an eschatological brand of Islam.
They believe in twelve divinely ordained leaders, known as the Twelve
Imams, and they believe that the last Imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi, lives in
occultation and will reappear as the promised Mahdi. That will mark
the end of ordinary reality and begin a reunion with the Divine. The
faithful organize their lives around bringing about this final event.

Progressives are a similar cult. All their talk about being on the right
side of history is just another way of saying they are the elect, the
people who will enter the promised land in the end times. The proof of
that is they organize their lives around bringing about those end times.
Once they build their city on the hill, they can move in, lock the doors
and leave the losers in flyover country to their own hell.

In the meantime, like their Calvinist ancestors, Progressives invest a
lot of their energy in public acts of piety. Obama just got a most
everything he ever dreamed of from his rent boy Paul Ryan so he should
be happy with his legislative success. Instead, he is going out of his
way to let everyone know he is on the side of the angels with regards to
guns. To the fanatic, there’s always room for one more mass, one more
hymn, one more sacrifice.

The trouble is, like we see in Syria, Obama’s ruling sect is wildly out
of touch with the majority. Since he took office, [100 million guns have
been sold to
Americans](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/12/11/100-million-guns-sold-since-election-president-obama/).
This is in a country that probably had three times that number in
circulation when he was elected. As we see with the Alawites in Syria,
mathematics does not yield to wishful thinking. Eventually, the majority
decides to impose its will on the minority.

The vast majority of Americans are waking up to the reality of their
position and beginning the process of sloughing off the current ruling
class. America is a peaceful and prosperous country so there’s no need
for a violent revolution. But if the fanatics do not yield, well, the
people are heavily armed so the revolution, if it comes, will be brief.
Just in case, [you may want to stock up](http://www.bulkammo.com/).
