---
title: "Unnecessary Toughness"
date: "2016-07-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8151"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8151"
---

I finally finished watching the series *Justified*. Binge watching is my
preferred method of watching these things nowadays, but it still took me
two months to watch the whole series. I guess I am a slow watcher.
Admittedly my taste in TV shows is pedestrian. I just do not expect TV
shows or movies to be art or anything close to art. They are intended to
entertain the average person. Against that standard, I would rank the
series highly. It was not quite as good as *Breaking Bad*, but it was
better than *Sons of Anarchy*, which went on too long and ended
ridiculously.

I somewhat expected the same result as I entered the final season of
*Justified*, despite the particularly good writing of the first five
seasons. These long form dramas seem to lose their footing at the end
for some reason. My hunch is the creators produce a great idea that
works over a single season. They get picked up and put together a few
more seasons and then run out of ideas or they cannot figure out how to
bring it to a close. That was not the case here as the writers wrapped
it up in a sensible way that worked with the rest of the series.

I do not want to give anything away, in case I am not the last person on
earth to have watched the series, but what struck me about it was how
the main character was a man from start to finish. By that I mean he was
what we *used* to expect from leading men on TV and in movies. He was
not racked with guilt or morally compromised. There were plenty of forks
in the road where the main character had to figure out the right course,
but there was none of the brooding and self-doubt we see in the modern
leading man.

That is not typical today. In fact, it is rare. I mentioned *Sons of
Anarchy* and that is a good example of the modern leading man. The hero
of that series is always racked with guilt, doubt and Lord knows what
else. The rebooted Batman, the one I watched anyway, is mostly about the
hero’s battle with mental illness, instead of his fight with the threats
to society. That is the model for the modern leading male. They are
emotional cripples struggling to keep from leaping off a roof. Even
James Bond has been turned into a head case. The last one I saw had him
dealing with mommy issues.

Of course, male leads today almost always look like a pillow-biter’s wet
dream. Steve Sailer has pointed out that most casting directors in
Hollywood are effeminate gay men. The others are middle-aged women so
the casting of male leads tends toward the fantasy male that appeals to
old maids and queens. The result is steroidal freaks, who look like they
spend all their time at the YMCA working out, among other things. That
is something else that is changed. It used to be that a male lead lacked
the sort of vanity that leads someone to steroid up and use “product.”

Tastes change and styles come and go so it may be nothing more than
that, but I was struck by how out of place *Justified* seemed compared
to modern dramas. The main character is a normal looking man,
middle-aged with some gray around the temples. He is not a cartoonish
looking brute or a mentally unstable pretty boy. His physical
confrontations happen within the laws of physiology, as well as the laws
of physics. The striking thing is that he is a genuine tough guy in the
old time sense. When it comes time to face off with the bad guy, he
faces off with the bad guy.

The classic western, *The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance*, addresses the
issue of traditional male in the modern world. John Wayne is the classic
tough guy who operates on the edge of society, protecting society, but
never quite part of it. Jimmy Stewart is what passed for the beta male
hipster back in the day. Wayne settles things the old fashioned way.
Stewart settles things in court arguing the law and morality. The movie
never resolves the tension between the two male roles in society,
suggesting there is no resolution, just a balance and a tension.

The near total lack of traditional male leads today probably reflects
the fact post-scarcity America has lost the will or ability to do the
hard work of civilization. Maybe it is simply no longer necessary. The
people making TV and movies seem to think that is the case. Hollywood
is, after all, the agit-prop of the ruling class. The people in charge
want docile males, who are willing to be bossed around by women in Lycra
jumpsuits. For the same reason the schools dope up the boys, Hollywood
promotes the ideal male as being the Stepin Fetchit* *for the womyn’s
studies department.
