---
title: "Language Wars"
date: "2016-03-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6951"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6951"
---

I’m fond of pointing out that language is the currency of a culture.
Charlemagne figured out that if you can control the currency, you can
turn your economy into a weapon against rivals. Seigniorage had the
benefit of making the crown wealthy, but control of the mint allowed the
King to stabilize the economic life of his kingdom, thus attracting
foreign investment. King Offa of Mercia figured this out around the same
time.

Similarly, radicals figured out that if you control the language, you
can control the politics of a society. This can be as simple as picking
an appealing name for a cause or as complicated as reframing an issue so
that their preferred option appears to be the default, thus putting
traditionalists on their heels. The use of rhetorical sleight of hand
allows the radicals to set the terms of public debate, thus giving
themselves an enormous edge.

<a
href="http://www.vox.com/2016/3/22/11285962/brussels-attack-refugees-immigration"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Vox story</a> from the other day I
used as a jumping off point for some good old fashioned Merkel bashing
is a good example. By focusing on the fact that the exploding jihadist
are technically citizens of their host countries, the radical can both
muddy the waters and shift the focus. Instead of talking about the guys
named Mohamed suddenly exploding in public places, the debate can be
shifted to other topics like racism and xenophobia.

Open borders, which is a central part of the new radical ideology that
is replacing old fashioned Progressive ideology, is relying on the same
old tricks to warp the language. Illegal invaders are called “refugees”
and helot labor is re-branded as “guest workers” to make it sound
better. The point is to give them a pleasing name. After all, only
Hitler would be hostile to refugees and guests.

Of course, there are two big problems with selling the New Religion of a
borderless world to the citizens of the western countries. One is that
many of the people on the other side of the border are savages. There’s
no hiding the daily atrocities that are just a normal part of Muslim
life.The other problem is that Muslims have a habit of exploding in
public places, like airports and train stations.

People tend to notice these things. When you are walking to the train
station, you may not notice the Hungarians or Ukrainians. The Greek or
Italian will stand out in Sweden, but are otherwise of no interest. The
guy screaming “Allahu Akbar!” before he explodes is going to leave
impression, assuming you live through it. People have figured out the
the Mohamed-to-Suicide Bomber Index.

What to do?

The solution is to re-brand the exploding Mohamed as a citizen. <a
href="http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2015/09/isis-has-recruited-as-many-as-30000-foreigners.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This NY Magazine articl</a>e is a pretty
good example of how the radical utopians are trying the muddy the waters
to obscure reality. Instead of asking why Mohamed keeps exploding, the
story  is “why are so many citizens of Western countries going on
jihad?” We’re supposed to believe that ISIS is now loaded with gingers
from Ireland, I guess.

The associated chart is here:

<a
href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/CeRb9VBWsAArv0n-1.jpg"
rel="attachment wp-att-6950"><img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/CeRb9VBWsAArv0n-1.jpg"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-6950" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 398px) 100vw, 398px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/CeRb9VBWsAArv0n-1.jpg 398w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/CeRb9VBWsAArv0n-1-248x300.jpg 248w"
width="398" height="481" alt="CeRb9VBWsAArv0n" /></a>

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The article does not bother to look into these numbers. The Russians on
the list, for example, are Chechen warriors, who have a long history of
being a sort of Varangian Guard for Arab potentates. The French are
almost certainly Algerians. The Germans are Turks and Moroccans. The
Canadians are the little mushroom people of Nova Scotia, known for their
tunneling skills.

The point here is that instead of looking at the data with clarity, the
effort is to obscure. Let’s not notice that second and third generations
Muslims are prone to Sudden Jihad Syndrome. That’s an argument against
the importation of Muslims. Instead, the effort is to pretend that these
are nice boys who become disaffected and go off in search of belonging
and purpose.

This is why guys like Trump and Geert Wilders are so horrifying to the
globalist fanatics. They make observations and statements that are
clarifying. When they point out that Muslims do poorly in the West and
are a massive burden on their host countries, it makes the arguments for
open borders sound ridiculous. How can anyone justify importing people
who peak at being welfare spongers? Why risk the two or three percent
that suddenly explode?

The flip side of this is that it is crucial to never surrender the
language to the radicals. They are extremely good at this game so it is
hard to win these battles, but they must be won. As soon as we stop
talking about the ethnic and religious aspects to terrorism, we have
accepted it as a part of our daily life. This is an unnecessary elective
cost no society should incur just so managerial elites can get some
grace.
