---
title: "True Believers"
date: "2016-03-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6933"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6933"
---

If you have been reading this blog for any length of time, you know a
theme here is that people are more often driven by irrational belief
than cold hard reason. Evolutionary biology tells us the belief is one
of the oldest cognitive traits, probably co-evolving with language. The
quest for salvation, grace and glory are at the heart of human history,
because they are the things that drive men to dominate other men.

In the current age, formal religion based on the supernatural has mostly
fallen away. Look at the empty churches across what we used to call
Christendom and it is hard not to see the West as post-Christian. With
some exceptions, the leaders of the free world, as we used to call the
West, are secular men and women, lacking any identifiable attachment to
a Christian sect. The exceptions are usually attached to modern sects
that have found a way to wrap Christianity around the core of
Rousseau-ist theology.

This “secularization” does not mean that men are less fanatical or lack
belief. It just means it is untethered from the traditional constraints
of organized religion. Christianity was particularly good at
modulating belief, as well as directing it into useful habits. Of
course, the Catholic Church was very good at rooting out the dangerous
fanatics. The suppression of the flagellants is a good example and one
relevant to our current age.

My favorite example, as an aside, is Konrad Schmidt, who claimed to be
Frederick II and baptized himself in the blood of his followers. His
band of fanatics abandoned their normal lives and spent their days
praying in preparation for Judgment Day. The Inquisition had them burned
at the stake before they caused too much trouble. For most of human
history, people understood that the unhinged fanatic was more dangerous
than the barbarian at the gate.

It is one of the many things we seem to have forgotten in the modern
age. The bombings in Belgium once again remind us that the fanatic is
the most serious threat to human civilization. I don’t mean the fanatics
who self-detonated in the airport. I mean the fanatics who invited them
into the West and now demand that we invite ever more of them into our
lands. [The bodies are still warm and the open borders fanatics are
demanding even more
immigration](http://www.vox.com/2016/3/22/11285962/brussels-attack-refugees-immigration).

Read that Vox article and the only conclusion is that the writer is so
committed to open borders she can no longer accept reality. Instead, she
is forcing reality into the world she believes is just over the next
hill, the fulfillment of prophesy. Amanda Taub may be harmlessly crazy,
but the people running Western countries are just as unhinged as she is
over the topic of immigration. Open borders is now a religion for these
people. They will die for it, or at least let you die for it.

What other conclusion can be drawn from current events?

There’s no economic argument for importing foreigners. Wages in Western
countries have been flat for decades. There are no unfilled jobs that
can only be filled by foreigners. The demand for unskilled labor is
falling, as automation take over in the West. Importing millions of
illiterate young men who have no usable skills and the IQ of a
grapefruit adds nothing but [a burden to the economies of the
West](http://www.frontpagemag.com/point/183720/80-turkish-muslim-settlers-germany-live-welfare-daniel-greenfield).

The other side of this is who has ever heard someone demand that their
town or village invite foreign settlement? Were the residents of
Amsterdam demanding their government fill up their city with Moroccans?
Were Germans in Frankfurt organizing rallies in the 80’s demanding the
importation of Turks? Did the people of Lewiston Maine ever get a chance
to vote on the importation of Somalis?

Of course not. There never has been a practical reason to import
foreigners into the West, much less hostile, low-IQ savages from the
Middle East. Whatever contributions have been made to the Belgian
economy by Muslims were just blown to bits by a pair of suicide bombers.
There are now [rivers of
blood](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rivers_of_Blood_speech) because the
leadership of Europe has been overrun by what looks increasingly like
a suicide cult.

Angela Merkel, who will be remembered as one of history’s greatest
monsters, is a good example to study. [This
piece](http://www.religionnews.com/2015/12/10/the-faith-of-angela-merkel-gop-republican-candidates-evangelical-conservative/)
on her from a few months ago walks you through her “evolution” from
mundane Christian lady to a prominent deacon is what amounts to
liberation theology, centered on the annihilation of the West as penance
for generations of oppression.

Merkel is not alone, of course. The religion of the West, at least for
the people in charge, is the toxic blend of egalitarianism,
multiculturalism and anti-racism. The more the bodies stack up, the more
they are convinced they must somehow atone for the sins of the West.
Each new blast renews their faith. There’s no reasoning with them and
there is no bargaining with them. They are true believers.
