---
title: "Irrepressible Conflict"
date: "2016-11-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-11-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9094"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9094"
---

<a
href="http://www.humansandnature.org/the-ethics-of-globalism-nationalism-and-patriotism#"
target="_blank">This long, rambling post by Jonathan Haidt</a> is
interesting for a number of reasons. Haidt is one of the few mainstream
intellectuals who takes the hate-thinker community seriously. He’s not
an ally, but he does not dismiss, out of hand, the cultural and moral
arguments coming from the Right. Recently he has been writing about the
popular resistance to globalism popping up all over the West. He appears
to be searching for a way to reconcile elite globalism with what I call
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9012" target="_blank">national
populism</a>.

Given what is happening at the ballot box, the next big thing among
public intellectuals will be crafting ways to repackage globalism in
order to make it more palatable to a skeptical public. The political
class is in a panic, as all their old tricks are suddenly not fooling
anyone. As a result, there is a demand for new rhetoric and tactics, but
also a demand for new polices that will appeal to the voters. One thing
public intellectuals do not do is miss an opportunity to monetize a
crisis.

The trouble they will run into, as they search around for ways to sound
a more populist tone, is that the underpinnings of the managerial class
are incompatible with national populism. In fact, a big reason for the
populist rumblings is the otherness of the people in charge of our
societies. Turn on a television and the news is full of smug experts
dismissively discussing the “white working class” and the “uneducated
males” as if they were describing a trip to the African bush. There’s no
way to make that sound good.

It is not just a matter of aesthetics. Even if you can somehow knock the
smug off these people and give them a respectful vocabulary, they are
still left trying to reconcile the irreconcilable. For instance,
patriotism and multiculturalism can never coexist. The former assumes a
set of value judgments based on nationality and ethnicity. The latter
explicitly rejects those values. In fact, multiculturalism is nothing
more than the nullification of patriotism and nationalism. There’s no
squaring that circle.

The bigger issue is that the prevailing morality of the managerial class
rests upon a set of contradictions that can never be reconciled. For
instance, we are forever lectured about the glories of diversity. In
fact, “diverse” has become an abracadabra word for our betters. Cruise
through the on-line job advertisements and you will find a phrase about
how the firm celebrates diversity. Marketing firms go to ridiculous
lengths to make sure their ads have lots of diversity, even when it has
no value to the sales pitch.

Yet, if anyone dares notice diversity in public, the people in charge
will land on him like Puritan witch hunters. One of the hilarious parts
of reading crime stories is how the reporters go to great lengths to
conceal the race of the criminal. We end up with stories about a “tall
man with a red cap” being jailed for murder. The result of this absurd
contradiction is that diversity has become synonymous with danger and
the promotion of it erodes trust in the people promoting it.

Similarly, the ruling class makes a fetish of democracy and free speech.
We’re constantly told that the end point of human society is one where
all people have a say in government and can speak freely in public. Yet,
we see the ruling class working to defeat the results of democracy and
cripple the free exchange of ideas. The systemic rigging of the
Democratic primary is one example. The shenanigans on the social media
platforms to eliminate dissent reveals a deep distrust of free speech
and the marketplace of ideas.

For the managerial class, democracy is just a bus to ride from one point
to another. Once the destination is reached, they get off the bus. The
votes on gay marriage are a good example. They kept having votes until
the right answer was reached. When that failed, they just had the court
reference the invisible amendments to declare gay marriage a time
honored natural right. This happened in Europe with referendums on he
EU. Voting became a meaningless exercise to keep up appearances.

The fact is, the meritocratic system that supports the managerial class
is ruthlessly authoritarian. If you don’t check the right boxes, you
cannot advance. This system is by design intended to boil off anything
resembling dissent or innovation. It is why the Buckley Right locked
shields with the Left in opposition to Trump. Their loyalty is to a
system that has bestowed credentials and honors on them, along with a
lifestyle they could never achieve outside in the dreaded private
sector. Political ideology is just a decoration.

A system that cannot tolerate dissent and makes war on anything that
challenges it, cannot be made compatible with popular resistance to its
polices. The managerial class can search about for tactics and language
to try and square this circle, but they are faced with an irrepressible
conflict. We either have normal countries with popular governments,
responsive to the will of the people, or, we have an authoritarian,
technocratic managerial state. It’s one or the other, but not both.
