---
title: "The Cult of Anti-Racism"
date: "2016-11-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-11-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9022"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9022"
---

The ridiculous lecturing of Mike Pence, from the cast of Hamilton the
other day, is a good reminder that religions are highly adaptive. The
Progressive nutters quickly went from smug triumphalism the day of the
election to declaring themselves the new Freedom Riders, fighting the
segregationists. Within hours of the result, race hustling grifters like
Jamelle Bouie were <a
href="http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2016/11/white_won.html"
target="_blank">spinning fantasies where he and his hotep brothers</a>
were spontaneously organizing a black underground resistance movement.

The musical Hamilton is flypaper for moonbats, because it titillates
their fantasies about race. Progressive don’t actually like real flesh
and blood black people very much, which is why they avoid them. Take a
look at the liberal bastions of America and you always find urban
reservations for the folks who likes to keep it realz. It’s why big
cities are using housing gimmicks to ship their blacks to the suburbs.
Gentrification is just Progressive ethnic cleansing.

No, Progressives prefer their black people to be like the ones in their
fantasy version of America. These are blacks like Obama. Black but, you
know, not really *black*. As Steve Sailer put it, Obama is the nation’s
first black wigger. It is one of life’s great ironies that the ideal
black man on the Left is an exotic mulatto, who acts and sounds like an
Oreo. Most people would have preferred
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGUNPMPrxvA"
target="_blank">President Camacho</a>, but in the Progressive paradise,
everything is drained of color, even the black guys.

Half a century ago, Progressive radicals adopted anti-racism as a
tactic. It let them lever themselves into positions of political
authority by first establishing their moral authority. The old honkies
on the Left, who wanted economic justice for all Americans, were pushed
aside by the New Left, who promised *racial* justice. In the 60’s and
70’s, these new anti-racists took over the Left and when the Cold War
ended, they came to dominate it.

The trouble with moral causes like anti-racism, is there is no limiting
principle, so it quickly went from political expedient to religious
tenet. You can’t really be anti-racist enough. How does one define the
anti-racist paradise? It’s why they are always chanting about the “more
work needs to be done.” It’s also why they have developed a fetish
for miscegenation. The only way there can be no racism is if there are
no races and the way to achieve that is inter-breeding.

It’s why the genetic test kit companies like doing ads where the
customer discovers she is not what she was told. No one in these ads
learns they are 100% pure honky. Instead, the person always learns they
are a beef stew of different ethnic tribes. There’s even one with a
middle-aged cat lady type learning that she has some American Indian in
he blood. You can be sure she went right out and bought some dream
catchers and started talking about her spirit guide.

The one exception is a white man delighted to learn he is not German.
instead he is a mix of groups from the British Isles. He was, of course,
thankful to learn he was not a Nazi. The message being sent in these ads
is that even though race and ethnicity are biological reality,
inter-breeding makes it unimportant. Most likely the people running
these firms know better, but they also know they are on dangerous
ground. They make these ads to keep the anti-racist wackos off their
back.

Progressives may have built the still and cooked up the anti-racist
moonshine, but the Official Right is just as drunk off the concoction as
the Left. <a
href="http://thefederalist.com/2016/11/14/election-marks-end-americas-racial-detente"
target="_blank">This post on the Federalist</a> is a good example of how
people, thinking they are conservatives, buy into all the anti-racism
stuff. The author of that piece is sure that race relations were just
fine until Trump and his voters broke some deal we are just learning
about now. It’s as if the author is unaware of the last decade.

The other day, <a
href="http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/11/rich-lowry-obama-trump-214462"
target="_blank">National Review editor Rich Lowry had a piece</a> up
begging the Left to not cast him and his fellows into the pit reserved
for the racists. Despite the fact that Trump is the most diversity
celebrating President in American history, the boys and girls of the
Official Right™ accept the Left’s claims about his racism, simply
because Trump does not attend the Church of Anti-Racism. It is how the
hive mind works. You’re either inside the walls or outside the walls.
There are no gray areas.

<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/ben-carson/" target="_blank">Steve
Sailer</a> is convinced this is just a conspiracy to reclaim the urban
landscape. To some degree he is right, but that’s a downstream
consequence. As anti-racism has become a defining feature of the
Progressive sense of self, these schemes to hide away dis-confirmation
have become a natural defense mechanism. Shipping the ghetto out to
flyover country is just a way to hide the problem from the new modern
hipsters in gentrified areas.
