---
title: "The Great Western Rage Virus"
date: "2016-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Race
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8526"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8526"
---

<a href="https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2016/09/06/when-things-changed/"
target="_blank">Greg Cochran has a post up</a> wondering about the
explosion of recreational drug use in the West starting in the mid-60’s.
He makes the point that drugs were available, in addition to alcohol,
for people in the West, but we have little evidence that people used
them for fun, despite what libertarians claim. As far back as we have
information, Western societies would abuse alcohol, but that was it, as
far as recreational drug use. Other substances were limited to medicine
if used at all.

The Greeks and Romans had opium, but there’s no record of it being used
for anything other than medicine, at least among the public. Move
forward and that remains true into the medieval period. There are
reports here and there of people using various things for medicine, but
there’s no record of smoking hash or opium as a party drug. It was not
until the age of exploration and the arrival of the Chinese and opium
dens into the West that we get reports of recreational drug use among
western people. Even that was very limited.

In the United States, marijuana was available, along with indigenous
hallucinogenics, from the earliest days of the colonies. In the 19th
century you have references to morphine addicts, but those are rare.
Into the 20th century morphine was sold retail, as no one considered it
a public health risk. Everyone has heard about the use of cocaine in
consumer products like tonics and beverages. Well into the 20th century,
drugs like heroin, cocaine, marijuana and some hallucinogenics were
available, yet rarely used or abused.

Then something changed in the 1960’s. If you were an American teen in
1960 hanging out with friends, the odds that any of you had smoked pot
were extremely low, unless maybe you were black. It does appear that
drug taking was associated with black culture, but more on that in a
bit. By 1970, the teenager of that same town would know many pot smokers
and probably tried it at least once. In fact, within that decade it went
from rare to common. By the 70’s, not having smoked pot made you an
exception if you were young.

The question is how did this happen? It is not a small change in
cultural norms. This is a huge change and it happened faster than
anything else that comes to mind. Humans were just as susceptible to the
charms of opiates in the 19th century as they are today, presumably. In
the first half of the 20th, doctors were quick to prescribe things like
cocaine to children to sooth teething. People were given liberal amounts
of morphine for pain as it was the only effective pain killer. Even
during Prohibition, drug use did not increase, despite the obvious
demand to get wasted.

My initial thought, at least in America, is that the explosion of
recreational drug use corresponds with the collapse of racial barriers
in the US. If you read American fiction from the early 20th century,
particularly the 20’s and 30’s, you get some oblique references to
smoking pot, associated with Jazz. People up into the 50’s used to call
joints “Jazz cigarettes” for that reason. Jazz, of course, was always
strongly linked to black culture and strongly linked to whites and
blacks mixing socially. This was not just in America. Josephine Baker
got world famous in the Paris jazz scene.

The explosion of drug use does appear to correlate with the break down
of racial barriers. Opium, for example, was always associated with the
Chinese. Cocaine use was strongly associated with blacks <a
href="http://query.nytimes.com/mem/archive-free/pdf?res=9901E5D61F3BE633A2575BC0A9649C946596D6CF"
target="_blank">going crazy in the South</a>. After Prohibition ended,
FDR turned the Prohibition Bureau into the Federal Narcotics Bureau.
They immediately began to campaign against things like marijuana, <a
href="http://www.azquotes.com/picture-quotes/quote-there-are-100-000-total-marijuana-smokers-in-the-us-and-most-are-negroes-hispanics-filipinos-harry-j-anslinger-66-63-90.jpg"
target="_blank">which were linked to anti-social behavior of Mexicans
and blacks</a>. Even today, there is a racial component to drug taking.
Crack was largely a black problem, while meth is a white problem.

Music followed a similar path out of American black culture into the
dominant white culture. Jazz clubs were the first places whites and
blacks could mingle socially. Eventually, whites were playing jazz and
then rock-and-roll followed the same path.  It’s not just music and
weed, but the modern West now gets all of its cultural cues from the
American black ghetto. Hip-hop being the latest example. I was in Dublin
and I saw Irish kids dressed like extras from Straight Out of Compton.

If we take a step back, the break down of racial barriers corresponds
with the breakout of multiculturalism in the West. For half a century,
the West has been raging against itself and even raging against biology.
Feminism, and the more recent anti-white male stuff, is not just a war
against the culture, but also a war against reality. The explosion of
drug taking is just one item in the satchel of madness the West picked
up somewhere in the middle of the last century.

If you are a fan of Greg Cochran, then you may see where this is headed.
The great mixing of people that happened in the first half of the 20th
in the great world wars brought masses of common people into contact
with their contemporaries from around the world. That’s lots of foreign
people breathing on one another, bleeding on one another, fornicating
with one another. Just as trade facilitated the Black Plague, the great
wars facilitated the movement of all sorts of things around the world.

Hold that thought and think about the parasite *Toxoplasma gondii.*
Rodents infected with this parasitic protozoa are drawn to the smell of
cat urine, apparently having lost their otherwise natural aversion to
the scent. This parasite can only reproduce in the gut of a feline so it
is a very useful feature of this parasite, but not so good for the
rodent. This parasite also causes trouble for humans, which is why
pregnant women are told to avoid cat litter. <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2012/03/how-your-cat-is-making-you-crazy/308873/"
target="_blank">It is entirely possible that it has other affects on
humans</a>. In other words, your cat may be controlling your brain.

Now to tie this all together. Greg Cochran came up with something called
the <a
href="https://jaymans.wordpress.com/2014/02/26/greg-cochrans-gay-germ-hypothesis-an-exercise-in-the-power-of-germs/"
target="_blank">Gay Germ Hypothesis</a>, which suggest that maybe a germ
or virus causes homosexuality. Others have suggested that pathogens
could be at the root of other conditions as well. What if some sort of
pathogen got looses in the West and is at the root of the anti-social
behavior? What if there is some benefit to this bug in having humans mix
together across the normal ethnic and tribal barriers? What if all the
things we are seeing in the West are the result of a germ or virus that
got going in the great wars of the 20th century?
