---
title: "Bush and Bandar"
date: "2016-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7169"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7169"
---

<a
href="http://nypost.com/2016/04/17/how-us-covered-up-saudi-role-in-911/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story in America’s Newspaper of
Record</a> on the post-9/11 scramble to protect the Saudis is going to
lead a lot of people to take the red pill, as the cool kids say. Most
people assumed the administration covered up some fringe involvement by
some Saudis in 9/11. Most people think our government has looked the
other way on Saudi financing of terrorism. The claims here go well
beyond that.

*In its report on the still-censored “28 pages” implicating the Saudi
government in 9/11, “60 Minutes” last weekend said the Saudi role in the
attacks has been “soft-pedaled” to protect America’s delicate alliance
with the oil-rich kingdom.*

*That’s quite an understatement.*

*Actually, the kingdom’s involvement was deliberately covered up at the
highest levels of our government. And the coverup goes beyond locking up
28 pages of the Saudi report in a vault in the US Capitol basement.
Investigations were throttled. Co-conspirators were let off the hook.*

*Case agents I’ve interviewed at the Joint Terrorism Task Forces in
Washington and San Diego, the forward operating base for some of the
Saudi hijackers, as well as detectives at the Fairfax County (Va.)
Police Department who also investigated several 9/11 leads, say
virtually every road led back to the Saudi Embassy in Washington, as
well as the Saudi Consulate in Los Angeles.*

*Yet time and time again, they were called off from pursuing leads. A
common excuse was “diplomatic immunity.”*

*Those sources say the pages missing from the 9/11 congressional inquiry
report — which comprise the entire final chapter dealing with “foreign
support for the September 11 hijackers” — details “incontrovertible
evidence” gathered from both CIA and FBI case files of official Saudi
assistance for at least two of the Saudi hijackers who settled in San
Diego.*

*Some information has leaked from the redacted section, including a
flurry of pre-9/11 phone calls between one of the hijackers’ Saudi
handlers in San Diego and the Saudi Embassy, and the transfer of some
$130,000 from then-Saudi Ambassador Prince Bandar’s family checking
account to yet another of the hijackers’ Saudi handlers in San Diego.*

*An investigator who worked with the JTTF in Washington complained that
instead of investigating Bandar, the US government protected him —
literally. He said the State Department assigned a security detail to
help guard Bandar not only at the embassy, but also at his McLean, Va.,
mansion.*

I recall the administration flying the Bin Laden family out of the
country right after the attack. That made some sense simply as a
practical matter. What is coming to light now is that the administration
decided to give the Saudis a pass before they knew anything about the
attack. Put another way, their default position was to protect the
Saudis above all else.

*Former FBI agent John Guandolo, who worked 9/11 and related al Qaeda
cases out of the bureau’s Washington field office, says Bandar should
have been a key suspect in the 9/11 probe.*

*“The Saudi ambassador funded two of the 9/11 hijackers through a third
party,” Guandolo said. “He should be treated as a terrorist suspect, as
should other members of the Saudi elite class who the US government
knows are currently funding the global jihad.”*

*But Bandar held sway over the FBI.*

***After he met on Sept. 13, 2001, with President Bush in the White
House, where the two old family friends shared cigars on the Truman
Balcony**, the FBI evacuated dozens of Saudi officials from multiple
cities, including at least one Osama bin Laden family member on the
terror watch list. Instead of interrogating the Saudis, FBI agents acted
as security escorts for them, even though it was known at the time that
15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi citizens.*

I’m not much for conspiracies, but you can see why people think the
Saudis were behind 9/11 and that maybe the Bush people were OK with it.
After all, it gave them the excuse to invade the world. At the minimum,
there’s a distinct lack of anger on display here. Bush is an American
and this was an attack on his people, his country. A thirst for
vengeance is what one should expect. Instead, he’s smoking cigars with
Bandar.

This is post-nationalism. When the rulers no longer feel any connection
to the people over whom they rule, they are free to treat the people as
furniture. The cost of 9/11, the death and destruction, was a small
price to pay for booking the multi-trillion dollar boondoggle to come
after it. A whole lot of people got rich off Afghanistan and Iraq.
There’s a reason seven of the richest counties on earth are around
Washington DC.
