---
title: "Ruling Class Blues"
date: "2016-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6360"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6360"
---

One of the more enjoyable aspects of the current insurrection is
watching the popinjays in the Conservative Establishment writhe in agony
at being cast as establishment men. Their utter astonishment at the
little people, the hoi polloi, giving them the business about their
perfidy and cronyism has been a blast. In the Bush years I developed a
healthy dislike for many of the more oleaginous charlatans in the
commentariat. My heart feels like an alligator.

A theme around here is that the panic in conservative media is due to
the sudden rush of dis-conformation washing over them. For the longest
time, they have believed they are the vanguard of a popular revolt
against the Progressive establishment. Suddenly, everyone has joined a
different revolt, a revolt against them. These putative champions of the
people are like the character in the supernatural mystery film that
suddenly learns he is the villain.

<a
href="http://theweek.com/articles/601081/how-republican-establishment-learned-shirk-responsibility"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s an interesting piece</a> on the
same theme. I wonder if this guy is a reader.

*Once upon a time, in the immediate postwar years, the elites who ran
the country’s two major political parties were part of the country’s
broader political establishment, which included the owners of The New
York Times, The Washington Post, and Time magazine, the heads of the
three national television networks, and the directors of a small number
of leading political, cultural, and religious institutions.*

*This establishment was dominated by an ideology of liberal centrism
that one of its key figures famously described as “[the vital
center](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Vital_Center).” It fostered,
cultivated, and presided over a broad consensus in favor of the New Deal
at home and the Cold War containment of communism abroad.*

*From the beginning, the modern conservative movement thought of itself
as an insurrection against the liberal establishment and its
representatives at the head of the Republican Party. One of the
movement’s formative, galvanizing events was the 1955 founding of
National Review by William F. Buckley, Jr. as a place where right-wing
intellectuals could work on fashioning an anti-liberal governing
ideology. Less than a decade later, the magazine championed the populist
candidacy of Barry Goldwater in the hopes that he would depose the
reigning liberal consensus and pursue a policy of rolling back both the
New Deal and the Soviet Union.*

*The effort failed. But by the mid-1970s, the movement had been joined
by a new group of intellectuals. In addition to uncommonly sharp
polemical skills and a training in policy analysis, the formerly liberal
neoconservatives brought to the movement an awareness that to succeed it
would need foment a counter-establishment, both to help overthrow the
liberal establishment and to serve as an alternative to it once an
electoral victory had been achieved.*

I’d add that the so-called neoconservatives never abandoned their
technocratic impulses. They just rejected the dovishness of the New
Left, preferring a more muscular response to the Soviets.

*This counter-establishment tasted power for the first time with the
inauguration of Ronald Reagan 35 years ago, and since then it has grown
massively in strength and influence. Today the counter-establishment
simply is the conservative and Republican establishment.*

*And yet, because its ideological outlook was formed when it was out of
power, this establishment seems incapable of thinking about itself as an
establishment. And so we get the editor of National Review, a regular
fixture on TV, saying (presumably with a straight face) that his
magazine, which has been closely read among leading members of the
Republican Party for decades, isn’t a part of the Republican
establishment.*

I’ll note that an integral part of Progressive mythology is the
struggle. Despite being in charge for close to a century, Progressives
still think of themselves as an insurgent minority at war with their
oppressive overlords. Elizabeth Warren is worth millions, yet she spends
her time in the Senate ranting about the one percent. Her neighbors in
the one percent cheer her on. It’s false consciousness.

Another theme around here is that the two sides of the American
political elite are two sides of the old Yankee elite. Yankeedom came to
dominate America after the Civil War and has occupied the commanding
heights ever since. The old Yankee sense of being a soldier of God in a
fallen world morphed into a worldview where they are always the heroic
underdog of their story. Both sides of the ruling class see themselves
as noble warriors fighting the good fight against the ruling class.
