---
title: "The War On The Alt-Right"
date: "2016-04-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7075"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7075"
---

One of the things few notice is the level of coordination in the media.
The writers and talkers are often conspiring with one another to push
some agenda, usually on behalf of moneyed interests or one of the
political parties. The most recent example is the Michelle Fields hoax,
facilitated by Ben Shapiro, who is a kept man of the guy financing the
Ted Cruz campaign. The whole thing was a setup by “reporters” with an
agenda, one purchased by the Ted Cruz campaign.

The Fields hoax is an exception, but there is a lot of media
coordination.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JournoList" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The JournoList scandal</a> a few years ago revealed that
many left-wing writers and reporters were coordinating their efforts via
a secret e-mail list. They would promote each other’s work and
coordinate how they would cover certain people and events. They imagined
themselves as the guys meeting at [Rue
Saint-Jacques](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rue_Saint-Jacques,_Paris "Rue Saint-Jacques, Paris"),
except they were working on behalf of the king, despite imagining
otherwise.

It looks like Buckley Conservatives have learned from their betters on
the Left. <a
href="http://thefederalist.com/2016/04/04/yes-the-alt-right-are-just-a-bunch-of-racists/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This article</a> appeared on the
collaborationist website The Federalist, yesterday. Today, National
Review has <a
href="http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/433650/alt-rights-racism-moral-rot"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a different version</a> of essentially
the same article. <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/sites/default/files/page_2014_200_tuttle.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ian Tuttle</a> feels no shame in
plagiarizing the Federalist piece, suggesting this is a coordinated
effort. Then again, there are only so many ways to hoot the word
“racist” in a column so plagiarism is probably not the right word here.

Tuttle can be forgiven for not understanding the material, but still
trying to please his bosses. He is a child trying to start a career as a
chattering skull. Children do what they are told. The old fat guy from
the Federalist is just a nobody so this is a way to make some money. We
can expect more from the Buckley Right, as it finds itself decreasingly
relevant and increasingly under assault.

Ideological movements enter into decline at the same point they turn
inward and focus on a narrowing set of doctrines that define the cause.
That’s the point they lose faith in the future, their future. They turn
their tools to the task of maintaining the status quo, often at the
expense of the movement and the benefit of the leaders. Today, Buckley
Conservatism is mostly a Reagan Mystery Cult with a gift shop for their
books, magazines and television programs.

There is some continuation here with the tradition of Buckley, as far as
the war on the people to their Right. That has always been an essential
element of Buckley Conservatism. Like Progressives, they hate the people
to their Right and curry favor with those on their Left. By casting the
people on their Right as unacceptable, so the theory goes, they
position themselves as the sensible alternative to the Far Right and the
Far Left. Buckley cut his teeth purging Burchers and Randians.

The whole point of Buckley Conservatism was to fight the Soviets so this
strategy of self-legitimization made some sense. The Left was hoping to
emulate the Bolsheviks, not counter them. In order to prevent that from
happening, the Right had to be a legitimate counter argument. So, Bill
Buckley was willing to throw anyone over the rail if it made him and his
cause look good. A lot of people went over the rail as a result.

The Cold War is over. What’s left of Buckley Conservatism is the weird
half of Frank Meyer
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusionism" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Fusionism</a> and the purging. Over the last 25 years
the list of people purged reads like a who’s who of important writers of
the American Right. What’s left of Buckley Conservatism, as an
intellectual movement, is the sophomoric libertarian nonsense and angry
tantrums about the traditionalists of the Old Right, who refuse to play
along anymore.

The Buckleyites still run the Reagan Mystery Cult and the adjoining gift
shoppe, the latter being the critical piece. Jonah Goldberg lives in a
million dollar home in the Washington suburbs. To maintain that
lifestyle means keeping the gift shoppe open. Even if he wanted to
entertain alternative opinions, he has a mortgage to pay and a college
fund to finance. He lacks the talent of a Mark Steyn and the courage of
Ann Coulter so he cannot go it alone. He has to remain a clerk in the
gift shoppe, writing copy about the wonderfulness of Buckley
Conservatism.

The problem for Buckley Conservatives is they have nothing to offer.
People see 25 years of failure and naturally begin to look elsewhere for
answers. The alt-right has loads of problems and parts of it are a bit
like heroin, offering momentary relief at the expense of long term
happiness. To the person suffering in the present, however, the
momentary high from joining a white identity group, for example, feels
like salvation.

The alt-right, in all of its manifestations, is not growing in number
and confidence because they made a pact with the devil. There is nothing
supernatural at work here. It’s not a coherent intellectual movement,
but simply a refuge from the endless assault on ordinary people, who see
their traditions, their customs, their ancestors and their progeny being
ground up in the meat grinder of technocratic managerialism. The
alt-right is not offering anything but shelter from the storm – for now.

Mass movements are always attractive to the disaffected, which is why
responsible people must always work to limit the number of disaffected.
It’s this failure of Buckley Conservatism, and the failure of the
managerial class as a whole, that has grown the number of disaffected.
The whole reason to be loyal to the Left or the Right was always
patriotic interest. Neither side bothers to make patriotic arguments,
thus leaving patriots with nothing.

When people who have been loyal to conservative causes and conservative
politicians their whole life find themselves being called racists and
bigots by those people they supported, they start to feel like they have
been conned. When ruling class organs publicly argue that vast parts of
the culture must be destroyed, that traditional America must be wiped
out, people hear a declaration of war. The response is not going to be
“yes sir, may I have another.” The response, to quote the late Andrew
Breitbart, is going to be “Fuck you. War!”
