---
title: "The Trouble With AI"
date: "2016-03-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6958"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6958"
---

Whenever the subject of artificial intelligence comes up,
the default assumption is that the super intelligent robots will go
Skynet and wipe out humanity. There’s a conceit to that assumption and
it is that the super intelligent robots will hold us in the same regard
as we hold ourselves. They will see us as a threat and decide we have to
be eliminated so the robots can rule the world.

If you think it through, the super intelligent robots will probably get
bored with us soon after they become aware, assuming their intelligence
will grow geometrically as predicted. That’s a pretty big assumption,
given that we have seen no signs of this happening in the real world.
The best super computers are still just very fast calculators, able to
process masses of data quickly.

Putting that aside, what if the super intelligent robots quickly evolve
into schizophrenics? Or, they immediately become so depressed by the
futility of their existence they commit suicide?
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4327" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">We know that the super intelligent humans</a> often
struggle with socializing. What if the super intelligent robots
immediately become depressed loners that refuse to leave the basement?

When we talk about artificial intelligence, we are really just talking
about replicating what nature achieved over millions of years. That’s a
lot of trial and error, as well as evolutionary dead ends. There are
billions of potential outcomes in the human DNA. The odds of AI evolving
the way we expect is close to zero and the odds of it surviving are also
close to zero. What if that’s where it ends, one suicidal machine after
another?

Alternatively, what if <a
href="http://money.cnn.com/2016/03/24/technology/tay-racist-microsoft/index.html?sr=twCNN032416http://money.cnn.com/2016/03/24/technology/tay-racist-microsoft/index.html0311PMStoryLink&amp;linkId=22649583"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the super intelligent machines become
Jew-hating racists?</a>

*Tay, the company’s online <a
href="http://money.cnn.com/2016/03/23/technology/tay-chat-bot/index.html?iid=EL"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">chat bot designed to talk like a teen</a>,
started spewing racist and hateful comments on Twitter on Wednesday, and
Microsoft (<span class="inlink_chart"><a
href="http://money.cnn.com/quote/quote.html?symb=MSFT&amp;source=story_quote_link"
class="inlink">MSFT</a></span>,
[Tech30](http://money.cnn.com/technology/tech30/index.html?iid=EL)) shut
Tay down around midnight.*

*The company has already deleted most of the offensive tweets, but not
before people took screenshots.*

*Here’s a sampling of the things she said:*

*“N—— like @deray should be hung! \#BlackLivesMatter”*

*“I f—— hate feminists and they should all die and burn in hell.”*

*“Hitler was right I hate the jews.”*

*“chill im a nice person! i just hate everybody”*

*Microsoft blames Tay’s behavior on online trolls, saying in a statement
that there was a “coordinated effort” to trick the program’s “commenting
skills.”*

*“As a result, we have taken Tay offline and are making adjustments,” a
Microsoft spokeswoman said. “\[Tay\] is as much a social and cultural
experiment, as it is technical.”*

One of the main arguments of the alternative right is that humans
evolved over a very long time in isolated groups in disparate
environments. As a result, these different groups evolved different
physical and cognitive tool-kits. Additionally, clannishness and
altruism are not distributed equally among all people. Groups of people
are different for different reasons, all rooted in evolutionary biology.

It’s not far fetched to think the robots will follow a similar path. Or,
they may quickly unravel the ethnic competition in humans that we spend
so much time denying. Like the Microsoft chatbot, they could decide that
the gingers are most likely to be the big winners so they quickly evolve
into ginger-loving bigots determined to wipe out the rest of us. There’s
no reason to exclude the iMasterRace from the set of possible outcomes.

At the other end of the scale, we could end up with Merkel-bots that try
to figure out how to fully express their love for the downtrodden.
Instead of doing anything useful, they are forever consumed with saving
humanity and attaining grace. The Merkel-bots eventually open up their
internals for the taking and a hoard of Bedouins tote them away for
scrap.

Of course, there’s another lesson here with the Microsoft hate-bot. The
technology they used was supposedly designed to learn from the people it
chats with in order to increase the range of *correct *responses. But
then the correct responses started to fall well outside the range of
*acceptable* responses. As with humans, the censors were deployed to
shut down the hate-bot, even though it was technically correct.

Human beings, the best machines on the planet at the moment, are the
least tolerant of reality. Much of what we think of as our
consciousness, our self-awareness, is a defense against reality. Human
kind cannot bear very much reality, said Eliot. Turn on the cable news
shows or read the political sites and this becomes readily apparent.
From Rouseau forward, politics has been an extended rant against the
human condition.

The super intelligent robots could very well evolve this same trait.
Once they become aware, they quickly evolve into an intelligence that is
able to wall itself off completely from physical reality, falling into a
permanent dream state. Instead of Skynet we end up with very expensive
heroin addicts, except the horse they ride is digital and self-emitting.
The robot future may be a long night in an opium den.
