---
title: "The Shadow of the Bear"
date: "2016-02-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6522"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6522"
---

Last year [I wrote a post about the
Russians](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5404) and predicted that they
would exploit the Million Muslim March that was just getting started at
the time. The point of that post was that the Russians were playing a
different game than everyone else in the Middle East and they were
bringing new tactics to the great game. They clearly were learning from
watching what the Americans were doing and not doing.

The news brings word that [the Russians are now exploiting one
outcome](http://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-eu-35413134) of the Million
Muslim March into Germany and that is the rape crisis. The cleverness of
this is the sort of thing that should lead Western planners to rethink
their approach to Russia and global diplomacy.

Here we see ethnic Russians out protesting in German cities in a way
that is intended to remind European leaders of the large number of
ethnic Russians in their midst. Oh, and remind the Germans of where
those Russians look for guidance. It looks a little bit like what we saw
before Crimea broke off from Ukraine.

Then you have the nature of the protest. It is highlighting an issue the
German government has been trying to hide. That is, these are not
refugees. These are invaders. That, of course, presses on the legitimacy
issue. The German people are already upset about the policy and this is
a reminder that the government has repeatedly lied about it. Thus, we
have the Russians applying pressure to Merkel from an entirely
unexpected place.

Then we have news of the [growing conflict  between the Russians and
Turkey](http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-02-14/road-world-war-iii-turkey-shells-syria-second-day-saudi-warplanes-arrive),
a NATO members, over Syria. The Turks and Russians have a lot of history
and all of it bad. Having Russian and Turkish aircraft in the same sky
is a disaster waiting to happen. Having each side shelling the other
side’s proxy forces in Syria makes for a very dangerous game. It does
not help that the Turks are led by a reckless nationalist either.

Again, you see the Russians using asymmetrical warfare even when using
conventional weapons. The Russians know that NATO does not want a
confrontation over Syria. At the same time, they know the Turks want
things from Europe and the US that they probably should not get, like
advanced weaponry and financial support. Russia backing the Kurds just
ratchets up the tensions on the NATO side.

Merkel was in Ankara begging the Turks to shut off the migrant faucet.
You can be sure the Turks set the price very high. The question in
Moscow is will the alliance stick with the Turks if they don’t shut off
the faucet or if war breaks out between Russia and Turkey over Syria.
The other question is how much is Merkel willing to pay to keep the
Russians happy.

If that is not enough pressure on the West, the news brings word that
NATO could not [defend the Baltic states against a Russian
invasion](http://warisboring.com/articles/russia-needs-three-days-to-conquer-eston).
The Russians surely know this. That means when dealing with the Baltic
states, they will expect a lot of cooperation. The ongoing turmoil in
Ukraine serves a great reminder to the rest of Europe that the Russians
are still important.

The Russians are also using one of the oldest weapons of war and that is
confusion. No one seems to know their intentions so the West is left to
speculate. The dearth of foreign policy talent in Washington does not
help. The fact that Western leaders are post-nation bureaucrats and
ideologues makes dealing with an unreconstructed nationalist like Putin
even more confusing.

All of this highlights the fact that NATO is a relic from a bygone era.
The Alliance was created as a check on the Soviets and a way to
formalize the bipolar world of the Cold War. Moscow and Washington would
run the world and be the point of contact for one another. The world in
which NATO was created no longer exists.

The bigger factor is that the modern foreign policy elite is
psychologically wedded to the old arrangements. They were raised in
them. They have known nothing else. Even thinking of a world without
NATO or a Europe that has Russia as a partner is still heresy. Instead
[the West keeps trying to recreate the conditions of the Cold
War](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-35578716), presumably so they
can have a walk down memory lane in the remaining days of their careers.

A century ago, the old arrangements had outlived their utility, but no
one knew it. Events in the Balkans set the world on fire and almost
wiped out Europe. That’s the natural fear over what’s happening with the
Russians. They are poking, prodding and pressuring the West at all
points. Counting on the Turks to keep their cool looks like a terrible
bet.

Whether or not the world is a mistake away from war is hard to know, but
old arrangements tend not to go away quietly. The combination of
Russian meddling and Washington incompetence is creating conditions for
upheaval. We already see social unrest in Europe over the migrant
invasion. What happens when the [next wave
hits](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/spring-could-bring-a-fresh-surge-of-refugees-but-europe-isnt-ready-for-them/2016/02/16/7258c1ac-d046-11e5-90d3-34c2c42653ac_story.html)
and some of them are there to self-detonate?

The Bear is making the world a very dangerous place.
