---
title: "The Death of Twitter"
date: "2016-02-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Moonbats
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6646"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6646"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, I would come back from the mammoth hunt
and relax by dialing into a BBS and mixing it up with others about
sports. Back then, you had to know how a modem worked, in addition to
knowing how to write a bit of code. My first “home computer” was a VT220
terminal and [Hayes smart
modem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hayes_Microcomputer_Products#The_Smartmodem)
that “fell off a truck.” A friend set up an account at his university
and provided a POP.

Back in those days, “internet culture” provided no moderation and little
in the way of restraint. The social justice warriors of today would have
all committed suicide if exposed to the culture of 1980’s internet
content. It was almost all smart dudes with more confidence than good
sense so the arguments quickly got nasty and personal. If you could not
handle it, no one cared. You were probably a pussy anyway.

Eventually, the BBS moved to [NNTP
servers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_News_Transfer_Protocol)
and mail lists. Then the GUI revolution brought the masses into
computing and onto the internet. Message boards evolved as the social
media tool for the mouse wielding internet warriors. Now, comment
systems for articles, Facebook, Twitter and other apps have made social
media ubiquitous. If I had a nickel for every time someone asked me why
I am not on Facebook, I’d have a lot of nickels.

The point of this trip down memory lane is two-fold. One is to establish
my bona fides as an original internet gangster. I’ve been at this a very
long time. Second, and more important, is that social media is not new
or even close to new. Things like Twitter and Facebook are just
continuations of other platforms. The same group dynamics that gave us
[Godwin’s Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin%27s_law) 25 years
ago exist on modern platforms. [Here’s a 20-year old
guide](http://messybeast.com/dragonqueen/newsgroup-users.htm) to UseNet
users that applies just as well today.

Social media has always struggled with the tragedy of the commons. An
active community is almost always free in order to invite a large number
of people to participate. The [Pareto
Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_principle) applies
everywhere in social media, which means some small fraction of the users
do the bulk of the posting. There are, however, some portion of users
who take pleasure in ruining the fun for everyone. These are the people
at the beach, who “accidentally” walk on your kid’s sandcastle.

In the old days, boards were self-regulated. The trolls and idiots were
eventually ignored by everyone so they went away on their own. Then
technology put a premium on access so the idiots would have to sign up
and maybe be approved. Private boards and lists are still around today
for this reason. Pay-to-play schemes have been tried, with limited
success. [People just don’t want to pay to argue with other
people](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kQFKtI6gn9Y).

The most common solution to this dilemma, one that never seems to work,
is to moderate the debate. This is always associated with a set of
nebulous rules of conduct that can be interpreted anyway you like. The
mods remove posts that violate the rules and maybe suspend users who
refuse to comply. It’s one of those things that works in theory, but
never works in practice. In fact, it tends to make things worse, blowing
up whole communities.

This is what is happening with Twitter. They created a “trust and safety
council” to police the platform and get rid of the bad people. The
creepy name is an artifact of our feminized age. Only women and
homosexual males fret about trust and safety on-line. It also signals
that it is more than just an attempt to ban ISIS terrorists and criminal
gangs from the platform. The words “trust” and “safety” are now dog
whistles for the maniacs on the Left.

That’s the reason moderation of message platforms fails. There are two
types of people doing the moderation. There are those forced into it
because they own the site or the hosting company requires it. It’s a
terrible job for them so they quickly ban anyone that causes trouble. It
is the old line about killing some chickens to scare the monkeys. The
trouble is, they usually end up banning too many people and the
community collapses.

The other type of person moderating content is the social justice
warrior. They sign up for this job so they can chase off everyone
that disagrees with them. [Look down the list of people on this Twitter
committee](https://blog.twitter.com/2016/announcing-the-twitter-trust-safety-council)
and it reads like roll call at the local asylum. These are people who
think North Korea is a hippy colony of free speech. Giving these
crackpots power is the sort of mistake a dying company makes as a last
gasp to win support.

[This led to the banning of Robert Stacy
McCain](http://theothermccain.com/2016/02/22/freestacy-rsmccain-will-not-be-restored-sextroublebook-suspended/)
by deranged fanatic [Anita
Sarkeesian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anita_Sarkeesian), the
mentally unbalanced grifter behind
[FeministFrequency](http://feministfrequency.com/) and member of the
Twitter thought police. She has had disputes with McCain for years so as
soon as she was given authority to abuse, she abused it by banning her
critics, starting with McCain. This has set off a revolt among Twitter
users and a quest for an alternative to Twitter.

The fact is the technology behind Twitter is no great shakes. It’s not
much of a value proposition to users so it has to be free with minimum
ads. That’s fine as long as the owners are not dreaming of becoming the
next Bill Gates. But that’s the problem. They built out a huge
infrastructure with loads of debt thinking they will become
billionaires. Instead, the stock is tanking and they are not long for
the world.

What comes next is predictable. Rival services will spring up as
Twitter, the brand, is increasingly associated with the sort of deranged
fanaticism associated with nut-jobs like Anita Sarkeesian.
 [Quitter.de](http://quitter.se/) is already up and running as an
un-moderated, distributed platform.  [I just setup an
account](https://quitter.se/thezblog), but I’m not much for this type of
platform so don’t expect a lot of action. Tumblr is another alternative.
There are others.

There was never a great argument for Twitter as a company but seeing
them follow the well-worn path of previous social media operations says
they are doomed. The SJW’s will chase off everyone remotely interesting
and then start feeding one another. It’s the two women in a kitchen
problem. It always ends the same. Once Twitter stops being cool for
media types, it stops having a reason to exist.
