---
title: "The End of Mass Democracy"
date: "2016-04-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7038"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7038"
---

In modern America, it is impossible to know if what appears in the press
is real news or some made-up nonsense intended to trick the public. <a
href="http://theconservativetreehouse.com/2016/03/30/eric-errickson-website-resurgent-paid-by-pro-cruzanti-trump-our-principles-pac/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The increasingly important site
Conservative Tree House posted up a sampling</a> of entire fake media
people and operations the other day. When you are paid to write on
behalf of a party, you’re not a journalist. You are an advocate. When
you are an advocate posing as an independent media, you are a fraud.

Even though much of what is in the press is agit-prop, there’s
information to be gleaned from it. <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2016-04-01/rnc-lays-groundwork-for-nominee-who-may-not-be-trump"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story in Bloomberg</a> the other day
about how the GOP is preparing to end popular selection of their
nominees is a good example. Ostensibly, the “report” is about how they
will navigate a brokered convention. What they really want to do is
introduce the idea of ending the primary system or at least severely
curtailing it.

The Democrats have largely made their primary system a beauty contest.
The super delegate system lets party officials put their thumb on the
scale to the point where Clinton could lose the rest of the primaries
and still win the nomination. Of the 2382 delegates at the Democrat
convention, 712 will be controlled by the party. In other words, Sanders
will have to have own 71% of the delegates in the primaries to win the
nomination.

An important thing to remember about America politics in the
technocratic era is that there is only one party. The Bipartisan Fusion
Party comprises the elites from technology, politics, culture and
finance.  Republican and Democrat are just the two faces of the party so
that we can keep up the appearance of being a popular republic. It’s not
a lot different than what Augustus did in Rome when pretending to
include the Senate in decisions.

Unlike Rome, this system evolved organically. The parties have become
play things for the mega-donors, like sponsoring champions in
tournaments. Team Red is paid to beat Team Blue. It’s their reason to
exist. It’s why public policy never changes, regardless of which team
wins. They are no longer competing for the right to set policy. They are
competing for the right to hire their friends and relatives. Washington
DC is a global
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tammany_Hall" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Tammanay Hall</a>.

The lesson Team Red drew from the 2008 and 2012 election is that white
people are their biggest liability. They have to shed the image of being
the party of white people. That’s why they tried every trick in the book
to get Marco Rubio the nomination. He was going to be their Obama. It’s
also why they appear poised to blow up their own party to stop Trump. In
their view, destroying the “white party” may be the only way to save
*their party*.

This bit from the story is a good indication of what’s coming:

*“Donald Trump may well end up having the most votes anyone has ever
gotten in a Republican primary this time. That was true for Mrs. Clinton
and she didn’t get the nomination,” in 2008, said Ron Kaufman, a member
of the RNC’s rules committee. “The thing that the party has to do is to
make sure the voters believe their votes matter to keep them in the
party for November.”*

That’s a a classic bit of double-speak. On the one hand, the guy who
gets the most votes is not going to be the nominee. On the other hand,
they are trying to figure out how to convince the rubes that their votes
matter. They don’t have to con all the rubes, just enough to keep up
appearances, which is what we are seeing in the Democratic primaries.
Low turnout, but enough to keep up appearances.

My bet all along has been that the GOP will eventually allow Trump to
have the nomination, but only when they know they can undermine his
campaign enough to keep him from winning the general. If they believe
they can hold the House and Senate, but starve Trump out in the general,
they will let him win the nomination at a contested convention. It’s the
intermediate game.

If they cannot be sure of that, and Trump’s political savvy so far makes
this a tough sell, then they have to go all in on the long game. That
means dumping Trump and Cruz and going with a party man. <a
href="http://talkingpointsmemo.com/livewire/karl-rove-fresh-face-gop-nomination"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Karl Rove is out trying to work this
angle</a> now by claiming that Trump and Cruz have no chance to beat
Clinton in the fall, as if she is this wildly popular rock star in the
view of the public.

The short term is getting a nominee, but the long game here is to avoid
this ever happening again. Both parties face the same dilemma. They
represent the interests of about 20% of the public. They augment this
with lip-service to various ideological groups, but that’s wearing thin.
If you are a pro-life Christian, for example, you have to know the GOP
thinks you’re an idiot. If you are a union guy, you know the Democrats
don’t care about you in the least.

The way around it is what we see with the Democrats. They have
conditioned their suckers to accept the primary as a beauty contest. The
GOP will follow the same path. There will be new ballot rules to keep
trouble makers out of early primaries and a super delegate system to let
the party pick the nominee from a slate of pre-approved options. The
primaries will just be proof of concept exercises. Your vote will no
longer count much at all.
