---
title: "The End of the Revival"
date: "2016-07-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8145"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8145"
---

Because America is run by a religious cult that rewrites history to suit
the current fads, it is easy to get history wrong. A good example is the
Temperance Movement. Today children are taught that unhinged Christian
fanatics banned alcohol. It was the good and liberal FDR, who beat back
the lunatics and rescinded prohibition. The truth is the lunatics
banning alcohol were on the Left. Crusades against vice are the stock
and trade of the American Left, but history is written by the winners
and Northern Liberals won the Civil War so we get an altered history.

Another example I like to use is the [Great
Awakening](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Great_Awakening). It is
thought of as a Christian phenomenon and it was in the first iterations,
but it was a northern phenomenon in America. It had a major impact in
reshaping the Congregational church, which was the seedbed for
Progressivism in America. One of the many things the American Left
inherited from their spiritual ancestors is the frequent spasms of
spiritual revival that result in fevered attempts to cure some societal
ill. Even though they have dropped the language of their ancestors,
Progressives are still moralists.

If you look at Progressive history in the context of the Great
Awakening, you produce a more complete narrative than when you look at
the Left as a European import. Progressives go through periods of moral
revival during which they make war on one bogeyman or another. These
periods of revival are followed by a dormant phase in which the rest of
society cleans up the mess and tries to get back to normal. The 1920’s,
for example, were called the *Return to Normalcy* after Wilson’s
excesses.

This current period of Progressive fanaticism got going in the 90’s,
when the GOP won the ’94 election and Clinton tried to throw the
Liberals overboard. The Green Party gained traction and the rumblings of
discontent on the Left for the direction of the Democrat Party grew
louder. The election of George W. Bush was the match that set the Left
on fire. They saw Bush as a traitor to their kind. After all, his family
is the bluest of true blue Yankees, but W rejected that and made himself
into a Texan and an Evangelical Christian. “Witch!”

For Progressives, the Bush years were a provocation. Bush was not only a
traitor to his people, but he also committed the cardinal sin of
appropriating the ideas of the Left and then running with them. Bush
spent extravagantly on education and the environment. He never stopped
yapping about the wonderfulness of the “religion of peace” and the moral
imperative of bringing democracy to the Mohammedan. This sent the Left
into a purple-faced rage, in the same way that giving into a social
justice warrior only makes them angrier.

To the Left, Bush was Fort Sumter all over again and it had to be
answered. It was what they rallied around after the 2000 election. It is
also how we ended up with Obama. The bad whites, who put the apostate in
the White House, had to be taught a lesson and what could be more
horrifying to the bad whites than a black guy from a mixed marriage with
a Muslim name? It is why the Left never quotes Obama or pays any
attention to his opinions. His utility is as a symbol, the Chi-Ro of the
Progressive legions.

The last year strongly suggests that this Progressive Awakening is
running out of steam. Participation in Democrat primaries was way down
compared to 2008. The party was only able to muster two geezers to run
for their nomination. Liberal support for Clinton is tepid, as they see
her as a criminal loser. She was, after all, the person who tried to
prevent them from spiting the bad whites in 2008. As far as the Left is
concerned, Clinton is as a bad as those who sympathized with the South
or sided with King George.

There is also the fact that the Left has stopped mentioning George Bush.
It is not that they have forgiven him, or the Bush clan, for the 2000’s.
It is just that even the fiery passions of Progressive hate burn
themselves out eventually. They inflicted homosexual marriage on the
country. They allowed deranged men in sundresses to stalk little girls
in public toilets. They toppled over the Confederate statues and angried
up the blacks, to the point where they are killing cops. Like children
throwing a tantrum, they have reached the point where they no longer
remember why they are angry.

This is terrible news for Hillary Clinton, who imagines herself riding a
wave of enthusiasm for old crones, into the White House. There may be
some residual passion for finishing off the country, but the return to
normalcy appears to be underway. The global revolt against globalism
seems to be superseding old movements like American Progressivism. It
turns out that puritanism is just as tied to national identity as
everything else. In the post-national paradise, Progressivism becomes
just another thing for the custodial state to regulate.

That may be the hidden strength of Donald Trump in the fall election.
The New Right that is emerging is nationalist, but the old American Left
was always nationalist. His appeals to national renewal resonate just as
much with Progressives as they do for the alt-right. Hillary could very
well be leading a party of sterile technocrats, who thought Mike Dukakis
was sexy. A future run by colorless bureaucrats sounds wonderful to the
managerial class, but it does nothing for voters, on the Left or the
Right. People always vote for something over nothing.
