---
title: "This Blog – August 2016"
date: "2016-08-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8200"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8200"
---

I like to read about who reads the things I read and how many people
read the things I read. Like all human beings, I’m curious about where I
fit in with my fellow meat sticks. It is what defines us as social
animals. There’s also the fact that if everyone like me is into
something, there’s a good chance I’ll enjoy it. Alternatively, if the
people into the same things I like happen to be weirdos, then maybe it
is time for some soul searching. When it comes to websites and TV shows,
I’m mostly interested in how many. Media wields a great deal of
influence so the high traffic sites will have more influence than niche
sites.

Anyway, [this post on Vox
Day](https://voxday.blogspot.com/2016/08/a-new-milestone-25-million.html)
reminded me that I have not done a post on this blog’s traffic for a
while. I’m probably not alone in being curious about traffic stats so I
want to post a regular update on site stats. Steve Sailer does this as
part of his fund raisers. I’m always a little surprised that Sailer does
not have more traffic. He’s been doing the blog thing for a couple of
decades. Assuming VD is not bullshitting us with his stats, his site
gets twice the traffic of Sailer. I see loads of references on social
media to Sailer, but never Vox Day, but that could just mean I hang with
the bad crowd.

I have installed a plugin for WordPress that lets me harvest all sorts
of data. The big thing it does is filter out robots and trackers from
the site traffic. I tested this on another domain and it does seem to
work. I compared the stats to my server stats and there is a massive gap
between the blogs numbers and the raw server logs, suggesting the robot
filtering is working as they claim. According to the numbers, I have had
9,180,000 visits in the last year. Of those, 953,876 were unique
visitors. The regular readership is just over 45,000. That’s defined as
unique regular visitors.

I thank everyone for visiting and reading.

Now, compared to what Vox reports, my page views are half what he
reports. I suspect there’s a difference in how page views are counted.
His posts net three times the number of comments so maybe it is not that
far off. If I were to guess, I’d say his readership is three or four
times the size of this site, judging from the number of comments. Then
again, some sites lend themselves to comments, while others do not. Ace
gets a ton of comments, but most of them are gibberish. You see this on
Breitbart where the comments often suggest the readership is missing a
chromosome.

Digging through the stats, I see that [the most popular post ever was
this one](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7447). The most common keyword
search that leads people here is “Cloud People.” The funny thing about
that is someone used the term in conversation the other day and then
explained to me what it meant. I know that person does not read this
site so I guess the term is working its way into the language. [The
second most popular post is this
one](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8017), so I may even get credit for
the term when some TV big shot uses it. A man can dream.

I have received e-mails wondering how to donate money to me, but I have
no way of doing that. I appreciate the thought, but I have not thought
too much about setting up the mechanics for taking donations. In fact,
I’ve never looked into how it works. I have a day job and I do this for
fun. I think if the monthly readership cracks the 100K mark, I may
consider it. To be perfectly candid, I’d feel weird holding beg-a-thons.
Given that hitting the 100K mark is long off, I don’t have to think
about it.

Again, I thank everyone for reading, linking, commenting and tweeting.
