---
title: "Speculation"
date: "2016-02-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6280"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6280"
---

There are some topics about which one can have some vague impressions
that feel correct, but you just can’t organize your thoughts in such a
way so that you can communicate those impressions with any coherence.
These are just gut instincts that are broadly correct but lack the
details or insider knowledge to pin it all down in a tidy, easy to
communicate package.

One of those topics for me is the rise of the fake nerd. Everywhere you
look these days, someone is whipping out statistics or studies to make a
point. In fact, you cannot make a point without presenting something to
back it up. No matter how obvious, no one takes anyone’s word for
anything in public discourse. Even if you are the leading expert, you
better be armed with a pile of studies and statistics.

Go on a site like Marginal Revolution and state that the sun rises in
the East and sets in the West and someone will demand a link to a study
backing up the claim. That’s not too much of an exaggeration. When I
used to post there, someone once challenged my statement that drug use
rates are higher in cities than in the suburbs. They asked for a link,
as if this was a new bit of information for them.

My impression, my sense of it, is that otherwise smart people have
become incredibly narrow in their understanding of the world. If they
cannot find numbers to suggest there is a probability of the sun rising
in the East, then they don’t consider it as an item in the realm of the
possible. Data driven debate is a blinkered debate, so much so that even
the obvious can fall outside their field of vision.

Then there is the inability to speculate. I wonder if this is not tied
to the politically correct culture in the academy. Since straying too
far from approved dogma can get you exiled, reliance on statistics and
the work of others creates a safe space. If you’re not saying anything
new, then you are not saying anything dangerous. Since data is sacred,
people can lard up their work with useless statistics and inoculate
themselves against heresy charges.

A good example that comes to mind is Nate Silver and his inability to
see Trump coming. [Audascious Epigone did some posts on this last
month](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2016/01/nate-silvers-shifting-line.html).
Silver has created a nice racket for himself analyzing and weighting
polls. Since there’s nothing but risk in looking outside what
conventional wisdom says is possible, he studiously avoids it. Trump was
considered an impossibility, so Silver’s model said he could not exist.
That was the safe place.

That’s not an indictment of math or the use of statistics. The practical
application of mathematics is an essential part of modern life. You
cannot appreciate baseball, for example, without understanding the
numbers of the game. Even dumb ball players know the math. It’s just
that the unknown lives outside the known and can only be discovered by
imagining what can lie outside. It is speculation that leads to
discovery.

This narrowness does not just lead to a lack of imagination. It leads
people into thinking like sociopaths. Immigration is a perfect example.
Anytime the topic comes up, there is an attempt to debate whether it is
good for the economy, as if that’s all that matters. Since the impact of
immigration on the economy can be measured, at least we can pretend to
measure it, that’s what the modern “expert” wants to discuss.

The reason for the great divide between the Dirt People and the Cloud
People over immigration is that the Dirt People really don’t care if it
benefits business. They just don’t want their kids living in a third
world country. The Cloud People can’t think beyond the data. You see
that in this [David Frum piece on immigration
data](http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/01/the-great-immigration-data-debate/424230/).
The only people debating the data are all in favor of open borders.

This is, of course, the old line about a man good with a hammer seeing
the world as a nail. All of our smart kids are now in professions that
are data driven so they think the only thing that matters is data. Heck,
driven. This sounds like a good thing as higher levels of numeracy
should result in a more informed populace. The trouble is the tyranny of
nerds is driven by people that had statistics for liberal arts majors.
They think they know more than they do.

Entirely useless fields like psychology are now kept alive by mediocre
students with an entry level understanding of mathematics. Every other
day we have a study turning up in the news claiming a correlation
between one thing and another. [Since these are never
replicated](http://www.nature.com/news/over-half-of-psychology-studies-fail-reproducibility-test-1.18248),
the effect is an endless stream of stupidity fed into the public
bloodstream.

ours is an Oriental meritocracy. The best and the brightest focus on
memorizing what is known and finding data to support it. The way up is
to flatter the master by quoting his work, which is just the work of
another, repackaged by the current master. Having an army of expert
economists is not a lot different than an army of great calligraphers.
It’s only useful to the experts within the narrow scope of the system.

 

This leads me to think this is perhaps at the heart of the unforced
errors by the people in charge we keep seeing. History is the story of
error, but the errors we are seeing today are so ham-handed, they feel
deliberate. Merkel inviting a million Muslims into Germany only makes
sense if she is surrounded by nerd boys claiming it is good for the
economy. No one bothered to speculate about the reaction of the
citizenry.

The Trump/Sanders phenomenon is based entirely on the fact both parties
looked at their respective data and concluded a Bush-Clinton race was
the most probable so they threw in behind that idea. They never
considered that maybe the public was simply sick of the bullshit from
both parties. There’s no model for that so they remain in a state of
disbelief. Big Foot and the Tooth Fairy may as well be leading theses
races now, as far as the political class is concerned.

In *Back to Methuselah*, Shaw has the serpent say, “You see things; and
you say, ‘Why?’ But I dream things that never were; and I say, ‘Why
not?” Perhaps that’s it. In a world where you are defined by your
relationship with your fellows, not by your relationship with a
transcendent truth, exile is the new Hell. Asking “why not?” is for
heretics and troublemakers. Best to stick with the data and prior
studies.
