---
title: "Maybe Not"
date: "2016-06-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7856"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7856"
---

People who knock on doors and proselytize on behalf of some set of
beliefs are people riddled with doubt about those beliefs and probably
every other thing they claim to believe. The reason I know this is that
if they were sure about the things they were saying, they would not care
what I think about those things. They would not be on my doorstep trying
to convince me to come around to their way of thinking. If they were so
sure, they could just send me a post card or wait until I discovered the
truth as they did.

The point here is that people trying to convince you of something, in
almost all cases, are not doing it because of altruism. Sure, dad
telling you not to drink and drive is doing it because he loves you. The
cop telling you the same thing is doing it because he has a soul and
hates seeing car accidents. Outside of those very narrow areas, people
trying to convince you of something are either full of doubt and looking
for validation or they are full of crap and looking for a sucker.
Sometimes it is both.

I find myself thinking these thoughts whenever the robot future is
pitched to me in news stories or by John Derbyshire in his podcast. In
John’s case, the doomsday nature of the robot future is, I suspect, the
main appeal. If the robot future promised puppies and ice cream he would
dismiss the idea as silliness. In the case of news stories, my
instinct is that the people pitching the idea really really want to
believe it, so they try really hard to get everyone else to believe it.
<a
href="http://qz.com/700556/theres-now-a-robot-that-can-check-your-bags-at-geneva-airport/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This piece is a good example</a>.

*One of the most convenient changes in the modern era of air travel has
been the ability to check in online, drop your bags at the counter, and
stroll off to security, potentially without having to speak to a single
human. But when everyone else started doing the same thing, the lines at
check-in got shorter, but the drop-off line got longer.*  
*SITA, a Swiss telecoms firm specializing in the air transport industry,
working in parternship with robotics firm BlueBotics, has a solution:
Autonomous robots that check your bags at the curb.*  
*SITA’s robot, called Leo, is being tested at Geneva Airport, the
company said in a release late last month. To use the bot, passengers
with luggage tap a few buttons on Leo’s touchscreen, scan their boarding
passes, drop their bags in its cargo bay, and affix the luggage tags
that Leo prints out. The bot then closes up its cargo area—so that no
one can tamper with your bag while it’s in transit—and drops the bags
off at a loading station, where a human drops the bags on a conveyor
belt to be scanned and loaded onto the correct plane.*

For starters, the person writing this has not been in an airport since
the 90’s if their last memory is “drop your bags at the counter, and
stroll off to security.” Maybe in fantasy land or at small airports for
private aircraft this is the norm, but in normalville, standing in
endless lines and suffering endless humiliations is the norm. I’ve been
flying for decades and I don’t remember a time when air travel was
anything but a hassle and it has not been made better by technology.

Putting that aside, there’s the fact that this wonderful leap into the
robot future has existed for a long time. In America, many airports have
kiosks where you check your bags. You slide your credit card, answer a
few questions, get the bag sticker and then deposit your bag onto the
belt. Maybe an attendant puts it on the belt, but that’s his only job
and you have no reason to speak with him. After 9/11, DC airports had
you put your bag through a screening machine first. Again, no humans
involved.

Having a clumsy mechanical man handle the placing of the bags on the
belt is hardly a great leap forward. It looks like a publicity stunt.
That’s the thing with the robot future stories. They are short on
practical specifics and long on predictions about how the clumsy
mechanical man will soon be ruling over us as a mechanical overlord.
Yet, we remain stuck in the clumsy and inefficient mechanical man stage.
It always feels like we are being sold something that the seller does
not truly believe. They just want to believe or pretend to believe it.

Don’t get me wrong. I tend to agree that automation is the great
challenge to Western civilization in the long run, but it is the long
run. No one reading this is going to live to see the day when they are
enslaved by smart robots. In fact, few will see the day when smart
robots are doing work in public places. That day is a lot further off
than the futurists want to believe. Technologically, it is really hard
and expensive to replicate even the most basic of human labor. Getting
more complex stuff right and cheap is going to take a long time.

It’s the solar power narrative. For as long as I’ve been alive, I’ve
been hearing about how solar is ready to take over the world and make
fossil fuels obsolete. It never happens. The best we have are small
panels for running a small devise like a traffic camera. We’ve had those
for decades. The large scale projects turn into tax sinks and then white
elephants. The solar companies spring up and then go bust. The glorious
solar future always seems to be just over the next hill, along with
electric cars and forever life.
