---
title: "Travelogue: Diversity"
date: "2016-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Race
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8491"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8491"
---

Iceland is a barren moonscape created by tectonic plates rubbing against
one another on something called <a
href="http://www.livescience.com/29737-new-deep-sea-vents-discovered-atlantic-ocean.html"
target="_blank">the Mid-Atlantic Ridge</a>. The result is a beauty you
see nowhere else, but it also means not much can be grown on the island.
The natives have to deal with a limited food supply from the ocean, thus
developed a form of cannibalism in which the dead are processed into a
product called
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skyr" target="_blank">Skyr</a>.
I’m kidding about that, of course. There are no cannibals on Iceland,
but food is expensive and lacking in the sort of diversity we are used
to seeing in the West.

The consequence of this is the range of desirable flavors in their food
is very narrow. I was given a ham and cheese sandwich and surprised to
learn how they eat them. Warm without any adornments or condiments. In
the States, you would have more “other stuff” on the thing than the main
ingredients. Most people would also have mustard or maybe mayonnaise as
a condiment. Chatting with a couple of local women, they told me
Icelanders think Americans make weird food that tastes funny.

That’s nature at work. Iceland was populated by Nordic males, who
brought Celtic women with them. Recent DNA analysis suggests that around
66 percent of the male settler-era population was of Norse ancestry. The
female population was 60 percent Celtic. They arrived, we think, in the
year 874 AD, so this population landed on the island very recent.
Inevitably some strong selection pressure was at work. You had to be
within a small group, who would want to give it a go on Iceland. You had
to have a certain constitution to thrive there.

Icelandic women are notoriously beautiful and that’s true, assuming you
are a male from west of the Hajnal line. I could be wrong about that,
but that’s my guess. The women are tall and thin with angular faces. You
don’t see many fat women in Iceland, but that may be due to the cost of
food. The other thing is the women do not wear much makeup, but when
they do it, it is to accentuate their eyes. There is a great diversity
of eye color with most being a shade of blue, but brown and green are
common too.

I found myself staring at their eyes, registering the different colors
and patterns. This was true in Ireland, but not so obvious. Many Irish
women have let themselves go so they are not, on average, as beautiful
as the Icelandic women. The Irish say the Icelandic settlers carried
away the most beautiful Irish women. That’s a fun legend and probably a
little true, but the numbers involved make that a bit implausible. What
has ruined Irish women is alcohol and excess calories, but that’s true
all over the West.

Diversity of eye color is a European thing. Africans and Asians lack
this diversity and it is a good question for science to ponder. Humans
evolved to be social animals and a big part of that starts with the
eyes. There are something like 200 species of monkeys and apes with
humans the only one with a visible sclera. That’s the white of our eye.
In humans, it makes our eyes a signal. From any angle, we can perceive
the thoughts, to some degree, of another humans. We can see where
another is staring and infer something of what they are thinking.

This feature did not evolve for no reason and it is assumed to be a part
of how we evolved as a social animal. Further, the diversity of eye
color, as well, as hair color and texture, in European populations, is
not an accident. If it had no value, it would not have happened.
Clearly, diversity of hair color, hair texture, eye color and the
features around the eyes began to have a reproductive advantage at some
point. A purely social feature like eye color that is so strikingly
different in Europeans, than anywhere else, suggests that European
sociality may have evolved down a different path as well.

It is an example of what you hear from the more sophisticated in the HBD
community. Early man in Europe was faced with much more difficult
challenges than in Africa. As a result, males would have been at higher
risk of death when hunting and traveling. When the sex ratio ceases to
be balanced, when too many of one sex are competing for too few of the
other, sexual selection intensifies. So a surfeit of females, relative
to the male population, could have resulted in the diversity of eye and
hair color, as women competed for the attention of males.

Put another way, environmental pressure changed the people, but then the
people changed their environment, that is, their culture. Diversity of
eye color, for example, resulted from nature killing off more males than
females. That preference for diversity by mates would ripple through the
population. People got better at being around people that did not look
like them and better at having kids that did not look like them. Nature
changes people, people change their culture and then the culture
magnifies or mitigates the forces of nature.

It is what makes the Diversity™ rackets so craven and shallow. People
are more than their skin, but that’s not what the grifters and
charlatans would have us believe. According to the prevailing orthodoxy,
people are all the same with pointless physical differences. Such
thinking is anti-science and anti-human. It has been a long and
complicated road for humans. No all of us went down the same roads or
faced the same complications. Appreciating that is truly appreciating
diversity.
