---
title: "Constitutional Scripturalism"
date: "2016-07-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8160"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8160"
---

Ted Cruz setting himself on fire at the GOP convention is a good example
of how things are not always what they seem. The Wuss Right cheered
because they hoped it would hurt Trump. They never cared for Cruz, which
is why they refused to back him until the last days of the primary. Even
those who were willing to back Cruz early on were muted in their
enthusiasm. Once there was nothing to lose and he was throwing one last
rock at Trump, they could let loose with full-throated cheers for [Lion
Ted](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/438154/cruzs-stand-conservatism-lion-ted).

The Wuss Right’s reticence with regards to Cruz is not all wrong. Cruz
is a weasel, who cannot be trusted. He proved that the other night. He
is also revealed himself to be a fanatic, fully capable of stepping on a
rake that he laid in front of his own path. Cruz seems to believe the
things [Glenn Beck says about
him](http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/03/19/salt-lake-tribune-cruz-in-utah-glenn-beck-says-hes-fulfillment-of-mormon-prophecy/).
He imagines himself as the throne half of the team, while Beck imagines
himself representing the altar side of their thing. Their thing is a
strange movement that blends evangelical Christianity, Mormonism and
evangelical Constitutionalism.

Conservatives tend to define themselves as people who are faithful to
the spirit of the law, as well as the letter. When it comes to the
Constitution, the Right typically takes a narrow view. If it is not
explicitly in the document, then it is assumed to not be in the
document. This is in line with the traditional [negative
liberty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negative_liberty) that is the
bedrock of the American system of governance. The state only has powers
specifically granted to it. Put another way, the state must get
permission from the citizens to act.

Listen to a Ted Cruz speech and he talks about the Constitution in the
same way preachers talk about Scripture. You either read the document as
the literal word of God or you are a sinner. An America that is not
organized around the literal reading of the original document is failing
in its duty to God. Similarly, liberty is a stand-in for salvation. One
is either in a state of liberty or outside the light of the Founders.
When a guy like Ted Cruz talks of religious liberty, it clearly means
more than just being left to worship as you please. It is liberty as a
religion.

The irony of this evangelical constitutionalism is that it was
Evangelicals who ushered in the whole “living constitution” stuff. The
Christian reformers of the 19th century badgered the courts to accept a
more expansive role in law making. This always meant chipping away at
property rights in order to eradicate immorality from national life. The
Abolitionist Movement was, after all, an attack on property rights.
Slaves were property and freeing slaves is, legally speaking, no
different than “freeing” someone’s car or their cash.

Treating the founding documents as holy texts and the Founders as
messengers of God seems like a natural evolution of Evangelical
politics. In the 70’s and 80’s, Christian conservatives got involved in
politics and ended up as a reliable Republican constituency. This
traditional approach to politics got them nothing but disappointment as
the liberals steamrolled conservatives in Washington on social
issues. Strategy shifted to backing coreligionists, thinking that would
result in more dependable politicians. Eight years of George Bush
disabused most Christians of that belief.

Holding up a holy text as something more than words on a page is to be
expected. Religions only work when the rules are set forth by an
authority higher than man. Otherwise, it is just coercion. Deifying the
Constitution, the way we see with guys like Cruz and Beck, inevitably
deifies the men who wrote it. It also assumes a transcendence that the
writers never imagined. The men who wrote the Constitution fully
understood that it was a grab-bag of compromises that were necessary in
order to organize thirteen nations into a single country.

Just as important, the men who founded the country relied upon the work
of others to form their opinions and debate how to best organize the
newly independent country. Jefferson, for example, borrowed heavily from
The Declaration of Rights with which Parliament asserted its rights
against the King in the Glorious Revolution. Imbuing the Constitution
with sacred authority inevitably turns the writers into something they
were not and strips them of their humanity. The Founders were just men,
but they were still men.

That is what makes the Cruz speech and his refusal to back Trump
interesting. The Wuss Right, filled with hatred for the rise of Trump
and his nationalist backers, cheered Cruz as the heir to Reagan. The
Cruz people, however, are not looking for Reagan. They tried that and
got nowhere. They saw the Cruz speech and saw their savior, a man in the
line of the Founders, sent by God to bring his people back into the
light of the Constitution. It’s why his followers are sure [God will
punish
America](http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/05/06/glenn-beck-america-petulant-child-god-must-punish-supporting-trump-cruz/)
for rejecting their man.

Ted Cruz says he will run in 2020 no matter what happens in 2016. It
remains to be seen whether this movement he is leading has legs. These
things often fizzle out. With high profile people like Glenn Beck and
Erick Erickson signing on and preaching from their Internet pulpits
every day, it is probably going to be with us for a while. Ted Cruz is
the leader of the political version of the Westboro Baptist Church now.
The founding documents are holy scripture and the leaders are men of
God, sent by God.
