---
title: "Intellectuals Versus Ideologues"
date: "2016-07-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - HBD
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8100"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8100"
---

I think if I were to produce a defining characteristic of a true
intellectual, I would say it is someone willing to consider
possibilities that are not already on the table. When I say “true
intellectual” I mean to distinguish the real thinkers from the
[pseudo-intellectual
posers](https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1499446228/MSNBC_Headshot_400x400.jpg).
The truly smart and curious are not constrained by or extremely
interested in the current fads. When presented with a puzzle, they first
try to imagine all of the possible solutions and then begin eliminating
the impossible.

One of the useful lessons of mathematics is that there are some problems
for which there are many answers. If you are presented with *x* – 3 =
0   or   *x* – 4 = 0 then you know *x* = 3, 4. In other words, X has
more than one possible solution. A surprisingly high number of allegedly
smart people struggle with that basic concept. When you get into more
complex areas like human sciences, the range of solutions to a problem
may include a combination of factors interacting to cause the observed
phenomenon.

Therefore, the intellectual is someone that starts with the set of all
solutions and narrows the list to those that are possible. The
religiously minded, on the other hand, reverse the order of things. They
first eliminate all the possibilities that fall outside the limits of
their faith. A Christian, for example, will never consider the
possibility that his faith is nonsense and Jesus was a fictional
character. The Muslim will never consider that Mohamed was simply a
medieval L. Ron Hubbard.

Throughout history, we have examples of the priestly class convincing
the people that the calamity that has befallen them is due to their
deviation from the faith. When the plague ravaged Europe, the religious
were convinced it was due to God’s wrath. What else could it be? The
English blamed the Viking invasions on the faithful falling out of favor
with God. Revolutionaries blame the inevitable bad results of their
revolution on enemies of the revolution.

Just to be clear, religion is vital to every society. Most people should
not be thinking about all the possible causes of what is around them.
Islam may be useless to Western civilization, but it serves a needed
purpose in the East. Christianity was vital to the development of
Western Civilization. In fact, it was what preserved the stock of human
knowledge that was the foundation of the modern West. Today, the West
would be better off if our leaders were Christians, instead of insane.

Even so, the difference between the intellectual and the ideological
enforcer is all about the possibilities. A good example of that [is in
this post on NRO the other day from someone calling himself Mario
Loyola](http://www.global.nationalreview.com/corner/437970/african-american-shooting-statistics).
He is one of the thousands of public intellectuals living off the
taxpayer at foundations around the Imperial Capital. [His CV is
here](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mario-loyola-57968040) and you see the
word “fellow” turn up a lot in his work history. Most of our
“conservative” intellectuals have credentials from the liberal of
institutions.

Anyway, his post is about black crime rates and the causes of those
crime rates. This bit got my attention. “When America is ready for a
real conversation about race, it will start here. It will ask honestly
what the causes are. There is not the slightest doubt in my mind that
race has absolutely nothing to do with crime rates, and that government
policies such as welfare are the real culprit, creating the urban blight
and broken families that lead directly to crime.”

Let us first start with the phrase, “have a conversation.” When you want
to kill time, you have a conversation about the weather. When you want
to let someone else know things about yourself, you have a conversation.
When you want to find answers to problems, you do not have a
conversation. That is how you get fired. You are fooling around having
conversations instead of doing work. In modern America, when a
Progressive says she wants a conversation, you better run.

Putting that aside, the first thing Mario does in his “exploration of
causes” is eliminate those that fall outside the permitted. In fact, he
makes clear that he is not interested in that conversation at all. If
you already have the answer, there is no need for further discovery.
Once you find the answer, the next job is to tell the world about your
wonderful insight. That is why scientists post the results of their
experiments. It is how the stock of human knowledge increases.

Of course, Mario is not offering any evidence of his assertion. For this
type of Progressive, race falls outside the set of acceptable causes so
it is eliminated without further discussion. Because he is from the
shadow end of the faith, he also feels the need to eliminate racism so
he can focus on the welfare state. His post is not intended to start a
conversation or begin the search for the causes of black crime. It is
testimony in support of his particular brand of Progressivism.

It is not a great surprise that our public debates are echo chambers.
Biology has become forbidden knowledge. So much so that few know
anything about it. That is because biology is at odds with
egalitarianism, the foundation stone of the Progressive faith. Once you
accept that nature does not distribute her gifts equally among all men,
Progressivism is untenable. It is akin to saying Christ was fictional or
Mohamed was a con-man. That can never be allowed, no matter how many
people die.
