---
title: "Senator Billy Ray Valentine"
date: "2016-02-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6644"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6644"
---

In the movie [Trading Places](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0086465/), two
old rich guys make a wager over the debate regarding nature versus
nurture. Randolph, played by Don Ameche takes the side of nature, while
Mortimer, played by Ralph Bellamy, takes the side of nurture. They
decide to settle it by switching the lives of their managing
director, Louis Winthorpe III, with the life of Billy Ray Valentine, a
black street hustler played by Eddie Murphy.

It’s a classic comedy so this is not new material. It is another version
of [Pygmalion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pygmalion_(play)). That was
made into the musical *My Fair Lady*, which is probably what most people
would recognize as the classic of this genre. I have not seen Trading
Places in many years, but my recollection is it was very funny. It’s
hard to believe, but there was a time when Eddie Murphy was hilarious.

Watching Ricky Rubio talk butch about Donald Trump the other day made me
think of this movie. Rubio, like Billy Ray Valentine in the movie, is a
creation of some rich patrons, who found him useful. Normal Brahman is a
gazillionaire in Florida and he was Rubio’s rabbi in politics. It is a
common arrangement in state politics, particularly in the South. Bill
Clinton was a creation of the same system.

Rubio has charm and enough sense to not start thinking for himself. Like
a good actor, he knows how to internalize his lines so they come out
sounding off-the-cuff. He understands his role and that is to make the
audience believe. It is the job of other people to write the lines,
figure out the policy positions and setup the political fights. Rubio’s
job is to show up, say his lines with conviction and win the crowd.

Barak Obama is exactly the same guy. Former Weathermen Bernardine Dohrn
and Bill Ayers sponsored Obama in Chicago as their dream boat, a black
radical who can charm middle-class white people. After some time in
local politics, billionaire progressives backed Obama all the way to the
White House. There’s a reason the man does not order lunch without his
teleprompter. Obama is smart enough to know his words are never his own.

Kept men are nothing new in politics. Local politics across the
Anglosphere have been dominated by this arrangement for centuries. The
local rich people pay men to represent their interests in parliaments,
town councils, city government and so forth. In America, state
government is loaded with these guys. They lobby the other members on
behalf of their employers.

What’s new is that the global rich now look at national parliaments in
the same way wealthy planters or industrialists used to look at state
government. The result is Congress is packed with kept men, who play the
role written for them by their handlers. That’s how Obama and Rubio made
it to Washington. Their handlers were prepping them for presidential
runs. [That was the plan for Marco
Rubio](http://www.buzzfeed.com/mckaycoppins/the-future-of-the-republican-party-is-by-the-pool-at-the-bil#.qu8mKoKRw8).

Some things don’t scale up very well. The kept men in politics get away
with it in low-profile areas like state government or town councils. In
a mass media culture, it’s really hard to pull this off at the national
level, at least for very long. That’s why Americans want to seal up
Washington and burn the place to the ground right now. They’ve figured
out that it is just theater, a sophisticated long con.

There’s also the problem that some gags work just once. Americans have
had seven years to watch Obama strut about on stage, doing his version
of Hamlet. They know how to spot guys like him now, which is why Rubio
went nowhere, despite having the entire [conservative media ecosystem
coordinating their efforts for
him](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/us/politics/marco-rubio-pushed-for-immigration-reform-with-conservative-media.html?_r=1).
It turns out that [Lincoln was
right](http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/a/abrahamlin110340.html),
even in our mass media culture.

Anyway, watching poor Rubio flail about in the final days of his
campaign, I can’t help but feel some sympathy for the guy. He is
penniless and now his political career is over. He chose not to run for
re-election to his Senate seat so he could focus on his presidential
run. [His other source of income is his wife’s no-show job at a fake
charity run by Norman
Braman](http://www.tampabay.com/blogs/the-buzz-florida-politics/norman-braman-charity-marco-rubios-wife-works-for-wasnt-very-giving-in-2013/2230121).
Now that Marco is no longer of any use to Norman, that no-show job goes
away.

Unlike Billy Ray Valentine, Rubio lacks the moxie and cleverness to turn
the tables on his masters. Instead, he is running around the country
calling Donald Trump a doo-doo head. The hope is he can earn some
sympathy from the party and maybe they can hook him up in a no-show job
at a bank. [John
Kasich](http://www.cnn.com/2015/06/08/politics/john-kasich-2016-lehman-brothers-wall-street/),
[Jeb
Bush](http://www.wsj.com/articles/how-jeb-bush-spent-his-years-on-wall-street-1438741822)
and [Eric
Cantor](http://www.politico.com/story/2014/09/eric-cantor-wall-street-111073)
got rich playing that game so Rubio probably thinks he can get a similar
deal.

Right now, this is the scene Biltmore in Miami.

 

 

 
