---
title: "Trump and the New Religion"
date: "2016-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8213"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8213"
---

The 2016 US Presidential election is shaping up to be one of those
inflection points in the nation’s history. At this stage it is hard to
know what comes after November, even if you are confident of the
outcome. In 1964, the Liberals clobbered the arch-conservative
Goldwater, but that turned out to be their last hurrah as 1960’s
radicalism was about to blow itself apart. Similarly, many thought 2000
was a shift toward a post-Progressive America, but it was the start of a
new Great Progressive Awakening.

I’m fond of calling the prevailing philosophy among our rulers the New
Religion because it has all the attributes of a religion, just adapted
to the mass media era. For those unfamiliar with this, the New Religion
is based on egalitarianism, multiculturalism and anti-racism. The last
part is an outgrowth of the first two, but it is such a key part of the
believer’s worldview, it really must be treated as a foundation item.
Spend time on social media and you will inevitably run into people
calling themselves anti-racists.

As Eric Hoffer observed, mass movements can get along without a god, but
they must always have a devil. For the modern Progressive, the
arch-demon is racism and everything is organized around fighting it.
Abstract concepts make for useful devils, because they can be redefined
on the fly to meet new challenges. A racist used to be some who hated
blacks. Now it is someone hated by blacks or by the people who do the
hating on their behalf.

As much as anti-racism is the star of the show, the other two legs of
the stool are important too and we’re seeing that in the election. Trump
is running on an explicitly nationalist platform. Nationalism comes with
certain assumptions, like “our culture is better than others” and “our
people are worth more to us than the people of other countries.” These
are value judgments based on a shared history and a shared
identity. America is not a blood and soil nation, but it is still a
nation. My fellow citizens mean more to me than the people of France or
Lichtenstein.

The internal logic of the New Religion excludes parochialism of any
sort. All humans are equal, to the point where sex is even counted as a
social construct. Therefore, no one can be morally better than another.
Since culture is personality writ large and all personalities are equal,
all cultures are equal. Anything short of embracing all cultures equally
is racism. That means all the people who oppose the one-world globalism
of our elites can only be driven by racism. They are evil so they must
be fought at any cost.

That’s what we are seeing with Trump. He is a man who is the epitome of
color blindness. He opened his first big club in Miami to all races,
despite the fact the local residents opposed that idea. Those local
residents were very liberal, you should note. His business associates
look like the color wheel and his daughter converted to Judaism after
marrying her very Jewish husband. Yet, Trump is running as a nationalist
so the New Religion casts him as a racist. They even obliquely hint that
he is an anti-Semite by calling him “Herr Drumpf” all the time.

The so-called conservatives in the media are just as smitten with the
New Religion as their paymasters.  After all, a key part of being on
contract at CNN or ABC is to be in the good graces of the fanatics that
run those stations. Since the people in charge have defined racism as
the worst of sins, no conservative will be caught dead associated with a
racist. Nothing strikes fear in the hearts of these nancy-boys more than
the thought of being cast into the pit alongside guys like John
Derbyshire and Steve Sailer.

Years ago, back in the early Bush years, I met Jonah Goldberg at a NRO
fundraiser event. We were chatting and I mentioned Peter Brimelow and he
turned pale. The look on his face was what you would expect if he just
learned Godzilla was approaching. He pulled himself together enough to
say, “You should never even read anything they write. It’s very bad.”
and then he sprinted away like I was chasing him. It was old fashioned,
gut level fear like you see in horror movies. Goldberg is now a unhinged
opponent of Trump.

On the scale of certainty, the modern Progressive is quite sure he is an
anti-racist. He even has that on the profile of his social media
accounts. The old Buckley Right has always existed on the edge of grace,
with respect to the Left so they are desperate to prove they are just as
anti-racist as their brothers on the Left. It’s why they are so
over-the-top in their hatred for Trump. It’s not a case of self-doubt
leading to overcompensation. They fear their brothers on the Left do not
believe they have cleansed themselves of racism, so their animus toward
Trump is their purification ritual.

This is why guys like Erick Erickson are constantly trolling for the
attention of Trump supporters on twitter and Faceberg. It’s why NRO has
given itself over to anti-Trumpism to the point of self-parody. It’s
also why the most over-the-top outrage about the Khan flap was from the
so-called Right. These performances are not intended to convince Trump
voters. They are intended to convince the Left that the official Right
is fully housebroken and ready to live in the master’s house.
Anti-Trumpism is a public act of piety by those who wish to be initiated
in the New Religion.
