---
title: "Hail Caesar!"
date: "2016-01-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6309"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6309"
---

Political parties seem like a permanent feature of modern Western
societies, but there’s no reason to think they are permanent. At the
founding of America, parties were looked down upon as a potential
problem for a self-governing republic. In Federalist 9 and 10 Madison
argued that the proposed constitution would guard against factionalism
and was essential to preventing partisan government.

In the 19th century, political parties made a lot of sense simply for
organizational reasons. The only way you can stuff the ballot boxes and
intimidate voters is with a well-organized ground game. No matter how
rich the candidate, he could never overcome the army of poll workers,
ward healers and bagmen that the party could deploy in every election.
If you wanted to run for office, you had to do so as a party man.

That reality has been with us for a long time, so it is proper to think
it is just the way it has to be. Independent runs for president have all
ended in tears, mostly because the parties own the system. Attempts at
creating third parties in America have failed because the resources
involved in pulling it off are just too great. Ross Perot probably came
the closest to pulling it off. Maybe the Green Party. Both efforts
failed when their famous leader left the stage.

I wonder if what the Trump phenomenon really portends is an end of
national parties or at least the decline of the parties as king makers
at the national level. Trump is a surprisingly capable politician, but
his success is remarkable given that his party and its media operation
is blasting him relentlessly. The coordinated assault against him this
week is a curious thing in that it looks like they are pushing all of
their chips into the middle of the table.

They may be doing exactly that. Trump is spending his own money on local
political operators in Iowa and New Hampshire so he can compete at the
street level, but without the massive overhang of the consultancy and
their party patrons. If Trump manages to win the nomination, and it is
looking like a certainty right now, a lot of other rich guys are going
to wonder if they could do the same.

One of those is the [filthy rich former mayor of New York
City](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/24/nyregion/bloomberg-sensing-an-opening-revisits-a-potential-white-house-run.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&clickSource=story-heading&module=first&_r=0),
who is thinking about an independent run. Unlike Trump, Bloomy would run
as a third party option, but he has a ton of cash and a lot of
connections in Progressive circles. It’s not unreasonable to think he
could siphon off a lot of the Democrat Party organization for his
effort. Given the options on the Democrat side, it’s not unreasonable to
think he could do well.

As an aside, how unreasonable is it to think that National Review and
The Weekly Standard would come out and support Bloomberg over Trump and
Sanders? They agree with him on more issues than they disagree and he
would be down with the invade the world/invite the world paradigm. More
important, he’s their sort of people.

Anyway, we have billionaires launching rockets into space, planning a
Mars voyage and creating robots that promise to become aware and unleash
terminators on humanity. That’s all cool stuff but being in charge of
the Imperial Army as the temporary Emperor is way cooler. You can be
sure they are looking at what Trump is doing and thinking they could do
the same thing.

In the past, what has kept rich guys from running for office is the
hassle of dealing with party politics. In order to get in the game, you
had to suck up to a lot of twerps and losers who have burrowed into the
system like weevils. If you can blow past that and assemble your own
temporary campaign machine that does all the stuff the party does, but
without all the party nonsense, why not do it?

Of course, this is a form of Caesarism, but updated to the modern mass
media world. Instead of a cult of personality and bully-boy tactics, it
will be mass media strategies and the bribing of interest groups.
Americans are used to experiencing elections in the same way they
consume talent shows. Having a bunch of rich guys staging these things
without the hassle of political parties is not a great leap.

That’s certainly part of what is unnerving Conservative Inc about the
Trump campaign. If this crude rich guy can buy his way into the game and
then shove aside the commentariat on his way to the nomination, why will
anyone bother catering to them in the future? While I think most of the
tantrums, we’re seeing are just a way to get attention, some of them are
smart enough to see the threat.

The parties will still have a role as the legislative bodies are
regulated to the benefit of political parties. As dangerous as Caesarism
sounds, the American system allows for the legislature to claw back its
authority in hurry if it cares to do it. Maybe the specter of
billionaires buying the White House is what’s needed to slap the
political parties to their senses and maybe is what’s needed for the
Congress to reassert its role in government.

Or maybe we’re doomed.
