---
title: "Fat People"
date: "2016-12-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9184"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9184"
---

Last month when I was in line waiting to vote, I spotted an extremely
fat woman. She was so fat, her ankles rubbed together. Judging by the
three gallon bucket of soda pop in her hand, I’m assuming she was not
the victim of elephantiasis or some other disease. Everything about her
was fat, even her head, which was the size of a bowling ball and covered
in pink-dyed fur. How she was able to get around with hundreds of pounds
of fat attached to her is a mystery. I would think the mere act of
toting around so much weight would result in weight loss.

Last week, I stopped at the ghetto market for a few items and spotted a
couple in the snack aisle. The man was something like a large ball with
arms and legs. I estimated his diameter was close to 24 inches. That
would mean his belt was 75 inches. His wife was of similar size. My
first thought was how they were able to, you know, enjoy the marital
bed. Is it even possible that they find one another attractive? I
suppose it is possible that all of their energies are focused on moving
around their girth and finding enough food to maintain their weight so
sex is a non-issue.

Anyone familiar with American poverty knows that our poor people are
fat, very fat. There are exceptions like drug addicts or those spindly
ectomorphs you see loitering on street corners. Black woman, of course,
are almost always fat. This is something most everyone knows. The
ancients drew images of African women with giant stomachs and buttocks.
In all probability, this is a genetic issue with West Africans. Even so,
across the ethnic spectrum, American poor people are fat. Even our
Mexicans are fat now.

In fact, Mexico is the world’s fattest country. This is mostly likely
due to the fact that food is cheaper now than at any time in human
history. It’s extremely hard to starve your people these days. Food is
just too cheap and plentiful. Even basket case countries like those in
sub-Saharan Africa have more than enough food. That’s most likely the
cause of the population boom in Africa. The Malthusian limit has been
pushed much further out so the population has exploded.

Public health officials tell us that obesity is a crisis in America.
Being fat supposedly results in an exploding number of maladies like
diabetes and heart disease. This drives up health costs thus collapsing
the technocratic schemes cooked up by the managerial class. It’s
important to remember that public health officials are usually wrong.
For example, they said AIDS would jump from the bathhouse and heroin den
into the middle-class suburbs. That never came closer to happening.

Even if obesity is a public health problem, it’s unlikely that there can
be a public policy to address it, other than deliberate starvation of
the people. Our Germans probably have the same obesity rates as Germans
in Europe. The same is true across the ethnic landscape. We’re forbidden
to notice that blacks and Mexicans are very fat, compared to everyone
else. That means we’re forbidden to note that honky obesity rates are
not too far off from Europeans rates. That would be racist and everyone
knows race does not exist.

The point of this observation is to note that biology is beyond the
reach of public policy. If fatness has some serious detriments to the
population, then it will sort itself out over time. If fatness becomes
associated with low status people, then there will be cultural pressure
to not be fat. Smoking rates have declined not so much due to public
policy, but from the fact famous people stopped smoking. It stopped
being cool with famous people. Fatness will follow a similar path. We
are seeing that with black actresses and singers.

Still, humans have never had to deal with the problems that come from
too much food and too much free time to consume it. We really have no
idea what will come from it and how it will hurt or help society. There
could very well be a huge upside to having lots of fat people. Perhaps
when the zombie apocalypse comes, the zombies will eat the fat people
and be satisfied, leaving the rest of us to regroup. That’s unlikely,
but nature tends not to reward that which is deleterious to a species.
Nature is self-correcting.

There’s no reason to think that public policy in a liberal democracy
would be capable of addressing problems that stem from excess. Liberal
democracy evolved in an age of great inequality and scarcity. Having a
super rich aristocracy could not work while the peasants were starving.
We now have a mega-rich aristocracy while the peasants are munching
snacks and playing video games. They are doing these things at public
expense. The bottom half of America is receiving direct and indirect
public assistance these days.

Would the super-rich aristocracy of today have the will to impose rules
on the bottom half, with regards to their welfare? Mayor Bloomberg came
the closest with his soda and salt bans, but they went no where. Even
his peers snickered at his prudery. Would these same people be willing
to back exercise requirements and fitness exams in exchange for welfare
benefits? Probably not. A feature of the modern aristocracy and their
attendants in the managerial elite is a fear of confrontation. Hence the
passive-aggressive culture of the rich.

We’ll just have to rely on nature to solve the obesity problem.
