---
title: "Buckley Conservatism"
date: "2016-02-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6569"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6569"
---

I have written a bit of late about the collapse of our political
institutions, both domestic and international. We are living through an
interesting time in that we are seeing great technological progress that
is threatening to blow apart the societies and institutions that brought
about the technological revolution. It once again illustrates that
nature is all about trade-offs. In a finite world, an entry on one side
must have an entry on the other.

The world around us, in terms of traditions, cultural institutions,
political institutions and so forth, was here when we got here. Take
something as mundane as banking. We just take banks for granted, as if
they are eternal, because to us, from our point of view, they are
eternal. They have always been a part of the economic life we have
experienced. Like most everything around us, we take them for granted.

I was in a meeting once around President’s Day and someone brought up
that we should go back to calling it Washington’s birthday or maybe
Lincoln’s birthday. A young gal said that we would have to have one for
a Republican president if we’re going to have a day for the Democrat
presidents. There was one of those odd silences and then someone changed
the subject so we could avoid correcting her.

The young woman who thought Washington and Lincoln were members of the
Democrat party was not a moron. She just lived her whole life in a time
and place in which the good guys were Democrats who helped black people.
She therefore assumed the guy who freed the slaves must have been a
liberal Democrat. <a
href="http://www.americanthinker.com/articles/2009/11/i_am_a_lincoln_republican_1.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">A surprising number of people make this
mistake</a>, underscoring the power of culture to blinker even the
intelligent people.

That’s what we are seeing with our political institutions and the men
and women who have made careers in them. They were born into a political
world, for example, where Left and Right were defined along a linear
economic scale. Libertarians were at one end and Communists on the
other. One end worshiped free markets, while the other end had the labor
theory of value.

The boys and girls that went into politics learned the team cheers, the
responses to the other team’s cheers, their respective uniform options
and so on. Their world was a comforting binary universe of us and them.
There was no need to rethink anything. In fact, questioning orthodoxy
was <a
href="https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=2&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0ahUKEwjvnKjCjf_KAhXKJR4KHUH_AwAQFggjMAE&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.unz.com%2Fisteve%2F&amp;usg=AFQjCNHyx4rDE1lPRdQ-gxEk6kyPKgR0tw&amp;sig2=6-13PnjKU6-MVopW-OeDNw"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a good way to get sent into exile</a>.
The good liberal or conservative just repeated their lines from the
catechism.

Anyway, the great challenge to the Orthodox Right we see underway in the
Republican primary is a good example of the hollowness of their dogma.
Consider <a
href="http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/431433/conservativism-achievements-obama-era"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this piece by Charlie Cooke</a> posted at
National Review Online today. It is supposed to be a response
(dismissal?), of the question supposedly posed by the Donald Trump
campaign. What conservatism done for anyone?

The interesting thing about the article is how little the author can
come up with as a response to the question he claims to answer. Here is
the key paragraph:

*When confronted by this challenge, one is tempted to list the
monumental ideological victories that the Right has won over the past 40
years. And rightly so. Since Ronald Reagan made his first serious
presidential run, in 1976, conservatism has produced a cornucopia of
significant changes — not only to government policy, but to the baseline
presumptions of American life. Among these alterations are the tarring
and feathering of the reflexively technocratic mindset that obtained
from the outset of the New Deal to the end of the 1970s; the
marginalization of wage and price controls, and of other centralizing
tools; the lowering of destructive tax rates on income and other forms
of wealth; the deregulation of a significant number of major industries;
a renewed focus on national sovereignty; the successful reform of the
welfare system; a consensus around free trade; a much lower minimum
wage; a focus on both the text and the original meaning of the
Constitution when discussing limits on government power; the restoration
of the right to keep and bear arms; the stronger protection of freedom
of expression; a national partial-birth-abortion ban; the death of
speech-killing “campaign-finance reform”; and, lest we forget, the
peaceful dismantling of the Soviet Union. For some much-needed context,
understand that the GOP’s standard-bearer in the early 1970s, Richard
Nixon, was the mind behind the Environmental Protection Agency, whereas
today’s Republican candidates are opposed to so many departments that
they can’t always remember all of their names.*

These claims fall into three categories: Nonsense, fantasy and
inconsequential. An example of nonsense is the bit about “tarring and
feathering of the reflexively technocratic mindset.” National Review
employs Ramesh Ponnuru who pumps out mountains of copy in support of
using the tax code for social engineering. The Conservative Industrial
Complex is brimming with organizations like AEI that do nothing but sell
technocracy.

The fantasy part, and I’m being kind when calling it fantasy, is the
stuff about eliminating wage and price controls and other centralizing
tools. They were simply replaced with more subtle tools. Reagan gave us
the modern Fed that sets prices through currency manipulation.
Similarly, Carter started the deregulation process with the airlines. Of
course, the line about national sovereignty is just a laugh out loud
whopper.

No one cares about the ideological points Red Team scored against Blue
Team at their annual softball games so those items go down as
inconsequential, along with stuff like welfare reform and tax rates. If
your great achievement was reversed by the next president, you achieved
nothing. That’s the reality of Buckley Conservatism. It has left no
lasting mark on American society, with one exception and that’s the Cold
War.

But the Cold War is over.

Whether or not you think Buckley Conservatism was a winner or loser,
does not matter all that much in the present. Conservatism may have been
all that Charlie Cooke and his coevals say, but that avoids the heart of
the question. What does Buckley Conservatism have to say about today and
tomorrow? The answer is mostly a replaying of old tunes and the telling
of stories by the geezers about the time they met Reagan.

That’s the reality dawning on many Americans who have counted themselves
as men of the Right. Buckley Conservatism was basically two things. Beat
the Soviets and keep the Progressives from pulling the roof down on us.
The Soviets are gone and the Progressives are too busy hooting about men
in dresses to care about pulling the roof down. Buckley Conservatism, it
turns out, is not a timeless philosophy after all.

I’m running long here so let me just finish with this. There was a time
when the Whigs were an important check on the Jacksonian Democrats. No
one knows what a Whig is today. Fifty years from now, it will be hard
for people to understand “conservatism” and why it was important. The
dogs bark but the caravan moves on.
