---
title: "The Dead Right"
date: "2016-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6303"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6303"
---

In the 1970’s, the National Basketball League was close to dead. Most of
the arenas were empty and the games were rarely on TV, due to a lack of
interest. It turns out that white people were not all that interested in
watching drug-addled black guys with giant afros dunking a basketball.
Even playoff games were often not televised due to a lack of audience.

Then a couple of guys came along who captured the public’s attention,
first in college and then the pros. Magic Johnson and Larry Bird made
for a perfect pairing as they were opposite in so many noticeable ways,
yet nearly equal in talents. When they ended up on the two great
franchises of the sport, it saved the NBA and ushered in a decade of
growth for the league.

David Stern, the commissioner of the league, managed to learn the one
lesson that was 100% wrong, in every way imaginable. That is, his
takeaway from the Bird – Magic era was that he, David Stern, was a
genius and responsible for saving the NBA. He then spent the rest of his
career destroying the league and the sport.

This is relevant only in that is shows how easily people can believe
things about themselves and their cause, even when the data points in
the opposite direction. David Stern was a terrible commissioner, but he
thought otherwise and his tribesmen in ownership mostly agreed. That was
mostly due to the externalities that disguised the cost of incompetence,
by kicking them down the road or passing them onto others.

Something similar happened with the conservative intellectuals over the
same period. In the 60’s and 70’s, conservatism was an intellectual
critique of the welfare socialism of the post-war West. But it was a
tin-man movement because it lacked a leader with the personality to
rally the people to the cause. That changed when Thatcher and Reagan
emerged. It ended when they passed from the scene.

The intellectual movement, however, staggered on as a movement without a
heart, but convinced that it had all the answers to the great questions.
Waves of conservative intellectuals have come along like sharks’ teeth
to lecture us on the finer points and nuances of conservatism. To be an
authentic conservative in politics now means an avalanche of policy
papers on how to fine tune the leviathan.

Like David Stern and his coevals running the NBA all those years, these
conservative intellectuals, and I am being generous here, convinced
themselves that Reagan and Thatcher rose to the top because they stood
on the mountain of policy papers generated by the conservative
industrial complex. They are blissfully unaware of the repeated failures
by them and their political surrogates since Reagan left office.

The fact is, conservatism, as we have been taught it over the last half
century, is an answer to a question that is no longer being asked. Forty
years ago, the Cold War and the threat of nuclear annihilation demanded
an intellectual counter to welfare socialism. America had to be
economically, militarily, and culturally up to the challenge of
international communism. Conservatism was the backstop to prevent
Progressive from caving into the commies.

That’s no longer the world in which we inhabit. The Russians are driving
Bentley’s and buying sports franchises. They love capitalism. While the
threat of nuclear annihilation will always be with us, there’s simply no
credible threat facing the West, beyond the self-inflicted. Further,
there’s no need for an intellectual defense of the western culture as
the Left has won all the battles, taking command of all the high ground
in the culture.

Intellectual conservatism is no longer the razor wire defending the
trenches of the middle -class. At best, it is a tangled mess left over
from the battle. Increasingly it is seen as the top part of the fences
the managerial class has erected around us. America is no longer a
self-governing republic under assault. It is a custodial state, a
nation-scale version of the [Stanford Prison
Experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_prison_experiment).

To some extent, this is why the Old Left is collapsing in on itself,
resulting in the black hole that is Bernie Sanders and Jeremy Corbyn.
The great intellectual battles of the 19th and 20th century are over.
The fractured ruling elites of individual countries are being replaced
by the global ruling class. When elections lose their meaning, what’s
the point of having parties anyway?

The conservative movement is dead because it no longer has a reason to
exist. Whether or not something replaces it is debatable, but if that
does happen, it will not be a defensive crouch. it will be an ideology
appealing to insurgents and revolutionaries. It will be the credo of
those who take joy in throwing sand in the gears of the big machine.
