---
title: "Thoughts On Turkey"
date: "2016-07-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8086"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8086"
---

In my youth, military coups and revolutions were not common, but they
were not unheard of either. Real countries like France or Canada did not
have coups, but banana republics in South America had them with some
frequency. Then you had the intrigues in the Soviet Bloc. A leader would
suddenly stop showing up at public events and that meant he was sick or
he had fallen out of favor. Africa would have revolutions with some
frequency. We called them revolutions, even though nothing ever changed,
but that’s Africa.

The general assumption was that a real country did not have military
coups or revolutions because they had democracy of some sort. If the
people were unhappy, they could vote in people they liked. If elements
of the ruling elite were unhappy, they could appeal to the public for
change. The military, instead of being an instrument of the ruling
class, was subordinate to the civilian government and excluded from
politics. That is not a bad place to start when defining a modern
country. Real countries have elections, not revolts.

I think this is why the western news services were having so much
trouble fitting the attempted coup in Turkey into their standard
narrative. Turkey is supposed to be different from the rest of the
Muslim world. Turkey is a real country with elections and globalism.
Sure, the political leadership sounds a lot like the lunatics from the
Arab world, but that is just an act. It is their version of boob bait
for the bubbas. Instead of guns and abortion, their rednecks want to
hear about Allah and the Jews. Turkey is a real country, not a banana
republic.

Following along via Sky News, the BBC and CNN, I had to laugh at the
confusion of the news people covering this thing. They did not know
which side they were supposed to support. Initially, they were just
baffled, as they do not know anything about the world that is not fed to
them through their earpieces. They were reduced to stuttering through
live images of people walking around the streets waving flags. Then
Obama came out in defense of the Islamists and the rest of NATO followed
suit. Instantly, the new media was anti-coup.

Another thing I thought was humorous about the news coverage was the
repetition of the claim this coup was not a “21st century coup.” I first
heard this said on Sky News and then all of the news services were
saying it. Whether this was “monkey see-monkey do” or the official word
from the party is hard to know. What I found amusing about it is Turkey
is not a 21st century country, but it is in the middle of a 21st century
civil war, of which this was a part. The fact that this is not obvious
to the alleged experts, who rule over us, does not bode well for our
future.

In this civil war, Erdogan is the Oliver Cromwell of Turkey and this
attempted coup was something analogous to Penruddock’s Uprising. It is
not a perfect analogy, but it helps explain what is happening in Turkey.
The army is the defender of the secular legacy of Ataturk and the
defender of the old order. Erdogan is the leader of the new order, the
Islamists that believe they can have a modern technological society,
under medieval Islamic moral codes.

Everyone seems to agree that this event makes Erdogan stronger, but
Turkish politics are so opaque that outsiders can never really know what
is going on in the country. This could have been an operation run by the
secular military to get [the Gülen
cult](http://takimag.com/article/the_shadowy_imam_of_the_poconos_steve_sailer/print#axzz4EZW5GOv7)
removed from their own ranks. The Gülen Cult is thought to have a
stronger presence in the police than the military so this could be
something more complex. In other words, this may not have been a revolt
against the AKP but a revolt *within* the AKP.

There is also the fact that ethnic Turks are a majority in Turkey for
now. Kurds are the future, demographically. That is a big part of what
has put the AKP in power. The Turks view secularism as the cause of the
demographic decline. The organization of the Kurds into a single
political party, denying AKP a majority in the last election is a
glimpse of the future and the Turks know it. That is why the AKP sent in
the army after the election to persecute the Kurds. It is a part of what
is driving the Turkish involvement in Syria.

The civil war among the Turks is about what to do about the future, a
future that will have more Kurds than Turks if something is not done to
arrest [the low TFR of young
Turks](http://www.ibtimes.com/turkey-high-kurdish-birth-rate-raises-questions-about-future-705488).
Turkey has the Western disease, but it is still an Eastern culture. In
the West, civilizational death is celebrated in the form of open borders
and multiculturalism. In the East, it is met with religious revivals and
bloodbaths. [David
Goldman](https://www.amazon.com/How-Civilizations-Die-Islam-Dying/dp/159698273X)
makes the argument that the Iranian revolution was driven by similar
forces.

The Turks are faced with a choice. They can be fully Western and go
quietly into that good night. Alternatively, they can be Eastern and
fight against the dying of the light. The former means modern technology
and prosperity, for a little while at least. The latter means men in
robes ordering homosexuals thrown off buildings. That is what is
happening inside Turkey today. It is a version of what is happening in
the West, but only in a country that culturally is closer to Byzantium
than Brussels.
