---
title: "The Stupid Are Always Unlucky"
date: "2016-02-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6530"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6530"
---

“Fortune favors the bold” is a well known phrase passed down from the
Romans. Some version of it often turns up as the motto of military
groups, clans, social clubs and so forth. A variation coined by Louis
Pasteur is “Chance favors a prepared mind.” I used to hear that one in
physics class from my prep school instructor. It was never a good sign.

My variation is “the stupid are always unlucky.” The people who find a
way to pick the worst option among the many good ones are always the
ones complaining about their bad luck. The classic example is the
salesman that is not good at his job and never has a deal just fall in
his lap, like the guys who are closing deals every day. The bad salesman
swears he is just unlucky.

The Stupid Party makes this point regularly and we now have a great
example of why the stupid are unlucky. For decades they have been hosing
their voters, mostly because they can’t run a competent political party.
Some portion of what they do is just a grift. They tell the voters one
thing and then take a bribe to do the opposite. That’s just corruption.

Most of the GOP’s problems, however, are the result of incompetence.
When presented with three options, all good, they find a fourth that is
self-defeating. The political ineptitude is so breathtaking that many of
their voters have concluded it must be deliberate. No one can be this
dumb this often by accident. It’s why they have a revolt brewing in
their primary.

Here’s where the bad luck comes in. Justice Scalia died last night and
now the GOP is faced with an impossible dilemma. Their voters, fed up up
with the shenanigans, are ready to bolt the party. If the GOP signs off
on Obama appointing another justice, the party is finished. There would
simply be no reason for anyone to bother voting Republican again.

On the other hand, the timing of Scalia’s death makes it hard for the
pussies of the GOP to punt on this. If this had happened in the summer,
they could just drag their feet for a few months and not have to face
the wrath of the national media. Now, Mitch McConnell is going to have
to stand up and tell the Washington Post to go pound sand.

This would not be an issue if the Republicans had been running a
responsible shop, making sure they had competent and effective leaders
in place. That’s not to imply Scalia would still be alive today if
Boehner was never made speaker. It’s that the party would have more
options and more trust from their voters. Instead, they have no good
will and no good options.

The Tories in the mother country have a similar problem. They find
themselves, like the Republicans, in a majority mostly by accident. The
Scottish Nationalist Party eviscerated the Lib-Dems and Labour, which
led English voters to back the party most identified with England. The
result is a Conservative government that is not doing much to pass
conservative polices.

Cameron, however, is an idiot and everyone seems to know it, except the
party MP’s who insist he and the other idiots remain in power. It’s why
they have no wiggle room in their dealings with the EU. Because they
have been so duplicitous in the past, no one trusts them. That means
they have no ability to finesses a weak deal with the EU. As a result,
<a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/eu-referendum-david-camerons-approval-ratings-slump-amid-public-anger-over-europe-negotiations-a6872461.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Cameron’s popularity has collapsed</a>.

As we see with the GOP over Scalia’s replacement, the Tories are finding
themselves in an impossible dilemma. They promised to hold a referendum
on EU membership, but their own perfidy has made it unlikely they can
win the referendum. The alternative is to break their promise to hold
the referendum, which means the end of the party. There would simply be
no reason to vote for them anymore.

You can be sure that the Tory leaders, like the GOP leaders, are
privately moaning about their bad fortune. If only they could catch a
break! That is always the lament of the stupid and reckless. Rather than
face up to their own ineptitude, they blame magic. That may be excusable
for Cameron or McConnell. After all, it’s hard for anyone to admit their
own incompetence. Their parties, however, have no excuse.

In the end, the public gets what it wants. It may take a while and it
may be a bloody mess in the process, but the mathematics of human
society are immutable. In a mass media democracy, someone comes along
willing to do the bidding of the majority. Whether it is the
“conservatives” in the Anglosphere is really not all that important.
