---
title: "Vouchered Reality"
date: "2016-01-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6188"
---

I think when the robot historians write the story of late empire
America, one of the great villains will be Jack Kemp. It was Kemp who
“figured out” that conservatives had to find some way to counter the
Progressive monopoly on altruism in the public consciousness. Otherwise,
elections would continue to turn on who most cares about the weakest,
rather than who has the best ideas.

That sounded fine in terms of politics, but philosophically it conceded
a critical point. That is, the state is responsible for the care and
feeding of the citizenry. If someone is poor, it is the duty of
politicians to figure out why and fashion a remedy for it. Kemp’s happy
warrior dance is what eventually led to the Bush variant of
“Compassionate Conservatism.” When Bush said, [“We have a responsibility
that when somebody hurts, Government has got to
move”](http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/?pid=63752), he was channeling
Jack Kemp.

The “conservatism” of Jack Kemp was decoupled from the traditional
conservatism of America. Instead of being a cultural and philosophical
counter to Public Protestantism, it was a different implementation of
American Progressivism. The New Right accepted the fundamentals of the
Left, particularly innate egalitarianism, they just had different ways
to achieve the desired results.

The New Right offered tax incentives as an alternative to
the bureaucratic and sclerotic welfare systems of the Left. Instead of
building and maintaining public housing stocks, the New Right would
create the [ownership
society](http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/money/perfi/housing/2004-01-20-fha_x.htm).
Of course, when it comes to education, the New Right offered vouchers
and school choice as an alternative to throwing money at the union
dominated public schools.

The trouble with all of this is it accepts a set of assumptions that are
at odds with reality. Fundamentally, the Old Right differed from the
Left on the issue of egalitarianism. The Right argued that people are
born with a range of skills, talents and dispositions. There is a
natural hierarchy within the human family and social arrangements must
comport with the reality.

In contrast, the New Right signed onto the idea Reagan so cleverly
explained in his famous [A Time For
Choosing](http://reagan.wingslikeaneagle.com/10.27.64-timechoosing.html)
speech fifty years ago. They “can’t see a fat man standing beside a thin
one without automatically coming to the conclusion the fat man got that
way by taking advantage of the thin one.” While the Left sees the
invisible hand of avarice, the New Right sees a bug in the code of
social policy.

This denial of biological reality is most evident with school choice.
The assumption underlying these proposals is that every parent wants
their kid to grow up to be a college educated high achiever in a
self-actualizing profession. In reality, the degree of parental concern
for offspring follows the normal distribution that tracks closely with
economic condition.

Anyone who has spent time with the poor understands something that the
social planners never grasp. Poor people make poor decisions. That’s why
they are poor. They have above average time preferences, which is mostly
due to a lower IQ and poor impulse control.

The drug dealer did not end up on parole because he thought things
through and weighed the risks against the gains. Selling weed just
seemed like a good way to get money at the time. He wanted money so he
could buy stuff like a car and maybe a flat screen. Tomorrow is another
country that he never intends to visit. It’s all about the here and now.

It’s why school choice programs don’t have a lot of supporting data
behind them. [This study](http://www.nber.org/papers/w21839#fromrss)
linked on [Marginal
Revolution](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/01/thursday-assorted-links-43.htm)
is the latest example debunking the claims of school choice. It turns
out that there’s not a whole bunch of talented kids locked into poor
schools after all. [It’s bad students that make bad
schools](http://www.amazon.com/Bad-Students-Not-Schools/dp/141281345X),
not the other way around. Vouchers, at best, let middle-class whites
move their kids further away from the poor kids.

Politicians of the New Right are so enamored with these programs,
despite their dubious value, because of what Jack Kemp saw forty years
ago. On the one hand, they promise the same results that naturally flow
from freedom of association, which appeals to their base voters. On the
other hand, everyone gets to pretend to care about the poor, thus
stealing a cudgel from the Left.

The result over the last three decades has been a metastasizing welfare
state that is served by an army of technocrats from both sides. Per
capita federal spending, adjusted for inflation, has doubled since the
1980’s because one party pushes compassionate liberalism while the other
side pushes compassionate conservatism. Traditional America has been
crushed between the jaws of this vice.
