---
title: "The Warning Shot"
date: "2016-05-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7345"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7345"
---

One of the more irritating things about the current election is the
obtuseness of the media, particularly the so-called conservative media.
They insist on assigning motives to Trump voters that are at odds with
observable reality. For months now the official narrative has been that
Trump is powered by toothless hillbillies, high on meth and anger at the
dusky fellows. Voting Trump is how these losers are lashing out in
anger, always in anger. Never mind that the data says the opposite.

The narrative, coincidentally, always speaks to the wonderfulness of
conservative media. Similarly, they tar Trump with every offense to
decency, even though he is often saying the things these same
conservatives used to say a decade or two ago. According to the modern
conservative, anyone holding the opinions common a few decades ago is a
monster. Hilariously, Trump’s lack of a political ambition is held
against him by *conservatives*. Again, the critique is always about the
critic in these cases.

That’s the cynical interpretation. These people know better, but choose
to lie in order to flatter themselves and their owners. Another way to
look at it though, and part of why Trump exists, is that these people
and the entirely of the ruling class are divorced from reality. They
live in their bunkered communities, work with other managerial types and
spend their days agreeing with one another about their wonderfulness. To
them, the status quo is fabulous. Why would anyone want to change it?

<a href="http://www.politico.com/story/2016/05/h2b-riders-222737"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> from the Imperial Capital
is a good example of the blinkered nature of our elites.

*Lawmakers on both sides of the Capitol are quietly launching a new
effort to expand visas for low-skilled foreign workers in government
funding bills — a push that could drive a deep ideological rift through
both parties later this year.*

*Republicans and Democrats whose home states rely on immigrant labor are
lobbying top appropriators to include language in this year’s funding
bills to renew controversial provisions from last year’s omnibus
spending measure that effectively quadrupled the number of low-skilled
worker visas.*

*Nine House lawmakers, led by Rep. Billy Long (R-Mo.), sent a letter
last week urging the Appropriations Committee to keep those higher
numbers intact. And key senators have already begun to discuss the
issue.*

*“Many businesses will be severely impacted, and some may be unable to
operate, without this cap relief,” said the House <a
href="http://static.politico.com/12/eb/181f9c384fb8964b2c29ccc4e8da/house-h2b.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">letter</a>, obtained by POLITICO and
addressed to Reps. John Carter (R-Texas) and Lucille Roybal-Allard
(D-Calif.), who head the panel that oversees funding for the Department
of Homeland Security. “Failure to enact this exemption will hurt
seasonal businesses across the country.”*

*The program in question is the H-2B visa, which covers immigrants who
work as landscapers, housekeepers and seafood processors. Those visas
are legally capped at 66,000 per year, which pro-business advocates say
is an artificially low number that could harm key U.S. industries.*

We have two primaries going on in which immigration is the defining
issues. On the one side, the guy promising to build a wall and bar
Muslims from entry crushed the field, despite being outspent a
million-to-one. On the other side, the old-time socialist, who preaches
worker’s rights and obliquely opposes the immigration lobbies, is making
life hell for the party candidate. If Sanders went back to his old
anti-immigration ways, he would run the table on Crooked Hillary.

Despite this year long news story, the politicians and their backers in
both parties want to *increase* immigration! Obama is violating Federal
law so he can import hundreds of thousands of Islamic terrorists. You
could be forgiven if you started to wonder if these people actually hate
you. How is it possible to be this blind to daily reality in America?
It’s as if these people live on another planet and pop in every once in
a while to stage a political show.

I’m fond of pointing out that all you have to do is spend a little time
with grad students at an elite university to understand why Mao sent
these people off the rice paddies. They manage to combine
wrongheadedness with smug condescension to the point where you want to
smash them in the face. I suspect a corollary here is that you can
understand the French Revolution by spending a few minutes following
American politics. A normal man wants “to spit on his hands, hoist the
black flag, and begin slitting throats.”

This is why Trump exists. It’s never been about Trump, what he says or
what he promises to do. That’s just the glitter on the stripper. The
Trumpening is about the people in charge and their callous disregard for
their duties and the country they allegedly serve. It’s as if the voting
public went out and found the one guy who most offends the ruling class.
Trump is a more polished version of <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/books/jacketcopy/la-et-jc-hugos-puppies-20160427-snap-htmlstory.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Chuck Tingle and the voters are the Rabid
Puppies</a>. It’s not about voting for something as much as it is voting
*against* something.

Trump is the warning shot. He’s the food riots before the revolution.
He’s the stack of letters to the editor in protest over some issue.
People do not go from happy to bloody revolt overnight. It’s a process
and the early stages are warnings, at least they should be viewed as
warnings. If the people in Washington insist on flooding the country
with helot labor, despite what’s happening in the election, the people
are going to insist on building scaffolds in Washington. The Trump
phenomenon is the warning.
