---
title: "Bar Fights"
date: "2016-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9134"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9134"
---

In my life I have seen some excellent bar fights. Most bar fights are
not very entertaining, as one drunk throws a punch at another drunk and
it quickly turns into a wrestling match, usually with the two combatants
knocking over some chairs and tables on their way to the floor. Once in
a while though, you get a good one where the two drunks have the ability
to stay upright and the willingness to trade blows. These are the ones
that usually start inside, but go outside where they “can settle it like
men.”

I once saw a guy setup like Bruce Lee, indicating he was a martial arts
guy. He performed a perfectly executed round house kick. His mistake was
that the other guy was not a martial arts guy so he ducked and then hit
Kung Fu so hard with a right cross that his grandchildren will have
headaches. Martial arts man hit the ground like he had been shot and
that was the end of it. The crowd went back inside, leaving Kung Fu to
search around for what went wrong. When I left he was gone so I guess he
lived.

I’ve don’t have much respect for martial arts as a fighting tactic. When
I was a little kid, of course, I thought it was the coolest thing ever.
Then one day an older boy, known for having a black belt, challenged me
to a fight. I shot a single leg take down and then broke his nose in an
unnecessarily aggressive cradle. When my father was told of my villainy,
he bust out laughing. I learned that you can turn a fight into a
wrestling match, but you can never turn a fight into a Karate match. It
takes two to karate. That’s why my father put me into wrestling, instead
of karate.

<a
href="http://www.cbssports.com/boxing/news/floyd-mayweather-a-gigantic-speculative-favorite-over-conor-mcgregor-in-boxing/"
target="_blank">I thought of this when I read that UFC star Colin
McGregor wants to fight boxer Floyd Mayweather</a>. My guess is that it
will never happen, but you never know. There are a lot of UFC fans
willing to pay good money to see it. Given the two men’s ability to gain
attention with their showboating, I bet they could get a $200 million
box office for  a fight. I’d probably buy it, even though I know
McGregor would end up in the hospital or graveyard. I like freak shows
as much as anyone and it would probably be hilarious.

That’s the thing with UFC. It is a modern freak show. They take tough
guys and make believe they are highly skilled fighters. The martial arts
stuff is a nice touch, because it distracts people from the fact these
guys are just tough guys. They are allowed to use the tactics popular in
bar fights, like tackling the other guy and kicking him in the groin.
The organizers filter out the guys that are not entertaining and they
hype the hell out of the events. It’s great marketing, particularly to
young males.

That does not change the reality of the situation. McGregor is an
excellent bar fighter, but Mayweather is a highly trained professional
boxer. Even under the rules of the UFC, he would beat McGregor senseless
in the first minute. My bet is the class of fighter you see at armory
fights would beat the best UFC guys. The difference in skill, speed and
strength is just too big. To even the odds, the rules would have to be
altered heavily in favor of the bar fighter so
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R5UdMnyms5E" target="_blank">it
becomes a wrestling match, rather than a fight</a>.

That reality is why this fight will never happen. The people running the
UFC are too smart to have their best star humiliated. They spend too
much time developing and marketing their stars to let one of them get
beaten up by a real boxer. That would reveal the truth of it too
plainly. Most UFC fans get that they are watching bum fights. They just
like the back stories and the carnival of it. They can suspend their
disbelief as long as all of the fighters are about the same in terms of
skill.

My hunch with the UFC has always been that it is choreographed, like
professional wrestling. The Kimbo Slice debacle has not been repeated
and that tells me the organizers learned their lesson. A lot of people
came away from that experience thinking it was just all hype and no real
competition. Ever since, they have tried to keep the matches competitive
looking, in order to keep up appearances. Whether they go beyond that to
make the shows fun is open to debate. Given the age, my bet is they put
their thumb on the scales.

Even if it is all on the level, the people running the UFC did not
become billionaires by being stupid and it would be very stupid to have
their top star beaten senseless by Floyd Mayweather. That’s why it is
highly unlikely that it ever happens, at least not as long as McGregor
is under contract with the UFC. Even a $200 million payday would not be
enough to risk a billion dollar business. It’s much better to let fans
pretend that these bar fighters are real fighters.
