---
title: "Cloud People Blues"
date: "2016-07-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8017"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8017"
---

<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/who-belongs/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Steve Sailer has a post</a> up on <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/09/world/europe/a-central-conflict-of-21st-century-politics-who-belongs.html?mabReward=CTM&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;region=CColumn&amp;module=Recommendation&amp;src=rechp&amp;WT.nav=RecEngine&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a>. Steve does his thing
highlighting certain passages and commenting upon them. The point of the
NYTimes article is an attempt to explain why the Dirt People are so
angry over things, particularly immigration. Michael Ignatieff is a
professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and former
leader of Canada’s Liberal Party. It is entirely from the perspective of
the Cloud People, which should surprise no one.

That’s the thing you see from all of these “think pieces” in the media
and commentariat. They are written by strangers, foreigners who are
observing us through a telescope, trying to make sense of what we are
doing. They are not interested in our opinions any more than
a myrmecologists would want to know the opinions of his ants. Reading
these articles, I always come away with the sense that the Cloud People
spend so much time studying the Dirt People that they have not bothered
to notice much about themselves.

Here is a representative example:

*According to his argument, what we’re seeing is, in part, an
ideological split between cosmopolitan elites who see immigration as a
common good based in universal rights, and voters who see it as a gift
conferred on certain outsiders deemed worthy of joining the community.*

Cosmopolitan elites like to kid themselves about their love of universal
rights and the common good, but it is total nonsense. Just take a look
at their strongholds. These people talk like MLK, but they live like the
KKK or like a KKK fantasy world. Our elites live in hyper-white
exclusive communities. Many are gated and walled. Often, they have their
own private security forces. A modern college community, for example,
operates almost like an autonomous zone with their own government and
police.

On the college campus, just like in the elite neighborhoods, minorities
are decorations, not parts of the community. Professor Boobingu from
Ghana is not there for his intellectual contributions. He is there as a
decoration so the white people can feel good about diversity. On the
home front, guys like Tyler Cowen get to visit the ethnic restaurants in
your neighborhood or maybe in the Potemkin “arts section” near the
campus, but he is not living anywhere near the people who work in that
ethnic restaurant.

The swank urban hipster areas are examples of how modern ethnic
cleansing is done. Harlem, which had been close to 100% black for a
century is now [mighty
whitey-ville](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/29/opinion/sunday/the-end-of-black-harlem.html).
San Francisco is no longer the land of Dirty Harry chasing black
gangsters. Instead, its [Ice People as far as the eye can
see](http://www.breitbart.com/california/2015/12/30/blacks-disappearing-space-starved-san-francisco/).
As Steve Sailer put it, they have their housing costs discriminate so
they do not have to. Everywhere you see gentrification, you see whites
moving in and nonwhites moving out.

This near total lack of self-awareness by the Cloud People even effects
their ability to observe the Dirt People. I am sure Michael Ignatieff is
a peach of a guy, but what in the hell can he possibly know about what
is going on outside the walls of his mansion? Sure, he has his telescope
and peppers the domestic staff with questions. Perhaps he even has his
butler read to him from the Internet. Even so, he is an unlikely person
to have any insight into the Dirt People.

Reading that NYTimes article, it is not hard to imagine what it must
have been like inside the aristocratic houses during the French
Revolution. The people inside were not just baffled by the people
outside. They were baffled about themselves. They had invested
generations of intellectual resources into a mythology about themselves
and their position, to the point where they were invisible to
themselves. They could not rationally evaluate their own culture. They
were not just strangers to the people; they were strangers to
themselves.

The authoress of that NYTimes piece is a person calling herself Amanda
Taub. She is the authoress of [this piece in
Vox](http://www.vox.com/2016/3/1/11127424/trump-authoritarianism). The
point of the article is to scare the readers, not inform them. If Mx.
Taub had any interest in understanding the Dirt People, she would talk
to one of them. There are thousands of writers and bloggers that would
be happy to answer her questions. Instead, she finds Cloud People to add
authority to her theories about how the Cloud People are on the side of
angels and the Dirt People are evil.

One of the things about the French Revolution that is most intriguing is
that the people in charge never gave much thought to how it would end.
They were always focused on maintaining the status quo and beating back
the revolt. Similarly, the Cloud People do not seem to think much about
how their multicultural wonderland is going to work. How do they expect
to remain on top as a ruling minority with no means to defend themselves
from the dusky hordes outside the walls of their communities?

Instead, they seem to be obsessed with punishing the Dirt People for
making a racket. How else does one explain the plan to [revive the Gang
of 8
scheme](http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/immigration-reform-gang-eight-225028)?
How else can you explain [the Cloud People siding with the cop
killers](http://www.unz.com/isteve/after-dallas-hillary-doubles-down-on-blm-talking-points/)
in Dallas? The Cloud People think they have done a masterful job of
running the world and they see the Dirt People as ungrateful rubes, who
must be punished. If Michael Ignatieff and Amanda Taub want to know why
the Dirt People are revolting, they should stop thinking the Dirt People
are revolting. Maybe even talk to some of them and ask their opinions.
