---
title: "The Middle East Will Get Much Worse"
date: "2016-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7672"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7672"
---

Smart policy types like to use the acronym
[MENA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MENA) to describe what we in the
West generally think of as the Arab world. North African populations in
Libya and Algeria would reject the idea that they are in the same bucket
as Arabs. Persians in Iran would have a similar complaint, even though
they really do not have a basis for it. That is all true to one degree
or another, but it is a useful bit of shorthand for discussing the
collection of “countries” that are Muslim and mostly Arab.

If you look at the list of countries in the group, nine of the nineteen
have been something close to stable over the last twenty years. Five of
those are Gulf countries. Countries like Kuwait and Qatar are basically
company towns run by a sheikh selling one product – oil. Then there is
Israel, which is an exception. Oman and Jordan are also special cases,
protected on the sly by Israel and operating as buffer states. Morocco
is a special case, since it is mostly just a tourist trap for Europeans.

The stability that does exist in this region is based in Saudi Arabia.
At least it has been. The Kingdom has avoided the revolts that were
laughably called the Arab Spring by stupid Americans. They keep the GCC
out of trouble and limit the mischief Iran is able to spread around the
region. They also quietly work with Israel to limit the violence
from the Palestinians.

Of course, they work with the US to maintain a strong military presence.
There are a lot of US “advisers” in the Kingdom. Companies like Raytheon
have been building and maintaining projects for the Saudis for decades.
A lot of this booked as civilian use, but it is all military and all
about controlling the region. Those listen posts the US runs in the
Kingdom serve more than one purpose. That information is shared with
Saudi intelligence. That is what has helped the Saudis control the
explosion of chaotic violence coming from Yemen.

That last part, however, is where the worry starts. Yemen is a country
full of inbred hyper-violent morons, who can barely organize a war-band.
Yet, they have fought the Saudi military to a draw. This is a Saudi
military equipped and trained by the US. They have the best equipment
and the best training available, in addition to logistical and tactical
support from the Americans. US military contractors have been with the
Saudi military for decades, so there is not a problem with coordination.
Yet, the Saudis cannot beat groups of retarded guys armed with old AK’s.

This war in Yemen has been an enormous drain on Saudi finances at a time
when oil prices are depressed. The great leaps forward in drilling
technology have most likely put a hard cap on oil prices, because wells
can be brought back on-line quickly. Even if the Saudis can organize
OPEC to hike prices again, they may not be able to enforce it. There is
also the fact that the Saudis managed to alienate everyone with their
policy of dumping oil to attack the US oil sector. The result is the
Kingdom is hemorrhaging cash and will be forced to make deep structural
changes.

That brings up another problem. The Saudi domestic setup is
unsustainable. There are about thirty million people in the Kingdom, but
ten million are foreign workers and many of those are basically slaves.
The mean IQ of Saudi Arabia is tough to nail down, but the consensus
puts it in the high 80’s at the optimistic end. Some old data suggest
the mean is somewhere just north of 80, which is what you see in
sub-Saharan Africa and American prisons. Add in the fact that most young
Saudis do not work and you have a dearth of human capital. The general
rule is you need a mean IQ of 95 to have a modern economy.

This is important because the Saudis recognize that they are running out
of cheap oil to sell at huge profits. They are not going to run out of
oil in our lifetime, but the cost of getting their crude out of the
ground is going up and technology is allowing producers in the US to
compete further up the price curve. That’s why they have [this ambitious
plan](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2016/may/16/saudi-arabia-reduce-reliance-oil-vision-2030)
to restructure their economy to move away from simply being a giant oil
company. They plan to open up the economy, diversify the tax base and
shift work from foreign workers to Saudi workers.

Plans are great, but they rarely survive contact with reality. A country
full of low-IQ nitwits, as the result of a culture of cousin marriage,
is not going to turn into Silicon Valley overnight. Throw in the
repressive Saudi religious culture and any attempt to open up the
economy is going to run into trouble. Westerners working in the Kingdom
live in compounds because the Wahhabi religious authorities demand it.
Osama bin Laden was set off on his war with the West because Americans
were stationed in the Kingdom during the Gulf War. Imagine what happens
when Westerners are given easy access to the country.

That returns us to the central problem and why things will get much
worse in the Middle East over the next decade. About 70% of the native
Saudi population is under thirty. They do not work and they grew up in
Wahhabi schools. The Saudis tended to export the fanatics to places like
Afghanistan so they could go on jihad and never return. The more useful
ones get pulled into the Saudi security services.

Imagine this process reversing and outside groups like ISIS recruiting
these fanatics to make jihad on the House of Saud. Suddenly, ISIS or
something similar is operating in Riyadh. There are plenty of signs this
is happening now, but information is suppressed by the Kingdom for good
reason. Still, smart people think this is a more of a now problem than a
future problem.

Current estimates put the point at which the Saudis run low on cash
between five and ten years from now. These are all guesses, of course.
The only people, who intimately understand Saudi finances, work in the
US Federal Reserve. The Saudis have already started a process of belt
tightening in order to arrest the cash bleed, but these sorts of
structural problems have to be addressed slowly, even in an autocracy.

Maybe the new King can get the country part way to its goal of
diversification and that will be enough to stave off collapse. Nothing
is ever certain in the Middle East except that there will always be
turmoil. All the signs, however, are pointing in the wrong direction at
the moment. That means the way to bet right now is on collapse of Saudi
Arabia within the next decade. That, of course, will plunge the whole
region into chaos.

The other reason to bet this scenario is the West is now led by people
with a childlike understanding of the world. The European leadership
class, growing up in the hothouse of US protection, resemble infants.
There is no Bismarck or Metternich coming out of Germany in our
lifetime. In the US, the political class has always been all thumbs in
foreign affairs, but now they have succumbed to the madness of
multiculturalism, rendering them dangerously incompetent.

This will not end well.
