---
title: "Globalized Intelligence"
date: "2016-06-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7694"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7694"
---

The <a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/eu-referendum-poll-brexit-leave-campaign-10-point-lead-remain-boris-johnson-nigel-farage-david-a7075131.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">news</a> brings word that the British
public is now telling pollsters they are tilting heavily toward voting
to leave the European Union. If the Brexit referendum passes, the
British government will be required to paddle the island further into
the North Sea in order to get beyond the reach of Brussels. Just how far
they will have to go will be left to the government if and when it is
necessary.

This is setting off panic on the Continent. The Brits pay roughly €13
billion per year into the Europe Union. They get out about €6 billion,
give or take. This sounds terrible, but this does not account for the
intangible benefits, assuming they exist, of having a say in the
management of the European Union. That’s been the argument against
Brexit. The indirect benefits of Remain dwarf the costs.

Like all economic arguments, the Remain argument is built on a
foundation of statistical falsehoods and manipulation. They assume the
worst case scenario of Brexit and the best case of Remain. In reality,
most of the trade in place now will remain in place. The Germans need
open access to British markets and they don’t have any desire to start a
financial war with the English speaking world. They are in no position
to pick that fight.

For all the talk of hidden benefits, there’s little talk of the hidden
costs. Globalism is built on the concept of privatizing profits and
socializing costs. Importing migrant labor, for example, allows the
employer to spread the real cost of labor laws, insurance and
competitive wages. At the same time, he can shovel those costs onto the
public via welfare programs, crime, charity, etc. There’s nothing more
expense than cheap goods made with illegal labor.

In the case of Brexit, there’s an enormous hidden security cost to the
British that comes with European membership.
<a href="http://observer.com/2016/05/natos-big-new-russian-spy-scandal/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story about a Russian mole in
NATO</a> is a good example. During the Cold War, intelligence gathering
and handling was managed by the Brits and Americans. The so-called Five
Eyes did all of the electronic snooping and managed that information.
The Brits have always been one of the best at spy craft and the
Americans have always been great at signal intelligence.

Since the Cold War, NATO intelligence has become European intelligence.
That means the active participation of all EU members. Countries like
Portugal, with their poor record of keeping secrets, gets the same intel
as Germany, with their excellent record of keeping secrets. The golden
rule of all security systems is that they are as strong as their weakest
link. In the case of Europe, their intelligence services will always be
as reliable as Athens and Lisbon.

When you have separate countries, this problem is easily addressed.
First, no country passes on intel to a third country without first
getting permission from the source country. Countries that violate that
rule are cut out of the loop. You can’t enforce that rule in a world
without countries. The Portuguese and Turks get the same information as
the Brits and Germans. Since that can’t possibly work, the result is
going to be endless scheming, hidden agendas and deception.

The other “hidden” benefit of separate countries is the British intel
services know perfectly well whose interests they are serving. The goal
of their efforts is manifest to everyone in MI6. All of these
motivations are transparent. Policing these relationships becomes much
easier. If James Bond is living beyond his means and cavorting with a
Russian mistress, you know something is amiss.

That, of course, leads to another problem. The British not only
understand their interests, they can act on them unilaterally, if they
think it necessary. If the US passes on intel that a mosque in London is
housing mischief of Exploding Mohameds plotting to blow up a school, the
Brits can act on that as they see fit. The people in charge of Britain
know that their first duty is to protect their people.

All of this leads to the fundamental problem of the borderless world. It
makes for a dangerous world. Government is not a precision instrument.
It is a hammer. The bigger the government, the bigger and less precise
the hammer. Public safety and national security are precision games.
National government does them poorly which is why so much is delegated
to local government. That’s not possible in a global world.
