---
title: "Reform Week Part II"
date: "2016-05-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7388"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7388"
---

A reform oriented ruling class will seek reform is the areas they
understand best and the areas that offer the quickest return. Governance
has always been about picking the low hanging fruit. In a democratic
system, long term planning is impossible, which is not the terrible
thing many claims. More than a few disasters have been the result of
grandiose plans cooked up by megalomaniacs looking for a legacy. There
is something to say for muddling through the problems that are
presented, in order of urgency.

The most obvious place the political class can be effective is in tax
policy. In present day America, tax policy no longer serves the needs of
the political class and is a source of mischief that is one cause of the
public unrest. The point of taxes is to fund government, but the modern
welfare state is funded by credit money, created via the banking system.
How long this can go on is open to debate, but if there is ever going to
be a return to sound fiscal policy in the United States, the tax system
will need a complete overhaul.

Even if Congress wanted to fully fund spending, the present system
prevents it. The acres of loopholes, exceptions and vague contradictions
make tax avoidance too easy for the people with money. Washington faces
the same problem Julian faced when taking command Gaul after defeating
the Alamanni in 357. Raising taxes just meant more bribery by the rich
to avoid paying any tax. The answer was lowering taxes in exchange for
increased compliance.

It is not just the complexity of the code that is a problem. It is the
underlying philosophy of who gets taxed and how that needs to be
administered. Returning to Rome, a problem in late antiquity was that
wealthy landowners not only avoided taxes, but they also avoided
military service. They also shielded their workers from service.
There was a chronic shortage of military age men. The result was a
version of the tragedy of the commons. The people benefiting from empire
contributed little to maintain it.

Today, large global enterprise pays little in tax, but gain enormously
from Federal policy. Smaller businesses, on the other hand, have huge
tax and regulatory burdens, getting little but trouble from the Federal
state. Small business, of course, always sees government as an obstacle,
because they have zero influence over legislators. Compounding the
problem is that business taxes are ultimately passed onto employees and
customers through reduced wages and higher prices.

A reform that would solve a few problems for the political class, as
well as position the economy for the modern age, is to eliminate
business taxes entirely. For starters it would re-shore about a trillion
in assets squirreled away in tax havens. Companies like Apple spend a
lot of time hiding money around the world to avoid US taxes. It would
also encourage global corporations to headquarter in the US.

Corporate income taxes are about 11% of federal tax receipts so
eliminating this tax is not insignificant. Some of it would come
back through increases in other taxes as business activity ticks up due
to the new tax status. The rest should be raised through increases in
personal taxes on the rich. There is simply no reason for special tax
treatment of capital gains, for example, other than as a sop to the
wealthy. Government is about protecting the assets of the rich. They
should be paying the bulk of the cost.

An overhaul of the tax code like this, with flattening of personal taxes
in general, would be an easy sell to the public. On the one hand, it
would be an instant boost to the economy. On the other hand, it would
address the growing sense that the super-rich are out of control. No one
will lose any sleep over the government taxing the billionaires. The
amount of money involved to off-set the elimination of corporate income
taxes is not so much that a “tax the rich” campaign would set of rich
flight.

Finally, the elimination of corporate taxes means the end of charitable
deductions and not-for-profit tax rackets. Washington is now ringed by
501(c)(3) operations that are just lobbying and public relations organs
for the rich and various business interests. Eliminating the tax
provisions will not make them go away, but it will eliminate the
incentives to create them. These think tanks are a shadow
government hobbling Congress, the regulatory agencies and damaging the
normal functioning of the mass media.

None of this will do much to address public finances or the corruption
of government, but it begins the process. It also offers the biggest
bang for the effort. Overhauling the welfare state is a growing
necessity but doing that is impossible in the present environment. With
near zero trust in government and both parties in a state of disarray,
passing difficult reform is impossible. Going for the low hanging fruit
is an obvious first step.

As a final note, this is why a guy like Trump in the White House could
be a boon to the political class if they decide to go down the reform
road. Trump is not ideologically tied to any form of tax reform. He
would be a good pitchman for whatever tax overhaul package comes out of
Washington. He is already signaled his willingness to tax the financial
class. He is the perfect guy to provide cover for genuine tax reform.
