---
title: "The Great Culture War"
date: "2016-04-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7297"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7297"
---

Now that Donald Trump is about to clinch the Republicans nomination, the
professional pundits, who got everything about this election wrong, are
now busy trying to explain what it all means. The increasingly deranged
Left is trying to jam all of it into their bizarre world view that says
they are noble heroes fighting the dragon of oppression. On the Buckley
Right, they are feverishly searching about for villains so they can
avoid facing the reality of their position.

The one thing both sides agree upon is that Trump is being carried to
the nomination by a wave of heroin addicts from the hill country. These
snaggle toothed losers are angry at having been out-competed by the
dusky fellows in foreign lands. Left out of the global nirvana, where
well-scrubbed boys and girls take up positions in the media and think
tanks, these hapless losers are lashing out by supporting Trump. It is
the revolt of the hillbillies.

There is another thing both sides agree upon. Modern Progressives and
Buckley Conservatives both hate the people to their Right. As
Progressives have relentlessly dragged the Overton Window to the Left,
The Buckley-ites have sprinted after them, fearful of being lumped in
with the rabble to their Right. The window has been dragged so far to
the Left that the number of people “on the right” is looking like a
swelling majority. To the people peering out from their think tanks and
limousines, however, we are on the verge of mob rule.

All of the wailing and gnashing of teeth over Trump disguises the fact
that the American Left is collapsing. One place you see it is with their
candidates. Hillary Clinton is a world class screw up planning to run as
an old hen clucking about the men, with a mild whiff of lesbianism to
spice it up. No wonder [the 2000 year
old man](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-DmA81BI6oc) is giving her a
run for her stolen money. The Left has nothing to offer so it coughed up
these geriatric hairballs from the 1970’s.

In theory this should be good news for the Buckley-ites, but that has
not been the result. Decades of trading away everything to the Left for
a chance to guide foreign policy has left the Buckley-ites incapable of
winning fights over cultural and economic issues. They have been
surrendering for so long, it is now their default response. Worse yet,
they have been trained to scold the rest of us about the need for
compromise whenever the Left assaults a part of the culture.

There is another piece to this. Over the last quarter century, politics
for both sides have become incredibly lucrative and largely unimportant.
They risk nothing as money flows into Washington no matter which side is
ascendant. When 90% of incumbents win reelection, there is never really
much at stake for them. For the metastasizing pundit and think tank
class, politics has been reduced to theater, like the battles at those
medieval themed restaurants. Winning is not important. Putting on a good
show for each other is what matters to them.

Outside the government class, it is a different story. Normal Americans
are the ones paying the price for gesture politics. John McCain can be
generous on immigration because he never experiences it. He lives in one
of his wife’s twenty-three mansions, rides in government limousines and
works in fortified government facilities. Men like John McCain live as
strangers in this country. What they see of it is from a safe distance.

Similarly, the chattering skulls on television pull down six figure
salaries and live in bunkered, whites-only communities. It is not an
accident that they are crowded into the richest counties on earth, all
of them around Washington DC. They are the petty royalty of the ruling
class. To these people, normal Americans are aliens, indistinguishable
from the people sneaking over the border.

The reality of the last quarter century for normal Americans is vastly
different from the reality of the political class and the financial
elites. Across the land has been [a great
stagnation](http://nypost.com/2016/04/30/americans-havent-gotten-a-raise-in-16-years/),
covered over by easy credit and financial legerdemain. For the average
American, treading water has been a struggle, with many falling behind
and losing faith in a system that no longer seems equitable. Mass media
magnifies the yawning gap between the “winners” and the vast majority.

No one, on the Left or the Right, speaks to this. Instead, it is a
repetition of the old platitudes from yesteryear. One side
promotes minoritism at the expense of the middle and the other side
champions globalist capitalism dressed up with libertarian moralizing.
The tone and substance of the rhetoric suggests both sides see the
common American citizen as the threat. It is as if we have been
colonized. The rulers need us, but they detest us for it and can never
trust us, because down deep, they are not one of us.

Almost a quarter century ago Pat Buchanan gave his infamous Culture War
speech at the Republican convention. In it he said, “This election is
about more than who gets what. It is about who we are. It is about what
we believe, and what we stand for as Americans. There is a religious war
going on in this country. It is a cultural war, as critical to the kind
of nation we shall be as was the Cold War itself, for this war is for
the soul of America.”

It has taken decades, but the American people may be prepared to join
the fight finally.
