---
title: "Exploding Mohameds"
date: "2016-03-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7024"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7024"
---

The other day [HBD Chick](https://hbdchick.wordpress.com/) posted [this
link](http://mashable.com/2016/03/30/floorplans-belgium-prime-minister-home-brussels-attacks/#yph_yiZJz8qP)
on twitter. It is an article about how the Exploding Mohameds
(henceforth referred to as EM’s) in Brussels had detailed floor plans to
the Belgian Prime Minister’s residence and his offices. The implication
is that the EM’s were at least considering an attack on the head of
government. We will never know as the EM’s are dead and the security
state will never tell us anyway.

My thought when reading it is that I am a bit disappointed, but I am
mildly hopeful. It is too bad that the EM’s did not go ahead and blow up
the official offices of the Belgian government, rather than an airport.
The people at the airport are mostly innocent. The people in the Belgian
government are the ones responsible for the Muslim invasion so they
should be the ones paying the price for it.

It will only take one EM to go off and kill a politician, I suspect, for
opinions to change. The EM’s in Paris went off near the place
where French President Francois Hollande was watching a soccer match. He
suddenly got religion, so to speak, about cracking down on the Muzzies,
at least for a little while. Have a few pols actually blown to bits and
my hunch is we see official attitudes change. It is easy to preach
sacrifice when someone else is picking up the tab.

The window for putting a halt to the invasion and driving the Muslims
out of the West is closing. A committed minority population goes from
too small to worry about to too large to do anything about in the blink
of an eye. Just look at America. About 20% of the population belongs to
the Cult of Modern Liberalism, but they run the country and have done so
for a few generations now. They have a veto over what can be said in
public, which grants them total control of society.

Let us look at Germany as an example of the Islamification of Europe. It
is a population of eighty million with a fertility rate of 1.47. To
understand how this works, let us pretend that in 2010 the whole
population was of childbearing age. Their fertility rate means the
eighty people produce fifty-six million children. That population will
produce thirty-nine million children. One more turn of the wheel and you
are down to twenty-seven million children. The point here is that once
fertility rates drop below replacement, the population drops quickly.

Now, the population of Germany is not all of childbearing years. The
median age is forty-seven and that includes the five million non-Germans
Muslims who are in their 20’s with fertility rates over 4.0. The number
of actual Germans under the age of twenty-five is twenty million. Throw
in those who will possibly have children into their 30’s and you have
roughly twenty-five million Germans with a chance to make new Germans.
That 1.47 fertility rate looks pretty grim all of a sudden.

On the other hand, those five million Muslims are all young, median age
of thirty now. The million or so who have poured in recently are in
their 20’s. The history of migration tells us that first the men arrive,
then they bring in their wives and children. With a 4.0 fertility rate,
those five million Muslims can produce ten million children, which leads
to twenty million grandchildren. That fertility rate of 4.0 suddenly
looks like a very powerful weapon.

The point here is the math is now working against the German people.
They have about a decade or so to figure out how to end the Muslim
invasion and de-Islamify their current foreign population. Given that
the German political class is emotionally committed to the destruction
of the German people, there is no reasoning with them. No reasonable
people would invite these problems so it is irrational to think reason
will have effect on them.

On the other hand, if Exploding Mohameds start going off in swank ruling
class areas like restaurants, offices and government buildings, which
could change some minds. Have a few high level pols feel the full force
of a nail bomb like those poor folks at the airport in Brussels and
suddenly the people in charge will have to re-evaluate their situation.
As is the case with all aspects of multiculturalism, it looks great from
a distance, but when it explodes in your office or at your kid’s school,
it is not so much fun.

This will not end well.
