---
title: "Election Night Thread"
date: "2016-11-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-11-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8978"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8978"
---

**11:55:** I just turned on MSNBC. They are throwing rope over the light
stands. I think I see Rachel Maddow’s feet swinging in the background.
It is wrong of me, but I am enjoying this a bit. CNN looks like the
suicide ward at the local lunatic asylum. Poor Chris Mathews actually
looks like he is passing a stone. Brian Williams just got telling us
that he invented the semi-colon. Some fat guy is claiming the Russians
sabotaged the election. I guess this will be the talking point from the
Hive tomorrow.

**11:35:** Time to hunt down the \#NeverTrump people and send them to a
penal colony.

**11:20:** I tune into Fox just for the heck of it. I notice all of them
now sound like me. I take that to mean they believe Trump is going to
win. Listening to these people bash the ruling class and talk about how
they hate us is pretty damned funny, from my perspective. I’m waiting
form someone to strangle Megyn Kelly on air and then issue an apology.
That would be a pretty awesome end to the evening, but a man should not
be greedy.

Karl Rove just popped on to tell us that his girl still has a chance. I
really hate the guy. I hated him twenty years ago. He will be in the
Hitler room in Hell when his days are done. Fox has always been good
about dumping unpopular people so maybe they finally drop that scumbag.
I would not be shocked if they have a huge shakeup after this election.
Time to freshen the joint up and time to get on the right side of their
customers.

**10:20 PM:** They have to start these elections earlier. I have  to be
the Imperial Capital early and that means leaving before the cock crows.
I’m not sure how much longer I will stay up to follow this thing. Looks
like it is going to come down to Nevada and Arizona, but Michigan is
still in play. I really have no idea who is winning, but I know that no
one wins without Ohio and that’s going Trump. That’s official so we
either see something new or I wake up in the morning to see President
Trump.

I’m not sure how I feel about that.

**8:45 PM:** I decided to not watch any of the TV shows covering the
election. I just have no tolerance for the talking airheads anymore. I
stopped watch TV news a few years ago, outside of big events. I decided
to take in my last election without the airheads. It’s rather nice. I
had some dinner. I watched Ricky Vaughn go through an range of emotions
on twitter. I read a little and took a short nap. Now I’m checking in to
see if anything important happened over the last two hours.

I see they are sort of calling Florida for Trump. I’m just going off
Drudge. I guess that’s good news. Maybe it is not by enough or there is
some Frank Luntz magic dial issue that makes winning bad news. I see
Trump is up in Virginia, which is surprising. If that holds I would
assume it is a good omen for him elsewhere. Virginia is not just
government land. It is loading up with migrants. But, we’ll see how that
works out. Looks like it and a lot of other states will be very tight.
I’ll be going to be before this is decided, I bet.

**6:55 PM:** I was just chatting with someone who was going to vote but
quit due to the long lines. This person intended to vote Clinton because
she is the worst possible option. His theory is that we need to burn it
down and the only way to do that is elect the worst possible candidates.
It’s nutty, but maybe not that crazy. The mere fact that Clinton is on
the ballot says we’re doomed. The question is not \*if\* we drive into
the abyss. The question is our launch velocity.

I’m the cautiously pessimistic sort, but I understand the sentiment.
I’ve been slowly withdrawing my support of the system. I lie on every
form. I discourage young people from joining the military or getting
into politics. I’ve even started to discriminate in subtle ways. I’ll be
pulling the plug on TV this month. I kept it for football, but I’m not
watching many games this year. The preaching is too much. I’m doing as
much commerce in cash in order to keep myself out of database nation.
I’m not paranoid. I’m just not cooperating.

**5:35 PM EST:** Drove past two polling places on the way home. The
lines are blocks long. I’ve never seen anything like here. The last time
I saw anything resembling this was when I voted in Massachusetts for
John Silber. That was 1990 and the polling place I went to had been
recently combined with two others due to some technical issue. That
night I waited a few hours to vote. We brought some flasks for the wait
so it was a good time. It was a like a big weird party in an old
firehouse.

I’m not sure what to make of it. They did change the voting machines so
that is part of it. It used to be that you voted on one of the touch
screens. The bottleneck was getting your card from the three old ladies
working the table. This time we have paper ballots and you run it
through a scanner. It took but a second to do that, but I can see it
creating a backup. Still, those lines I saw and experienced are well
beyond normal. The weirdest election just gets more weird.

**4:58 PM EST:** I’m out the door at the crack of dawn tomorrow so I
will not have time to post. I’m moving to Iceland in anticipation of
Clinton assuming power. I figure the nuclear fallout will be lower there
than anywhere else. Plus, I like the weather in Iceland.

I went to vote in the AM but the lines were huge. In 2008 they were
long, but that’s because my neighborhood was motivated by race. I think
I was the only honky in line that day. 2012 was a breeze. It was weird
because I voted after work that day and that’s usually the worst time.
The final numbers for the state were the same as 2008, but the
distribution was different so my area must have been down a bit. Or, it
is just a useless observation.

I decided to vote mid-morning figuring the lines would be shorter. I
waited two hours. I’ve never waited that long to vote. I was thinking
that the dead beat vote was coming out, but it was a lot of pissed of
Sanders voters. That surprised me. I did not think we had that many, but
I guess I was wrong. They really hold a grudge too. I suspect the Based
Yenta vote is bigger than normal as a result. It will not matter as my
state is safe for Clinton, but you have to wonder if we are not going to
get some surprises tonight.

 
