---
title: "Who Killed Seth Rich?"
date: "2016-08-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8304"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8304"
---

The internet is a breeding ground for conspiracy theories because it
allows the like minded to confirm one another’s suspicions, even when
those suspicions are nuts. That’s the way conspiracy theories work. That
does mean all conspiracy theories are false. There are actual
conspiracies and sometimes the explanation for some event involves
shadowy elements working in secret. Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger is
known to us because he was involved in a conspiracy that led to the
assassination of Julius Caesar.

<a href="http://freebeacon.com/blog/dnc-staffers-murder-used-russia/"
target="_blank">The murder of Seth Rich</a>, a 27-year-old staffer at
the Democratic National Committee at 4:30 AM in Washington DC is one of
those events that is catnip for the conspiratorial. Throw in <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2016/08/10/assange-implies-murdered-dnc-staffer-was-wikileaks-source.html"
target="_blank">Assange claiming the guy was a source for WikiLeaks</a>
and it is not hard to start wondering if maybe there’s more here than
just a horrible tragedy. As T<a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3726250/Enemies-Hillary-Bill-say-27-year-old-murder-victim-Seth-Rich-suspected-leaking-DNC-emails-belongs-Clinton-Death-List-people-ties-couple-died-time.html"
target="_blank">he Daily Mail reports</a>, a lot of people associated
with the Clintons have died under mysterious circumstances, often to the
benefit of the Clintons.

What is known is whoever shot this guy did not rob him. They found the
victims possessions, including his wallet, on him when they found the
body. Maybe he had something else worth killing over that has gone
unreported, but there’s no way to know it. The victim was shot in the
back so he was either running away or had no idea the killer was behind
him. The news reports say the victim had defensive wounds but that
sounds like people watching too much television. Since DC does not
release autopsy reports, there’s no way to verify it.

Talk to any cop who has worked the ghetto and they will tell you that
the victims usually know their killer. Murder is almost always a crime
of the moment. Person A gets into a beef with person B, who pulls a
weapon and kills person A. Alternatively, there is a money or sex
dispute that leads one person to kill their partner or associate. Even
premeditated homicide almost always involves people that know one
another. Even cold blooded killers need a reason and there’s rarely a
reason to kill total strangers randomly selected off the street.

That’s why so many are tempted to jump to the conclusion that this was
not a typical crime. This guy was not in the drug trade and he had
nothing in his personal life that would indicate a crime of passion. He
also lived in a sporty part of town where the cops do a good job keeping
the streets safe. Calling it “recently gentrified”, as if it is still
dodgy, is just what young urban hipsters like to say so it does not
sound like they live in an urban daycare center, which is the case here.
This guy was killed in one of the truly safe parts of Washington DC.

On the other hand, murder for hire is not a pointless act. If you just
want someone dead, then you want it to look like an accident or a street
crime. Otherwise, you are bringing unnecessary attention to something
you want to keep quiet. In this case, shooting and robbing the guy would
look like a robbery. You do it with a cheap handgun that you can toss in
a nearby sewer, assuming the cops will find it. They always look at the
local drains cause criminals tend to throw their weapons there, thinking
no one will find them.

The thing that leads me to suspect something other than random street
crime is the hour. Thug life is mostly nocturnal, but these people are
not vampires who go to bed at dawn. They roll out of bed at noon and
hang out into the small hours, but they are off the streets by two
o’clock, even on weekends. They may still be up partying, but they are
not out robbing people at 4:30 AM in a swanky part of town. It’s
possible, but it strikes me as implausible. In the ghetto, just before
sun up is the safest and most quiet part of the day.

The point here is that there is no obvious answer, based on the facts
that are known. When a white bread honky turns up with holes in him just
before dawn, it is natural to assume it is something other than street
crime. The most probable answer is he was involved with something or
someone that got him killed. Maybe it was a jealous boyfriend, a dispute
at work or some sort of neighborhood beef that got out of hand, but it
was most likely not two thugs trying rob him of his iPhone. It’s
possible, but not very likely.

That does not mean Hillary Clinton did it, but that’s no more or less
possible than the street thug theory. If you are going to murder people
or have them murdered, political power is a pretty good reason, maybe
the best reason. That said, people at that level can afford well trained
and qualified hit-men. They don’t need to rely on amateurs who make it
look like an assassination. Even crack hit-men have bad days so it is
possible, but it just strikes me as slightly less plausible than the
random street crime theory.
