---
title: "The Clinton Crime Family"
date: "2016-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5661"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5661"
---

In small town America, politics has never been a great way to get rich,
but it has been a great way to avoid poverty. Get yourself elected mayor
and you get to hand out jobs and contracts to people who will make sure
you are kept in a lifestyle you feel you deserve. That could me cash
under the table or maybe gifts like merchandise or jewelry. The
mayor signs off on your government contract and you give him a Cadillac
and a Rolex for his birthday.

This sort of corruption is harder today because it is hard to hide large
amounts of cash. Even cash leaves a paper trail. Mayor Jones has to
figure out how to explain that deposit in his checking account to the
tax man. Similarly, that cash came from somewhere and that has to be
explained. People are going to notice that the mayor is living well
beyond his means. If the people noticing are in law enforcement, then
the mayor has trouble.

The way around this is to use cutouts. The mayor has power so he trades
that for cash, in the form of investment opportunities, business deals
and jobs for friends and family. The rich guy hires the mayor’s kid into
a high paying no-show job and the mayor signs off on the government
contract for the rich guy. Alternatively, the mayor gets in on a
business deal that pays off handsomely. He then does a good turn for the
guy who hooked him up in the deal.

To make this look clean the mayor will rely on a trusted friend to work
the deals so the mayor is not seen in the same room as any of the
players. That way, he just looks like a blind investor. Even if the deal
itself turns sour and the authorities start snooping around, the mayor
can show he has clean hands and maybe even claim to be a victim. This is
an age old way to monetize political power without taking bags of cash.

This pattern is familiar to public integrity investigators. Whenever
they start looking at a public official, they immediately start looking
at the target’s finances. The same is true of espionage. Even spies
driven by ideology charge a fee for their work and that money has to
show up somewhere. Since almost all government corruption is about
money, the best way to figure it all out is focus on the money. Figure
out the money and the rest usually comes into focus.

That is what has always struck me about [the Clinton e-mail
scandal](http://observer.com/2016/03/hillary-has-an-nsa-problem/). These
are grubby, vulgar people. That is clear by the types of scandals we see
with them. In Arkansas, Bill was raping women and Hillary was running
real estate frauds. His corruption was all about sex and her corruption
was about money. Politics for them has always been small time, even when
they were in the big time. Sex and money are why they got in the game.

In Washington, the two big scandals were sex and money. Bill was raping
interns again and Hillary was selling national secrets for campaign
cash. People forget about the Chinese money, the satellite deal and
missile technology scandal. They even had that sap Al Gore out shaking
down Buddhist monks for cash. On their way out the door they tried
stealing the White House furniture.

This e-mail scandal looks a lot like an influence peddling scandal.
Hillary had something valuable, which was access to national security
information. In order to monetize it, she needed some way to hide the
money and someway to conceal the theft of intelligence. The former was
handled by the “charity” they created and the phony-baloney speeches
Bill was giving to foreign entities. No one wanted to hear that old
hillbilly speak, but they wanted access so they gave generously to the
foundation.

The hard part of it was how to pilfer and disseminate the
intelligence without getting jammed up on espionage and treason charges.
That is where this bathroom server comes in. Eventually, government
people would be sending sensitive information to this system. Letting
multiple people have access to her e-mail means the chain of custody for
this information is now broken. Sloppy handling becomes a way to
camouflage what was happening.

Loyal soldiers like Sid Blumenthal and Huma Abedin were probably the
cutouts in these schemes. Maybe they knew, maybe they just thought they
were getting to play cloak and dagger for the boss. They would pass on
intel to those people hiring Bill for speeches. Alternatively,
Blumenthal appears to have been selling himself as a connected guy to
foreign interests. He could grease the wheels for their business in
front of the Department of State.

When you take a step back and look at how the Clinton Crime Family has
done business over the decades, this looks just like another money
caper. Instead of selling favorable government rulings on business
deals, they were selling access in exchange for contributions to this
phony charity. The Clintons get to live like royalty, without having to
worry about the tax man wondering where they got the cash. This is why
RICO laws were created.
