---
title: "Dear Homosexuals"
date: "2016-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7761"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7761"
---

Most likely, you are looking at the title of this post and prepared to
dismiss it as homophobic, whatever that currently means. I get that and
I’m used to it. I’m a white heterosexual male so I’m used to being
called a racist, a bigot, a misogynist, an anti-Semite, an Islamophobe,
an extremist, a homophobe, a sexist, a cis-genderist and every other
epithet. That’s right. We honky dudes have been accused of
discriminating against everyone, so as a straight white male, I’m used
to it. Despite the fact we created civilization, everyone dumps on us
these days. That’s gratitude for ya.

Just to get it out of the way, I’m mildly intolerant of homosexuals.
Specifically, I think female homosexuality is ridiculous and I think
male homosexuality is disgusting. As a point of comparison, I think lima
beans are disgusting, but I’m not out at night waging war on legume
farmers. What you people do in private may revolt me, but as long as you
do it in private and don’t hurt anyone, it’s none of my business. It’s a
big world and there is plenty of room for all kinds as long as we make
reasonable efforts to respect each other’s point of view. It’s not that
hard to be polite.

That’s the problem, of course. For the last few decades, you guys in the
Alphabet Soup Community (<a
href="https://hulshofschmidt.wordpress.com/2012/07/11/whats-in-an-acronym-parsing-the-lgbtqqip2saa-community/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">LGBTQQIP2SAA</a>? Really?) have not been
holding up your end of the bargain. Instead of respecting the
sensibilities of the majority, you have gone out of your way to offend
normal Americans, particularly those of us in the honky
community. Turning a St. Patrick’s Day parade into a gay St. Patrick’s
Day parade may seem like a hoot to you guys, but it really does piss off
the rest of us. You surely know it, but you do this stuff anyway,
suggesting the point of it all is to piss of the squares, more than
anything else.

Even so, what happened down in Orlando was a terrible thing. As an
American, I hate that my government is importing these people into our
country. This is both predictable and preventable, but here we are
anyway. I’m now seeing news stories reporting that you guys are <a
href="http://www.dailywire.com/news/6612/west-hollywood-inundated-poster-rainbow-gadsen-hank-berrien"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">rethinking your alliance with the
Left</a>, particularly when it comes to immigration and <a
href="http://kdvr.com/2016/06/14/gun-sales-surge-after-orlando-shooting/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">guns</a>. Listening to
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xLqkizGtFo0" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Milo Yiannopoulos</a>, I’m getting the sense that gays
may be ready to change teams, so to speak. Having figured out that
you have been nothing more than pets to the Left, you are going to join
the other team, at least for this election.

That’s a good idea, as the Left is going to keep importing Muslims until
the Left is dethroned and purged from society. The Official Right is not
much better, but they are a bunch of feckless wussies so no one cares
what they think. The Left is the butch side of the ruling class and they
love Muslims. The census says we have 3.3 million Muslims as of 2010, so
that means the number is probably closer to 5 million now. At a rate of
half a million per year, the goal according to Paul Ryan, Muslims will
outnumber homosexuals by the end of the decade or thereabouts. Either
this changes now or <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2937217/Killed-gay-Man-blindfolded-thrown-tower-block-Syria-stoned-death-SURVIVED-fall.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">you guys better learn to fly</a>.

Here’s the reason for my note. I’m getting the sense that we in the
straight white guy community are supposed to celebrate this change of
heart by America’s homosexuals. <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/milo/2016/06/15/f-islam-homophobic-canadian-commentator-kisses-milo-orlando/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Gavin McInnes was just out creating a big
scene, making out with Milo Yiannopoulos</a> for some reason. Gavin is
just a hang around on the alt-right, but he often claims to speak for
white guys in the generality. I see some familiar faces embracing the
change on twitter so there’s some effort, at least, to figure out how to
welcome the gays into the army opposing the Left. <a
href="https://voxday.blogspot.com/2016/06/who-killed-conservatism.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">No enemies on the Right and all that.</a>

That sounds nice, but I’m not sold. I know more than a few Muslims and
they may be crazy, but it’s a crazy I can deal with as a white guy. We
white guys are not going to have to worry about the kids seeing guys in
assless chaps down at the Ramadan parade. Not having screeching harpies
call us sexist because we refuse to pretend biology is a social
construct sounds pretty attractive. To be honest, the thought of Muslims
pitching the faculty of the Womyn’s Studies department off the roof is
not so bad. Yeah, that makes me a bad guy, but I’m used to it. It’s been
a long war.

That’s not to say I’m not amenable to welcoming the gays into the
revolution. It’s just you guys have to bring more to the party than a
fashion sense. The Christian bakers would like a little breathing room.
The Boy Scouts would like to be left alone. The guys at the office would
like to tell a salty joke without fear of being fired, or worse, being
sent off to a reeducation camp. In other words, if you want help with
Mohamed, you’re going to have to give some stuff back to us. Otherwise,
I think I speak for most straight white guys in saying we’ll roll the
dice with Mohamed.

Don’t get me wrong. I’d really rather not have to convert to Islam. I
look like shit with a neck beard and I can’t ululate worth a damn.
Giving up bacon and beer would really suck, but the Muslims are not
wrong about everything. I’m not saying you have to go back in the closet
or put up with cops busting up your clubs. Just meet us half way. Show
some respect for the majority, leave the Christian bakers in peace and
respect the fact that not everyone enjoys seeing a man walking down the
street in a gold lamé thong. Maybe stop making us pretend you’re
married.

Anyway, if you made it this far, think about it. Keep in mind that about
500 Muslims were imported since Orlando so don’t take too long.

Toodles,

Z
