---
title: "The Wimpening"
date: "2016-05-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7525"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7525"
---

When I was a young man, my grandfather would tease us boys by telling us
“In my day it was wooden ships and iron men. You boys will be lucky if
you are wooden men in iron ships.” I’m not so old that my grandfather
lived in the age of sail, so it was just a way for an old man to have
some fun teasing his grandkids.

That said, he had a point. A boy coming of age a century ago was facing
a much tougher world and would have to be tougher to live in it.
 There’s little doubt in my mind that men of my generation are softer
than the men of father’s or grandfather’s generation. It’s not just the
material excess we have today. When I was a little kid, I had it much
easier than the prior generations. My grandfather, for example, quit
school at 13 and went to work in a coal mine.

<a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Better-Angels-Our-Nature-Violence/dp/0143122010"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Steve Pinker</a> has made a strong case
that men have grown decreasingly violent over each generation. His data
corresponds with the historical record, which is what makes it such a
strong argument. We know, for example, that banditry was a serious issue
in the Middle Ages. Traveling from one town to the next was dangerous.
Today, we travel from town to town without thinking about bandits, other
than cops running speed traps. The only danger there is to your wallet.

One of the reasons he points to for the decline in violence is the
feminization of men, which he defines as a growing awareness of and
respect for the interests of women by men. I’ve always paused on that
one simply because it runs counter to what we know of history. Women
have often been the cause of violence and I don’t just mean men fighting
one another for women. I mean women instigating wholesale and particular
violence. Roman history is littered with women who killed a lot of men.

That said, you can argue that women are less tolerant of wholesale
violence, on average, than men so as women increased their influence
over western society, violence dropped. At the same time, as the value
of violence dropped, men less inclined to violent solutions rose in
status, while the tough guys fell in status.
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0056217/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance</a> plays on this
theme. In a civilized world, the tough guys are marginalized and the
smart guys rise to the top of the social hierarchy.

To circle back to where I started with this post, the pop heroes of my
grandfather’s generations were gangsters and cowboys. In my generation,
we still had some of that, but the male leads were more contemplative,
using their wits and charm more than their brawn. Watch a current movie
and the male lead is a small, wimpy guy, who cowers to women. The
alternatives are cartoon tough guys that resemble video game characters,
more than real males.

I’ve always wanted to think this is just Hollywood being overrun by
social justice warriors and liberal fanatics. Fifty years ago, Hollywood
cared about making money so they made movies to please the audience.
Today they care more about making commentary so they make films that
lecture the audience. That and the drop in skill means they are less
adept at using subtlety to make their propaganda.

Still, events do make me wonder if there’s been a collapse of
manliness and <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/immigration/2016/05/21/expert-german-men-forgot-fight/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Western men have gone full Eloi</a>.

*A respected violence researcher has declared that the Cologne sex
attacks show German men have forgotten how to fight, and it’s a good
thing.*  
*Jörg Baberowski gave a speech recently at the Philosophy Festival  in
Cologne on Thursday night saying that the New Years Eve sex attacks in
Cologne prove that German males have forgotten how to stand up for
themselves. He said the fact that the German men had not come to the aid
of the women being sexually assaulted by large gangs of migrants showed
a reluctance to be violent and commented: “We see that men in Germany no
longer know how to deal with violence,” Stern reports.*

*However, immediately following the remark Baberowski, who is a
historian at the Humboldt University in Berlin, said “thank god” that
German men no longer know how to stand up for themselves or face violent
conflict. He claimed that is was good that German men relied solely on
the state to take care of them and protect them. He claimed that the New
Years’ attacks were a failure of the state to protect its citizens and
that if the government can’t guarantee that safety then the confidence
the citizens have it it will be shaken.*

Thinking back to my youth, I recall hearing lectures about the
importance of letting the authorities handle whatever trouble was
brewing. Lecturing boys about using their wits versus their fists was
common enough to stick in my memory. There was also the idea of “being
the bigger man” and not responding to physical challenges. I was
reminded of that watching this from <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/tech/2016/05/24/milo-yiannopoulos-protesters-storm-stage-depaul-university/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Milo Yiannopoulos’s event at DePaul
University</a>.

One of the things that men my age will talk about with one another is
how young white males never get into fights. I’ve had interns tell me
they have never been in a physical confrontation with another male. I’ve
never considered myself a fighter, yet I was in a scrape every week
growing up. That was just what boys did. Even into my teen years, things
we often settled physically, even if it was quickly broken up.

Getting back to the Milo event, I keep wondering what would happen if
someone popped one of these BLM cunts in the mouth. If Milo had knocked
her cold, I’m thinking that would be the last of these confrontations.
The risk assessment by these people would change overnight. Taking on
the honky would suddenly come with real danger. Whatever benefits there
are, assuming there are any, of refusing to fight, there’s no doubt it
encourages troublemakers like that woman to get increasingly aggressive.

Watching the reaction from his fans on-line, I feel like I’m from
another planet. Frankly, I cringed watching that video. Yet, the
reaction on twitter suggests most people think he was the winner in that
exchange. If that’s “winning” then I don’t want to see losing. To my old
eyes, that looked like a white guy being dominated by a scrawny black
bitch and then slinking away. I get that he is a gay guy and maybe the
rules are different, but still, it was hard to watch, much less cheer.

Maybe the great wimpening has reached the point of no return.
Traditional forms of masculinity are dead in the West and will not be
revived until sometime after the Caliphate is established. Those dusky
fellows rampaging through the streets of European cities are unlikely to
sit there and take a lecture from a mouthy twat from Black Lives Matter.
If Western men can’t stand up to mouthy college twats, they stand no
chance against the Mohammedan.

The Muslims are not wrong about everything.
