---
title: "Culture and Cycling"
date: "2016-04-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7274"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7274"
---

A good rule in life is that anything that has value is being
faked. People in the collectibles business just assume everything is
fake until proven otherwise. A fun book to read on art forgery is called
<a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Art-Notorious-Fakes-Frauds-Forgeries/dp/1137279877"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Art of the Con</a>. Some of the scams
described are rather outlandish, which makes it  fun read, but the
theme throughout is always the same. If it has value, someone will find
a way to fake it.

Of course, this is true everywhere. Baseball had a steroid scandal
because there was money to be made in getting bigger, faster and
stronger through any means available. If a drug could make you taller,
then basketball would have a problem with it. Endurance sports like
soccer and tennis have problems with
<a href="http://www.bbc.com/sport/tennis/35750285" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">players using drugs</a> to increase endurance. The drug
Sharapova used was to increase her cardiovascular capacity.

The thing with cheating is that the risk-reward relationship does not
always make a lot of sense. In the art world, forgers will fake
relatively cheap prints that make a small profit for them. They face the
same risks as with faking a Rembrandt, but the rewards are relatively
small. In sports, athletes will use steroids even though they are
already at the top of their game. How much of a boost did <a
href="http://espn.go.com/mlb/story/_/id/9592788/ryan-braun-milwaukee-brewers-apologizes-ped-use"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ryan Braun</a> get from cheating versus
what it cost him?

Some sports seem to have a culture of cheating, while others do not.
Cycling and track and field are riddled with cheating. There are more
great cheaters than great champions in those sports. Everyone cheats and
that’s just the way it is. Golf on the other hand, has little cheating
and actually relies on a rather austere honor code. Players have lost
tournaments because they <a
href="http://sports.yahoo.com/golf/blog/devil_ball_golf/post/Davis-calls-penalty-on-himself-gives-up-shot-at?urn=golf,234963"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">volunteered their own rule violations</a>.

The thing that fascinates me is the cheating in cycling. No sport has
the level of exotic cheating that we see here. It’s not just the Tour
either. T<a
href="http://www.engadget.com/2016/04/26/cyclist-banned-for-six-years-after-racing-with-a-hidden-motor/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hey cheat down in the minor leagues
too</a>.

*A professional cyclist has been banned for six years after it was
discovered she was racing with a hidden electric motor. Femke Van den
Driessche was caught at the UCI Cyclo­cross World Championships in
January, during an inspection of her pit area. A magnetic resonance
scan, which Road.ccreports was conducted with a tablet, allowed
officials to spot a battery and Vivax motor in the seat tube. Van den
Driessche could have activated it using a Bluetooth switch concealed
under her handlebar tape. She denied the allegations at the time,
claiming the bike was given to her by mistake.*

That’s complete nonsense, of course. Here’s a pic of how the motor was
hidden in the bike.

<img
src="http://static.independent.co.uk/s3fs-public/styles/story_medium/public/thumbnails/image/2016/02/01/18/bike-cheat.jpg"
class="alignleft" decoding="async" width="564" height="312" />

 

 

 

 

 

The technology involved here is not something you do in your garage with
some simple hand tools. The down tube is 31.6 mm in diameter so slipping
a motor and battery into it required some smart guys with access to high
quality machine tools. There is a company that makes this device, but it
would not fit a racing bike. That and it costs $3000 for the cheap
model. This level of sophistication is closer to $10,000.

The puzzle here is why would they go to these lengths? Cycling is not
sport where the pros make big money. Even at the top level, the typical
pro is simply living on an allowance of sorts. Their room and board is
covered and they get to keep prize money, which is not a lot. They make
more money selling their spare bikes and parts than they make off the
tour.

At the cyclocross level, it’s a hobby, even though it is called
professional. The sponsors cover the travel costs, room and board. They
supply the bikes. This woman could expect to take home a few bikes after
the season and sell them for enough to buy a used Toyota. Even if she
was the greatest cyclocross rider in history, she was never going to
make big money. Maybe she could hook on with a manufacturer one day in
the marketing department.

Despite this reality, she and her team went to great lengths to find a
tiny advantage. Realistically, how much of an edge could this device
give her? The size limitation means the motor produced little power. The
weight of the thing added about 10 kg to the frame, which makes a huge
difference at this level of racing. Maybe the cheating helped this woman
a tiny bit, but was it worth the lifetime ban and humiliation?

It’s another example of how any system that relies on humans acting
rationally or purely in their self-interest is doomed to failure. Some
people like cheating. Some people get off on the thrill of breaking
rules. Every society has free loaders. More important, people are not
always very good at discerning their best interest. Walk around my
neighborhood on a summer day and you see that fact in living color.

There’s also the fact that culture is very hard to change. Cycling has
been plagued with cheating for decades. Draconian punishments for drug
use have only made the riders more clever at taking drugs. Track has a
similar problem. There’s something about the people in the sport that
leads to the rampant rule breaking. Barring imposition of a 24×7
surveillance of everyone involved, these sports will be riddled with
cheating.

That’s the lesson here. Culture is not a collection of rules drawn up in
a committee hearing. The rules of a society are the result of the
culture, not the other way around. If you want an orderly society or an
honest sport, populate it with orderly, high trust people. The results
will follow. Similarly, introduce a bunch low-trust people and order
will break down quickly. In the case of cycling, its biggest problem is
it is full of cyclists.
