---
title: "Whither the Fanatic?"
date: "2016-07-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8115"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8115"
---

Churchill supposedly said, “a fanatic is one who can’t change his mind
and won’t change the subject.” I think of that almost every time I visit
National Review Online these days. As I’m writing this, [the featured
article](http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/438115/democracy-mob-rule-leaders-defy-crowd-sometimes)
is by the unhinged lunatic David French. He is the kook who thought
about running for president on Bill Kristol’s Trotskyite party ticket.
[There is another
article](http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/438092/republican-convention-why-never-trump-movement-still-matters)
by French on the sidebar, which is a rant about Trump. Above that is [a
tantrum about Trump by Jonah
Goldberg](http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/438075/2016-gop-convention-failure).

If you were new to the scene, you could be forgiven for thinking that
National Review is some sort of leftist site that was created for the
sole purpose of howling about Trump. I have not counted, but others tell
me that more than half the posted articles over the last year have been
about the terribleness of Trump and Trump voters. Someone told me they
went back a few months counting posts on their blog and the anti-Trump
posts outnumber the anti-Clinton posts five to one. I am not going to
test the assertion as it seems in-line with what I have observed.

National Review is the flagship operation of Buckley Conservatism and it
has given itself over almost entirely to anti-Trump lunacy. For over a
year now they have been pumping out anti-Trump content to the point
where there is no point in reading any of it. The striking thing is not
the volume so much as the total lack of content. Their rants fall into
one of two categories. There are the base personal attacks, calling
Trump a big meanie that makes them cry. Then there are the rants
claiming Trump is not a “movement conservative” as if that has any
meaning.

That is really the issue at the heart of what is happening. I have often
argued that Buckley Conservatism was just anti-communism with things
like small government and social conservatism as decorations.
Buckley-ites were fine trading authority for those decorative items over
to the Left so they could have the whip hand on foreign policy. Once the
Cold War ended and intellectual communism fell out of fashion, the
Buckley-ites were left without a purpose. They were a mass movement
without an enemy. To quote Hoffer, “Mass movements can rise and spread
without belief in a God, but never without belief in a devil.”

Thinking back, the fall of the Berlin Wall was in ’89 and then Clinton
won in ’92. All the smart people at the time were wondering what would
come of conservatism, but then the Republicans won the House in ’94 for
the first time in fifty years. Republicans were able to impose spending
limits on Clinton and for the first in generations and it appeared that
the ratchet was going to click the other way. The smart people suddenly
shifted gears and started wondering what would become of
liberalism. Even Clinton thought the era of big government was over.

Rolling back the welfare state was going to be dirty work and there is
not a lot of fun in it. The Buckley Conservatives had been bred for
generations to trade away authority over domestic policy so there were
few with a real desire to get into the trench warfare that would be
required to claw back the concessions of the previous generations. The
ugly fight over welfare reform “taught” the Buckley-ites that there
were no parades for the party that cut spending and shrunk government.
Fighting wars was much more fun and less risky, to them at least.

I used to say that the worst thing to happen to Buckley Conservatism was
the Bush family, but the death blow was actually 9/11. The
Buckley-ites went all in on the Bushism because they were sure they had
found the successor to the Evil Empire. It was like old times. They
eagerly gave the Left whatever they wanted on spending and government,
just as long as they could wage the great crusade against the
Muslims. It was rank boosterism, devoid of anything resembling
principle, but the movement had finally found a new devil and that is
what really mattered.

Now that making war on the Muslims is out of the question, the
Buckley-ites are once again in search of a devil around which they can
base their movement. Anti-Trumpism for fanatics like David French is not
going to be a fulfilling cause in the long run. Trotskyites like Bill
Kristol and the other neo-coms can probably busy themselves with it for
a while, but even they will tire of it eventually. Maybe they go back to
being Progressives or maybe they just go away. [Pat
Buchanan](http://takimag.com/article/is_the_party_over_for_bushism_patrick_buchanan/print)
thinks (hopes?) they will just go away, having been rejected by the
public.

That is not the way to bet. Fanatics will always be with us. The lesson
of the Clinton years was that the ideologues would eventually adapt to
the post-Cold War world. The Progressives dived headfirst into the
cesspool of identity politics while the Buckley-ites launched a crusade
to pacify the Muslims. Now that the Coalition of Weirdos is blowing
apart and the Buckley-ites are reeling, we may enter a period of
cultural sobriety, but it is hard to know. Perhaps neo-nationalism will
the next big thing to sweep the West. Maybe it will be something else,
but the fanatics will eventually find their causes.
