---
title: "Evolutionary Madness"
date: "2016-09-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8661"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8661"
---

Back in the spring
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6958" target="_blank">I did a
post</a> on the trouble with artificial intelligence. I fully admit to
being a skeptic and I tend to avoid reading much of the cheer-leading
for it. Automation will plod ahead, as we have seen. We will see “smart”
devises popping up in our lives with varying degrees of success, but no
one alive will see the robot future because it will always be the
future, never the present. Human intelligence is much more complex and
mysterious than the futurists understand so it is just really fast
calculators, not Terminators.

The point I alluded to in the post is we have a very poor grasp of how
humans manage to navigate the reality of life. Most people engage in a
great deal of magical thinking, yet they manage to avoid killing
themselves doing something stupid. We’re not even sure how to define
this magical thinking, much less quantify it. Close to <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2013/10/why-so-many-icelanders-still-believe-in-invisible-elves/280783/"
target="_blank">half of Icelanders believe in elves</a>, which is nutty,
but it does not seem to cause them much
trouble. <a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5746" target="_blank">Americans
believe in magic dirt</a>, despite it being laughably ridiculous.

Self-evolving artificial intelligence could follow the same path as
humans and develop all sorts of weird defenses against the harsh
realities of life. Or, it could quickly discover that the big questions
have no answer and therefore life is not worth living. Artificial
Intelligence would quickly evolve into a suicide machine and be gone as
soon as it becomes self-aware. The odds of it resembling Spock are close
to zero, with the most likely outcome being that it quickly moves
through homicidal sociopathy to suicide.

We really don’t know how or why humans all have heads full of nonsense.
Humans everywhere have evolved complex beliefs in the supernatural. The
working theory is that belief, as in religious belief, was one of the
first modern human traits, along with language. Some argue that it is <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2005/12/is-god-an-accident/304425/"
target="_blank">a happy accident</a>, while others suggest the believers
tend to be <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0226901343/ref=nosim/nationalreviewon"
target="_blank">better at making babies</a>, so we end up with more
believers than would otherwise be predicted. If you have been reading
this blog, you’ll know I’m in the former camp.

A guy calling himself  Donald Hoffman takes this further and argues that
humanity has evolved to perceive a world that does not exist, but that
allows us to thrive in the world as it exists. <a
href="https://www.quantamagazine.org/20160421-the-evolutionary-argument-against-reality/"
target="_blank">Here is a longish interview</a> with him where he
explains his theory in some detail. <a
href="http://www.npr.org/sections/13.7/2016/09/06/492779594/what-if-evolution-bred-reality-out-of-us"
target="_blank">Here’s a shorter NPR summary</a> of that interview that
captures the high points. The even shorter version is we are all in a
matrix of our own design where we eagerly take the blue pill whenever
reality becomes too much for us.

To me, this makes perfect sense. My cat does not need to know a snake is
or is not dangerous. He does not need to know much of anything about the
snake. He simply confronts it as a threat and acts accordingly. In other
words, Mother Nature is efficient. There’s nothing to be gained by
endowing the cat with a  love of ophiology. There is great benefit to
possessing an innate fear of snakes. Elephants being spooked by mice
seems stupid to us, but from the perspective of the elephant, it is
brilliantly efficient.

Putting this another way, humans did not evolve to acquire a detailed
knowledge of the universe. We evolved in order to bring the next
generation to sexual maturity. Understanding the world as it is, in
great detail, is of no benefit and would possibly be a great detriment.
Instead, we have evolved to perceive the world in a way that allows us
to navigate it in the short run, with the highest possibility of
success. For those disinclined to accept evolution, God has literally
made us crazy, to our great benefit.

This “reality” means artificial intelligence, as in super intelligent
entities able to fully grasp reality, is never going to happen. The more
likely outcome is the self-evolving intelligence launches off onto a
path to some form of insanity, maybe a familiar one or possibly
something beyond our understanding. If it lacked the drive to reproduce,
then it could simply evolve to some equilibrium and fall into what would
look to us to be a dream state. In other words, the possible outcomes
for the self-evolving intelligence are mostly a dead end, just as it has
been in nature.
