---
title: "Crapped Out"
date: "2016-12-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9174"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9174"
---

Every year around the Solstice, I buy myself something I would never buy
for myself during the year. It’s not a present to myself, but more of a
way to remind myself that life is for living. A little frivolity is a
good thing. I live to work, not work to live, but there is a lot of life
that falls outside the joys of labor. if you enjoy working, you can
easily forget that there are many other things outside work that you
enjoy equally. I a disciplined moderation in life helps to maintain the
proper perspective.

Usually my annual indulgence is a gadget or technology item that I
really have no use for, much less a need for. I have a closet full of
old electronic toys. Some years I’ll upgrade something I do need to a
version I really don’t need. Last year I upgraded my home PC for one
with high end sound and video. I’m typing this on a high end laptop I
bought two years ago at Solstice. The old laptop was fine, but the new
one has surround sound and HD video! I’ve watched exactly one movie on
it and never played a single game.

This year, I’m at a loss. I’ve searched around for new gadgets and
nothing jumps out to me. The hot new item is the Amazon Alexa. A few
people have suggested that to me. That strike me as a stupid and
pointless bit of nonsense that would just aggravate me. The hip young
people in the commercials strike me as the sort of people I will send to
the labor camps once I’m ruler of these lands. Having the fine people at
Amazon spy on me like a doting mother is not something I will ever
accept.

I thought about getting a new tablet, but there’s nothing new in tablets
that excites me. I hate reading books from them anyway. I tried various
versions of e-readers and I just don’t like it. My 7-inch model I got a
couple of years ago works fine and does what I need it to do, which is
let me goof off on twitter from the couch. I also wonder if staring at
tablets close to your face is good for your eyes. I notice that I suffer
from eye strain if I use the thing for more than an hour. Maybe it is
just me, but that’s my suspicion.

Looking around at the other tech on the market for Solstice, I get the
same vibe. It’s mostly polished up versions of stuff that has been
around for a while. The new XBox I see advertised looks like the old
one, but in a different color. The one item that looks cool is the heads
up display for exercise that you can attach to your glasses. But, I
looking like a douche bag is not a good idea. if you are an elite
athlete, you can do it, but otherwise guys running around with gadgets
on their heads are viewed as idiots.

Part of what plagues me these days is getting old. Once a man hits his
middle years, the frivolous things lose their attraction. TV people know
this, which is why they target kids and women. Men will watch sports and
some shows with the wife, but otherwise, older men are not into TV. The
same is true of movies. Even when it comes to sports, men lose some of
their enthusiasm as they get older. Again, it is why they market jersey
and caps to the young guys. they have the passion for it.

That said, I’m not an acquisitive guy and I don’t place much value in
material possessions. I’m not quite Amish, but I am a plain person.
Possessions come with obligations and often those obligations vastly
outweigh the utility of the item. I’d like a boat, for example, but then
I think about the work it takes to keep a boat. It is not just the cost
of it. You have to be constantly fiddling with the things. An
acquaintance in Florida has a boat. A two hour ride means an hour prep
time and two hours after cleaning it up and hoisting into the dock. No
thanks.

The point being that owning stuff usually means taking on obligations.
In modern times, that means most people have credit card obligations
they will never pay down. The result is they have fewer choices in other
areas of their life. This is especially true of the lower classes who
lack impulse control. They see, they want, they buy it on credit without
much thought about the long term ramifications. That XBox in the living
room can be quite demanding when it is sitting on the Visa bill at 23.9%
interest. Heroin is less demanding than the material culture of our age.

Even so, I’m hunting around for some toy to buy this year and I’m coming
up empty. I wonder if we have maybe hit some sort of dead end on the
gadget front. The low hanging fruit of technology was picked long ago.
The mobile phone and e-mail changed our world. Angry birds on your smart
phone has not changed much of anything. Most people have a phone, a
tablet and a PC. Everyone has a flat screen TV and some sort of console
for games or movies. On the electronic gizmo front, we seem to have hit
a dead end.

That may not be a terrible thing. Looking for some sort of gadget to
buy, it occurred to me that I may find more pleasure in something else.
I have been talking about cord cutting for a year. I should get on with
it. I’ll need to upgrade my internet from DSL to cable if I want to do
on-line video. That means wiring the house, which would be a nice
weekend job. Alternatively, the guy down the road is selling an old Jeep
that is a project car. Maybe that’s a better use of my Solstice money.
Perhaps a return trip to Europe this winter, to gloat about Trump to the
Euros.

There very well may be an end point to the materialist culture that
blossomed in America last century. I could just be an old man with
narrow interests, but it does feel like we have all the crap we need. If
so, then perhaps a return to other pleasures will be the next big thing.
It would be ironic that the politics of overthrowing the old hippies,
currently in charge, ushers in one aspect of hippy culture –
anti-materialism. Maybe the alt-right will adopt the old hippy mantra,
“turn on, tune in, drop out” popularized fifty years ago by Timothy
Leary. Maybe Amazon has a book on that…
