---
title: "Yesterday Men"
date: "2016-02-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6508"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6508"
---

The old right, which I would define as Anglo-Saxon traditionalism, was
obliterated in America during the first years of the 20<sup>th</sup>
century. When Wilson abandoned traditional American isolationism in
favor of Teddy Roosevelt’s jingoistic internationalism, American
conservatism was finished as a dominant political ideology. It could not
exist in a world where America was an active participant in European
intrigues. It staggered along after Wilson, until the Great Depression
delivered the final blow.

What replaced it was the mild corporatism of FDR that was an adaptation
of what we would come to understand as European fascism. In America this
meant that the government would be the referee between business and
labor, but sometimes marshaling both sides in support of national goals,
while other times putting a thumb on the scale to help one side or the
other. <a
href="http://www.worldfuturefund.org/wffmaster/Reading/Germany/mussolini.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mussolini would fit right in</a> with the
Democrats, even today.

The “conservatism” that emerged post-war was nothing like the old
version. Instead, it was intended as a brake on the part of American
corporatism that was always on the lookout for monsters to destroy. It’s
why conservatism has such a terrific losing streak. You beat crusades
with brute force or by de-legitimizing them, neither of which is in the
modern conservative toolkit.

The New Deal coalition carried on brilliantly in the two decades after
the war, mostly because the rest of the world was in rubble. It’s not
hard to be the economic superpower when everyone else is rebuilding from
the greatest civilizational catastrophe in human history. America was
winning by default. Then the rest of the world got back on its feet and
the party was over. The 70’s saw a decade of economic and cultural decay
not seen in America since the Depression.

The mathematics of the New Deal coalition simply could not hold up in a
competitive world where cheap labor and cheap land was still available
in huge quantities. The Japanese could deliver better cheaper commodity
products like economy cars and transistor radios. The Europeans could
deliver better middle brow items popular with the middle class.

The solution was not a dismantling of the New Deal system of governance.
Instead, what emerged was a politics of necessity. Both sides of the
political class settled on new currency arrangements formalized in the
Louvre Accords. Credit money controlled by the Federal Reserve would
allow America to wage the Cold War, maintain the New Deal politics at
home and provide the American middle class with a standard of living the
political system required.

This looked like a winner. The 80’s saw a booming economy with only a
small hiccup at the end. That was followed by another boom that lasted
until the tech bubble burst. Even so, the recovery in the Bush years
convinced everyone the party was still going. What they did not see is
that the New Deal economic arrangements were being supplanted by the
emerging global capitalism created by credit money.

The brewing revolt is due, in large part, to the fact that American
politics has remained locked in amber. The one side dreams of new noble
causes to which they endeavor to rally the masses. The other side wrings
its hands and makes snarky comments about those crazy liberals. On the
one side it is the politics of old women thinking they can still dine
out on their looks. On the other side it is the politics of old men
complaining about the kid’s music today.

Sanders and Trump are not leaders of new political movements. Both are
where they are because they are willing to put a finger in the chest of
their respective party leaders. Neither man makes a great case for
himself, but like those Muslim men wandering into Germany, threatening
to collapse Europe, they correctly see that the old guard is a
collection of yesterday men, unable to defend their position.

The wailing and moaning coming from the Conservative Industrial Complex
conceals the terrible truth at the core of their thing. That is, there’s
nothing there. The “movement” they carry on about has nothing to show
for itself since the 80’s and now it is being knocked out of the box by
a guy they call a “witless ape.” Whatever it was or intended to be, it’s
just an artifact of a bygone era now. It’s a museum piece.

The noise on the Right has drowned out what’s happening on the other
side. Sanders is an unreconstructed Stalinist for goodness sake. That
said, his arguments sound pretty good against a party that thinks the
plight of men in sundresses is a great crusade. Sanders offering free
tuition sounds sensible compared to offering free rubbers to coeds.
Sanders may have his head up his ass, but the rest of his party has
theirs in their vagina.

America is long overdue for an overhaul of its political system. The
yesterday men of both parties are like guests who won’t leave.
Eventually, they have to be made to leave. That’s what we’re seeing
today. The wrecking ball is swinging, preparing the way for what comes
next. If Trump and Sanders are a clue, the future of American politics
may look more like the 19th century than the 20th. We shall see.
