---
title: "The Misinformation Age"
date: "2016-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8286"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8286"
---

For most of human history, the natural state of people was to be
uninformed about the doings of the great and powerful. Amenemhet the
Stone Carver could easily have spent his life chipping glyphs into
stones, without ever knowing why or what they were supposed to mean. He
was just one of many assigned to work on the latest project commission
by Pharaoh. More important, he probably did not care. He had a good job
chipping glyphs into stones, which let him have a nice house and send
the boy off to chariot school.

For his part, the Pharaoh was not all that concerned that Amenemhet was
indifferent to the doings of the state. He wanted his people to do his
bidding and remain loyal, but that mostly meant maintaining the grain
supply, defending the borders and holding religious festivals where the
people were reminded that the Pharaoh was a god. In other words, Pharaoh
did not have to invest a lot of time bullshitting his people. Even if
wanted to, it was simply not practical, so it was never a part of the
ruling toolkit.

Writing the post the other day on millennials, it occurred to me that
they are the first mass media generation. In my grandfather’s youth, for
example, having a radio was a toy for rich people. He got his first TV
in the 50’s. My parents grew up on movie theaters and then later
television, but they got their first TV in their late teens, I think.  I
had TV as a kid, of course, but I also had outdoors. With just three
channels, TV could not compete with outside for the attention of a boy,
so I did not spend much time in front of it.

Young people are floating in a sea of mass media and they have never
known any other way. It’s perhaps why millennials are so demanding and
entitled. Watching TV is a passive exercise. It is up to the show or
movie to entertain you, the viewer. There’s no reward for loyalty to a
channel, a show or a personality, so there is no loyalty. Consuming mass
media is a purely transactional exercise. With so many channels
competing for your attention, you have every right to be demanding. Kids
raised on TV are certain to be transactional in their daily human
relations.

The thing is, our mass media culture is mostly fabricated nonsense. Most
of what the news people “report” is made up. As soon as you see the word
“sources” you know what follows is invented. Even when someone is named
as a source, nine times out of ten we learn that the named source did
not actually say what he was claimed to have said. The other day, the
news people were claiming Trump got in a fight with a baby at one of his
events. It turns out he made some harmless jokes about a crying baby.

It’s tempting to think it is just the ideological bias of the media and
that certainly plays a role, but even sporting news is often made up
nonsense. Sites like Bleacher Report and SB Nation exist to pump out
made up news from writers who never leave their couch. The “legitimate”
sporting news is similarly riddled with tales where the word “sources”
is featured prominently. The people in the business have to know
everyone is just making stuff up, but no one ever says anything. It’s
just the way it is.

The question that comes to mind is what this does to the culture. The
passive cynicism of the millennials may simply be a result of living in
a world of fiction. If most of what you see and hear is bullshit, you’re
going to assume everything is bullshit. It is also impossible to have
trust in people that lie all the time, so this sea of mass media is
self-defeating as a propaganda tool. The Russians during the Soviet era
assumed everything told to them was a lie, which made an already cynical
people into the first no-trust society.

Something similar may be happening in America as the people producing
media feverishly try to break through the noise with ever more
outlandish nonsense. Sites like Gawker are simply the logical end point
of all mass media. Consumers of mass media are not seeking to be
informed, because they assume it is all nonsense. They just want to be
entertained. It’s probably why Trump is one nominee and Clinton is the
other. Everyone is looking forward to the brash bully tearing into the
corrupt old cow. It may be awful for the country, but it will make good
TV.

The dynamic since the advent of participatory government has been to
increase the number of informed citizens while increasing the franchise.
That’s not where we have ended up. The franchise has been expanded to
the point where we are now handing ballots to foreigners, but the public
is probably less informed than at any time in our history. In fact, it
is close to impossible be well informed. That makes popular government
nothing more than an entertaining roll of the dice. The characters best
able to keep the public’s attention wins, even if she is a sociopath, <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2016/08/10/assange-implies-murdered-dnc-staffer-was-wikileaks-source.html"
target="_blank">who kills people</a>.
