---
title: "Guaranteed Basic Income"
date: "2016-06-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7621"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7621"
---

*“‘It seemed to me that I had happened upon humanity upon the wane. The
ruddy sunset set me thinking of the sunset of mankind. For the first
time I began to realize an odd consequence of the social effort in which
we are at present engaged. And yet, come to think, it is a logical
consequence enough. Strength is the outcome of need; security sets a
premium on feebleness. The work of ameliorating the conditions of
life—the true civilizing process that makes life more and more secure—
had gone steadily on to a climax. One triumph of a united humanity over
Nature had followed another. Things that are now mere dreams had become
projects deliberately put in hand and carried forward. And the harvest
was what I saw!”*

*–Time Machine*

The Swiss are voting on a referendum that if passed, would require the
state to supply every Swiss citizen a basic income of 2,500 Swiss francs
per month. That is roughly $2500 or £1,755. [This
story](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-36443512) in the BBC does a
respectable job of covering the topic. The news suggests the referendum
has little chance of passing. The Swiss are a practical people and this
proposal has too many unanswered questions. That and [the proponents are
something less than
assuring](http://ichef-1.bbci.co.uk/news/640/cpsprodpb/16F7D/production/_89877049_89875131.jpg).

These proposals are following the typical course of reform efforts. They
bounce around the academy for a while as intellectuals work over the
concepts. Then they are sold to the political class in fits and starts.
If the political class is resistant, then maybe an activist group or
industry group is enlisted to move the effort. Over time, what was once
a radical idea is being discussed by respectable people. Before long,
the debate is over who can best implement the new idea.

There are some good arguments in favor of the guaranteed basic income.
One is it is simple. Like the flat tax, the GBI replaces the myriad of
welfare programs and the government vipers that come with them. The
other point in its favor is it addresses the growing problem of mass
unemployment. In the robot future, most people do not work so this
solves the problem of people not having a way to earn money. There is
also the fact that it is value neutral. People get the money to spend on
whatever they wish, without the nanny state harassing them.

There are many arguments against it, with the most obvious being that
welfare programs never go away. In America, the US Congress has repealed
exactly one welfare program in the last century. The WPA was passed in
the 1930’s and later replaced by Comprehensive Employment and Training
Act, which was such a hilarious disaster, it was replaced by a program
called the Jobs Training Partnership Act. That was eventually repealed
in the 90’s. That is a long time to kill one horrible welfare program.

The most likely result, at least in America, is a basic income on top of
existing welfare programs. [There are seventy-nine means tested welfare
programs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_programs_in_the_United_States#Federal_welfare_programs)
in America. Everyone of those programs has a federal agency employing
thousands of people who do nothing but administer welfare programs.
Congress will get rid of those right after they do something about the
unicorn infestation. Until the inevitable fiscal crisis forces a mass
retrenchment of industrial era government programs, there will be no
reform of welfare in America.

Putting that aside, there are other problems. Spend time in the ghetto
and you see the effects of the dole on the human spirit. A man not
working quickly falls into bad habits. Families dependent on public
money soon start to act like zoo animals, because they are essentially
zoo animals. The state gives them an allowance, tells them how to spend
it and supervises their living conditions. Granted, most got into that
state because they lack the ability to manage their own affairs, but the
corrosive effects of dependency are well known.

Even so, for all of human history, nature solved the problem of too many
people by killing off the excess people either through famine, warfare
or migration. In other words, supplying enough food, shelter, water and
security for the population required all hands on deck. If a society out
bred its resource supply, then that meant starvation or expanding
territory through conquest in order to get more resources. Often, it
just meant killing off a lot of people in wars over resources, thus
solving the problem.

We are now able to produce all the food we need long into the future.
More important, automated food production is well on the path to
producing all the food we could ever need with very little human labor.
The robot future has been discussed to death at this point, but even
allowing for a fair bit of hyperbole in the predictions, we are facing a
future where human labor is decreasingly necessary. That means the value
of human capital will plummet, assuming the current economic models.

In a world of scarcity, society can carry the old and very young, along
with a ruling elite. The modern industrial society could carry many more
people who produced nothing because technology made those who did
produce vastly more productive. Welfare programs knocked the edges off
the inequality by transferring wealth from the rich to the poor. In the
mature technological society, vast numbers will be idle, but provided
for as there will be more than enough resources.

How that is resolved will be the greatest intellectual challenge in
human history.
