---
title: "You Will Not Live Forever"
date: "2016-04-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7217"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7217"
---

*“The ordinary modes of human thinking are magical, religious, social,
and personal. We want our wishes to come true; we want the universe to
care about us; we want the approval of those around us; we want to get
even with that s.o.b. who insulted us at the last tribal council. For
most people, wanting to know the cold truth about the world is way, way
down the list.”*  
–John Derbyshire

We like to believe we are past the time when wizards and shaman can make
a living telling the future and conjuring miracles. We’re not like those
primitives in our history books. We’re all about facts and logic. We
rely on big data and analytics to tell us who won a ball game. No
relying on the scoreboard for us. After all, who among us has not told
our Facebook friends how much we bleeping love science!??

That’s all nonsense, of course. We’re just as prone to magical thinking
as the people of prior eras. Instead of the court astrologer, <a
href="https://aeon.co/essays/how-economists-rode-maths-to-become-our-era-s-astrologers"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">we have economists</a>. Instead of guys
promising to make lead into gold, we have guys like <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/googles-chief-futurist-thinks-we-could-start-living-forever-by-2029-2016-4"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ray Kurzweil telling us we will live
forever</a>.

*Ray Kurzweil, Google’s chief futurist, laid out what he thinks the next
few decades will look like in an interview with Playboy.*

*Kurzweil is one of the biggest believers in The Singularity, the moment
when humans — with the aid of technology —will supposedly live forever.*

*<span class="s1">He’s chosen the year 2045 because, according to his
calculations, “The nonbiological intelligence created in that year will
reach a level that’s a billion times more powerful than all human
intelligence today.”</span>*

*<span class="s1">But even before 2045, Kurzweil thinks we could begin
the deathless process.</span>*

*<span class="s1">“</span>I believe we will reach a point around 2029
when medical technologies will add one additional year every year to
your life expectancy,” he told Playboy. “By that I don’t mean life
expectancy based on your birthdate, but rather your remaining life
expectancy.”*

As the boomers move closer to the grave, the market for life extending
miracles grows. Inevitably that means the charlatans move in to fleece
the desperate and stupid. Kurzweil has been working this racket for a
number of years now and he is good at it. So good that he has a
multi-million dollar perch at Google as “chief futurist” which sounds
like something I’d write if I were making fun of someone like Ray
Kurweil.

My observation is that forever life is a male thing. Most men I know
started fretting about their health once they hit their middle years.
They quit drinking, smoking and started exercising. The neologism
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mamil" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">MAMIL</a> does not exist by accident. I see these guys
every weekend in the summer, kitted out like they are on the Tour.
<a href="http://roguehealthandfitness.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">P. D. Mangan</a> is making a living popularizing
research on anti-aging. My guess is his audience is all male.

My hunch here is men used to seek glory as the way to live forever. Die
in battle and spend the afterlife with the gods. Alternatively, go out
as a hero to your people and be remembered forever. In the Christian
era, heaven waited the men who were defenders of the faith. Today being
a hero or dying in battle is not in the cards and no one believes in an
afterlife, so men want to literally live forever.

Women, in contrast, don’t seem to be into the living forever stuff. They
want to look good forever. That makes some sense biologically. Females
of our species are wired to gain the attention of males. Looking young
and sexy is therefore the biological goal from the start. Extending that
out into middle and later years would extend the “life” of the female.
I’ll allow that I could be all wrong about this.

The funny thing about this is that science knows very little about
aging, in terms of why our bodies age. But, there’s money to be made in
pretending we’re close to figuring it out and arresting it. From that
Kurzweil article:

*A lot will have to happen in the next 30 years to make that a reality,
but Kurzweil isn’t fazed: He predicts that nano machines capable of
taking over for our immune system (to fix problems like cancerous cells
and clogged arteries) and connecting our brains to the cloud will be
available by then.*

*He likens that change as the next step in our evolution, the same way
our ancestors developed to use the frontal cortex 2 million years ago.
The benefits, according to Kurzweil, will be significant.*

*“<span class="s1">We’ll create more profound forms of communication
than we’re familiar with today, more profound music and funnier jokes,”
he tells Playboy. “We’ll be funnier. We’ll be sexier. We’ll be more
adept at expressing loving sentiments.”</span>*

Notice the future is always a scaled up version of what the futurists
think is cool. Many of my neighbors would like to create more profound
forms of killing rival drug dealers, more profound gangster lyrics, etc.
The funny part of Kurweil’s future is that most of us will not be in it.
His paradise will be more highly selective than Allah’s. Maybe the rest
of us will just have to be satisfied being <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3553644/Could-death-soon-REVERSIBLE-Reanimation-firm-looking-ways-bring-brain-dead-people-life.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">re-animated zombies</a>.
