---
title: "Never Hire a Powerskirt"
date: "2016-07-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8107"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8107"
---

*Looking back, we had, in the person of Teddy Roosevelt, the finest
President in the history of this country. He had the spirit and
determination that matched the times and the land. Then the women got
the vote, and everything went to hell. While our boys was overseas
fighting the Kaiser, the women got Prohibition put in. Drinking and
gambling and whoring were declared unlawful. All those things which come
natural to men became crimes.*

*–Judge Roy Bean*

A quarter century ago, I was sent to my first reeducation camp. The
company I was with at the time had been infected with the virus so
everyone in a management position was sent off-site to be hectored about
the importance of tolerance in the workplace. We did not yet have the
word “diversity” to throw around as we were still in the “tolerance”
stage of multicultural lunacy outbreak. At least that was the case in my
part of the world so they called it “sensitivity training,” which
everyone said using air quotes.

The people responsible for starting the sensitivity training were the
women in the human resources department. They had changed the name of it
to something stupid like “people and relationships” but it was an HR
department. For reasons I’ll never understand, the men in charge of the
company decided to pack the HR departments with women who immediately
started making mischief. Talking to friends at the time, this was
happening all over the business world. HR departments full of hens were
morphing into sensitivity department full of bitter shrews.

Not long after I had returned from the reeducation camp, I was informed
by HR that one of my charges had been making one of the women
uncomfortable. She did not like the way he was looking at her. This
woman dressed like a street walker and had to be told multiple times to
stop showing off her smoking hot body at work. That made no difference.
I was told I had to write him up, which I refused to do. That got me in
some trouble and forever on the HR hit list, but it was the shape of
things to come. My policy was going to be zero tolerance for this sort
of terrorism.

That was a long time ago and things have only grown worse. <a
href="http://deadline.com/2016/07/roger-ailes-out-at-fox-news-1201788998/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The implosion of Fox News is a great
example of why you should avoid hiring women</a>.

*Blogger Matt Drudge put up a headline at the top of his popular
aggregation website The Drudge Report this afternoon that Ailes will
exit the company with a “$40+ million parachute.” There is no link to a
story, but a source subsequently told Deadline that Ailes is in exit
talks, saying terms of the settlement are being hammered out tonight.*

*“With internal allegations mounting, it was deemed time for him to go,”
the well-placed source said.*

*21st Century Fox, however, said in a statement: “Roger is at work  The
review is ongoing. And the only agreement that is in place is his
existing employment agreement.”*

*Ailes’ ouster comes after Fox News hostGretchen Carlson filed a sexual
harassment lawsuit against him on July 6 after her contract was not
renewed.*

*Ailes, the architect of the Fox News as a ratings behemoth and
political force, in of June 2015, signed a multi-year contract to
continue running Fox News, Fox Business Network, and Fox Television
Stations.*

*Earlier this morning, Drudge linked a headline to today’s New York
Magazine story,alleging Fox News star Megyn Kelly had told 21st Century
Fox’s investigators that she had been the recipient of unwanted sexual
advances from Ailes about a decade ago when she was a correspondent in
the Washington bureau. But Drudge used a headline saying Kelly was
twisting the knife into her boss.  That post, and headline,  from the
wildly popular and influential conservative blogger got media reporters
to sit up and take notice.*

Perhaps I am more cynical than most, but how did Ailes not see that
Megyn Kelly was trouble? There’s nothing wrong with hiring bimbos to
read the news on TV, just as long as the bimbos are fine with being
bimbos trading on their looks. Women like Kelly trade on their looks,
but they are forever bitter about it. That bitterness curdles into a
viscous nastiness that almost always leads to claims of discrimination
or sexual harassment, when they don’t get what they want. Once again,
the facts of life are turning out to be Trumpian.

The lesson here, of course, is to never hire women like Megyn
Kelly. It’s like inviting Dracula into your house. No matter how much
garlic you have around your neck, you still have a bloodthirsty vampire
in your midst. A good rule of thumb is to hire homely women for
positions of responsibility, preferably older women. They have no
illusions about how males view them. For entry level work like clerks
and paralegals, hire mothers as they need the job more than they need to
strike a blow for the sisterhood. They are too practical to be
feminists.

Otherwise, never hire a powerskirt.
