---
title: "The Faceberg Six"
date: "2016-05-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7453"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7453"
---

One of the stranger aspects of the current ructions is the willingness
of members of the professional Right to gleefully and publicly stab
their colleagues in the back. Politics is an ugly business, where men
squabble over trivial slights, but the custom is to avoid making it
nakedly personal and to avoid being overtly craven. This last bit is
especially true with the Buckleyites, as they love carrying on like
Victorians. For as long as I’ve been alive, conservatives have railed
against putting “politics above principle.”

Like most of what the Buckleyites preached, that was all bullshit, but
they did try hard to keep up appearances. That’s not been the case
during the Trumpening. National Review turned itself into MoveOn.org
last fall, posting daily rants about how anyone supporting Trump is
Hitler. Then we got the \#nevertrump stuff, which was pretty much just
people taking cash from donors to pretend to be a grassroots resistance
to Trump.

A couple of weeks ago it was revealed that the lone Trumpette on Fox
News, <a
href="http://www.adweek.com/tvnewser/why-andrea-tantaros-wont-be-on-fox-news-for-the-time-being/292034"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Andrea Tantaros, was dropped from the
network</a>. The official reason was a contract dispute, but the
grapevine says the midget tag-team act of Greg Gutfeld and Dana Perino
got her fired over Trump. The internet says both are unpleasant people
in private, despite their TV act, but I have no way of knowing if that
is true. I do know it looks terrible to dump the only conservative on
the network.

Today brings word that the traitorous <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/tech/2016/05/16/glenn-beck-to-meet-with-zuckerberg/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mark Zuckerberg is recruiting some of the
more deranged Trump haters</a> to help him do a better job suppressing
dissent on Faceberg.

*On Wednesday, billionaire Mark Zuckerberg will hold a meeting
with “leading conservatives,” embattled The Blaze head Glenn Beck, and
former George W. Bush Administration official and co-host of Fox News
Channel’s The Five Dana Perino, at the website’s Menlo Park headquarters
to discuss Facebook’s conservative media suppression and censorship
scandal.*  
*Last week it was reported that “anonymous sources at Facebook’s news
team have confirmed to Gizmodo that, in addition to suppressing
conservative news sources, the company suppresses stories about itself
while artificially promoting stories about the Black Lives Matter
movement.”*

*In spite of this, Zuckerberg denies any wrongdoing, stating “we have
found no evidence that this report is true.” He is instead planning to
hold a session Wednesday where he will essentially “pat conservatives on
the head” with a photo-op that is a direct testament to the fact that
nothing has changed. It is also quite telling that he has reached out to
Beck, who is struggling to remain relevant in the conservative media
sphere.*

*Beck announced the meeting in a Facebook post on his page early Sunday
morning. Beck and Perino will be joined by Arthur Brooks of the American
Enterprise Institute, CNN’s S.E. Cupp, and Mitt Romney’s former digital
director, Zac Moffatt.*

Glenn Beck is a nut and desperate for cash now so it is no shock that he
would come running when Zuckerberg calls. One of the true benefits of
the Trumpening has been the near destruction of Beck and his lunatic
cult. The others have always struck me as being sensible enough to avoid
stunts like this. S.E. Cupp is a C-list talking head, who should
avoiding making enemies. Her drunken bar slut routine would make her a
favorite of red pill types if she went that way.

The weird thing about this is the public nastiness of it all. Trump is
not a Buckleyite, but they could easily do business with him if they
were willing to play ball. There are worse things than having Trump
selling your pet project. Unlike most Republicans, he could possible get
some things done in Washington. Even if you hate the guy, smile and
pretend and make the best of it. Smart politics says it is better to
have a guy like Trump inside the tent pissing out rather than outside
the tent pissing in.

It’s not just about Trump with these people. There’s a sneering contempt
for the public in their Trump hatred. The Trumpening has been revelatory
in that regard. Most of these people in the Conservative Industrial
Complex are just in it for the cash. They could just as easily be
peddling Marxism if it paid better. They don’t like you or your country
and they don’t believe in anything but making a buck. Zuck is passing
around cash so they will sell his brand of nation wrecking lunacy and
say bad things about Trump.

Time will tell if this is part of some larger strategy that has yet to
reveal itself. Six months from now, being \#nevertrump is going to be
the mark of Cain, regardless of the election outcome. If Trump loses
conservatives will blame these traitors for the defeat. If Trump wins,
the \#nevertrump loons will be packed off to the labor camps. Well, we
can dream. Still, life is not going to be fun for these people if Trump
is in the White House. There’s just no obvious upside to this
\#nevertrump nuttiness, other than the craven cash grab.
