---
title: "The Traveler"
date: "2016-10-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8697"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8697"
---

Sometimes the world does change. For some reason the habits of the
people shift from one mode to another. The American attitude toward
divorce is the most obvious example for someone my age. I can recall my
parents saying, “There’s no way he can run. He’s been divorced!” By the
80’s, I don’t think anyone cared much at all about the marital history
of public figures. In one generation, divorce went from being a deal
breaker to a non-issue for public figures. That’s a big change that
people could watch happen in their lifetime.

Then other times you just start noticing something that has always been
true, but for some reason you did not know it. All of us are prone to
thinking that something new to us is actually new to the world.
Millennials are especially prone to this. They carry on about the
mundane as if they just discovered fire. But, it is not always easy to
know if what you are seeing is a change in custom or just the
accumulation of experience leading to a better understanding of
something, that has been there all along.

Traveling, I cannot help but notice that I now have to navigate a
thicket of thieves, hustlers and bandits, most of whom fly the colors of
authority. For example, I check in at the airport and I’m told I will be
charged $20 to check my bag. The airlines used to include this in the
fee, but now they lie about it so they can pretend they are giving you a
deal when you book the flight. Somewhere on the on-line booking site,
I’m sure, there is language indicating that someone at the airport will
rob you, but no one ever reads it.

When I was in
<a href="http://www.iceland.is/" target="_blank">the land of elves</a>,
I was charged $47 to check my bag. I fly often and on almost every
flight, they beg people to check their items because they lack space in
the overhead bins. Inevitably, there are people trying to rob the
airline out of free stuff in exchange for them checking the carry on
item. This feels new to me. I don’t recall having to go though this sort
of stuff with the airlines. You paid a fee, they encouraged you to check
your bags at no extra charge, and that was that.

It’s not just bag fees. Airlines have a million ways to rob the
unsuspecting passenger. They charge for food, of course, but they also
charge for things like a desired seat. I just flew on American and the
man at the counter tried to “upgrade” me to an aisle or window seat. I
reminded him that I was already booked in first class, where there is no
middle seat. He tapped away at the keyboard for a minute, pretending to
examine my claim against his company’s information, and then finally
handed me a boarding pass. He had no shame.

This is not unique to airlines. Travelers are now familiar with the many
people, who have their hands out, expecting something from the traveler.
My swank hotel normally charges for water. Not bathing water, but the
bottled water they leave in the rooms. The absurdity of this is never
noticed, even when you point it out. I was once presented with a bill at
check-out for a newspaper, as part of “guest services.” If they had not
listed it on the bill, I would never have noticed, but it was like they
wanted to rub your nose in it.

Highway robbery is not new, which is why we have the term. It just seems
to me that the airlines, hotels and even restaurants used to go out of
their way to let the traveler know they were not bandits. It used to be
an axiom. for example, that you should eat where travelers eat, because
you know the food is good and the  proprietor is honest. Today, it seems
like the opposite is true. Places that cater to travelers are crooks,
working every angle to separate the traveler from his money.

Last night I was out to dinner at one of the many places in Miami that
cater to tourists. In the fine print of the menu, our menus are now
legal documents, is a notice that they apply a 12.5% gratuity to the
bill. Most people, as was the case with my host, just assume they decide
the tip, based on the service. They conduct themselves accordingly and
often fail to notice the included gratuity. By definition, a gratuity is
voluntary, but this is no longer the case at many places catering to
travelers. It’s just another hand reaching into your wallet.

I’ve traveled a lot in my life, going back to the days before metal
detectors and weirdos fondling your business at check-in. Air travel was
always a hassle, but it now feels worse. It feels like people that talk
like me and look like me are part of an organized plot to rob people
like me. Everyone now has a grift, an angle they are playing to
“increase their per client yield” as the business dorks say. That’s just
it, behind these schemes are business majors with econ degrees looking
at the customers the same way a serial killed looks at prostitutes. It
is a transactional experience.

When I travel these days I’m prone to dark thoughts about the future
because all along the way, I’m navigating around one hustler after
another. They are kitted out in costumes and language intended to fool
me into handing over my credit card, which they will pillage like
Vikings on holiday. This is the very definition of a low trust society.
It did not always feel like this. Maybe it was and I never noticed, but
I am noticing now. My default assumption when dealing with anyone while
traveling is to assume they are a bandit.

On the way back from dinner, we passed a man waving his arms next to
what one would assumes was his vehicle. My host wanted to stop and help.
The man waving his arms looked Middle Eastern. I told my host to not
stop as this has become a way to rob people. They pretend to be a
traveler in distress, you stop to help and then they rob you. She gave
me that look that women give to men when they are disappointed in them,
but then she realized I was probably right and we moved on.

This is the dream world of economists and libertarians. They
fantacize about the day when no one has any loyalty to anyone and
everyone is a moist robot, calculating their advantage in every
transaction. It is a world dominated by rootless men of commerce, who go
from one deal to the next, without any thoughts of the future or the
past. They invest in nothing because they have loyalty to no one but
themselves in the moment. If you want to see the future, go to the
airport. That’s what they are preparing for us.
