---
title: "It’s Not That Complicated"
date: "2016-03-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6904"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6904"
---

On Friday [a jury in Florida ruled that Gawker Media harmed famous
person Hulk
Hogan](http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/thr-esq/hulk-hogan-gets-115m-verdict-876768)
by publishing a sex tape that featured Hogan. The news accounts are all
over the place about the legal issues, mostly written by people with
zero understanding of the law. From the best I can tell, the case was
about whether or not Gawker had the right to post the video. If not,
then they harmed Hogan and are liable for damages.

The answer as to whether they had the right to post the video is
obvious. Gawker does not own the video so they cannot possibly have a
right to post it. All the blather about the First Amendment simply does
not apply. There is no constitutional right to theft. The video is the
property of the woman, Hogan or the person who filmed the two. This is
not a complicated issue.

There’s well established law on this matter. The video was of two people
engaged in a private act. They had an expectation of privacy. They
either gave permission to the person that recorded them or they did not.
The burden of proof is on the filmmaker who would have had both
“performers” sign a release. If he failed to do that, then he does not
have ownership of the video.

Unless Gawker could prove they bought the video from the rightful owner,
the performers or the filmmaker, they were in possession of stolen
property. It is no different than if Gawker sold Hogan’s car or his
personal belongings that they had stolen from his home. It is not their
property so they have no right to profit from it. When they decided to
publish the video, they were liable for the consequences.

The usual idiots are wringing their hands over this case, claiming it is
a chilling of the press. They are wrong in that the press does not have
the right to steal or the right to harm people for a profit. Gawker had
every right to report the existence of the tape and the events
surrounding its creation. That is legitimate journalism and protected by
the First Amendment.

Further, Gawker could have reported what they saw on the tape. If Hogan
has a micro-penis, for example, they could have made jokes about his
micro-penis. They could have said he was a terrible lover or wore socks
to bed. If Hogan sued, he would have to show that Gawker lied or
misrepresented him in some way. Those are loser cases, assuming the news
outlet did not deliberately lie or manufacture facts.

This is not about press freedom. This is about theft. Frankly, Gawker
should have been charged with theft. After all, if Nick Denton were
found to be driving around in Hogan’s car, he would have been charged
with possession of stolen property, unless he could establish had the
permission to possess the car. In America, you have a duty to establish
the provenance of property when you take possession of it.

This is why pawn shops have to take reasonable steps to make sure you
are the rightful owner of whatever it is you are trying to pawn. They
get your ID and run your property through the hot sheets, if available.
The risk is that if the property turns out to be stolen, the pawn shop
forfeits it without compensation. That is because no one has a right to
stolen property. That includes news organizations.

As far as I can tell, Gawker never tried to establish their legal
ownership of the tape. They were never required to disclose how they
obtained it. Frankly, this is a bigger problem than the so-called
chilling effect on the news. We do not want to live in a world where
some weirdo can record your private doings and then sell the video to a
website. [They are starting to be people in jail for this
now](http://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/community/miami-dade/miami-beach/article66871647.html).
Reporters should not be exempt.

Now, it is probably better that Gawker will be shuttered and the owner
ruined. From what I understand, he is personally liable for some portion
of the judgement. He will be a great example to remind other tabloid
sites that they have to follow the law. Even if Hulk Hogan has a
micro-penis, he has rights like everyone else.
