---
title: "The Monasteries of America"
date: "2016-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7178"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7178"
---

[Saint Fionán](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finnian_of_Clonard) is
claimed to have founded the [Skellig Michael
monastery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skellig_Michael) in the sixth
century. There is some dispute about when the monastery was founded, but
it is largely considered one of the first Catholic centers of learning
outside of Rome. There, the monks copied old texts, taught novices to
read and write and proselytized to the Irish heathens. Slowly,
monasteries were founded around Europe, doing the same work, often on
behalf of the ruling families.

If you are an ancient history buff, one of the things you probably
understand is just how important the Catholic Church was in preserving
and maintaining the knowledge of the ancients. Throughout the Middle
Ages, tucked away in monasteries, monks spent their days copying and
preserving texts from antiquity. It was a slow and tedious process, but
it was the only way to preserve and proliferate knowledge.

That last bit is important. Storing up knowledge in books at a monastery
is fine but passing them around so others can learn and expand upon what
is in those books is how civilization flourishes. Those monks copying
old texts were increasing the mass of human understanding. Copying
Aristotle meant that the copy could be sent to another monastery to be
read and copied again. It also meant more men exposed to Aristotle, and
not just in the monasteries. The nobility was able to build libraries
too.

The thing about the medieval system was that it was tightly bound by
Catholicism on one end and the state on the other. Intellectual life had
to appeal to the king and the Church. In this regard, the Church served
another key role. They vetted and filtered the books that were produced;
thus, they controlled the knowledge of the society. The crown may have
had a monopoly of force, but the Church gave it legitimacy and an
intellectual structure through which to rule.

We like to think that the modern age is a time when information flows
freely around society, unencumbered by the state or powerful interests.
Colleges and universities are endlessly going on about having free
speech and open debate. Journalists insist their job is to speak truth
to power, which means saying things that are outside the approved list
of truths. Even so-called conservatives bang on about the glories of
free and open dialogue, usually while they denounce Donald Trump.

The truth is the monastery system is still with us. Instead of the crown
financing the learning centers, it is billionaires,
corporations, non-governmental organizations and international bodies.
Instead of monasteries, we have think-tanks, research centers and
foundations. All of which are “not for profit” which means contributions
are tax deductible. The rich pay themselves for supporting the
organizations that exist to promote the interests of the rich and
powerful.

All around Washington DC, there are organizations, like [American
Enterprise Institute](http://www.aei.org/), that are financed by rich
people to pump out papers, books, commentary and experts to populate TV
and radio. If you look at [their 990
filing](http://thezman.com/blogfiles/AEI990.pdf), you see that the guy
in charge made $700K in compensation. Board members made six figures,
with most in the mid-200’s. Charles Murray made $270K just from this one
job. His books, speaking fees and so forth probably double that number.
Being a “thinker” pays well.

AEI is a big foot operation, but there many smaller ones too. [The Fund
for American Studies](https://www.tfas.org/) funds journalists and
reporters with grants. The list of programs on [their
990](http://thezman.com/blogfiles/FAS990.pdf) is mostly benign stuff
that sounds nice. Then you see the long list of trustees. The one name
that jumps out is Fred Barnes who took $25K for his troubles. One of the
benefits of being a journalist, who plays ball, is you get to sit on
boards at these non-profits. Some pay more than others, but it is easy
to see how it can add up.

Then there are the magazine rackets. National Review has a thing called
the [National Review
Institute](http://nrinstitute.org/programs/nri-fellows). Notice how they
always call their people “fellow” to give it that academic feel. [Their
990](http://thezman.com/blogfiles/NRI990.pdf) is not remarkably
interesting, but NRI is mostly a clearing house. The director makes
$200K a year, in case you are curious. That is small potatoes compared
to John Podhoretz, [who takes over $400K in salary from Commentary
Magazine](http://thezman.com/blogfiles/COM990.pdf), another non-profit
operation.

Of course, it is not just indigenous billionaires paying these people to
promote them in the press. Foreign governments get in on the act too.
[The government of Malaysia famously bought favorable
coverage](http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2013/03/joshn-trevino-admits-to-shilling-for-malaysia.html)
from conservative media a few years ago. You may recognize the name Ben
Domenech from that article. He writes for the Federalist and was in on
the anti-Trump crusade. He also got jammed up in a [plagiarism
scandal](http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/25/business/25post.html?_r=0),
yet he somehow remains in good standing with conservative media.

My favorite, I think, is Brent Bozell, who [Mike
Cernovich](http://www.dangerandplay.com/2016/04/29/mike-cernovich-danger-and-play-media/)
has been going after on Twitter. Bozell runs a racket called the [Media
research Center](http://www.mrc.org/). It is supposed to police the
media for bias. [Brent makes
$400K](http://thezman.com/blogfiles/MRC990.pdf) for his trouble, that’s
when he is not penning [anti-Trump pieces for
Breitbart](http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/04/26/brent-bozell-an-open-letter-to-conservative-friends-supporting-donald-trump/).
No one should begrudge Bozell his money, but when the media watchdog is
paid by the same people funding the media, it is hard to take him
seriously.

The reality is our opinion makers are all kept men. They are the monks
and clergy of our age, shaping intellectual life and setting the limits
of what is and what is not permitted in the public sphere. This is done
mostly to promote their own position, but financed by the donor class,
on whose behalf the monks and priests of the commentariat work. When you
are living the 1% lifestyle, you are not about to rock the boat by
speaking truth to power.

The reason they are fainting over Trump and the rise of the Alt-Right
is the same reason the Church panicked over Martin Luther. The
difference is Jan Hus is an army of bloggers and writers on-line using
the megaphones of social media. Trump, like Frederick III, is
legitimizing much of it by speaking candidly on the issues of the day.
Just as Trump supporters have no illusions about what Trump is as a
politician, the commentariat is fully aware of what he represents, which
is why he must be destroyed.
