---
title: "The End Is Near"
date: "2016-04-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7288"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7288"
---

I’ve always liked to think of the Hebrew Bible as mostly a collection of
doomsayers who got lucky and were right. Lost to the mists of time are
the thousands of guys who stood around Israel claiming that the end was
near, only to live out their lives never seeing things get worse, much
less come to an end. Ahijah the Shilonite’s grandfather spent his time
claiming the son of David would turn out to be a no-goodnik so no one
bothered to write his story.

Doomsaying seems to be a part of the human condition. John Derbyshire
places it within the conservative tradition and that makes some sense.
The Rousseau-ists imagine Utopia is just a few more committee meetings
away from reality so doomsaying does not fit their style. Conservatives
are naturally skeptical and therefore would imagine that disaster is
much more likely to be awaiting the schemes of man. Then again, it’s
easy to be skeptical of the doom and gloom claims too, so maybe Derb is
wrong.

Still, you cannot deny that things have, from time to time, gone
terribly wrong for mankind. The collapse of Rome set back human
development for a thousand years. The Mongol Invasion exterminated
Islamic intellectual life. It never did recover. The Black Plague killed
off a third or more of Europe. The Sea People swept in from somewhere
north of the Mediterranean, we think, and ushered in the collapse of
Bronze Age civilizations.

That said, the last real threat to humanity was the Black Death and it
probably made humans west of the Hajnal Line better in the long run.
That’s hotly debated, but we did survive it. I guess you could put the
nuclear standoff between the Russians and the US down as a near death
experience for humanity. Whether or not it would have happened is
debatable, but we survived that one too. So far, the doomsayers have
been all wrong.

Then again, maybe <a
href="http://www.mirror.co.uk/science/apocalypse-way-scientists-fear-asteroids-7850630"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">we are long overdue for a great reset of
the human condition</a>.

*The rise of robots and deadly viruses are among the threats that could
wipe out swathes of humanity – but governments are failing to prepare
properly for them, a new report warns*

*Catastrophic climate change, nuclear war and natural disasters such as
super volcanoes and asteroids could also pose a deadly risk to mankind,
researchers said.*

*It may sound like the stuff of sci-fi films, but experts said these
apocalyptic threats are more likely than many realise.*

*The report Global Catastrophic Risks, compiled by a team from Oxford
University, the Global Challenges Foundation and the Global Priorities
Project, ranks dangers that could wipe out 10% or more of the human
population.*

*It warns that while most generations never experience a catastrophe,
they are far from fanciful, as the bouts of plague and the 1918 Spanish
flu that wiped out millions illustrated.*

*Sebastian Farquhar, director at the Global Priorities Project, told the
Press Association: “There are some things that are on the horizon,
things that probably won’t happen in any one year but could happen,
which could completely reshape our world and do so in a really
devastating and disastrous way.*

*“History teaches us that many of these things are more likely than we
intuitively think.”Many of these risks are changing and growing as
technologies change and grow and reshape our world. But there are also
things we can do about the risks.”*

If there could be such a thing as a betting market for the next great
calamity for man, I’d put my wager on disease. We have the technology
now to look out into the heavens for asteroids and we know we are safe
for now. Space aliens are probably too far away to ever be a threat,
assuming they even exist, which is looking doubtful. That leaves the
things that can occur locally as sources of the Apocalypse.

A financial crash is a good bet. The highly complex economic
arrangements we have today have no plan B if things go wrong. A century
ago, electronic transactions did not exist. Today they are the heart of
commerce. If that breaks, we suddenly live in a world without money.
That will spiral out of control so fast government could never respond
in time to head off calamity.

Another take on this is a collapse of the electrical grid. The real
currency of the West is the electron traveling over copper wire. If some
Exploding Mohameds set off a nuke and collapse the grid, western
civilization stops. A world without cellphones, computers and television
becomes a world of shotguns, food riots and warlords. Just take a second
to imagine a world without TV and the internet.

Of course, this brings up the old standby from my youth, the nuclear
holocaust. This has dropped from the culture, but there are more than
enough nukes in the world to wipe out humanity. The Pakis have nukes.
The NORKs have the bomb and maybe an ICBM soon. The Russians have nukes
and they are due for have a crazy Ivan gain control of the country. We
don’t talk about it anymore, but nuclear holocaust is still an option.

For my money, the best bet seems to be disease. The Zika virus now
flowing north from Brazil is a good example. Disease spreads best in
high density areas. The modern world has loads of high density areas for
diseases and all it takes is one lucky mutation and blammo! We have a
new plague ravaging mankind. Something like Zika that is spread by
mosquito is a great example. Even quarantine will not work against this
kind of plague.

Another element we have to day that works well for pandemics is the mass
movement of people. The Spanish Flu was most likely the result of the
Great War. Troops carried the disease all over Europe and then back to
their home countries. The exact source of this strain of flu is still
unknown, but the mass movement of people is certainly the way it spread.

Millions of Muslims pouring into Europe, as well as millions of South
Americans pouring into the US is already increasing disease rates.
Things like Whooping Cough have shown up in America after a long
absence. Some new flavor of an old disease, like Zika or Ebola, that can
be spread by mosquitoes could easily unleash a new plague on humanity.
In weeks <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3564829/World-s-largest-post-apocalyptic-festival-sees-thousands-Mad-Max-fans-gather-Californian-desert.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">these guys</a> would suddenly expect to
have books of the new Bible named after them.
