---
title: "The Managerial State of America"
date: "2016-01-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6151"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6151"
---

It’s often suggested that America, and maybe the entire West, is
undergoing a great realignment culturally and politically. The
managerial class has matured to the point where it controls the high
ground in Western societies and most important, it has become class
aware. What we used to think of “leftist” ideology has evolved into an
elaborate defense of the prerogatives and interests of the managerial
elite.

The rise of the managerial elite dates back to the 19<sup>th</sup>
century with the full flowering of the Industrial Revolution and the
credit economy. It’s often forgotten that Herbert Hoover, the guy
“responsible for the Great Depression” because of his “laissez-faire”
economic policies, was president of the Efficiency Society. Hoover, like
many educated men of his age, believed modern engineering techniques
could be applied to the organization of human society.

The story of the 20<sup>th</sup> century in America was the retreat of
the traditional middle class in the face of a technological revolution
that extended far beyond the material goods of life. This managerial
revolution allowed the new ruling elite to consolidate economic,
cultural and political power through corporate and governmental
bureaucratic power. By the end of the 20<sup>th</sup> century, the loop
had been closed. Politics, finance and the culture would be controlled
by the managerial elite.

What we are seeing today is the public waking up to the reality in which
they find themselves. Both political parties in America are now immune
to the will of the voters. Across Europe, the main parties work together
to thwart challenges from populist parties. At every turn the public is
faced with a unified ruling class, from proselytizing by the cultural
organs to financial chicanery greenlighted by the political class. Of
course, no one in power is ever held accountable.

This last part is a good example. Forty years ago, Richard Nixon was run
out of town because Liberals hated him. The America of the 1970’s was a
country in which members of the elite fought one another for power and
influence. There were competing interests in politics. Today, Barak
Obama has done all of the things critics suspected Nixon wanted to do.
The result is a shrug from both political parties. Hillary Clinton most
likely sold national security information for cash to her slush fund and
no one in power dares mention it. The shield wall remains intact.

The thing to understand is that the managerial class is not a
self-conscious conspiracy or “deep state.” It’s a cohort that shares
educational, class and cultural perspectives. They are bound together by
an egalitarian ethic and a preference for technocratic solutions. Those
solutions are to be carried out by the bureaucratic institutions in
which they swim like microbes in a Petri dish. The shared interests and
shared worldview results in a natural, unconscious cooperation, like
ants whose queen is the bureaucracy. The interests of one are the
interest of all.

It’s why there’s no mechanism to self-police. Holding Obama to account
for his crimes means expulsion from the managerial class. To these
people, such a thing is up there with crucifixion or stoning.
Ultimately, the only punishments that can plausibly be handed out within
the elite are those that lower one’s status *within* the elite. Anything
that threatens one’s membership in the elite is therefore off limits.
Hillary Clinton can auction off state secrets and not fear prosecution.
The worst that she can expect is losing to Bernie Sanders.

This natural cooperation looks like coordination because it is so
natural. The decision by the [Supreme Court to take up Obama’s amnesty
action](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/jan/19/supreme-court-hear-obama-amnesty-case/)
is a good example. The court has decided to expedite the review this
case and decide whether Obama, or any future President, can issue
citizenship to random people at his discretion. Lower courts have put
the brakes on the program for various administrative reasons and now the
high court will decide the matter.

Of course, expediting this case is unusual. The reason for the rush is
Obama is leaving office in a year. There we see one element of the
managerial class helping the other without thinking too much about it.
This would not have happened, of course, if Paul Ryan and the
Republicans had not gone along with the scheme by funding it in the last
budget. So, we have one side of the class pushing open borders, another
element signing off on it, despite claiming to be mortal enemies of the
former. Then another side comes in to help expedite it.

Again, that looks a lot like coordination and one would be forgiven for
thinking it is a conspiracy. But wait, there’s more! The court now has
the opportunity to remove this issue from public consideration. They
will most likely rule that the executive can issue citizenship to
whoever he likes whenever he likes. This removes the issue from
Congress. From there, it just takes one president to issue green cards
to South America for the circle to be complete. Citizenship, as a
practical matter, ceases to exist.

Across the managerial class, the concept of citizenship is seen as
antiquated. They all believe that the world is headed to a world without
borders and countries. A vast administrative apparatus working through
local bureaucracies will handle the issues of governance formerly done
by nation states. While not always articulated in this level of detail,
anything that moves us toward the general vision of a borderless world
is supported by the elites, be they on the court, at the banks or in the
legislatures.

The court did not take up the case because they intend to block the
administration. They took up the case for fear it could languish until
after Obama was gone and the public had become fully aware of what’s
happening. Once the court rules in Obama’s favor in a few months, the
game is lost. It’s just a matter of time before the ruling elite is
completely decoupled from the people over whom they rule. They will have
their managerial state, if they can keep it.
