---
title: "A Long Ramble On Time & Memory"
date: "2016-03-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6354"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6354"
---

I was listening to something the other day and the guy talking made a
point about public attitudes toward homosexuals. His point was that
attitudes have changed quickly. He said something along the lines that
just a few years ago homosexuals were treated as bad as blacks in the
south during segregation. The implication being that just last week we
maintained separate accommodations for the homos. I just laughed as I am
used to the [Progressive
Timeline](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4819).

I was not fully engaged, but my recollection is that the person talking
was young-ish, maybe 30’s. For a white male born in 1985, for example,
the Civil Rights Movement is as real as the French Revolution. These
events are just items from his history text in high school. His teacher
probably had no firsthand recollections and no one he knows has an
emotional connection to it. Therefore, he has no emotional connections
to it. It is just something from long ago.

Gay rights, on the other hand, are in his timeline. Picking a side and
defending it was a big part of how young white males defined themselves
in the 2000’s. The fact that his parents most certainly laughed at
comics like Paul Lynde or watched Liberace perform on TV is unknown to
him. He does not even think about the implications of his belief that a
generation ago homosexuals were kept on lavender plantations. That would
mean his parents were monsters by today’s enlightened standards.

He does not think of those things and it is not unique. Steve Sailer
likes to point out that people have trouble keeping relative numbers in
their head, like the actual [number of homosexuals they see in their
day](http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/05/americans-have-no-idea-how-few-gay-people-there-are/257753/).
I would point out that people struggle understanding time, beyond the
present day. There is now, the past you experienced and the way way
back, like when Adam and Eve rode dinosaurs around Eden. It is why
people struggle to accept evolution. It takes too long.

When I was a boy, my grandfather would talk to me about Russia, the
Bolsheviks and the Cold War. Having escaped the Bolsheviks, he had a
keen interest in them and wanted me to know what he knew about
communism. I will never forget one conversation I had with him when he
said the Cold War is forever and there was no winning. The best we could
do is keep them from conquering the world.

I was a kid, but the idea of anything lasting forever sounded a bit
dodgy. More important, a society run by blood thirty fanatics trying to
impose an illogical social order would run afoul of reality eventually.
I was young so I could not see things through the eyes of my
grandfather, but it always stuck with me. I thought of that day while
watching the Berlin Wall topple over as Europe celebrated the end of the
Cold War.

My grandfather’s tales are real to me. His father’s tales are unknown to
me because I never knew him. I never heard him tell those stories. The
result is my historical framework starts around the Great War. My sense
of the past starts at that point and becomes increasingly clear and
intense as we move closer to my age. I feel like I know the Reagan years
completely, even though I have probably forgotten most of it, but I
lived through it so it looms large in my mind.

This is why Hitler remains a specter that haunts the imaginations of the
people of today. The average age of Americans is thirty-seven so that
means most people know someone who knew someone that experienced Hitler.
If you are thirty-seven your parents are probably in their 60’s and
their parents, your grandparents, lived through Hitler. In 20 years, the
number of people who knew someone who knew Hitler will be much smaller.
In another generation, it will be no one and Hitler will be just another
face in the history text.

The other side of this is how the Cult of Modern Liberalism shuffles the
past so easily to fit their current agenda. Utopian cults are obsessed
with the future as it is the locus of their belief system. The promise
land is just over the horizon so all effort must be made for the final
push to reach it. This obsession with the future not only prevents
seeing the world as it is but forces the believer to rearrange the past
to fit the narrative. This is easily done when the past feels like a
foreign country.

At the dawn of this current period in the West, Francis Fukuyama
famously wrote, “What we may be witnessing is not just the end of the
Cold War, or the passing of a particular period of post-war history, but
the end of history as such: that is, the end point of mankind’s
ideological evolution and the universalization of Western liberal
democracy as the final form of human government.” This was from his
book, *The End of History and the Last Man.*

Looking back at this, it seems laughable, but smart people really
thought the long twilight struggle was over and the folks from the
Mayflower had finally won. After all, their entire intellectual life was
organized around the struggle for liberal democracy against the great
enemy of totalitarianism. In fact, it was this struggle that defined
western liberal intellectual life. Once the struggle was over, then it
only made sense that history was now over.

This historical amnesia is a not permanent feature of man. Bronze Age
people knew they were an old people. So much so, in fact, many Bronze
Age rulers would commission research on how their ancestors dressed and
decorated their palaces. The idea was to not forget the past. Egyptian
rulers dressed the same way for 1500 years for a reason. The past was
what you were so to forget it was to die, in a way, by killing those who
came before you and made you.

We are in a strange age in that respect. Mass media has some role in it.
Huge news today is forgotten tomorrow, because we are buffeted on all
sides from media bullhorns demanding our immediate attention. It is not
that people can no longer remember the past; it is that they do not have
time to remember it. Instead of fitting the present into the timeline,
it is tossed over our shoulder so we can rush off to the next thing.

Where this all leads is hard to know. [There’s some data to suggest we
have become increasingly
dumber](http://charltonteaching.blogspot.co.uk/2012/02/convincing-objective-and-direct.html)
since the 1800’s. This could simply be demographics. In 1800 the
population of England was roughly ten million, while all of Africa was
ninety million. Britain now has sixty-five million people while Africa
1.2 billion. The population of the lowest IQ population has grown at
twice the rate of one of the brightest. This trend is accelerating so
the average IQ will drop with it.

But the mass culture has something to with it too. There is really no
reason to remember a lot of things when they are easily looked up
on-line or off your phone. Being smart today is about knowing where the
information is located or how it is associated with other known
information. Remembering stuff is just not very useful. History, after
all, is just formal remembering so it makes sense that history is dying
as any sort of remembering is giving way to technology.

Then there is the fact we are on the verge of a great automation of work
that will make remembering the past even more pointless as the life of
man becomes pointless. Children have no reason to dwell on the past or
think of the future. Instead, they enjoy the day playing with their
toys. Perhaps the growing amnesia in the West is just part of the slow
infantilization of man. One day people will loom at their surroundings
and wonder how they got there and who made them. Perhaps even imagine
the machines were made by gods.
