---
title: "Lawyers and Salesmen"
date: "2016-03-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6799"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6799"
---

One of the things I’ve learned in life is that the salesmen for a
company will be the most honest with you about their company. That’s not
to imply that salesmen are all honest in their sales pitch. That’s not
what I mean. I’m talking about life inside the company. Ask a sales guy,
who is not selling you something, about his boss and his co-workers and
he’ll usually give you the unvarnished truth. Often, they are the guys
who know the flaws best, because they have to work around them to make
deals.

That’s the thing with salespeople.  They work for themselves, even
though they take a salary and are employees. Some portion of their pay,
maybe the bulk of it, is derived from their performance as a salesman.
All salespeople have quotas and have to produce. Otherwise, they get
fired. There’s no hiding in the bureaucracy for them. That means
self-deception is not of any use to them. They have to know the defects
of their firm and its products in order to mitigate them in front of
clients.

The weird thing about salesmen is they never assume they are the
cleverest guy in the room. Paranoia is a healthy trait in sales, as
there are a million little things that can scuttle a deal. Working from
the assumption that there could very well be someone in the room who
knows something you don’t is a good way to avoid surprises. You ask more
questions and you listen better. If you’re walking around thinking you
are Wile E. Coyote, a safe could fall on your head.

I used to fish with a guy who made his living selling cars. He got into
it as a way to pay for college. He would sell cars on the weekend and at
night, while going to school during the day. When he finished college,
he found that he could make a better living selling cars than anything
else so he kept selling cars. Eventually he settled into selling BMW’s
and Mercedes. He was able to make a nice, middle-class living at it,
without too much stress.

Making small talk one day I mentioned something about lawyers and he
laughed and told me that lawyers are his best clients, followed by
stockbrokers. I naturally assumed it was because they made a lot of
money and had expensive tastes. That was not it at all. He told me that
overselling a lawyer was one of the easiest things to do in car sales.
They walk around thinking they know everything and so they fall for
every car sales trick in the book.

I’ve been thinking about this watching the political ructions. Donald
Trump is a salesman and a very good one so he is doing extremely well as
a novice politician, because politics is about sales. His competitors
are mostly lawyers, who never took him seriously, because they are
lawyers and smart. Everyone knows this so surely the smart lawyers will
have no problem with the sales guy and his cheap theatrics.

The commentariat is similarly full of lawyers and people who went to law
school. The funny thing about media lawyers is they rarely ever did real
legal work. Those that did work in the business got out quickly and
signed on for TV work. The other chattering skulls popped out of prep
school and then went onto a private college, majoring in a soft field
like political science. Like the lawyers, they walk around thinking they
are the smartest guy in the room and they have been wrong about Trump at
every turn.

To some degree, this is due to the difference between fields that reward
the right answer and fields that reward clever answers. There’s no right
answer as to why the French decided to attack uphill in the rain against
the forces of Henry V at Agincourt. On the other hand, there is only one
answer to the question of how many one centimeter spheres can fit into a
one meter cube. You either have the correct answer or you do not and you
have to show your work.

Where I’m heading with this is that lawyers probably suffer from the
Dunning–Kruger effect because they were always the cheekiest and
cleverest person in the classroom. They have high verbal skills and
pretty credentials so they naturally assume that means they are
brilliant. Steve Sailer points out that Barak Obama went from wall
flower to social butterfly once he got into Harvard Law. His acceptance
letter bestowed on him the sense he was the smartest guy in the room.

Now, the guys in the sales department have a different experience. They
also have high verbal skills, but they spend their days losing many more
deals than they win. They face the reality of their limitations every
day. They also know that if they don’t sell, they don’t eat. There’s no
failing up in their business. It’s why the sales guys can feast on
lawyers. They have no illusions about themselves.

It’s another reason to wonder if the recipe for the managerial state
contains ingredients that poison the stew. Failing up is a feature of
the managerial class. They go from one failure to the next, rarely ever
answering for their blunders. The economic team that advised Obama on
the stimulus, for example, landed cushy positions in the academy. Tim
Geithner is making millions influence peddling for Wall Street. This
despite being 100% wrong about in their predictions.

A system based on mediocrities walking around convinced they are the
smartest people in the room will inevitably become unstable. The
unforced errors we are seeing could simply be a feature of a system that
lacks a way to police the ranks. Instead, it rewards the most ruthless
bureaucratic operators who are skilled at things useless to preserving
the system. In many cases, like we saw with the housing bust-out, the
most skillful members of the managerial class cause the greatest damage
to it.
