---
title: "My Problem With Atheists"
date: "2016-07-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8176"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8176"
---

My general impression of Richard Dawkins is that he is an unrelenting
d-bag. I do not know the man and I do not know much about him. I read
his one important book a long time ago and I am more inclined to his
side in the great debate between Dawkins and Gould. I think Dawkins is a
bit too narrow and reductionist, but Gould is simply afraid to face some
tough facts about human biodiversity. None of that stirs much emotion in
me. What has always bugged me about Dawkins is his evangelical atheism.

I am not a religious man and I cannot say I am a believer, but I am not
an atheist. To be an atheist is to know there is no god and as a matter
of simple logic, no one can know that. In the set of things that are
possible, no god is one member. A single god is another. Multiple gods
are yet another. This set exists in the set of things no man can know,
at least not in this life. You can *believe*, but you cannot *know*.
Christianity incorporates this reality, which is why we have the
expression “mystery of faith.”

Now, I accept that many people will disagree with that formulation. Many
religious people will argue that they do, in fact, know that God exists
because God speaks to them. Many atheists will argue that the lack of a
belief in God is the same as believing there is no God. I do not accept
the premise of the former or the logic of the latter, but I do not care
all that much either. I am indifferent to these things because I do not
have to live with them. I do not walk around worried about my
relationship with God and I do not worry about *your* relationship with
God, or the lack of one.

What I do know is man is a believing machine. Belief most likely evolved
with language, which means it is one of modern man’s defining traits. As
is the case with much of evolution, this is a guess, but read enough
history and you begin to think it is a damn good guess. There has never
been a time when man did not have strong beliefs about a transcendent
order. Even communism is an argument about returning to the natural
order. Commies may not believe in God, but they believe they can do his
job.

The old saying is that “a man who believes in nothing will fall for
anything” and that has been my observation. Humans are built to believe
and it is only a question of what they believe and how strongly. Some
are deeply devout and others, like me, are over on the skepticism side
of the belief range. Those fervent atheist, the devout atheists, are
simply believing in something that is just as unknowable and requires as
much faith as any formal religion. They just lack the decency to admit
it.

Unlike those Christian proselytizers, who knock on my door to tell me
the Good News, atheists never fail to let me know they are here to bring
the Bad News. Atheists take a great deal of pleasure in making others
unhappy. In fact, it seems to be the point of their religion, a religion
they never shut up about. I have never met an atheist who does not hold
his fellow man in contempt. It is not a reserved contempt either. It’s a
public, snotty contempt like you see in [this
story](http://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/611231/Richard-Dawkins-in-extraordinary-blast-at-Muslims-To-hell-with-their-culture).

Dawkins has been making war on God for decades hoping that one day God
will join the fight. In fact, it is the reason he gets in the news at
all anymore. Like many celebrity scientists, he stopped doing any real
work years ago. Now he is just a professional celebrity, who courts the
admiration of Progressives by making war of Christians. It is a shabby
way to be famous, but a familiar one. [Black Science
Guy](http://i0.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/original/000/732/409/25c.jpg)
leveraged his management of an amusement park into wealth and celebrity,
by mocking the right people.

Bill Maher is a grubby pervert who got rich running a TV ministry for
dimwitted liberals. For those who grew up watching TV preachers, Maher’s
act is obvious. His show is church for moonbat shut-ins. Dawkins is on
the show not because Maher or his audience understands a thing about
genetics or biology. No, the point is to have a show where the atheists
jeer at those who believe in God. Pagans lit fires and sacrificed
animals to please their gods. Atheists jeer at Christians to please
themselves.

Atheism is a religion for those incapable of selflessness but obsessed
with venerating themselves anyway. It is a religion for those who want
grace on the cheap. The major world religions make demands of the
adherent. The Mohammedan believes Allah commands him to act in specific
ways. Christians believe God has specified rules for those who accept
Christ into their life. There is no one to make such demands on
atheists, so they make demands on everyone else. It is why they always
have a look on their face like they just detected a bad odor. You are
not meeting their standards.

That is my problem with atheists. I do not care what you believe as long
as it does not ruin the limited amount of time I have on this earth. I
would not care about Islam if not for the fact Muslims tend to explode
in public places. Similarly, I would have nothing to say about atheism
if not for the fact atheists go out of their way to be such raging
public douche bags. I would have no reason to think about Richard
Dawkins, but he keeps showing up to make sport of those who believe in
God. That makes him a giant douche, which appears to be only point of
atheism.
