---
title: "The Pornification of Conservative Inc."
date: "2016-05-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7505"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7505"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, access to pornography was limited. When I
was a kid, there were magazines sold from behind the counter, books sold
from the backs of those magazines and smoker films that came from sleazy
vendors in big cities. Women had bodice rippers, the soft porn of
romantic novels, which were sold openly in grocery stores. Otherwise, it
was your imagination when it came to titillation.

The result of this was a tiny porn industry. Magazines like Playboy were
“big time” in that they had a large subscriber base and were able to
work from swank offices, but they were still relatively small. They
maybe used three or four girls in each issue and some women would appear
repeatedly so the pool of women, who made money in men’s magazines, was
tiny. The same was true of smoker films and the money they made was tiny
as well.

Public morals played a role, but it was mostly technology that kept the
porn business small. They were barred from the mass media of the day,
television, and public morals meant porn had to be sold discreetly. I
recall a store in our town mistakenly putting skin mags in the regular
magazine shelf. My mother and some other women went to the owner and
probably threatened to nut him. The mags went back behind the counter.

The big change for porn was the VHS tape. This was the first way to
distribute video that anyone could play at home. All of a sudden, the
porn maker could reach a much larger audience. When video stores popped
up, they inevitably had a back room for adult films. With a bigger
audience, the industry blossomed. Suddenly there was big money in porn
so the San Fernando Valley became the Hollywood of porn, making films on
a scale never imagined.

Those of you on-line in the dial-up days know where I am headed next.
Porn was the first to truly exploit the internet. They pioneered the use
of images on-line and then the use of video. The technology for putting
video clips on-line was an obvious boon to the industry. The same is
true of credit card processing. The porn guys were the first to adopt
this technology. The first commercially successful websites were for
porn. The joke back in the day was that a lot of code was written
one-handed because it seemed like the porn sites were driving
innovation.

The point of this walk down memory lane is that technology changed the
porn industry. Demand was always there, but rarely met. The people on
the supply side exerted enormous power because the cost of creating and
distributing the material was high. Technology suddenly dropped those
costs, thus allowing a wave of new suppliers into the business. It also
wiped out the old suppliers like the old smoker films and skin
magazines. It was a classic case of creative destruction.

That is not the end of the story. The internet lowered the barrier to
entry so much that anyone can be in the business now. Amateurs make
films and post them on-line for peanuts. Low-cost operators in Eastern
Europe can sell porn to Western consumers for pennies. Porn is now free
and ubiquitous. As a result, [the porn industry has
collapsed](http://www.salon.com/2013/05/30/is_success_killing_the_porn_industry_partner/).
There is simply no money to be made making sex films or selling pics of
naked people. It is a classic case of the tragedy of the commons.

Something similar has happened to the pundit-ocracy, and specifically
the Conservative Industrial Complex. In the 70’s, you had a few
“conservatives” like Bill Buckley and Bill Safire showing up on TV and
writing for major newspapers. Otherwise, the supply of conservative
opinion was tightly controlled by technology and the liberal morality
police. As a kid, my local library had one copy of National Review and
unlimited copies of the liberal rags.

Then talk radio burst the damn, in the same way the VHS opened the porn
industry. All of a sudden local radio was allowing right-wingers to talk
about forbidden topics. Cable TV started to open up more channels to
non-liberal opinion and the Conservative Industrial Complex began to
flourish. Instead of booming in a valley north of Hollywood, it boomed
in the Acela corridor, running between Washington and New York City. I
guess you could argue that Rush Limbaugh was the [Seymore
Butts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seymore_Butts) of right-wing
punditry.

Like the porn industry, the conservative opinion rackets are now under
assault by the internet. Specifically talented amateurs who know how to
cheaply reach a broad audience on-line and, most important, say things
the professionals are afraid to say. Playboy did not just collapse for
business reasons. It is content was overtaken by a wave of providers
willing to do anything. National Review is being swamped by a wave of
talented bloggers, twitterers and commenters willing to say what NR is
afraid to say.

One difference is that being an insider has value. The price for access
has always been the keeping of confidences. The big shot reporter who
had a lot of friends in government could lever that into high paying TV
gigs. He just had to be trustworthy with the secrets shared with him.
Bob Woodward got rich and famous leveraging his confidences. That is not
something that is easily replaced with technology. But it does limit the
insiders and connected because there are things they cannot say that the
bloggers and twitter guys can say.

The other obvious difference is the government was never shoveling
billions into the porn industry via tax schemes and subsidies.
Plutocrats were never bankrolling porn shops like we see with the pundit
rackets. There is a great disconnect between compensation and audience
share in the chattering classes. S.E Cupp has a six figure salary
despite the fact you can count one hand the number of people who pay any
attention to her. That is because billions flow into the TV chat shows
via government regulation.

Even so, the Trump phenomenon is a good example of how technology is
collapsing the political industry in the same way it collapsed the porn
business. It is simply not that hard to be a chattering skull on TV or a
political writer on-line. There are millions of people out there good at
selling candidates and positions. Trump’s volunteer meme army is
crushing the pros in both parties because it is just not that hard to be
clever with this stuff. When lots of people can do something and the
barriers to entry fall, the market collapses.
