---
title: "Alternative für Deutschland"
date: "2016-03-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Immigration
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6860"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6860"
---

Americans always struggle understanding the politics of continental
Europe. For starters, the European Right has usually sounded like the
American Left, while the Euro Left has sounded like the faculty lounge
at Oberlin College. For my European readers, Oberlin is an insane asylum
in Ohio. Buckley Conservatives may not have been sincere in their goals,
but they put a lot of effort into sounding like small government,
Classical Liberals.

Of course, there has also been this weird phrasing that Americans are
just now adopting. That is the phrase “extreme far right” that is always
center stage, ironically, in European political discussions. The “far
left” never gets mentioned. Stalin is never described as “far left” but
Hitler is “far right” even though he was a socialist. This has always
been confusing to Americans, but we are catching up. Donald Trump is now
far-right.

Then there are the political figures. In America, we hold veterans in
very high regard, maybe too high, so military service is a good thing
for politicians. In Europe, military men command little respect compared
to other vocations. In America, we like it when someone goes from rags
to riches. Therefore, we like politicians with humble origins. Europeans
prefer men and women from the aristocratic and academic backgrounds.

As a result, unsophisticated Americans, like myself, have found European
politics a bit murky. Well, that used to true. Americans can now relate
to what our brothers and sisters across the Atlantic are experiencing in
their politics. The evil Donald Trump is smashing up the political class
with his extreme right-wing populism. Across the pond, extreme
right-wing parties across Europe are smashing up their respective
political classes. It is springtime for Hitlers and they are blossoming
across the West.

The most stunning development, the one that has good thinkers on both
sides of the Atlantic in a panic, is the sudden rise of Alternative für
Deutschland, an extreme right-wing extremist party of the most extreme
right-wing kind. Led by the elfin Frauke Petry, this new party rang up
surprisingly large vote totals, exclusively on the issue of immigration,
particularly opposition to the Merkel policy of Islamification of
Germany.

In addition to the ruling class Hitler fantasies, Americans and Germans
now appear to have two things in common. One is that the political
classes in both countries have displayed a staggering disregard for
public welfare in their pursuit of personal salvation. Merkel out posing
for selfies with refugees is as tone deaf as Republicans demanding open
borders and amnesty for tens of millions of illegals. Cui bono?

The responsibility of the people put in charge, their chief
responsibility, is to maintain public order. You cannot have a civilized
and prosperous society with civil unrest. Deliberately inviting in these
problems, as we see with Merkel in German and the open borders lobbies
in America, is a betrayal of the public trust. In another age, the
elites would not have to fear these populist parties as the people would
have hung the elites before it got to this point.

The other overlap and the most important to consider is the source of
support for these extreme right-wing far right extremist
movements. Alternative für Deutschland is decidedly middle-class. It has
the nickname “the professors party” because its founders were mostly
academics. It is vote is coming from middle-class Germans who work in
professions. It is support is also overwhelmingly male at this time,
with some estimates at 85% male. This is a point that will become
central to our future political debates.

Smart people have figured out who is voting for Donald Trump and the
thing that jumps out is that Trump has broad-based support across the
American middle-class. In fact, he is the candidate of middle America
right now. Despite all the hooting and hollering about his angry voters,
his rallies look like the crowd at Little League baseball games in a
typical American suburb. His issues are also directly aimed at the
middle.

Like AfD, Trump is drawing in male voters who have dropped out of the
process, but also males who have thrown in the towel on the main
parties. Current estimates suggest a 2-to-1 ratio male-to-female for
Trump. This is not an accident. German culture has seen the same war on
men we have seen in America. [German men were literally told they had to
urinate sitting
down](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/germany/1469694/German-men-told-they-can-no-longer-stand-and-deliver.html).
When you have to get [permission from a judge to take a
whiz](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-30937492), you’re going to
begin to think the people in charge are against you.

One last thing, related to the middle-class nature of these movements,
is how the elites are responding. Instead of co-opting the issues, they
are trying to link these movements to bogeymen like Pegida and the KKK.
That is a telling response and suggests the ruling classes have become
decidedly anti-middle class. It is also legitimizing the taboos against
xenophobia, racism and ethnocentrism. You can only call decent people
Nazis so many times before it loses its power to shame.

What is happening across the West is the people are awakening to the
fact that their rulers have a very different vision for their societies
than they disclose in public. In many cases, it feels like the rulers
have plans for the future that do not include their voters. Those plans
may be great ideas, but in stable societies, they must be debated in
public. Otherwise, society becomes unstable. That is what is happening
in Germany and America. The system is becoming unstable.
