---
title: "The Tyranny of Race"
date: "2016-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8318"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8318"
---

There are a limited number of ways to govern a multi-ethnic or
multi-racial society. As much as modern elites believe they are
wrestling with new problems, the issues the West faces today are common
throughout history. The very first settled human societies were
multi-ethnic. The “cradle of civilization” was full of tribal people
with identities different from one another, often with different
languages. One tribe would come to dominate the others, but the
subjugated people maintained their identities. They just paid tribute to
the dominant tribe.

One way humans have met this challenge is through hard segregation. This
is when areas are carved out for specific groups of people and only
those people. The governing authority helps the groups defend their
turf from any encroachment from the others. One group is dominant, but a
big part of how they maintain their dominance is by keeping the peace
between the rest of the groups. The Arab world still functions under
this model for the most part. One tribe dominates, but the other tribes
run their own turf for the most part.

The opposite of this is compulsory assimilation, where everyone is
blended into one identity. The English banning Welsh and other local
languages from government is an example of how the ruling group can
force assimilation. The Romans would settle barbarians in the Empire
with the goal of assimilation. This meant sprinkling them around in
small groups so they would adopt the local language and customs and lose
their native identity. Their inability to do this with the Goths is
often held up as one of the causes of the collapse.

The third most common method for confronting the problems of diversity
is soft segregation where you end up with a multi-tier social order. The
dominant group gets all the privileges and benefits of society. The
lower orders are barred from positions of authority and perhaps have
fewer legal rights. Muslims prefer this model. Europeans used to treat
the Jews as a guest race of people, with limited legal rights. In
America, this was the mode employed after the Civil War to manage
blacks. In the North it was implicit and in the South it was explicit.

None of these models are seen as legitimate or moral by modern Western
leaders. America still maintains reservations for Indians, but that’s
only because no one knows how to get rid of them. The Europeans still
have a gypsy problem, but like the Indian problem, no one knows what to
do about it so it is ignored. Otherwise, the West has no interest in
segregation or compulsory assimilation when it comes to the challenges
of diversity. In fact, diversity is viewed as an unalloyed good so any
attempt to temper it is forbidden.

That has resulted in the current way of meeting the challenge of
diversity in the West, which is Proportionalism. This is where the
costs of violating liberal principles are weighed against the perceived
benefits from violating the principles. For instance, legal
discrimination is wrong as a principle, but quotas and set
asides allegedly have benefits that are too valuable to pass up, so the
state engages in active racism in hiring. Because the scales are
entirely subjective based on one’s point of view and the moment in time,
there can be no fixed rules, just a mindset.

A good recent example is the Freddy Gray case in Baltimore. The city
charged every cop involved with the highest possible count, even though
little evidence suggested they did anything wrong, much less
deliberately criminal. The victim was black so the city violated the
rights of the cops and ruined their lives because the city thought the
benefits outweighed the rights of the cops. In other words, naked racism
to counter the consequences of perceived racism was justified based on
expected outcomes in this particular case.

The result of this mode of thought, this philosophical outlook, is a
thicket of rules and precedents that are incoherent in isolation because
they exist only in the moment. America is a land where you can be sued
for discriminating against blacks in favor of whites, while
simultaneously being sued for discriminating against whites in favor of
blacks. Since there are no set rules that apply all the time, you could
lose both cases in the same courthouse. It all depends upon the judge
and the circumstances.

There’s a word for arbitrary application of the law. It’s called
tyranny. That is the inevitable end of Proportionalism because benefits
and costs are always subjective. The City of Baltimore looked at the
lives of six police officers and said they were not worth another riot.
The family of the police officers had a very different valuation of
these things. The dozens of dead black guys would probably have a
different calculation, but the police went on a silent strike so those
black guys got killed and no longer have a say.

The reason tyranny eventually collapses is it devolves into a recursive
use of resources in order to maintain itself. Once the law becomes
arbitrary, the violations of the law, and the willingness to
<s>flaunt</s> flout the law, increase exponentially. The only thing
everyone knows is that voluntary compliance has no benefit. This
requires an exponential growth of authority to maintain order.
Eventually, the cost of order exceeds the resources available to the
authority and collapse ensues. It’s why authoritarian regimes tend not
to live long past their founder.
