---
title: "Something Has Gone Wrong"
date: "2016-08-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8389"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8389"
---

*“The ordinary modes of human thinking are magical, religious, social,
and personal. We want our wishes to come true; we want the universe to
care about us; we want the approval of those around us; we want to get
even with that s.o.b. who insulted us at the last tribal council. For
most people, wanting to know the cold truth about the world is way, way
down the list.”*

–Known Hate Thinker John Derbyshire

I’ve always liked that formulation. The term “magical thinking” is
overused, mostly by people prone to it, like feminists and Gaia
worshipers. Even so, the whole thought expressed above is a good
starting point for understanding the other meat sticks around us. Most
people invest their time in the social and personal, but a small number
of people spend their time looking at the world, trying to understand
it. Many of these people are insane, but highly functional.

The thing is, those modes of thought are manifestations of other
features, more primal aspects of humans. These are qualities that can be
observed in people everywhere. One of those features is the willingness
to believe. We tend to think of belief as religious belief, but
20<sup>th</sup> century communists were the truest of true believers.The
Nazis were pretty much a secular cult organized around a Utopian belief
about the Aryan future. The Amish are entirely harmless, but true
believers in their brand of Christianity.

The willingness to accept the assertions of others is not the same in
all of us and it is not always tied to intelligence. It may be tied to
intelligence, but criminals often have low levels of belief, despite
having below average intelligence. College professors often fall for
nonsense, despite having a very high IQ. Look at the number of
physicists who were also communists.The great mathematician Blaise
Pascal was a deeply religious Christian, who put his life at risk for
his faith.
<a href="http://www.philosophy.utoronto.ca/directory/franz-huber/"
target="_blank">This guy</a> actually write <a
href="http://people.hss.caltech.edu/~franz/Caltech/PDFs/Franz%20Huber%20-%20Belief%20and%20Degrees%20of%20Belief%20-%20DRAFT.pdf"
target="_blank">a little paper</a> on the subject.

A related quality is the thirst for perfection. Social justice, broadly
defined, is the pursuit of human perfection. You never hear social
justice warriors promoting half measures. Theirs is the pursuit of the
perfect as they think things like crime, racism and immorality can be
abolished. They are not just seeking a perfect society. They think they
can make perfect people. The absurd and dangerous habit of policing the
space between people’s ears with hate crimes and speech crimes in an
obvious example.

Another basic feature of humanity popular in some HBD circles is
altruism. The alternative being clannishness. This is one of those
individual traits that is best studied in groups. Some people are less
trusting of strangers than others and some are more willing to cooperate
with others not in their kin group. In order to have a modern economy,
you have to have a certain degree of trust between strangers so that
people will plan for the future, take risks and so forth. You cannot
have a modern economy in a low-trust society.

Despite the best efforts of the people in charge of our countries, it is
the actions of millions of anonymous people doing the right thing
for millions of anonymous people simply because they believe it is the
proper thing to do. It’s not just the willingness to help others but it
is the desire to be seen as honest and trustworthy by total strangers
that makes a modern economy tick. By modern economy, I mean modern in
the post-agricultural era modern. There’s some argument that technology
is driving us toward the habits of a pre-modern economy.

Finally, the willingness to embrace the supernatural is defining feature
of man. All of us, to a certain degree, believe in ghosts. Like
altruism, the embrace of the supernatural is not universal. The women I
see at the tarot card reader have a much higher acceptance of the
supernatural than someone like me. There are people who are sure voices
from the spirit world help guide their decisions. The concept of luck or
fortune is basically another name for the supernatural. I’ve known
computer programmers to prattle on endlessly about their luck at the
casino.

Progressives accept all sorts of supernatural explanations for natural
phenomenon. For instance, male college students will take advantage of
drunk sleazy coeds because of a mystical force called “rape culture.”
Progressives are convinced institutional racism keeps NAM’s down, even
though Progressives control all the institutions.”Institutional racism”
can be replaced with the word “ghosts” and their protests make more
sense. Many people are absolutely sure Hitler will come back at any
minute and restart the Third Reich.

The funny thing about all this is a proper human society needs a balance
of these things as no one would want to live in a world of
transactional, highly skeptical cynics. Vulcan is a nice science fiction
construct, but it probably could not exist. We need the desire to
improve in order to make society better. We need to trust one another in
order to conduct large scale public works and organize for self-defense.
Belief in the form of Western Christianity carried humanity forward for
a thousand years or more.

Even the belief in ghosts has some value. It keeps people from violating
social taboos, the logic of which is too complicated for most people to
understand. The supernatural was a useful tool in public safety. Telling
people that the bog was full of monsters kept people, especially kids,
from going into the bog and getting lost. Many people live moral lives
because they truly believe God is watching their every deed and taking
notes so they can be judged in the after life. the excuse of bad luck
helps sooth the effects of failure.

The trouble is that all over the West we see that these qualities have
swung well into the range of dangerous. The willingness of the EU to
fling open the doors to Muslim hordes is what HBD’ers call pathological
altruism. Everything we can observe about people from these lands tells
us that they cannot make it in a modern Western society. Yet, an
overwhelming desire to help strangers is driving the mothers of Europe
to sacrifice the inheritance of their sons to help the Muslims.

The American college campus is under the control of ideological
fanatics, who believe in their causes so deeply they are willing to ruin
friends and family on behalf of their cause. Thought crimes have become
so common, we take them for granted. Readers of this blog take steps to
make sure their employers are unaware that they read sites like this
one, for fear the morality police will come calling. Supporting a
candidate like Trump has become a private act of rebellion.

The only thing missing from this toxic stew is an excessive believe in
the supernatural, but the hunt for hate thinkers is really just a modern
form of witch hunting. Everywhere you look, the dials are all turned to
eleven. The best qualities, at least the best mix of qualities, that
allowed the West to rocket past the world are now in abundance and
threatening the whole enterprise. Whatever governor or brake that was in
place in the past has been lost and the engine is revving into the red
zone.

Something has gone wrong.
