---
title: "Grinding To A Halt"
date: "2016-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8337"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8337"
---

Anyone, who has decided to paint a room of their house, understands the
difference between show work and no-show work. Show work is the stuff
that has an immediate reward, like rolling on the first coat of paint. A
few hours labor and you have something to show for yourself. On the
other hand, no-show work is the preparation. It’s moving of furniture,
laying down drop clothes, cleaning up trim work and edging the room. You
start at dawn and by dusk it looks like you have done nothing but make a
mess.

I first experienced this as a teenager working construction. One summer,
I was put on a job of renovating an old brick house. My job, along with
some other teens, was to first gut the place. In a week we had the place
stripped to the bare walls, with a massive pile of rubble inside and one
outside. By the following week, the rubble was gone and we were left
with a bare building. By the end of the summer, the building looked the
same, except for some repointed brick work, and other structural
touch-ups.

Spending the bulk of the summer on a million little tasks that never
seemed to amount to much was nowhere near as fun as gutting the place,
but it was a great lesson. Progress is the million little tasks that
accumulate into something big. It is not the big finish where things
seem to happen quickly. Put another way, progress is the millions of
snowflakes that accumulate on the mountain, not the avalanche that is
set off by your yodeling. The no-show part of human progress can take
generations, maybe centuries, while the fruits can be consumed in a
decade.

The last thirty or so years, from the perspective of most people, has
been an age of rapid progress. It is tempting to think that progress
will not only continue at this rapid pace, but accelerate. In fact, what
defines futurism and always has, is the belief that technological
progress is accelerating and will do so into the future. After all, that
why we have personal jet packs and flying cars, while our parents were
on foot. Since even this rate of change is not enough to have us
traversing the stars in a this century,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Future_Shock" target="_blank">the
rate of change must advance quickly</a>.

That is the most basic form of magical thinking. We want our wishes to
come true so we imagine how they must come true. One of things you’ll
always see with professional futurists is they are wildly optimistic
about the future. They don’t imagine a humanity enslaved by sadistic
robot overlords. They imagine a world where humans live in forever
youth, perhaps mind-melded with artificial intelligence in order to
transcend the physical realm. The future, according to futurist, is
going to great, which is why they can’t wait to see it.

Given the age in which we live, it is tempting to think these guys are
right, but look back through history and you see a different picture.
Progress is fits and starts, often with dead ends and rollbacks. It’s
not that current humans are smarter than the humans in those eras of
technological stagnation. In fact, one of the big questions in
evolutionary biology is something called the
<a href="http://bioscience.oxfordjournals.org/content/58/2/171.full"
target="_blank">Sapient Paradox</a>. On the one hand, humans had all the
stuff to be modern humans, yet they went a very long time living much
like pre-modern humans. Then all of a sudden, they started living like
modern humans.

Not only does history tell us that these periods of great technological
progress are rare, but science is telling us we may be headed for a
stagnation. The technological revolution was built on the revolution in
theoretical science that started in the late Middle Ages. Human
understanding of the natural world, like astronomy, chemistry, physics,
math, is what allowed for the practical application of these fields to
give us cell phones and the internet. There’s pretty good evidence that
the progress on the theoretical side has come to a halt and may have
reached some sort of dead end.

<a
href="http://backreaction.blogspot.in/2016/08/the-lhc-nightmare-scenario-has-come-true.html?m=1"
target="_blank">This post by physicist Sabine Hossenfelder</a> makes a
good case that we have, at the very minimum, stalled in our quest to
understand the universe. There has been no great leap forward for over
two generations and not much of any forward progress in a generation,
other than confirming some things worked out fifty years ago. When the
foundations of technological progress have stalled, it is fair to assume
that the showy part is about to run out of steam soon too. Look around
and it is clear there’s not a lot of big improvements on the horizon.

The counter here is that genetics is where the action is and that’s
certainly true, but progress here is at a snail’s pace as well. DNA was
first isolated by the Swiss physician Friedrich Miescher in 1869. Almost
a century later Crick and Watson discovered the double helix and founded
what we now call molecular biology. Half a century on what we have to
show for it is better corn. To think that we’re on the cusp of
genetically enhanced humans assumes a degree of progress never seen in
science and in direct contradiction to the deceleration we see in
theoretical science.

That’s just the science end of things. Science, particularly theoretical
and experimental science, requires abundance. The West got rich and then
it got science. The West is old and in the worst financial condition
since the fall of Rome. There are a few billion barbarians trying to get
into the West in order to go on welfare. Even if that is an unfairly
bleak picture, there’s no denying that we lack the will and wherewithal
to fund something like the Manhattan Project or the Apollo missions.

The truth is, the future is probably going to be more of the same, or
worse.
