---
title: "Dirt People Blues"
date: "2016-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5881"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5881"
---

After the New Hampshire primary results came in, I flipped on the news
sites to see what they were saying. Fox News had a panel discussing the
results in the same design you see ex-jocks discussing ball games. They
were talking about the exit polling and all were shocked at the numbers.
I got the feeling they really believed that some miracle was going to
bring down Trump. Instead, it was a blowout in favor of him.

It reminded me of the ’94 election when the Republicans swept the House
for the first time in fifty years. I was sitting with some friends and
we were flipping from channel to channel, laughing at the shock and
horror of the news readers. I forget who it was, I think he is dead now,
but one of them appeared to be close to tears. Everything they believed
in was suddenly proven false.

The concept of a “media bubble” is nothing new and many in the media
fully admit to living in such a bubble. For the men and women of the
prestige press, America is a foreign country in the same way India was
foreign to British colonial officers. Watching the Fox show, I would not
have been surprised if one of them blurted out, “What’s wrong with these
morons?” It was what they were thinking.

The great transformation of the American mass media into a sealed off
class is a relatively new thing. Originally, the news business was for
the lower classes. If you were a working class guy possessing a decent
IQ, being a newsman was a great way to avoid the factory life. You got
to work inside, keep odd hours and have a lot of fun covering the events
of the day. It was the sort of gig for the literate man, who liked
adventure.

That changed in the 70’s as news reporter became a profession. Today, a
paper like the Washington Post hires only from elite
colleges. Northwestern and Columbia specialize in journalism, even
having grad schools for it. Syracuse, another very good college, has
long dominated the minting of TV and radio graduates. The prestige press
is littered with Ivy League grads these days.

Of course, you don’t end up at the Columbia School of Journalism if your
dad is a plumber and mom is the payroll manager at the local Chevy
dealership. The elite colleges draw from the elite high schools, mostly
private high schools. Many of the boys and girls milling around the Yale
campus made it to adulthood never having met a plumber or ever
collecting a paycheck, so they enter the bubble unfamiliar with the
world they intend to cover as journalists.

While it is not a conspiracy or even a coordinated effort, the media
tends to move as one organism. That’s why both sides are horrified by
what they see from the Dirt People recently. They fashion themselves as
savvy cultural observers and they never saw this coming. Even when it is
explained to them in detail, they look blankly out at the mobs, not
understanding what’s happening

On my trip around the dial, I did not hear the “I” word until finally
one of the Fox color commentators mentioned it briefly. The reason for
this is they experience immigration differently from the Dirt
People. For them, it’s just another charm on the piety bracelet. They
are for open borders because only racists and xenophobes are against it.

The rest of America interfaces with the subject in a much different way.
The Dirt People go to the ER to get some stitches and see it looks like
a Tijuana bus station. Their kid’s school now has Bantus for some
reason. Their insurance goes up because the illegal that rear ended them
had no license or insurance. They lost their job because their employer
brought in a bunch of H1B indentured servants.

[When 75% of the tech jobs in Silicon Valley are held by
foreigners](http://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2016/02/10/silicon-valleys-year-amazing-but-with-perils),
the Dirt People are, unsurprisingly, a little cynical about the elite’s
immigration romanticism. More important, they are horrified when their
healthy skepticism is called bigoted or un-American by the people who
rule over them. It is this contempt for the Dirt People that is so
noxious. As I’m fond of saying, it makes you want to spit on your hands,
hoist the black flag and slit some throats.

That’s what the Cloud People don’t understand. Most of the Dirt People
are fine with sensible immigration. They just expect it to be debated in
the context of what is best for Americans. Instead, it’s treated like
child pornography. There’s only one acceptable opinion and any
deviations means you’re a vulgar bigot. As is so often the case, the
response from the Cloud People is “suck to be you!”

I remember when Reagan was accused of going around the media to talk
directly to the people. Then it was talk radio becoming the alternative
to the liberal press. Then cable news, then the Internet and then Fox
and now here we are, right back where we started. If you want anything
resembling reality based commentary you end up reading hate thinkers
like me. The point being that the brewing revolt will have to be more
than just a batch of new pols and some sore feelings in the press. It
has to leave a mark.

This cannot end well.
