---
title: "Send in the Clowns"
date: "2016-05-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7456"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7456"
---

One of the many reasons so many have abandoned the Buckley Right in the
last two decades can be seen at the nation’s airports. Immediately after
9/11, Progressives were out screaming for a new Federal bureaucracy to
run airport security. The bodies were not even cold and the Democrats
were proposing bills for a new Federal security force. You got the sense
they had these bills ready to go, just waiting for the right moment.

Of course, that new agency would hire tens of thousands of dues paying
union employees, who could be counted on to vote Left. Millions in union
dues would flow into Democrat coffers and Democrats would work hard to
expand the agency in the future, thus guaranteeing themselves another
revenue stream. Like with the schools, any useful activity coming from
this new agency would be coincidental.

A sign of just how awful the Bush years were going to be was in the
response to this craven attempt by the Left to exploit the death of
Americans. Instead of fighting they proposed an even bigger government
agency. We not only got the Transportation Safety Administration, we got
the staggering monstrosity called the Department of Homeland Security.
Fifteen years later, o<a
href="http://www.nbcnews.com/business/travel/tsa-lines-causing-frowns-bring-clowns-tiny-horses-n574816"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ur airports are grinding to a halt</a>
because TSA can’t perform its one job, which is to molest people before
they enter the terminal.

*With <a
href="http://www.nbcnews.com/business/travel/summer-fliers-may-simmer-long-airport-security-lines-n559291"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">mounting delays</a> around the country
being blamed on Transportation Security Administration cutbacks and
increased passenger traffic, airports are turning to musical performers
and free sweets to keep travelers’ tempers in check.*

*And some airports are getting a little more creative.*

*Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport is now inviting
miniature therapy horses and their handlers from the non-profit [Seven
Oaks Farms Miniature Therapy Horses](http://sevenoaksfarm.virb.com/)
program in Hamilton, Ohio to visit the terminals several times a month.*

*“Animals help reduce stress and anxiety levels and put smiles on
people’s faces,” said Mindy Kershner, a spokeswoman for the airport.*

*“Unlike service animals, who are working and should not be touched,
therapy animals can be patted and hugged.”*

*And while many other airports have therapy dog programs in the
terminals, “We figured this is Kentucky, after all, so we need horses,”
Kershner said.*

This is how third world bureaucracy works. Instead of fixing the
problem, they use the problem as an excuse to expand the department. It
will not be long before we learn that some Senator slipped in funding
for a new division of miniature horses and clowns at the TSA, along with
its own director and staff. That also means expanding maintenance
budgets to pick up after the horses crapping all over the terminal.

It’s not just miniature horse keepers who will benefit. Senator Chuck
Schumer, a well regarded airport engineer and security expert, <a
href="http://nypost.com/2016/05/16/chuck-schumer-wants-more-dogs-at-airport-security/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">is demanding dogs be unleashed on the
people standing in line</a>. You’re standing in-line and a miniature
horse just took a dump on your sneakers and then a pack of hounds
trailed by fat guys in blue shirts starts chasing the horses through the
terminal. Maybe that’s where the clowns come in. Like at the rodeo,
their job will be to distract the animals.

In all seriousness, Chuck Schumer is a genius, but he does not know the
first thing about running an airport or running airport security. In
fact, no one in the TSA has the slightest idea how to do any of this
stuff. The proof of that is <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2016/05/17/aviation/tsa-long-lines-continue/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this bit from a CNN story</a> on the
subject. The TSA has 45,525 employees and they claim an additional 768
people will alleviate the problem. That’s roughly adding half a person
to every airport the TSA covers. There’s simply no way that a 2%
increase in staffing can have the claimed benefit.

Inevitably, we will learn that this is a carefully choreographed
slowdown by the TSA so they can get more money. The media will play up
the lines and people will write their congressmen. This being an
election year, everyone will want to be the solution so that means a
boost in funding for more hack jobs and more miniature pony rides at the
airport, while you stand in line hoping the
<a href="http://shoebat.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/TSA-grope1.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">pervy looking TSA guy</a> does not put
his hand in your daughter’s pants.

This is, of course, anarcho-tyranny. The self-serving security
bureaucracy is only good at harassing honest citizens. A trip to the
airport involves at least three glaring apparatchiks giving you the
business. That’s the tyranny. Standing in line for half a day to take a
one hour flight to Philly is the anarchy. In the managerial state, the
basic functions of government grind to a halt or are simply abandoned.

The obvious solution is to let the airports run their own security like
they used to do before we lost out minds. <a
href="http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/tsa-missed-95-percent-of-weapons-explosives-in-security-text/article/2565360"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">TSA never would have stopped the 9/11
hijackers</a>. Private security firms have much better training and
methods. Augmenting this should be restrictions on travel to and from
Muslim countries. Sensible limits on letting Muslims travel to America
would cut threats by 99.9999999%. No system is perfect, but I’m willing
to take that chance for the ability to walk unmolested in an airport.
