---
title: "Twitter Police"
date: "2016-01-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6337"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6337"
---

One of the many annoying distractions to percolate from the right side
of the managerial class is their fetish over speech. Read the popular
conservative rags and they are always droning on about free speech.
Anytime the left side calls for new speech laws, the right side starts
howling about how important free speech is to a free society. They sound
like a bunch of hippies from the later sixties.

Usually, they throw in some version of “I may not agree with you, but I
will defend to the death your right to make an ass of yourself.” The
fact that this was uttered by a degenerate comic never seems to give
them pause. It’s all about waving around their banners and initiating a
fundraiser about defending free speech. The latter bit is the most
important part. Got to make the cash register ring.

What you will never hear them defend is freedom of association. They
would sooner cut out their own tongues before uttering the phrase, much
less voice a vigorous defense of freedom of association. I won’t say the
name, but I once had an exchange with a National Review writer about
speech. I raised the freedom of association issue and he stopped,
blinked, and then walked away, not uttering a sound.

The reason for this is they fear nothing more than being called a
racist. They know the other side the managerial treehouse will roll out
the racists taunts as soon the issue of association comes up and
they have no answer for it. Having long ago conceded that the worst
possible thing a person can do is be a racist, there simply is no way to
defend freedom of association. Rather than admit it, they ignore it.

The trouble with that is you cannot have free speech without free
association. As soon as you lock people in a room, regardless of how
they feel about one another, you better police what they say. Otherwise,
you end up with blood on the walls. Y[ou see that in this story from
Germany](http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EU_GERMANY_FAR_RIGHT_RAIDS?SITE=AP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&CTIME=2016-01-27-06-29-28).

*BERLIN (AP) — The German government on Wednesday banned a far-right
Internet platform that it accused of spreading “racist, xenophobic,
anti-Semitic, homophobic and anti-Islamic content,” and federal
prosecutors said two people were arrested.*

*The ban on the Altermedia Deutschland platform is “a clear sign that
the rule of law doesn’t allow hate crime,” Interior Minister Thomas de
Maiziere said.*

*The prosecutors’ office said that two Germans, identified only as Jutta
V. and Ralph Thomas K. in line with German privacy rules, were arrested
on suspicion of founding a criminal organization and incitement. Three
other suspects weren’t arrested.*

*Raids were conducted in homes in four German states and the
northeastern Spanish town of Lloret de Mar.*

*The two arrested people were the administrators of the Altermedia
website and therefore responsible for its content, which included banned
Nazi slogans and the denial of the Holocaust as well as incitement of
violence against foreigners, the prosecutors’ office said.*

The German government has decided to flood the country with people a lot
of Germans really don’t like. The only way to keep this from turning
into a blood bath is to make sure no one says anything that can offend
anyone else. This is practically and theoretically impossible, so they
go for these sorts of stunts. As the Chinese say, sometimes you need to
kill the chickens to scare the monkeys.

The fascinating bit here is the German government will move heaven and
earth to nab a couple of weirdos who spend too much time on-line, but
they can’t be bothered to attack the wave of rapes and assaults being
carried out by Muslim invaders. It’s an example of the bully tactics of
the managerial state. They always go after the weak, hoping the strong
will go for the bluff.

The same nonsense is going on elsewhere in Europe. Hilariously, [the
Dutch police are going door-to-door telling twitter users to tone it
down](http://www.dw.com/en/online-anti-refugee-posts-lead-to-offline-visits-by-dutch-police/a-19005888).

*In rare instances, Dutch police are knocking on social media users’
doors and asking them to be careful writing posts about refugees that
could lead to real-life violence and, ultimately, to charges of online
incitement.*

*One example is Mark Jongeneel, a small business owner in the small city
of Sliedrecht who tweeted his reaction to asylum plans in his city:*

*“The college of Sliedrecht has a proposal to receive 250 refugees in
the coming 2 years. What a bad plan! \#letusresist”*

*Hours later, his mother (with whom he lives) contacted him to say local
police had visited her house and were now on their way to his office.*

*“I asked them what the problem was. And they said, ‘Your tweets,'”
Jongeneel told DW. “And they asked me to be careful about my Twitter
behavior, because if there are riots, then I’m responsible.”*

The logic of this is obvious. As soon as you force people to be around
people they don’t like, you better be prepared to chaperon them 24×7.
Otherwise, words will be exchanged, tempers will flare and before long
you have a riot or worse. The logic of the solution, is to bully the
weaker side hoping they will roll over and take it.  Given the degraded
state of European culture, that’s not a bad bet – for now.

What’s happening on a large scale is the managerial class is turning the
police into the modern version of the Praetorian Guard. The “security
forces” will be refereeing the tribes over whom the managerial class
rules. <span style="font-weight: 300;">In the short term, they will make
sure the natives don’t object too much to the importation of barbarian
populations from over the horizon. </span>

But, diversity is our strength. With just the right amount of vibrancy,
how could things possible go wrong?
