---
title: "Pink State"
date: "2016-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8788"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8788"
---

Imagine the space-time continuum gets scrambled and you find yourself in
a world where the coming election is between a crazy old cat lady, an
old hippie, Hitler and Mussolini. Hitler is leading one major party and
Mussolini is leading another major party. The hippie and the cat lady
have no party and very little support. As a practical matter, your
choice is between Hitler and Mussolini. More important, you know the
ramifications of both choices. The former is murder and mayhem and the
latter is authoritarianism and long speeches.

To anyone with a soul, the choice is clear. You vote for Mussolini. It’s
a terrible option, but so is chemotherapy. No one enthusiastically opts
for chemotherapy, but it beats dying from cancer. If you told your
doctor that your morals prevented you from choosing chemo, so you
were going to visit some guy with magic crystals, your doctor would try
to have you committed. Similarly, no one would wants Mussolini as the
ruler, but he is a vastly better option than Hitler. You do what you
must, even when it is unpleasant, to stop Hitler.

To continue this a bit further, imagine if someone came up to you are
said “I’m Susan Wright and my principles prevent me from voting
Mussolini, even though I know Hitler will murder millions, so I’m voting
for the goofy hippie guy.” You would have dark thoughts about that
person. They are willing to stand aside and allow something truly
horrible just so they can avoid doing something unpleasant. To make it
worse, they demand that you pretend that their cowardice and treachery
is high minded.

Further, you would look at those people investing all of their energy
ridiculing Mussolini as pro-Hitler partisans. After all, the successful
end of the efforts can only mean one thing –  Hitler wins. They could
protest all they like that they hate both Hitler and Mussolini, but you
would know them by their deeds. They are working to pave the way for
Hitler, regardless of their reasoning. If successful, they would be, in
part, responsible for what comes next. Blood would be on their hands and
you would feel justified in holding them responsible.

Alternatively, if someone came up to you and made the case for Hitler,
along with pointing out the faults of Mussolini, you would not feel the
urge to punch them in the face. They may be horribly mistaken, but at
least they are being honest. They are pro-Hitler and they take
responsibility for it. They own it. Who knows, they could be right and
Mussolini is worse in the long run. In theory, at least, you can debate
this with the Hitler fans and maybe in the process sway some undecided
voters to your side.

Obviously, you see what I’m doing here. Replace Hitler with Clinton and
Mussolini with Trump and we have the debate between the Cult of Never
Trump and the rest of us. No one thinks Trump is the ideal candidate.
Many of us think he is a awful candidate, but he is orders of magnitude
better than Clinton. Her election means the nation lurches into
authoritarianism. What comes next will be unfathomably horrible. If you
have a soul, you do what you must to prevent evil from triumphing.
<a href="http://www.redstate.com/sweetie15/" target="_blank">Susan
Wright</a> has no soul.

<a href="https://twitter.com/SweetieWalker/status/788492318017925120"
target="_blank">This twitter exchange</a> I had with her is the genesis
of this post:

> I own my principles. You should try some, sometime.
>
> — Susan "Lock Trump up NOW" Bagwell (@SweetieWalker) [October 18,
> 2016](https://twitter.com/SweetieWalker/status/788492318017925120?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

Red State, of course, has gone full-on moonbat. Their only reason to
exist these days is to bash Trump and Trump voters. A moral nullity like
Susan Wright also takes time out to <a
href="http://www.redstate.com/diary/sweetie15/2016/01/20/go-home-sarah-youre-drunk/"
target="_blank">bash other Dirt People like Sarah Palin</a>. Even loopy
liberals have moved on from Palin-bashing, but as a dog returns to its
vomit, the degenerate social justice warriors of the Never Trump Cult go
back to Palin-bashing when they need material. Reading her posts, you
could be forgiven for thinking she was a writer for Salon.

To return to my analogy, Susan Wright is the sort that would spend all
her time harping about the defects of Mussolini, then claim she
is standing on principle, as Hitler rounds up the Jews and packs them
off to the gas chambers. She would rather something horrible happen,
than get her hands dirty doing the hard work of opposing evil. Of
course, that assumes she thinks Clinton is a bad choice. Again, reading
her posts, it’s hard not to think she is related to the old bag, not
just a supporter.

After the war, many Germans tried to say they did not know what was
happening so they should not be held accountable for supporting the
Nazis. The question in those cases was whether or not the
person *should* have known or *could* have known. The Clinton Crime
Family has been a known quantity for 25 years. Susan Wright and her ilk
know exactly what comes from a Clinton victory. Blood will be on their
hands. “I did not know” is not going to be an acceptable excuse when the
time comes.
