---
title: "The New Normal"
date: "2016-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7066"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7066"
---

A feature of modern life is the public act of grief after a “mass
casualty event” like a flood or an **E**xploding **M**ohamed
**O**ccurrence. Once things settle down, the people in charge gather up
for a parade or a ceremony at which they show everyone just how upset
they are at what happened. The media makes a big deal of it and the
public is encouraged to pretend it is a big deal. Then everyone goes
back to what they were doing and we forget all about it.

In the Bronze Age, public acts of piety were common. In fact, they were
a necessary part of the life of the polity. The ruler would participate
in rituals in order to show the people he was in good with the gods and
that he was sufficiently pious. It is argued that Cyrus the Great was
able to defeat Babylon because the Babylonian king, Nabonidus, was not
participating in these rituals, therefore his people welcomed the
conquerors.

Today we don’t have our leaders slaughter a bull to the gods or do
something interesting with virgins. Instead, our rulers invite
barbarians onto our countries to slaughter us, so the rulers can then
come out and show their piety. After the **E**xploding **M**ohamed
**O**ccurrence in Belgium, <a
href="http://www.euronews.com/2016/03/29/belgium-france-lead-minute-s-silence-for-brussels-and-lahore-attacks"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the European “leaders” had the typical
ceremony.</a>

*Brussels Mayor Yvan Mayeur has led a minute’s silence in Paris with his
French counterpart Anne Hidalgo.*

*The memorial for victims of the Brussels and Lahore attacks came
exactly a week after explosions at the airport and on the metro killed
35 people in the Belgian capital.*

*“There is no more normal,” Mayeur warned. “This is a concept that needs
to be redefined. We are in a different era and we need to live in this
dimension and keep believing that our model of an open, multicultural
city such as Paris, Brussels, London or New York, this is what we want
to be. This is the future and that is the message I wanted to bring.”*

Notice that expelling the Muslims is not an option? Notice that
repelling the Muslims is never an option. Instead, we have to just
accept this “new normal” where strange men with beards suddenly explode
in public places. If Volkswagen made cars that exploded at the same rate
as Muslims, the president of the company would be in jail and the
company in bankruptcy. But the religion of multiculturalism overrides
everything, including civil defense.

We are well past the point where this reckless behavior by the elites
can be explained as simply mistaken. That quote makes clear that even
the dullest politicians understand that a world of open borders is a
future where the **E**xploding **M**ohamed **O**ccurrence is going to be
like the Windows game <a
href="https://www.facebook.com/betterthanjesuschrist/photos/a.268402293211835.80591.268398926545505/1098295353555854/?type=3&amp;theater"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Minesweeper</a>. Tick the wrong box and
it is game over for you and your family. But you being blown to bits or
having your daughter raped is the price you pay so they can have their
public vigils.

Increasingly, this is where the evidence points. <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/The-Revolt-Elites-Betrayal-Democracy/dp/0393313719"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Revolt of the Elites</a> has as one
manifestation a compulsion by the managerial class to create
technocratic solutions to social problems. Given that the big issues of
scarcity have been conquered, they are unconsciously creating new life
threatening problems so they can solve them. I suppose we should be
grateful that it is just Exploding Mohameds and not a new form of the
Black Death.

The one thing George Bush said that was correct was that the job of
government is to keep the people safe. Ultimately, settled people have
tolerated hierarchical government where a minority rules the majority
because of safety. For the overwhelming majority of people, a peaceful
life of poverty beats a turbulent life, even one of prosperity. Most
Americans would choose to be pets to a race of super intelligent chimps
if it meant safety and comfort.

The bet being made today by the people in charge is you will accept a
world of Exploding Mohameds. They will build out the custodial state,
cameras on every block, <a
href="http://www.wired.com/2009/08/britain-to-put-cctv-cameras-inside-private-homes/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">even in homes</a>, <a
href="http://redalertpolitics.com/2016/04/04/scottish-police-threatens-social-media-users-unkind-posts/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">cops reviewing your twitter feed</a> and
the elimination of personal privacy, all in the name of safety. Every
time a Mohamed goes off in a public space, the rulers will rush around
acting like it is something they wish to prevent, while using it as a
reason to slowly slam the cage door shut on the natives.

The problem here is that history has no example of this working. In
every case where the people in charge have failed in their basic duties,
the people in charge ended up dead oir fleeing for their lives. Maybe
the technological revolution is allowing a break from historic trends.
Maybe the people in charge can play this weird game of human chess and
remain immune from the consequences. <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/london/2016/04/05/swedish-women-sympathetic-towards-soldiers-odin/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It is, however, not the way to bet</a>.
