---
title: "Hillary Capone"
date: "2016-01-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6212"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6212"
---

One of the benefits of writing about the world, versus being a pen for
hire, is you get to speculate about things in public. The check writers
in the publishing world are deathly afraid of their benefactors so they
turtle up at the first site of trouble. Even lefty rags tip-toe around
in fear of pissing off the wrong rich guy. If you want to make a living
as a writer, you better keep your head down and show proper deference.

Hobbyists like me have no such restrictions. What bloggers lack in
audience share, we make up for in wild-ass speculation, some of which
turns out to be right. I was reminded of that by [this I saw come over
the twitter
machine](http://www.redstate.com/2015/08/16/real-email-question-hillary-clinton-sell-us-intelligence/)
last night. The latest batch of Hillary Clinton e-mails suggest she was
up to something other than hiding from Congressional subpoenas.

Back in the summer [I wrote this](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5204)
about the scandal and it was picked up by a bunch of sites, including
Red State. If you think through the mechanics of building a private
e-mail server and then working to keep it private, the set
of motivations behind such an effort are small and they range from the
mildly devious to the flamboyantly criminal. There’s simply no good
reason to have gone off the books in this fashion.

What has made the Clintons so successful at the grift is they never let
anyone see inside the box. If three people are in on their caper, those
three people have four versions of the “truth” and none of them quite
fit with the facts. The reason for that is the Clintons use selective
honesty to blind their subordinates to the contradictions. Each member
of the caper is sure he is the only one trusted enough to know the whole
story.

That’s most likely what’s happening with this scandal. The FBI
interviewed the technical people who handled the servers. They have
interviewed Clinton staff and have, reportedly, been talking to Hillary
through her attorneys. By now the FBI has 85 versions of the truth, all
of which sort of fit the facts. Of course, many of these people,
believing they are the most trusted aide to the Clintons, are
stonewalling out of loyalty.

The other thing the Clintons are good at doing is offering up multiple
motivations for their capers. In this case, Hillary has said she wanted
to guard her private correspondence. She’s also hinted that she was
trying to keep the vast right-wing conspiracy from prying into her
affairs via Congressional oversight. These are all relatively innocent
explanations. She was justified in breaking the law because her
tormentors are big meanies!

It’s this artful use of distraction that causes me to wonder if her
campaign is not just another smokescreen. The FBI would be hard pressed
to get the green light to indict her even if she was not running for
president. Getting the political class to OK it when she is the front
runner for the nomination is highly unlikely. That makes her campaign a
force-field to repel a full blown investigation. At least that’s what
they are thinking.

Put another way, Hillary’s campaign is like a staged terror attack to
distract from the bank heist going on across town. As long as she is
running for office, the Feds are limited in what they can do to her. The
bet is the clock runs out on this by the summer as it will be viewed as
too politically dangerous. Win or lose, Team Clinton gets away with what
amounts to a bank heist.

Ultimately, that’s what has always worked for the Clintons. The
assumption by friends and foes is that they are motivated by power,
ideology and politics. Their actions are all in pursuit of office or
scoring points against political enemies. Working from that assumption,
their enemies always swing and miss because they are aiming at something
that is not there.

The real soul of the Clintons, if you will, is good old fashioned greed.
It is a love of money and what money brings that drives them. Politics
has always been a means, not an end. In this regard they are not much
different from most gangsters. Al Capone enjoyed crime, but crime was
not his motivation. He liked living large and crime was the means to
that end. if Capone happened to be good at making widgets, he would have
done that.

If the news reports are accurate, it appears the [FBI is figuring out
that they have an old fashioned
heist](http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2016/01/11/fbis-clinton-probe-expands-to-public-corruption-track.html)
on their hands. The smart money says they run into a stone wall, but
even Al Capone was eventually brought low on the sort of technical
violations of the law we are seeing here. This is not the 1920’s where
you can hide the books from the Feds. Every cent that flows in and out
of that operation can be traced now.

Still, the Clinton gang is not without its resources. The longer this
takes, the less likely it is for the political class to permit a
criminal case being brought against her. Imagine Clinton being indicted
in June after clinching the nomination. But events have a way of getting
away from even the craftiest people so there’s always hope. The image
that brings me joy when thinking of the Clintons is of Bill standing on
the porch, a bimbo on his arm, waving to Hillary as she is carted away
to the penitentiary.
