---
title: "The Day After"
date: "2016-02-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6438"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6438"
---

I watched very little of the Republican debate last night. These are not
designed to inform the voters or challenge the contestants. They are TV
shows. Those old enough to remember the Gong Show have to notice the
similarities. The only difference is the old Gong Show had more
self-respect. Chuck Barris had no illusions about what he was doing.

I caught some bits and pieces on-line, mostly through twitter. The clips
I saw of Chris Christie pulling Rubio’s underwear over his head made me
laugh. I’ve said for years now that Rubio is Miss South Carolina with a
penis. The guy is as dumb as plank, but he can memorize his lines. As
long as he is not asked to go off script, he sounds convincing. Last
night he sounded like every other dumb actor.

Trump supporters on-line were jubilant. I suspect they feared a rally by
the open-borders people behind Rubio in New Hampshire. The Conservative
media was all prepared to make second place the new first place, just as
they did after Iowa, by making third the new first. I flipped on Fox and
it looked like they were covering a funeral so I’m guessing they think
it is curtains for Rubio.

What’s somewhat interesting about all this is both parties are facing a
problem they thought they would never face. That is, the voters picking
a nominee off the unapproved list. If Sanders wins big in New Hampshire,
it’s hard to imagine Clinton recovering. What’s coming through loud and
clear is the voters would rather lose than win with Hillary.

The Republicans are facing a similar problem. If Trump wins New
Hampshire, it’s hard to imagine any of the dwarfs surviving the night.
Bush, Kasich, Rubio and Christie will have lost badly in the first two
tests. Cruz and Trump will be the remaining options. Unless one of the
dwarfs has a magical election night and finishes second, there’s no
argument for keeping them in the race.

My guess is the old hands in both parties are quietly discussing what
they do to prevent these unacceptable options from winning the
nomination. The Democrats have changed their system to give the party
elders enough of the delegates so they could block Sanders if they
choose to do it. That would mean having another option like Biden, Gore
or maybe Warren. A Biden – Warren ticket could placate the Sanders
people.

On the GOP side, it’s not as easy, but they can still throw a wrench in
the works. One way would be to rally around the first dwarf on Tuesday
night. Let say Kasich finishes second. The other dwarfs drop out and
endorse him as king of the dwarfs and they make an explicit statement
that they are doing it to stop Trump.

That crystallizes the rest of the race as the sensible wing versus the
crazies. The media will pile on and it could probably be enough to
prevent Trump from getting the required delegates. The dwarf
league would ignore Cruz, seeing him as a drain on Trump. The trouble
with this is it would be so transparent it could very well work in
Trump’s favor.

The doomsday scenario for both parties is the Michael Bloomberg option.
Bill Kristol has already said he will bolt the GOP if Trump is the
nominee. It’s not hard to imagine the Conservative Industrial Complex
following him and supporting Bloomberg as the “least bad option.” They
could decorate their banners with quotes from Buckley about strategic
voting.

At the same time, Progressives would suddenly have an option they could
support if they don’t like Sanders. Instead of a blood bath at their
convention, they could let Sanders have the nomination, but make clear
that real liberal democrats will be backing Bloomberg as the
reconciliation candidate. “He’s the only guy who can unite both
parties!”

All of this sounds farfetched, but the prospect of a Trump – Sanders
election sounded laughably absurd a year ago. We live in an age where
the ridiculous quickly becomes the norm. Twenty years ago, comics told
jokes about men marrying men. Today, they threaten you with prison for
even remembering those jokes. Mark Steyn was purged from National Review
for repeating an old quip about homosexuals popular in the 50’s.

We are in a great transition, so everything is on the table. Just look
over at England. One party evaporated. The other is run by a lunatic,
leaving them with the Tories and that weird Scottish Nationalist Party.
Predicting that five years ago would have gotten you committed. Heck,
the smart money five years ago said Labour would return to power.

Some on the Alt-Right think the parties are reorganizing along
globalist-nationalist lines. Others see one party being the white party
and the other the NAM party, making America something like Rhodesia, I
guess. Then there are those who suspect Brazil is the future, where a
light skin oligarchy rules over a massive dark skinned ghetto. Maybe
some combination of all of those things is the answer.

The simpler answer could be that globalism simply has no constituency in
a mass media democracy. Global capitalism outlandishly benefits a very
small portion of society. People being what they are, this massive
inequality opens the doors for candidates antithetical to global
capitalism. That was the lesson 100 years ago and it maybe the lesson
today. Of course, 100 years it took a blood bath to drive home that
point.
