---
title: "The Attack of the Dirt Monster"
date: "2016-03-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6698"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6698"
---

When an army is defeated on the battlefield, the first thing that
happens is the lines break and order breaks down. Some units surrender
right away, while others try to reform and keep fighting. Still others
will retreat, finding the quickest way to escape in order to avoid
capture or potential slaughter. The military saying is that you learn
everything about an army when they are defeated.

That’s true of political arrangements as well. A political party or an
ideological movement takes on a very different character when it runs
into trouble. That’s because we get to see inside once it is cracked
open. The things that were hidden behind the rhetoric, tactics and
institutions are not only made public, but the motivations behind them
are made public. It’s never a pretty picture.

The feuding and bloodletting we are seeing in the American political
class is one of those rare chances to see behind the curtain of power,
at what really is going on with our rulers. The other day the NYTimes
dropped a bombshell report on how Chuck Schumer, Marco Rubio and Roger
Ailes tried to hoodwink conservatives into buying off on amnesty. The
gist of the story is it was an orchestrated effort to have Fox News sell
a Democrat policy to conservatives.

As much as this damages Fox News, it also damages the Left. Their voters
loathe the idea that the fix is in and that both parties plot in secret
to hose the voters. Liberals hate this more than conservatives, who tend
to suspect it anyway. In the past, this is the sort of story that would
never be reported, but today the lines are breaking and it is a
free-for-all. The NYTimes is taking a shot at Fox, even if it helps
Trump, who they hate.

Of course, the on-going implosion of conservative media offers the best
glimpse into the reality of the so-called conservative movement. We see
some of them pledging to support Hillary Clinton. Others have broken
into the old liberal chants from the Bush years. Still others are
claiming Trump is a member of the KKK, the Nazi Party, the Italian Mafia
and a Progressive Democrat. I guess that’s what George Bush meant when
he said he wanted to be a “uniter” not a divider.

The shocking part for many Americans is seeing people who have spent
decades claiming to be their champion, suddenly turn on them and call
them morons and fascists. But it’s what happens when the lines break
down and there is no longer anyone around to maintain order. We see the
true nature of the combatants. In this case, most of the people in
conservative media never cared much for their customers. The audience
is just there to be farmed, like cattle.

Scrape away the ranting and raving and what you see is that all of them
have been committed to the open borders project. Mickey Kaus pointed out
a year ago that the simplest way to derail Donald Trump was for the
party to adopt the polices of Jeff Sessions. These are wildly popular
with voters and well within the traditions of America. They could not do
it. They were willing to go to war with their own voters in order to
save the open borders dream.

There are plenty of examples from history where the ruling elite has
decided that a popular belief had to be purged. Wodinism was purged from
the British Isles by force. Whole villages were forcibly converted to
the new religion. This only worked because the people doing the
converting were believers too and their new religion offered something
of value to the converted. If Christianity was good enough for the king,
then the people could go along with it.

The fantasy of open borders turns this on its head. The managerial
elites live in bunkered communities, immune from the costs of open
borders. They live in these Potemkin villages that resemble college
campuses, where the diversity is only skin deep. Everyone has an
advanced degree, a job in government and a worldview to match it. The
people they plan to forcibly convert are the people they intend to stick
with the cost of it, while the elites plan to enjoy the benefits.

The insanity of this plan is that it assumes things about humans that,
if true, would spell the end of the managerial class. After all, if
people are willing to go along with having the value of their
citizenship vaporized, that means they no longer see it as having any
value. How in the world will the managerial class command loyalty from
the people when there is no longer any point in being loyal? After all,
you can’t have patriotic duty without patriotism and you can’t have that
if it no longer has any value.

What we are seeing here is something about how the Cloud People view the
Dirt People. Loyalty to a society has always been anchored in loyalty to
the people in that society. A man is willing to take up the sword on
behalf of the king, because the king is doing the same for his subjects.
In other words, you’re not fighting for the king, you’re fighting
for what the king embodies, what the king represents. Loyalty flows in
both directions.

What’s happening is a realization on the part of the Dirt People that
the Cloud People hold them in contempt. What started out as some small
skirmishes over the last decade, have now turned into a full blown war
and the lines of the political establishment have broken. We’re getting
to see the ugly truth that lies behind them. For most people, this is
infuriating and that’s why they have flocked to the evil dirt monster
that is Donald Trump

It’s also why the bellowing from conservative media over Trump has
backfired. The people are angry at the Republicans for their treachery.
They are hardly going to listen to the party’s propaganda organs lecture
them on the need to be loyal in the fight against the dirt monster. If
anything, like the peasants in the Italian countryside when Alaric
approached Rome, they will side with the wrecker.
