---
title: "Glenn Beck Is A Dangerous Nut-Job"
date: "2016-06-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Trump
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7584"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7584"
---

There is a guy in my neighborhood who was always known as being the sort
who went all in on things. If it was worth doing it was worth overdoing.
Hobbies became obsessions to the point of distraction. When he
discovered alcohol, it was the same pattern. Drinking quickly went from
social to a lifestyle. Then came drugs and the party life was an all
consuming thing for him. The gonzo party guy was the over the top drug
and alcohol guy to the point where his life was at risk.

Just like with all of his obsessions, he suddenly stopped drinking and
using drugs. He quit the lifestyle and quit drinking entirely. Unlike
most people who struggle with quitting, sobriety became his obsession.
He was not going to be just another former addict. He was going to be
the ultimate former addict. In short order he went from gonzo party guy
to gonzo sobriety guy, lecturing everyone about the ills of drugs and
alcohol, preaching the good news of sobriety to everyone.

Like a lot of former drunks, he drifted into religion. Maybe its the
obsessive compulsive behavior or something else, but former addicts
often find Jesus. It could simply be that many therapy meetings are held
in churches. This guy got into religion and soon became the most devout
person possible. He talked about maybe becoming minister. Instead of
preaching the good news of his sobriety, he was now preaching the Good
News.

Since religion always bumps up against politics, his religion led him
into various causes that brought him into contact with politics. The
familiar pattern started all over again. He threw himself into the
topic, reading and studying everything he could about history and
ideology. Being a religious guy, he naturally gravitated to causes and
politics that were anti-Progressive. The gonzo party guy was now the
gonzo political guy. His life was now politics and everything that came
along with it.

By now you can probably figure out that I am not talking about a guy in
the neighborhood. I am describing Glenn Beck, the deranged radio and TV
host. I describe him as deranged because he has always existed on the
edge between over the top political commentary and Jim Jones People’s
Temple madness. It was never said explicitly, but the reason he left Fox
was that the people in charge were a bit worried that he was descending
into madness. Despite his ratings, they were glad to see him go.

Beck, of course, has done a lot to prove that Ailes was right. Beck has
gone off and created a little media empire of his own out in Texas. From
time to time, he has claimed to have talked with God and claimed to have
been struck down with a debilitating disease. Half a dozen years ago the
Lord was taking his sight. A few years later he was claiming some sort
of vocal cord issue. [These
maladies](http://www.mediaite.com/online/glenn-beck-announces-medical-hiatus-from-his-radio-show/)
are highly dramatized and then disappear.

Those familiar with radio preachers recognize this act. Back in the old
days, radio and TV preachers would claim God was going to take them if
the audience did not raise money for the new school or the new Mercedes
or whatever the preacher wanted. In Beck’s case, it is possibly just
attention seeking, but there is a strong case to be made that he is as
nutty as a fruitcake. He never attaches a money making effort to his
mystery diseases so it appears he really thinks he is Job.

In this election, Beck has eliminated any doubt about his mental
fitness. He was telling audiences that Ted Cruz, of all people, was the
Lord’s messenger sent to save humanity. Even more absurdly, he claims
Donald Trump is the Anti-Christ. Presumably, the Ted Cruz – Donald Trump
campaign in the primary was some sort of post-modern version of the
final battle between good and evil. The final battle would happen in a
TV studio rather than a hilltop in Israel.

Beck has now been suspended from his radio show [for teaming up with
another howling lunatic to encourage the assassination of
Trump](http://www.breitbart.com/video/2016/05/25/brad-thor-glenn-beck-trump-tyrant/).
I am unfamiliar with Brad Thor, but my guess is he is a dickhead. I’ve
yet to meet anyone named Brad who was not an asshole. I am told he is a
popular pulp fiction writer, but I do not read thrillers so I cannot
comment on his work. He stalked me on twitter for a few days for some
reason, but I do not use twitter enough to care.

One of the problems that fringe movements always suffer is that they
attract a lot of nuts. The reason is the nuts are free to join a cause
that will have them. The mass movement that is just getting started
needs people so it welcomes all comers. [The result is a fat naked guy
doing the boogie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d45x4OpMoow) at your
big convention. It is why all successful mass movements enter a period
where they deal with their loons. This is either a purge or a
marginalization. Take note alt-right.

In the mass media age, a similar problem infects the media outlets.
There is the gaping maw demanding to be filled with content. There is a
finite number of sensible writers, speakers, performs and so forth. The
demand quickly outstrips the supply so that means weirdos and lunatics
are invited into fill the space. Technology now makes it easy for every
nut-job in America to reach a broad audience. An obsessive nut-job can
mange to get quite good at it.

Glenn Beck should not have easy access to a large audience. He should be
broadcasting over short wave or handing out handwritten flyers on street
corners, but satellite radio needs content. Media investors want a
vehicle to exploit the audience a Beck attracts. Cable shows need a
reason for people to watch so inviting an unhinged loon is a quick way
to create content that creates interest. Unlike the political movement,
there has been no way to purge the dangerous loonies from mass media.

I mentioned the other day that intolerance is wildly underrated. Much of
what ails the West is due to the people in charge failing in their basic
duties. Instead of enforcing the codes and customs that keep society on
an even keel, they have found excuses to tolerate all sorts of bad
behavior. It is how we ended up with hip-hop music and talking
hemorrhoids like Al Sharpton celebrated in popular culture. That may
seem harmless, but it is also how you end up with nutters like Beck and
Thor encouraging people to shoot Donald Trump.

This will not end well.
