---
title: "The Hater’s Ball"
date: "2016-08-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8408"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8408"
---

I got an e-mail from someone asking me questions about the alt-right. At
first I thought it was a joke, but a little research revealed the person
to be a reporter for a legitimate media site. <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/08/22/the-race-realist-theory-of-how-trump-can-win-explained/"
target="_blank">Some guy from the Washington Post did a story on the
hate think community</a> the other day and he followed up with a <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/08/24/whats-the-alt-right-a-primer/"
target="_blank">primer for the good thinkers</a>.  Hillary Clinton is <a
href="http://www.cbsnews.com/news/hillary-clinton-will-address-donald-trump-and-alt-right-thursday/"
target="_blank">planning to bravely take on the alt-right</a> in a
speech somewhere, assuming they can sober her up and keep her from
toppling over. Now that the Cloud People have a label, they plan to
demonize anyone that opposes them as members of the alt-right.

I’m not sure of the protocol on these things so I’ll leave the identity
of my correspondent out of this, but the query had the feel of an e-mail
blast hoping someone would respond. One question was “When did you join
the Alt-Right?” It’s the sort of question asked by people who have spent
their life accumulating credentials in order to advance in the
bureaucracy. “Comrade, I joined Party after leaving University, where I
got degree in ideology and policy.” Managerial class types just assume
everything works like the exam system of the managerial class.

I don’t consider myself in the alt-right, but I suppose that depends
upon how you define it. If memory serves, Richard Spencer coined the
term Alternative Right and his thing is white identity and white
nationalism. I have no interest in those things and I don’t write much
about race. I’m a biological realist and I think most of what we are as
humans is in our genes, but I think forming a white ethno-state is about
the dumbest thing I’ve ever heard. The only thing dumber is the blank
slate nonsense that comes from the managerial class through the mass
media.

On the other hand, big foot journalists are now applying the label
“alt-right” to anyone outside the government approved Left-Right orbit
so maybe that does place guys like me in the club. John Derbyshire
coined the term “Dissident Right” which is probably a better label. I
don’t dream of a honky paradise. I just want one of the political
parties to be slightly to the right of the Democrats of 1960. Half a
century of cultural lunacy is enough. Let’s go back to what used to
work for the bulk of the citizens.

None of that is important. What is important is the people in charge
feel they need to do something about the growing hate-think community.
Having Clinton waddle out in front of other humans is a high risk stunt,
given her brain injuries, but having her take on the alt-right suggests
the Cloud People are worried. As Hitler said, “First they ignore you,
then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.” Maybe it was
Gandhi who said it. I get the two mixed up all the time.

The reason the Cloud People are suddenly concerned about the hate
thinkers is the numbers. In the 1980’s, Official Conservatism™ included
people like Joe Sobran, Sam Francis, Peter Brimelow and Steve Sailer.
The people outside the sphere of acceptable opinion were the sort of
people who handed out literature on street corners extolling the virtues
of the Albanian political system. The hard core racists and radicals
were small in number and comfortably outside the tent so no one paid any
attention to them.

Over the last thirty years or so, one group after another has been cast
out of the increasingly narrow sphere of acceptable politics.
Conservatism is basically low-tax liberalism now. It’s not just on the
right either. Old school progressives like Bernie Sanders are now
outside the realm of the acceptable on the Left. Cesar Chavez would be a
hate thinker today, simply because he strongly opposed illegal
immigration on economic grounds. The difference between the Left and
Right today is over patronage and how often to bomb the muzzies.

The result of several decades of purges on the Right is that the
“alt-right” is now bigger than the Official Right™ and it certainly is
where the cool kids are hanging out on-line. The hate thinkers are also
younger, on average, than the old farts in the mainstream media. One of
the strange things about the alt-right is it is populated with young
guys with everything to gain from a rebellion and old eccentrics with
nothing to lose from a rebellion. The young guys are clever and funny,
while the old guys are brilliant at noticing patterns in society and
human behavior.

The safe bet is the increased attention to the hate thinkers will result
in a holding of hands and chanting of lines from the liberal catechism.
Howls of racism and antisemitism will echo through the halls of
officialdom. We got a taste of this in the primary when guys like Jonah
Goldberg tried to slime Trump as a closet Klansman simply because David
Duke said nice things about him. Among the Cloud People, being called a
racist is the worst thing imaginable, so it is their most powerful
abracadabra word.

The trouble is the hate thinkers really don’t care and they seem to
relish this sort of attention. The gag you often see is “When I was a
conservative they called me a racist. When I was a libertarian they
called me a racist. When I was a Tea Partier they called me a racist.
Now that I’m alt-right I don’t care what they call me.” Often, the
response to the charge of racism is mockery. It’s really hard to shout
people down when they are laughing at your efforts. That and the old
guys have been called these things so often they don’t pay any attention
to it now.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6AT_VXvA6AA"
target="_blank">Welcome to the Hater’s Ball Cloud People</a>.
