---
title: "A Moral Philosophy of HBD"
date: "2016-09-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8611"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8611"
---

Pubic policy in the West is argued on many fronts, but the roots of all
of our debates are in the Enlightenment. Arguably, the three most
important men of the Enlightenment are Hobbes, Locke and Rousseau. They
are the giants whose shadows are still felt today. When Progressives,
for example, proselytize on behalf of equality and inclusion, they are
relying on Rousseau, and to a lesser extent Locke, as the foundation of
their argument. Libertarians root their ideology in the ideas of Locke,
specifically with regards to property.

The starting point for the men of the Enlightenment was man’s natural
state or how they imagined humans acted before civil society. Hobbes
imagined that man’s natural state was a “war of all against all” and
civil society was imposed to protect men from each other. Locke imagined
that man was naturally cooperative, looking out for one another and that
civil society was a natural outgrowth of man’s nature. Similarly,
Rousseau imagined that man in his natural state was virtuous and
altruistic.

Obviously, that is an absurdly generalized version of three of the
greatest thinkers in human history. The point I want to establish is
that the foundation of modern Western society is rooted in notions about
man’s natural state. The men of the Enlightenment did not have access to
detailed studies of hunter gatherers. They did not have the fossil
record or an understanding of evolution and genetics. They were simply
conjuring the possible starting places by working backwards from where
they stood in the timeline.

And they were wrong.

While we don’t know the nitty-gritty details of early modern human
society, we have some rough contours of how our ancestors lived before
settlement and writing. We also have loads of studies of our nearest
relatives that allow us to understand what pre-modern man must have been
like before we split off on our own evolutionary branch. Even if you
reject evolution, we have examples of hunter gatherer populations in the
modern age that live, most likely, as our ancestors lived at one time in
Eurasia.

What we know, with a high degree of certainty, is that humans were never
in a state of nature as Hobbes imagined. We were always in cooperative
groups, most likely kin based groups. While conflicts between groups of
humans over territory and resources would have been common, these groups
exchanged women and food with one another too. Marrying off women from
the clan to men of the neighboring clan would have been an important way
to keep the peace, settle disputes and bind people together.

Similarly, human societies were not egalitarian paradises as Rousseau
imagined. Human beings developed compassion for one another based on
familial relations. Trog guarded the interests of Grog because it was
good for both. Similarly, they were hostile to strangers for the same
reason. Compassion for others is no more or less natural than hostility
to others. In both cases, they are driven by biological necessity. One
group of humans would share scarce resources internally, but gladly let
strangers starve to death

The point here is two-fold. One is that we know a lot about the
biological nature of man that the men of the Enlightenment did not know.
Genetics is opening up vast new areas of understanding. Continuing to
base our moral philosophy on vague speculation that has proven to be
incorrect does not make a lot of sense. For instance, we know with
certainty that nature does not bestow her gifts equally, but she does so
predictably. Continuing to operate as if we are born a blank slate is
rather foolish, given what we now know.

Further, we know that human evolution was local and on-going after
humans spread out from Africa. Asians have physical characteristics that
are unique to people from Asia. Northern Europeans have physical
features unique to them. These variations must extend beyond the
physical, into cognitive areas as well. Assuming that moral codes, for
example, are universal is as nutty as assuming that people everywhere
have red hair. The way in which people see themselves, there
relationship to one another and their place in nature is not universal.

An assertion like “all men are created equal, that they are endowed by
their creator with certain unalienable rights” works great if by all men
you mean all the men of your tribe, your ethnicity or your lands. It
falls on its face when you apply it to all humans everywhere. Similarly,
the political economy of Sweden works great when it confined to Swedes
in Sweden. It does not make any sense to the people of Syria because
they are different people with different natural abilities and cognitive
skills.

The Enlightenment came along with the revolution in commerce. The West
was suddenly rich and the old feudal order was no longer workable. The
industrial age gave us intellectual movements that built on the
Enlightenment and attempted to create a moral philosophy to match the
industrial world. We have just gone through a technological revolution
and we are in the midst of a revolution in the understanding of human
biology. Accordingly, a new moral philosophy is certain to develop and
evolve to match our new understanding.

The next big thing in public policy will most likely be based in
<a href="http://www.humanbiologicaldiversity.com/" target="_blank">Human
Bio-Diversity</a>, unless the good thinkers go the Muslim route and
begin to slaughter the men of science. Heading off down the road of
mysticism and magic is not out of the question, but the more likely
option is the people preaching equality and inclusion follow the Shakers
into the history books. What comes next will be a public debate rooted
in biological reality. How best to manage the bone-deep differences in
human populations.

There will also be a degree of magical thinking as that helps grease the
wheels of society, but the disaster of multiculturalism, the memory of
it as well as the residue on the ground, will mark it in the same way
the Holocaust has marked fascism. Instead, debates about what to do for
X people will be bounded by the debate over the limits of compassion for
out-groups. Many of these arguments will be just as wrong as the
arguments in favor of inclusion are today, but they will be wrong in a
different direction.
