---
title: "Bloomy’s Black Guy Problem"
date: "2016-02-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6471"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6471"
---

One of my favorite gags is to say, “America does not have a gun problem.
America has a black guy problem.” It’s bait and inevitably someone calls
me a racist. I then go to the statistics that show the staggering
disparity between white and black crime rates. Net out young black males
shooting other young black males and there’s nothing to talk about with
regards to guns and crime.

The thing is, this is something we all know, but the religion of
anti-racism makes it impossible to say in pubic. Even liberals know this
and work around it. Gentrification of liberal cities is all about ethnic
cleansing. Rich liberals force out the blacks, so their hipster kids
have safe neighborhoods in the city. As Steve Sailer puts it, it’s a
game of Old Maid where liberal cities pawn off their difficult
populations on unsuspecting suburbs.

[It looks like Mike Bloomberg has decided to come
clean](http://www.aspentimes.com/news/14957190-113/michael-bloomberg-calls-colorados-decision-on-legal-pot-stupid)
on his gun nuttery and just say what everyone knows to be true.

*Moderator Jennifer Bradley, director of the Center for Urban Innovation
at the Institute, then asked what the U.S. can do to get people out of
poverty. Bloomberg responded that conventional wisdom points to
education, but education isn’t going to help uneducated adults. Bradley
later asked how government can offer basic fairness to the children “who
have been failed.”*

*Bloomberg claimed that 95 percent of murders fall into a specific
category: male, minority and between the ages of 15 and 25. Cities need
to get guns out of this group’s hands and keep them alive, he said.*

*“These kids think they’re going to get killed anyway because all their
friends are getting killed,” Bloomberg said. “They just don’t have any
long-term focus or anything. It’s a joke to have a gun. It’s a joke to
pull a trigger.”*

*At one point, the former mayor brought up New York City’s
stop-and-frisk practices, which gained national attention in 2011.
Bloomberg said that during his last year in office, a minister at a
Baptist church in Harlem invited him to speak.*

*“While I’m sitting there waiting for him to introduce me, he said to
his congregation, ‘You know, if every one of you stopped and frisked
your kid before they went out at night, the mayor wouldn’t have to do
it,’” Bloomberg said. “And so I knew I was going to be okay with that
audience.”*

The usual suspects call guys like Bloomberg a crazy Lefty, but his views
are in-line with old school conservatives like Russell Kirk. The people
in charge have a duty to defend ordered liberty, not theoretical
philosophical concepts. Policies like stop and frisk in black ghettos
save black lives, even though they violate the rights of the people in
the ghetto. But you can’t exercise your rights from the grave, so it is
a necessary trade-off.

In that regard, Bloomy’s sense of obligation is actually quite
conservative. It used to be that the Right looked at natural rights as a
starting point, a set of ideals to guide the people trusted with
political power. The hard limits necessary to prevent tyranny were
balanced against practical necessity. Men are not angels so you can’t
trust them with too much power, but the people over whom they rule are
not angels either.
