---
title: "The Next Frontier"
date: "2016-08-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8357"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8357"
---

Genetics, particularly gene therapy is the one area of science that
could offer a species altering breakthrough. Flying electric cars would
be a great, but they are a long way from reality. In fact, they may
never be reality due to issues like battery technology. Most of what
science is going to bring mankind over the next couple of generations is
better, faster cheaper versions of the stuff we already have now. Think
air travel over the last fifty years. The planes are better and faster,
but otherwise the same as they were in the 50’s.

That’s not the case with genetic engineering. Here we could very well
see some species altering technology. Imagine medicine being able to
“fix” certain common genetic defects, thus eliminating the defect from
future generations. Imagine the impact of gene therapy that causes the
body’s immune system to destroy cancer cells. Cancer kills a lot of
people long before old age so “curing” cancer would be an enormous
change for humanity. There’s also the application in the area of mental
health. Imagine curing forms of mental illness like schizophrenia.

Right now, medicine is the most likely to benefit from genetic
technology, but that’s not the end of it. Isolating genes for certain
traits like height and eye color is well within reach and well within
the realm of things that could be altered in embryos. Designer babies
sounds horrible, but imagine your doctor telling you that for a
reasonable fee, he can make sure your kid is above average in height.
It’s not hard to see how people would do it and science would offer it.
No one wants their kid to be a stumpy troll, even if the parents are
stumpy trolls.

Once you start tinkering or even think about tinkering, the idea of
decanting super-human babies joins the conversation. If you can make
sure your kid is six foot or taller, why not go for seven or eight feet?
That way, junior can look forward to a career as a basketball player.
While you’re at it, give him sprinter’s speed and the eyesight of an
eagle. The leap from a small change that eradicates a known defect to
changes that create super-babies is not a big one, at least from an
ethical point of view.

The problem is we quickly run into another barrier and that’s the
complexity. Humans are very complicated machines. In fact, we are so
complicated that we really don’t know how much of the human body
works. Just look at diet and exercise. We sort of think that diet and
exercise habits have an impact on overall health and longevity, but we
don’t know. That’s why there are a bazillion opinions on the subject.
It’s why every study you can find on the topic of diet, for example, has
a contradictory study.

<a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-08-16/batman-tames-vomiting-in-warner-bros-new-virtual-reality-game"
target="_blank">This story the other day about the challenges of virtual
reality</a> is a great reminder that we know very little about how the
human mind works in even the most basic sense. Humans have been screwing
around with virtual reality gadgets for a long time, mostly for gaming
and simulations. The theory sounds good. Replicate the inputs of reality
and the brain gets tricked into thinking it is in the imaginary world.
The trouble is, it really does not get tricked. In fact, the better the
simulation the worse the results.

The reason is the brain is a wildly complex and supple bit of biology
that processes massive amounts of information in more than three
dimensions, faster than anything we can create in the lab. The human
mind appears to develop or come equipped with a model of the world,
right down to little things like how fast an odor should travel from the
source to your nose. It’s how those clever optical illusions you see
on-line work. They rely on the brain anticipating, based on known
patterns. As inputs come in the brain is a click ahead, anticipating
what should be coming next. We think.

Then there is the concept of consciousness, which remains a baffling
thing for science. Watch a puppy bark at a mirror and you know that
self-awareness is a real thing that not all creatures possess equally,
but how that works is unknown. Throw in something like self-deception
that theoretically should not exist, but clearly does exist, and we are
far away from the shore and into uncharted ocean. Tweaking  a gene to
make for a taller person could result in madness as the brain is still
wired for a short person, thus busting up the person mental model of the
world that includes them as a short person.

Even so, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRISPR"
target="_blank">CRISPR</a> technology could be the great breakthrough
that alters the human species, but it will be a long slog between making
better corn and making super babies. In fact, there’s a pretty good
chance that the complexity barrier between the most rudimentary
tinkering and engineered babies is so thick there’s no way for science
to breech it. There’s also a cost-benefit component. Selecting for green
eyes has a market, but selecting for super-intelligent giants that are
prone to madness probably has no market.

All in all, if you are inclined to think about how humanity destroys
itself, the place to start is genetics. If you are a wild-eyed futurist
anxious to live forever or meld with robots, that’s never going to
happen, but you can dream about it within the realm of genetics. More
likely, the result is healthier, more robust people in the not so
distant future. Imagine old age without debilitating disease and
degenerating tissue.  You still age and die, but it is much more
pleasant physiologically. That alone would alter how we think of
ourselves as a species.
