---
title: "The Korean Anomaly"
date: "2016-04-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7013"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7013"
---

In the love-think community, it is generally accepted that East Asians
are near the top of the IQ pyramid. James Watson, the man who discovered
DNA and is largely responsible for modern genetics said it best:

*“Among white Americans, the average IQ, as of a decade or so ago, was
103. Among Asian-Americans, it was 106. Among Jewish Americans, it was
113. Among Latino Americans, it was 89. Among African-Americans, it was
85. Around the world, studies find the same general pattern: whites 100,
East Asians 106, sub-Sarahan Africans 70. One IQ table shows 113 in Hong
Kong, 110 in Japan, and 100 in Britain. White populations in Australia,
Canada, Europe, New Zealand, South Africa, and the United States score
closer to one another than to the worldwide black average. It’s been
that way for at least a century.”*

I’ll just note that Watson was forced into exile after saying this, but
no one has yet to show he was wrong. Even outside the love community,
people generally accept this biological reality. American colleges are
not discriminating against Asians and Jews because they have nothing
better to do. Colleges are discriminating against males in the STEM
fields for the same reason. At American universities, <a
href="https://archive.org/stream/HarrisonBergeron/Harrison%20Bergeron_djvu.txt"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Harrison Bergeron</a> is a how-to manual,
not satire.

If you are going to make some sort of case against IQ, a good place to
start would be Korea. South Korea is generally thought of as a first
world country. They have a per capita GDP similar to Italy and France.
They also have a Gini Coefficient similar to Canada. They are part of
the great global trade network of the West, sending sophisticated
electronics and manufactured goods all over the world.

This sounds good, but it is a recent development. Into the 1980’s, South
Korea was similar to a banana republic with military coups and martial
law. In the 1970’s, South Korea was poor by the standards of a third
world country. Things took off in the 80’s when the new global currency
arrangement made South Korea a good investment. For a smart people, it
took a long time and lots of help from the round-eye to figure out how
to run a country.

Then we have North Korea. It has been a repressive prison state for
three generations and there are no signs that it is about to change. The
new leader, Kim Jung-un, is sort of a millennial version of the insane
despot. He has the love of irony we see with millennials, so he goes in
for novel ways of killing his enemies. <a
href="http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2015/05/13/kim-jong-un-s-cruel-unusual-executions.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Executing people with RPG’s</a> is the
sort of the thing a video game playing millennial d-bag would find
amusing.

The result of three generations of lunacy is a country that is
essentially a giant concentration camp. <a
href="http://cdn.citylab.com/media/img/citylab/legacy/2012/12/18/north%20korea%20satellite%20nasa%20lights%20OLD.JPG"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Nighttime satellite images</a> reveal
just how backward the place is, relative to the rest of Asia. Even
African countries can keep the lights on these days. Of course, North
Korea is famous for not being able to feed itself. The last famine was
in the 90’s and killed 300,000. Malnutrition has reduced North Korea to
<a
href="http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/fighting_words/2010/02/a_nation_of_racist_dwarfs.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a nation of racist dwarfs</a>.

<a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3515122/Kim-Jong-warns-North-Koreans-prepare-chew-roots-country-heads-devastating-famine.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The news out of the hermit kingdom</a> is
that another famine is on the way. The spate of purges, and the general
incompetence of Kim Jung-un, suggest this one could be horrific. When
authoritarian regimes purge enemies of the state, they inevitably purge
their best talent. The people left are toadies and rump-swabs with no
ability to do much of anything, other than grovel to the boss. In this
case, the boss is most likely an idiot.

Both Koreas are a good examples of how IQ is just one part of the
puzzle. <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2000/06/harvard-and-the-making-of-the-unabomber/378239/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ted Kaczynski</a> had a genius level IQ,
but he also liked sending letter bombs to people. Ted Bundy was another
guy with a high IQ, but he also liked killing young women. At the less
violent end of the scale, lots of brilliant people live otherwise
anonymous lives because they lack the social skills to succeed in
business. Most actors are as dumb as goldfish, but they score high on
extraversion.

The two Koreas also serve a good example of how small cultural changes,
even those forced upon a people, can have huge changes in outcome.
The South was a part of the American Empire and as a result could evolve
into a first world country. The North has remained isolated, boiling off
the talent it would need to advance beyond its medieval conditions. The
result is a dystopian prison state in the north and a sprawling
technology state in the south.
