---
title: "The Myth of Free Trade"
date: "2016-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7300"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7300"
---

Fred\_Z Writes:

*Even so, Trump’s anti-global, anti-trade protectionist rhetoric is
quite mad. I like his anti-illegal immigration stance, but that is the
only thing that makes sense to economically protect Americans. The
American middle and lower classes are not being ravaged by globalism and
free trade, they are being ravaged by wage competition from illegals and
insane government environmental, regulatory, tax and subsidy policies.*

*How does Trump expect us to buy your exports if you refuse to buy our
exports? David Ricard showed nearly 200 years ago that free trade
benefits both sides, even if the other party is dumping below costs, and
there is literally no credible counter-argument. Besides, you Yanks are
utterly notorious for distorting dozens of markets, from sugar to corn,
with ludicrous tax and subsidy policies.*

*Ah well, may we live in interesting times.*

If I were going to list the things that have unraveled conservatism over
the last thirty years, the embrace of libertarian trade myths would be
high on the list. Trade has become a sacred item in the commentariat
that can never be questioned and never be worshiped too much. Even the
Left has found it impossible to make arguments against trade deals,
instead embracing the globalism of their donors. It’s part of what has
motivated Progressive support for Sanders over Clinton.

As is the case with so much of our current politics, trade is no longer
a policy to be debated. You either fully support “free trade” or you are
dismissed from the conversation. A similar thing happened with
immigration over the years. All of the immigration skeptics were purged
from the public square, leaving two types of immigration enthusiasts.
You either hate white people or you are a shill for the cheap labor
lobbies. Trade has followed the same path.

Despite the moralizing, trade is like any other policy. It is about
trade-offs. There are benefits from lowering trade barriers, thus
increasing trade between countries. There are liabilities that come from
liberalized trade too. A good trade policy minimizes these costs so that
the result is a net benefit. Bad trade policy fails to address the cost
side and is a net negative. There is no free lunch, even with trade.
There is always a cost side to every public policy.

Opening up trade with Canada, for example, hurts the America beaver pelt
industry. Putting American beaver trappers out of work has consequences.
Low cost Canadian beaver hunters will take market share from the
Americans. Those workers will be let go, thus adding a cost to America.
If those workers can be soaked up by a business that booms due to trade
to Canada, then we very well may have a net benefit to America. If not,
then not.

Trade with countries like Canada makes a lot of sense because Canada has
things we want and we have things they want. Canada is culturally very
similar to America, speaks the same language and maintains the same
legal traditions. Trade between the two countries will require little
additional policing as businesses on both sides have similar
expectations of conduct. A Canadian firm that violates US law will show
up in the US court to answer for it. Additionally, businesses on both
sides know the governments of both sides will enforce the law equally.

On the other hand, trade with Mexico is a different animal entirely.
Mexico is much poorer, lacks our cultural traditions and has a highly
corrupt government. The reason American firms setup shop in Mexico is to
avoid US labor and environmental laws. Carrier is not moving to Mexico
because it is better. They are moving there because it is worse, thus
allowing them to get away with things that would never be allowed to do
in the Anglosphere. If the Mexican government complains, a small bribe
solves the problem.

That’s the reality of trade with Mexico. It’s not the indigenous
tortilla maker selling us tortillas so he can buy software and legal
services from the US. “Trade” with Mexico is a variation of the sort of
slavery that unraveled the Roman Republic. Instead of rich businesses
bringing slaves in to work, they take the work to the slaves, all for
the purpose of undermining their smaller competitors in the domestic
market, who cannot afford to exploit the same rules.

Trade with Mexico has largely been a game of cost shifting. Other than
weed and meth, Mexico is incapable of producing much of anything other
than excess people. Trade deals with Mexico, however, have allowed
global enterprise to shift their cost of doing business onto the
American middle-class through declining wages, higher taxes and social
instability. “Free trade” with Mexico has some real benefits to
Americans, but it brings real costs too, costs that outweigh the
benefits.

When you look at trade with China, the cost side starts to fill up with
all sorts of indirect items. How much has Chinese hacking, theft and
piracy cost America? I know a firm that has spent millions to keep China
from pirating their product. A trick China uses is to flood the market
with a sub-standard version of an American product, thus damaging the
reputation of the American firm. How many dogs and cats were killed by
Chinese pet food additives? How much will it cost us to defend Japan and
Taiwan from Chinese aggression?

The point here is that trade is a good thing, but only when it is a net
positive to the American people as a whole. Deals that allow plutocrats
to shift their costs to the public so they can privatize profits are not
good deals. Trump pointing that out does not make him a protectionist.
It makes him a realist. It’s the innumerate phonies, clutching their
copies of Atlas Shrugged, desperately trying to shut off these debates,
who are divorced from reality. Trade, like all pubic policy, is about
trade-offs. Those trade-offs are debated in a healthy society.
