---
title: "Hillary Clinton and the Cinderella Syndrome"
date: "2016-10-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8765"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8765"
---

if you examine <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wK2K5v5bm0Q"
target="_blank">the record of Hillary Clinton</a> in any detail, what
jumps out is the staggering incompetence of this woman. There’s nothing
on her resume that stands out as a success, other than her ability to
stay married to that skeevy pervert of a husband, despite the serial
humiliations resulting from his infidelities. In every other endeavor,
small or large, she has been an astonishingly failure. Even in simple
capers, she has found a way to bungle things that should have been easy.

The one that always stands out in my mind is <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hillary_Rodham_cattle_futures_controversy"
target="_blank">her ham-handed influence peddling caper</a> in Arkansas
with James Blair, the Tyson Food guy. Even small town mayors understand
that you have to have a cutout in these things. Otherwise, it looks too
obvious. You find “an investment guy” to act as a firewall, so he gets
to pretend to be a shrewd investor and you get to pretend to not know
what he was up to all along if things go bad. Hillary could not be
bothered with that.

This is Public Corruption 101. They teach this at orientation for your
town council seat. The FBI never bags people for this sort of stuff
anymore because even the dumbest politician knows how to run this scam.
These days, the Feds have to dig harder to unearth this kind of
self-dealing because of the common use of cutouts and bag-men to
insulate the players from the game. How is it possible that Clinton did
not understand or was not told how this works?

Back when this was coming to light, there were several theories offered
to explain Hillary Clinton’s serial brushes with the law. Her defenders,
of course, claimed she was a Job and suffering for her righteousness.
Honest people pointed to her arrogance and sense of entitlement, while
others argued that she simply likes crime so much, the law of averages
says she will bungle some of it and get caught. The last option is
probably the most likely of the three, but not persuasive.

The thing with the Clinton Crime Family is there has always been two
sides to it. The Bill side is all about sex. The guy has a serious
problem. <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3589628/Report-Bill-Clinton-jumped-aboard-disgraced-sex-offender-Jeffrey-Epstein-s-Lolita-Express-plane-junkets-26-TIMES-just-three-years.html"
target="_blank">His dozens of trips to the Dominican with Jeffrey
Epstein for the purpose of gaining access to underage females</a> is
about as reckless as one can get. That’s the one thing about Bubba that
we can probably say with certainty. He is living the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MTGcHBoaW10"
target="_blank">Tony Montana lifestyle</a> to the fullest. His entire
life has been organized around getting laid.

Hillary is different. All of her capers somehow involve her putting cash
in her purse. Back in Arkansas, she was the one involved in the phony
land deals, bank jobs and influence peddling. Today, she is the one
running the money laundering operations, that necessitated the secret
e-mail system and all of the shady characters like Syd Blumenthal. It’s
always a money scandal with her. Even her big health care initiative
back in the 90’s was designed so she could shake down interested
parties.

There’s another aspect to Hillary’s capers though. Her weird
relationship with Bill has always been assumed to be loveless and
transactional. They are imagined as two sociopaths with converging
interests. That’s plausible to a point, but she would be vastly better
off without him now and he would have always been better off without
her. If this were merely a business relationship, their partnership
would have foundered a long time ago.

What normies don’t get about the ruling class is they are often
bloodless in their dealings with other humans, but they are not entirely
bloodless. Bill and Hill have a political marriage for the purpose of
advancing their common and individual interests. Even so, there is some
emotional bond between them. Otherwise, they would have traded up a long
time ago. These two are most likely sociopaths so calling their thing
love is a category error, but it is emotional.

That’s what I suspect is behind Hillary’s criminal career. She is the
business manager of the partnership, but she wants to please Bill. The
result is she is always reaching beyond what is reasonable for the next
payday. Watch that video detailing her capers over the years and the
thing that ties them all together is the lack of restraint. All she had
to do was be a little less greedy and she would have walked away
unscathed by these things.

The other aspect is when she gets jammed up in one of the scams, it is
always Bill who has to come to her rescue. What Hillary lacks in charm
and guile, Bill makes up for in spades. He’s not terribly smart, but he
is extremely clever. He can wiggle out of anything and make his
pursuers look bad for trying to do their jobs. The one sure way Hillary
has to gain Bill’s attention is to have the law chasing after her over
some shady deal she has pulled on behalf of the crime family.

It’s the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cinderella_complex"
target="_blank">Cinderella Syndrome</a> modified for a criminal
enterprise. Hillary Clinton is not helpless and dependent in the way in
which bitter feminists imagine. She simply has some of that normal
female quality of wanting the attention of her mate. Since her mate is
her business partner, as well as a serial sexual predator, disinterested
in her physically, screwing up is how she gets his attention.Look back
at all of her scandals and what ties them together is they tie her and
Bill together on defense.

You can be sure that more than a few times he was in the middle of
assaulting a woman and the phone rang or an aid knocked on the door,
telling him that he had to attend to Hillary over some scandal or some
deal gone sour. If the hundreds of secret service agents and state
troopers are to be believed, their fights are always over business that
has interrupted his stalking of women. This is all amateur psychiatry,
but it does tie up all the facts better than the other options.
