---
title: "The Big Rake"
date: "2016-10-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8795"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8795"
---

One of the things normal people don’t get about Hillary Clinton is how
seamlessly she fits into the moral universe of the ruling class. For
instance, to normal people, lying is a bad thing. It lowers your status
among the other Dirt People. In the Cloud, lying is a
conditional concept. Lying to the Dirt People is fine. It’s what Cloud
People must do to maintain order and assert their superiority. Lying to
rivals while wrangling for power can be acceptable, as long as it does
not reflect too poorly on the managerial class.

Another way to see how Hillary Clinton is emblematic of the managerial
class is to examine her motivations. Normal people assume she is running
for the White House as a power grab. It is assumed that politicians have
big egos and winning office is driven by those big egos. That used to be
true, but not in the modern managerial state. The real motivation is
money. Most of the people in the managerial class are always aware of
the fact they are not rich, at least not as rich as they deserve, and
they hate it.

Hillary Clinton has always been obsessed with money. In Arkansas, she
would complain constantly about not having enough money. Some will
recall how she used to moan about how they were not rich enough when
they left the White House. Presumably, that’s why they stole the
furniture. All of her capers have been about turning her position or her
husband’s position into cash for the family business. In the managerial
class, credentials and connections are to be monetized. That’s their
purpose.

Hillary Clinton did not weasel her way into the State Department gig
because she wanted to burnish her foreign policy credentials. It was not
about staying in the game. There was always a money angle. At State, she
could travel the world, shaking down the rich and powerful for cash to
her money laundering operation. Her husband could charge outlandish fees
to give speeches on behalf of the foundation and maybe put in a good
word, for the foreign potentate, with his old lady at the State
Department.

Clinton’s run for the White House has a similar angle. <a
href="http://www.ibtimes.com/political-capital/hillary-clinton-wall-street-financial-industry-may-control-retirement-savings?utm_content=buffer006c4&amp;utm_medium=social&amp;utm_source=twitter.com&amp;utm_campaign=buffer"
target="_blank">This story</a> about Clinton’s scheme for American
retirement plans is a classic managerial class rake. Getting picked as
one of the firms with a license to “manage’ these new accounts is a
license to print money. The government will have to “supervise” this
process, which means the bankers will now have a billion reasons to be
on good terms with the government. Put another way, Team Clinton is
planning to build a giant graft machine .

Now, Team Clinton will not benefit in the long run, but they are getting
tens of millions in contributions now, because they are promising to
push through this new plan. If Wall Street wanted to bring back slavery,
Hillary would be talking like Colonel Sanders and singing Dixie during
her speeches. Her political motivations are a manifestation of her
financial ambitions. All over the managerial class, the game is to
monetize access, power and prestige. It’s why Hillary fits in so well
with these people.

For about twenty years, the managerial class has been trying to figure
out how to get their mitts on American retirement funds stashed away in
401K’s. Talk to any Progressive and they will tell you how terrible
these plans are, while they drone on about the terribleness of Wall
Street. They floated a scheme in the 90’s called the Guaranteed
Retirement Account that was like a 401K, except all funds were invested
in US treasuries. This never got far as it was just a complicated tax
and the math could never work.

This new scheme is simpler, but potentially much more lucrative to the
managerial elite. If every American is required to have a retirement
account, administered by a fund manager, that’s billions of new money
siphoned off the real economy into the pockets of the financial sector.
Better still, those funds will be controlled by Wall Street. They will
put those funds into investments good for Wall Street. What’s good for
the bankers is to be on good terms with the government. You see where
this leads.

This is the way the managerial class works the rake. In less
sophisticated countries, like say France, the politicians just raid the
pension funds. It’s legal plunder. In the managerial state, the plunder
is more nuanced, tarted up with soft feminine language like “inclusion”
and “coming together for a common cause.” You can be sure that this plan
will be sold as a way to bring the country together to solve our
retirement problems for those who “play by the rules and just want a
fair deal.”

What will happen, of course, is the same thing we saw with health care
and pretty much every other part of the economy these days. It will be a
bust out. The billions that pour into these new funds will be “invested”
in things that benefit the rulers. Politicians will get advance notice
on some new move so they can cash in their privileged status. The fund
managers will kick back a piece of their rake to the politicians for the
right to manage these funds. It will be systematic robbery of the middle
class.

You would be forgiven for thinking that this sounds a lot like organized
crime. That’s because it is organized crime, except the criminals write
the laws, thus legalizing their plunder. This is a feature of the
managerial state. It is the big rake. Instead of the criminals eluding
the state in order to plunder the people, the criminals acquire
credentials, which are a license to skim off a portion of middle class
wealth. The whole point of winning office or gaining access is so you
can get a taste of the skim.
