---
title: "Saluting a Hat"
date: "2016-01-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6289"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6289"
---

Deforming the language has long been a cornerstone of leftist politics.
If you can find a way to couch odious polices in pleasant sounding
language, there’s some chance you can convince the public to slit its
own throat. Similarly, they often mangle the language in order to
prevent a reasoned debate. All around us we have euphemisms that blur
the definitions for commonly understood things.

<a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/life/why-i-advised-brighton-college-over-its-trans-uniforms-all-schoo/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Take a look at this strange story from
Britain</a>. Here’s some of the text as published:

*This morning, I stood in front of hundreds of Brighton College pupils
in assembly and spoke about the experience of being a trans woman. In
the past few days, they’ve found their school suddenly the focus of
press interest, after headteacher Richard Cairns scrapped traditional
male and female uniforms to accommodate the needs of transgender
children.*

*He made the decision to offer all pupils the option of trousers or a
skirt, so that children with gender dysphoria can dress as the gender
they feel they really are, rather than the one they were born into. Mr
Cairns explained to me that his decision had been prompted by a female
pupil, whose family had asked the school if she could dress as she did
beyond the school gates – as a boy.*

Now, here’s the same paragraphs in normal English:

*This morning, I stood in front of hundreds of Brighton College pupils
in assembly and spoke about the experience of being a man wearing
women’s clothes. In the past few days, they’ve found their school
suddenly the focus of press interest, after headmaster Richard Cairns
scrapped normal uniforms to accommodate the demands of parents who think
their boys should wear dresses.*

*He made the decision to offer all pupils the option of trousers or a
skirt, so that children with psychological problems can draw attention
to themselves by wearing clothes for the opposite sex. Mr Cairns
explained to me that his decision had been prompted by a female pupil,
whose family had asked the school if they could use their child as a
prop in their morality play.*

I’ll just note that this guy looks a lot like Ozzy Osbourne in drag.

When we say things as they are, it’s hard to not laugh at most of this
stuff. The rest is so creepy and weird no sensible person would tolerate
it. If an adult man wants to wear a sundress, that’s his choice. It is a
harmless deviancy that society can tolerate to a point. Teaching
children that sex is a human construct is no different than telling them
are bullet proof. Letting parents turn their kids into acts of public
piety is monstrous and not something a sane people should tolerate.

When you lose control of the language, you quickly go from pleas for
tolerance of a public nuisance to intolerance of observable reality.
There is no such thing as gender dysphoria. Humans come in one of two
sexes, This is ground floor biology. Substituting the word “gender” for
“sex” brings with it the implication that the sex of humans is open to
debate in the same way the rules of grammar are debatable.

It is possible that some people think they are of the other sex, just as
there are people who think they are invisible. I once knew a woman who
thought she was the Virgin Mary. These sorts of mental health problems
are sad. These people should be pitied and given what medical care we
can. Their maladies should not be forced onto the rest of us.

Of course, the reason our betters insist we pretend that a dude in a
sundress is a person of a third sex is they know it is nonsense. It is
humiliating to be made to go along with such nonsense. Having to sit and
listen to this horse’s ass deliver a speech in drag is about as
degrading as being made to hop around on one foot while sucking your
thumb. That’s the whole point of this. If you force people to accept
this, you can get away with anything.

Trannies are the modern incarnation
of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albrecht_Gessler" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Albrecht Gessler’s hat</a>. Instead of bowing to a hat
in front of the town, we now have to sit and applaud as a man in drag
spits gibberish. In the bizarre formulation of our rulers, normal people
are labeled deviant if they don’t pretend the deviant is normal.

This will not end well.
