---
title: "My Heart is an Alligator"
date: "2016-10-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8868"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8868"
---

The meteor that just slammed into the Clinton campaign thanks to the FBI
is one of those events that is both wildly entertaining, but also a bit
baffling. The FBI director is not a moron so he had to know that this
was an unprecedented act. He’s not just putting a new story into the
political bloodstream, but he is putting himself and the FBI into the
presidential election in an unprecedented way. In other words, he knew
before he sent the letter that he was setting off the mother of all shit
storms.

The question then is why has the FBI Director taken this step?

Assuming he knew the consequences, the only logical answer here is that
the alternatives were all deemed to be far worse than setting off this
scandal. This assumes he is not some sort of sadist that enjoys being in
the middle of political pissing matches with skunks like the Clintons.
It also means that waiting was not an acceptable choice. Waiting two
weeks to send this letter would have avoided this and perhaps buried the
news in the post election celebrating. For some reason, he decided this
was not a viable option.

If we start from there, the question then becomes what could be so bad
that the Director believed he had no choice. The first thing that comes
to mind is that we have the story that <a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/clinton-ally-aids-campaign-of-fbi-officials-wife-1477266114"
target="_blank">money moved from Team Clinton to the number two man in
the FBI</a>, through his wife. Clinton helped raise money for a PAC that
Terry McAuliffe controlled, which then handed half a million to the
campaign of Jill McCabe, who is the wife of the number two man at the
FBI. He was also working the e-mail case.

This is the sort of the thing that results in expensive lawyers getting
phone calls from DC’s power players. It is possible that the game is to
throw the Republicans some red meat by getting butch with Clinton over
her e-mail. The problem here is Comey says they have new information and
that will have to be disclosed. It also means tangling with Team
Clinton, who could be in the White House in a few months. If you are
going to strike the queen, you better kill the queen or have plans to
leave the country.

Another possibility that comes to mind is something that was revealed in
the daily WikiLeaks e-mails being dumps. We now have proof that the
White House knew about the secret server and Obama was getting e-mails
from Clinton’s private account. They had successfully played dumb on
this but this steady release of e-mails has to be making people nervous.
John Podesta is not some clerk. He is one of the biggest power brokers
in Washington. He knows things that are not supposed to be known.

The other angle here is that the Obama people have always hated the
Clintons and a lot of people on the Left of the party still hold a
grudge against Hillary. This could simply be a case where the Obama
people are using this as an excuse to execute the kill shot on someone
they truly loath. Politics is a blood-sport and Obama’s people play
rough. They cracked open sealed divorce documents twice to help Obama
win local campaigns in Illinois. They would not flinch at doing the old
bag like this.

That’s the other piece of the puzzle. It’s very clear that Team Clinton
had no idea this was coming. Clinton looked poleaxed giving her
statement to reporters and what she said bordered on nonsense. This was
a well orchestrated hit job. In a town where keeping a secret is nearly
impossible, the FBI managed to spring a total surprise. That was not an
accident either. This was done for maximum effect. It either means the
White House was in the dark up until Friday or the White House was
orchestrating it.

There is also the lesson of Watergate. The caper was done for the most
mundane reasons. John Dean acted as he did out of purely personal
motives. Mark Felt talked because he had his feelings hurt. Alexander
Butterfield was just an honest guy asked the right question at the right
time. The point being, serendipity and personal grudges often count for
more than Machiavellian scheming. Some last straw may have finally
caused Comey to go rogue and take out Clinton at her most vulnerable
moment.

Right now, my heart is an alligator.
