---
title: "Reverse Engineering A Belief"
date: "2016-02-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6664"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6664"
---

I was watching a documentary on the remains of the ice man from the
Æneolithic period, found in the Alps 25 years
ago. [Ötzi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%96tzi) is a big deal for
anthropologists, historians, geneticists, biologists etc. The ability to
get genetic material for analysis offers up enormous research
opportunities. For hobbyists with an interest in these subjects, it is
always fun to listen to experts discuss their interests in such a rare
discovery.

One of the things they have been puzzling over are the weird tattoos on
the man’s body. Initially, they assumed they were for decoration, but
further research suggested that was unlikely. The markings were not very
decorative, but they did correspond to areas that either had prior
injuries or signs of disease. In other words, the tattoos were medical
treatments of some sort.

This sounds rather loopy to modern people, but it is not hard to see how
people could come to believe such things. Grog gets the evil spirits and
is close to death. The local Shaman gives him a tattoo so he is properly
marked up for the afterlife and Grog suddenly rallies and recovers from
the evil spirits. Everyone assumes it was the tattoo. Before long,
tattooing the sick is what everyone does.

Belief is a funny thing in that it is self-reinforcing. The people
of Ötzi’s time probably understood that tattoos did not always work, but
when they got a good result, they just assumed it was the tattoo. What
else could it be? Not doing the tattoo treatment, quite logically,
became a high risk choice.

Understanding this dynamic is useful when looking at modern times. For
example, we believe smoking tobacco causes lung cancer. At some point in
the future, when the alien anthropologists are digging through the
remains of our age, they will puzzle over “No Smoking” signs in the same
way, wondering why they never found “No Child Molesting” signs in the
rubble.

The point here is that you can tease out some things about what people
believe based on what they do, even in the modern age where we pretend
to be irreligious logic machines. That came to mind reading [this rather
entertaining comment thread on a Marginal
Review](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/02/what-is-the-dollar-value-of-u-s-citizenship.html#comments)
post. As is often the case, Steve Sailer was making heads explode by
noticing things that are on the prohibited list.

The question Steve kept asking in various ways is why economists have
never bothered to study, much less calculate, the value of citizenship.
If a citizenship card for Somalia and one for Canada were put up for
bid, which would fetch more? How much would each get at auction? Who
would do the bidding?

These are very interesting and reasonable questions that should be
natural areas of interest for modern economists. After all, immigration
is the dominant topic of our age and economists are the shaman class,
asked to weigh in on every topic. It follows that the “markets in
everything” crowd would have come up with a model for the market for
citizenship.

As Steve correctly observes, the better question may be why they refuse
to even consider it. Read the comments in that post and you see a lot of
undefined panic. They don’t know why they should not be talking about
this, but they sense it is a taboo subject so they keep trying to change
the subject. In a sense, Steve was asking, “why are we tattooing Grog?”

I’m not much for reductionism so I don’t think there’s a conspiracy.
What I see is that these people believe all of the things people in the
managerial class believe. One of those beliefs is that citizenship is an
artifact of a prior age. They dream of being citizens of the world,
hopping from Washington to New York to London to Davos. Being an
“American” is, if anything, a little embarrassing for them.

It’s why they are puzzled by the resistance to open borders. They live
in these wonderful, bunkered communities that are surrounded by ethnic
restaurants and shops. When they meet friends at the Ethiopian place in
Fairfax to reminisce about their trip there in grad school, they wonder
how anyone would not want this life. For them, open borders are the
paradise of their daily life.

The answer to Steve’s query, it turns out, is a question. Why study
something that has no value? From the point of view of economics,
citizenship is as valuable as unicorn insurance or stock in the flying
carpet company. The market for their skills is in climate magic and
monetary policy so that’s why we have a million papers on those topics.

There’s another thing to tease out here, returning to the image of the
Cloud People gnoshing on fit-fit at the Ethiopian place. To these
people, the horny-handed sons of toil are failures. They have failed to
reach the managerial class. Therefore, their habits are the habits of
failure. Their shouting about patriotism, the dignity of work and joys
of family are just confirmation to the Cloud People that they are the
elect.

In a world where one is measured by how many of the correct boxes he
ticks, there’s no value in even thinking about the wrong boxes. The
neo-mandarin system of the modern managerial class rewards recitation,
not inspiration. Why puzzle over the plight of the Dirt People when the
people grading the exams don’t care about it? It’s simply easier to
believe it does not matter than to wonder why.

After years of examining Ötzi, researchers have determined that he did
not freeze to death in the snow. That was the working assumption for
years. Everyone assumed he got trapped in bad weather on a hunt or a
trip. It turns out that he died from an arrow wound. Ötzi was murdered.
While those tattoos may have worked against evil spirits, they were not
much use against an arrow in the back.
