---
title: "Checking In On The Encyclopedists"
date: "2016-04-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7073"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7073"
---

For those new to this site, I have taken to calling Bill Kristol the
[Hari Seldon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hari_Seldon) of Republican
politics. For much of the 90’s and 00’s, Kristol basically ran the
Republican Party. In the Bush years, he was largely responsible for
crafting the Forever War strategy that came to define the Bush
administration. That disaster seems to have landed him in exile, or
maybe he is just re-charging his batteries, it is hard to know, but [he
is very much back in the game
now.](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6910)

[Kristol is leading the charge to stop
Trump](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/20/us/politics/donald-trump-republican-party.html?_r=2)
from gaining the 1237 delegates he needs to secure the nomination. The
first part of the plan was an organized media blitz through the usual
conservative media organs. The last two weeks has been a steady stream
of hysterical rants about Trump and his racists extreme alt-right
extremist supporters. The idea is to not only to paint Trump as a
racist, but to keep him from making his points. It is the classic game
of playing defense by going on offense.

The second part of the plan was to pour all available resources into the
Wisconsin primary. They had two weeks to buy off every pol, talk show
host and newspaper writer. Wisconsin is one of those [weird breadbasket
states](http://www.unz.com/akarlin/trumps-seven-nations/) where being
nice counts for more than being right so Trump was always going to be
vulnerable there. Cruz would be the nice version of Trump and thus win
the primary. The hope was that a big win would deflate Trump’s support
elsewhere, thus preventing him from reaching the 1237 delegate number.

The Encyclopedists are smart so you should never underestimate them.
Kristol did not become the Hari Seldon of American politics by being a
fool. He is also ruthless. A man with no loyalties outside his narrow
group, who believes he is chosen by fate to orchestrate the Great Plan,
is not a guy prone to letting emotion get in the way. That is why he is
willing to back Cruz for now, even though he hates Ted Cruz more than he
hates Trump.

That is the genius of this scheme. Cruz will never be the nominee. He is
just about eliminated from gaining the 1237 he would need to win the
nomination. That means he has to figure out how to win a second ballot
convention. Kristol has been working on that since last fall and is way
ahead of Team Cruz. All the talk about horse trading at a brokered
convention is nonsense. The party controls the bulk of the delegates,
well more than is needed to pick the nominee. The rest is just theater.

The results thus far look fairly good for the Foundation. Kristol is
surely pleased with the outcome, but he now faces the big hurdle. In
April, the primary schedule is NY, CT, DE, MD, PA and RI. These are
states where Trump has a massive edge over Cruz. The holy roller stuff
really turns people off in these states. A month of Trump winning will
inevitably beat down the Cruz support as he begins to look like a fringe
candidate and a tool for the NeverTrump idiots.

I am no Hari Seldon, but I am having a tough time seeing how this
Wisconsin win carries through a month of losing to give Cruz a chance at
being competitive in May. The math says Cruz will be eliminated by April
26th, baring a miracle. His rationale for remaining in the race at that
point, is to be a dick and keep Trump from winning. Maybe that is enough
for him, but I wonder if his voters will agree. History says support
drops off once a candidate is no longer viable.

That means the Foundation has to think they can ignore April by shifting
the conversation from Trump winning primaries to some other topic, like
his inability to beat Clinton in the general. The flaw in this plan is
that the Democrats suddenly have a Sanders problem. Kristol would be
fine with a Clinton presidency. The Conservative Industrial Complex
could raise money of it and they largely agree with Hillary anyway.
Sanders winning complicates the math a bit.

Regardless, it strikes me that everything is now pointing to California.
The game between now and June 7th will be to create a narrative around
stopping Trump from the nomination, thus making California an important
primary. To do that means two months of Trump bashing that will make the
last two months look like a Trump rally. The only way the Seldon Plan
can work is to marginalize Trump to the point where he cannot win the
nomination so we should expect a tsunami of sewage coming from so-called
conservative media.

This is where being smart beats being right. Trump is running a tightwad
campaign, spending very little on TV and social media. In California,
the voters expect and demand a massive air war of ads. Kristol will
launch a $50 million ad campaign against Trump in California, starting
in May. Trump is too cheap and stubborn to run a TV campaign to match it
so the Kristol people have to be optimistic. Reagan won California in
1976, keeping Ford from getting the necessary delegates to lock up the
nomination. Ford lost to Carter in the fall.

That is the plan, forty years later.
