---
title: "The BQ"
date: "2017-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11459"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11459"
---

We live in an age of great inequality. In fact, some economists think
America may have greater inequality now than at any time in human
history. Americans do not think about it too much, as generations of
indoctrination about class envy have made questioning such things seem
un-American. That and the middle-class may be swamped with debt, but
they have all the trappings of prosperity. Even poor people are fat.

Few people on this side have much to say about economics. The main
reason, obviously, is that demographics take up most of the space. A big
part of the aesthetic is ignoring the trivial things like tax policy, in
order to remain focused on the bigger topics that are assiduously
ignored by our rulers. That and the subject is full of libertarian
hucksters, peddling apologies for globalism and the billionaire class.

The Left has always argued that inequality is immoral on its face. They
may not use that phrasing, but that is the underlying assumption behind
their arguments for taxing the rich and redistributing wealth. Perhaps
that can be debated, but there’s little doubt that great inequality
brings with it great social and political change. A society with
relatively small differences in wealth, where there is economic
equilibrium, is unlikely to lurch into unrest or reckless adventures.

When Henry VIII ascended the throne in 1509, he became king of a country
that could be described as a three-legged stool. The Church held 25-30%
of the land in the country and had a monopoly on moral authority. The
aristocracy, including the king, held an equal amount of land, but had a
monopoly on secular authority. The rest of the land was owned by the
commoners and petty nobles. The result was a balance of power between
the three key elements of English society.

Henry is best known for his serial adultery and his habit of having
wives sent to the gallows, but his biggest contribution is the
destruction of the Church as a force in British political and economic
life. The [Acts of
Supremacy,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acts_of_Supremacy) passed in
1534, recognized the King’s status as head of the church in England and,
with the [Act in Restraint of
Appeals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Act_in_Restraint_of_Appeals) in
1532, abolished the right of appeal to Rome. The king had effectively
assumed the moral authority that had once been the monopoly of the
Church

This was made possible by the oldest of political tactics. When Henry
seized Church lands, he used these to buy support from other nobles, as
well as large land holders who also sat in Parliament. Naturally,
Parliament was strongly in favor of not only seizing Church lands, but
supporting their good friend, the King, in his efforts to assert his
authority over the Church. When he seized Church lands, the crown ended
the economic power of the Church and its moral authority.

This had a radical effect on the politics and culture of
England. Hilaire Belloc argued in *The Servile State* that it was this
reorganization of capital in England that gave birth to what we call
capitalism. In this case, capital was land. When land was distributed
between the people, the state and the church, the concentrated use of
capital was impossible. Once the crown and nobility seized the property
of the Church, capital was for the first time concentrated in a small
number of hands. This allowed the propertied class to dominate English
society.

This was clear after Henry VIII died. A dozen years of violent political
turmoil followed his death. Edward VI never made it to adulthood. Lady
Jane Grey was queen for nine days until Mary I, with support of the
nobles, deposed her. Bloody Mary made it five years before dying and
then began the reign of Elizabeth I. This also corresponded with the
birth of the British Empire. Whether or not any of this would have
happened if Henry had not sacked the Church is debatable, but it is
clear that the change in English economic order was an inflection point.

Another example is what happened to the Roman Republic after the defeat
of Corinth and Carthage. The Republic had been at war with both
city-states, off and on, for over a century. In 146 BC, the Romans
finally defeated and destroyed Carthage and then provoked a war with the
Greeks. They defeated the Greeks at Corinth, destroying the city and its
population. The male population was killed and the females and children
were sold into slavery. Rome was the undisputed power in the
Mediterranean.

Something else happened. Those slaves that poured into the Republic from
the conquered lands first ended up in the hands of the wealthiest
landowners. This influx of cheap labor allowed the large land holders to
replace their native labor, which flowed into the cities, not having
anywhere else to go. The small landowners suddenly found themselves at a
disadvantage, as the larger landowners had an army of slaves to work
their land. The result was a great economic re-ordering of the Roman
Republic.

It is not an accident that this sudden change in political and economic
of fortune changed the nature of the Republic. The constant campaigning
created a class of soldier that was more loyal to his general than to
the Republic. The turning over of large tracts of land to slave farming
resulted in a new problem, slave revolts. The Servile Wars, the Social
War and two civil wars dominated the Late Republic. It has this title
because the Republic came to an end with Julius Caesar and the founding
of the Roman Empire under Octavian.

The relevance of all this to our age should be obvious to those who have
been following what is going on with our tech oligarchs. A generation
ago, arguments for taxing the rich got little traction, because no one
had any real fear of the rich. That and they were not so rich as to feel
alien to the rest of us. Today, [the billionaire
class](https://www.forbes.com/forbes-400/list/#version:static) feels
like they are from another planet and they are a real threat. They are
advocating for policies that promise to dissolve the ties that bind the
nation together.

A popular issue on the Dissident Right is that the old framing of
politics, based on the blank slate and egalitarianism, is no longer
relevant. Race and demographics are what will define politics going
forward. That is true, but none of that will matter if the West is going
to succumb to what amounts to techno-feudalism, where a relatively small
number of oligarchs control not only capital, but information.
Addressing the threat to free speech means addressing the Billionaire
Question.

In order to address the BQ, the Dissident Right is going to have to
break free from the old moral paradigm with regards to class, inequality
and economics. The fact is, no one will care if Mark Zuckerberg drowns
in his bathtub. The things that the vast bulk of Americans care about do
not depend on getting cheap stuff on-line. The billionaire class is no
more essential to society than any other luxury good. They are tolerable
unless they become a burden.

That’s going to be hard for our side and it is going to be even more
difficult for the sort of people attracted to the [Oaf
Keepers](https://www.oathkeepers.org/) or the
[PoofBerries](http://officialproudboys.com/). That is the effect of a
few generations of telling people that it is un-American to think ill of
the rich. Even so, part of breaking free from the old thinking will be
adopting a new brand of economics, along with tackling the realities of
demographics. You can be pro-white all you like, but that is of no use
if you are a serf living on the modern version of a feudal estate.
