---
title: "Diary: June 2017"
date: "2017-07-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10733"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10733"
---

I’m shamelessly ripping off John Derbyshire here with a monthly diary
feature. I’ve been doing semi-regular updates on readership and so
forth, but a monthly diary type post seems to make more sense. I can
then cover blog related stuff and retread any old ground that needs
retreading. With apologies to Derb and anyone else doing the monthly
diary bit, I will be doing a monthly diary post going forward…

Like many Americans, I have been doing some traveling. Around here, the
schools are done by mid-June so it is the start of vacation season. When
I was a kid, Memorial Day was the start of summer. School ended that
week and you had the three day holiday. For reasons I have no interest
in knowing, schools now stay in session longer and they start earlier.
As a result, summer holiday time is packed into the period between
mid-June and the end of July. Independence Day is becoming the start of
summer.

I’m sure there are statistics available somewhere to test if the result
of this creeping school calendar has had some impact on travel in the
high season. My experience is that even mid-week travel in July feels
like the rush before Thanksgiving or Christmas. I was in Logan Airport
and I stood for 90 minutes in line waiting for a rental car. They had
plenty of cars, just not enough terminals to process everyone in a
timely fashion and their customer service staff is clearly coming from
the Epsilon Minus sub-class.

As is often the case, travel provides lessons about our current age. The
fellow who waited on me at the Avis counter, for example, was either
suffering from a mental illness or he was on drugs. He was in need of a
bath and his clothes needed laundering. The other agents were in various
states of disrepair. Most were foreigners, judging by the names I could
read. My guess, given the ages, is that Avis is gaming the [J1 visa
program](https://www.internationalstudent.com/immigration/j1-student-visa/)
to fill the jobs the unemployed locals refuse to take, at the wages Avis
wants to pay.

The argument from libertarian guy is that this results in cheaper stuff.
After all, if Avis has to pay higher wages to their people and train
them to treat the customers in a decent fashion, they would have to
charge more for rental cars. Left out of the discussion is the ever
growing tax burden needed to pay for the unemployed locals, as well the
social cost of lots of people not working. What’s also left out is the
cost of me standing in line for 90 minutes and having to deal with a
dirty lunatic. Quality of life counts too…

Another lesson of travel comes from airports. I’ve been in a lot of
airports and I have posted about them a bunch of times. Airports are a
good way to explain to normal people how central planning must always
fail. These schemes always succumb to the limitations of the planners.
 Airports are a good example of it. Similarly, the airport is a good
place to explain why libertarianism can never scale up, unless you plan
to genocide the unreliable elements. Otherwise, the stupid, lazy and
selfish will collapse a libertarian system…

Of course, travel is about seeing different places and people. One of
the more bizarre contradictions of the blank slate types is they will
celebrate the crap out of human diversity, when it comes to travel. They
make no effort to hide the fact that people in different places have
very different ideas about how to organize themselves. Yet, this reality
never occurs to them when the topic is immigration. That’s because they
never really experience diversity. They are insulated from it so they
know it only superficially.

Anyway, human variety is something you can see within our own lands. It
has been a while since I was in New England. As a result, I forgot that
the women are crazy and the men are mostly pussies. Not everyone, but
the ratio of crazy cat ladies to normal women is jarring. I listened to
two women coo over a handful of savages being led through the airport,
by their minders from a church group. My bet is it was a church like
<a href="http://firstchurchipswich.org/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this one</a>, that is run by feminist nutters and
useless homosexuals.

The two cat ladies were carrying on like a couple teenage girls, who
just saw members of the current boy band. That’s the thing about
feminism. It infantilizes the adherent. Modern feminists have the
maturity of teenagers. Feminism is just a way for homely girls to get
the attention of boys, so I guess it makes sense at some level.
Regardless, it should never be tolerated so I leaned over and said to
the two hens, “One day, their kids will be throwing your kids off a
roof.” They were poleaxed. I went to get a drink…

As far as plans for the site and other ventures, I’m plotting a refresh
of the site for a weekend in July. Nothing crazy, just a little sprucing
up to keep things current. Summer is the slowest time, traffic-wise for
the site. This is something I’ve actually measured in other areas of the
internet. Like with TV viewing, summer drops web traffic to these sorts
of sites by up to 25%. That means if I break something while fiddling
with the site, fewer people will give me crap about it…

I am working on doing a weekly podcast. Often, the best way to learn new
things is to jump right into them and start figuring it out. If you go
back to the first few months of this blog, you’ll see it was not very
good and nothing like what I’m doing today. I just tried a bunch of
stuff until I figured out what worked for me. I’m not doing that with
the podcast venture, because I really don’t know anything about the
audio stuff, so I need to get a baseline of technical knowledge before
jumping into it.

There’s a technical aspect to producing audio that you have to get close
to right or the product is worthless. [This podcast with Greg
Cochran](https://soundcloud.com/user-519115521) is a good example. Greg
sounds like he is on the wrong side of the room from the mic. He is a
brilliant and interesting guy, but straining to hear him ruins the whole
thing. I have ruined enough lives with the very rare typo in my posts, I
don’t need to destroy the audiophile community by posting crappy audio
of myself.

To that end I purchased a modestly priced microphone off Amazon. That’s
right, I used Amazon and not the local microphone dealer. Actually, I
went to the local music instrument store and they only deal in the stuff
used on stage. The guy told me to buy a cheap one on Amazon. I’m using
Audacity for recording myself, which is easy to use at first, but I have
to fiddle with the tuning. The trial run was a bit weird sounding so I
have to figure out how to clean that up. With a little luck, version 1.0
will be out next week.

As far as content, I’m going to start with a week in review sort of
format. Lots of comments to posts warrant a fuller response than I tend
to give so that’s a good place to start. There are tangentially related
news items that would not make for a full post, but worth a few minutes
discussion. Since I don’t do a lot of political posting, I thought maybe
a podcast would be a good place to run my yap about what the pols are
doing in the Imperial Capital. That’s enough to start and we’ll see how
it goes from there.

I’m not sure I have the voice and speaking style to make it work, but
I’m a terrible judge of these things. Mark Levin and Michael Savage have
millions of listeners, despite their endless shrieking and yelling.
Levin’s voice can break glass when he gets himself wound up. The whole
radio guy voice stuff could just be nonsense. Alternatively, the break
down of control may have changed public standards. With so many
different voices now doing audio and video, the range of acceptable now
covers just about everyone…

As far as numbers, the traffic has declined, as it always does this time
of year. The estimate on unique monthly visitors is at 90K now, about
10% off the peak. It will drop a further in July and then slowly tick
back up as we head into fall. Strangely, March has always been the
highest traffic month. I have no explanation for it. It could be a
coincidence or maybe humans become more active in the late winter and
early spring in anticipation of the arrival of spring.

The number one post in terms of traffic is the page
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=5980" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">My Theory of Everything</a>. In fact, I still get
comments on those posts. Number two is [this
one](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7447). I have no answer for why,
but it still gets passed around quite a bit. Another top-10 favorite
[this one](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8635). I should probably
compile a greatest hits page or maybe put together an ebook of them. I’m
also informed that I’m closing in on one million Google referrals, which
means one million times Google as sent someone to this site. I have no
idea if that is a lot, but I’ll put on my goriller mindset and say it is
yuuuggggge! In all seriousness, for a one man blog it probably is a lot…
