---
title: "The Dead End"
date: "2017-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10579"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10579"
---

Most of the issue that plague our modern societies stem from the
unwillingness of our policy makers to consider the obvious solutions. In
the 80’s, we had a bum crisis due to the states being forced to fling
open the doors to their nervous hospitals. The former patients had no
one willing to care for them and no ability to care for themselves, so
they ended up on the streets as bums. The obvious answer was to put them
back into the asylums, but that was ruled off limits and we still have a
bum problem to this day.

The solution to the bum problem was to ignore it and build up a big new
bureaucracy for dealing with the bums, while not actually getting them
off the streets. That meant a proliferation of not-for-profit
organizations that dealt with the bums, using grants from the city,
state and federal government. The result is we now have a special
interest that works to thwart any effort to get the bums off the
streets. Bum maintenance has become an industry with lobbyists and
political power. And we still have bums.

The thing is, the Cloud People do not have a bum problem. They “solved”
the “homeless” problem by agreeing to use their tax dollars to build
flop houses in your neighborhood and they also make sure the bum
services industry is located in your neighborhood. You will never see a
homeless shelter next to a Starbucks. The cops in Cloud Country are
adept at putting the stray bum on a bus and sending him to Dirt Country,
where the shelters are located. After all, they are public servants and
that is the humane thing to do.

For a minor annoyance like the bum problem, this is not an untenable
situation. Even in the ghetto, the crazy guy screaming at cars as they
pass by is just local color. For bigger issues, like the black
underclass, this approach is unworkable. For fifty years white liberals
have been playing a weird game of Old Maid, in which they find new ways
to dump blacks from their neighborhoods into the normie middle-class.
The normies respond by moving away, but Lefty keeps finding ways to
inflict the problem on them.

The primary source of racial conflict in modern America is the Cloud
People habit of blaming typical white people for the bad behavior of
blacks. Whites don’t care if Ray-Ray guns down Trayvon over a sneaker
beef, but they do care when they are told they are responsible for it.
Instead of addressing the issue of ghetto violence, we have a whole
industry built around race hustling. The dysfunctional black under-class
is the source of income for thousands of people with an interest in
never solving it.

The Exploding Mohamed is looking like a problem for which the Cloud
People have no way to ignore, but they are working hard to find a way to
turn this problem into a weapon against the Dirt People. Take a look at
<a
href="https://blogs.spectator.co.uk/2017/06/tackle-terrorist-threat-four-steps-must-now-consider/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this Spectator piece</a> after the most
recent incident. It reads like a meditation on how to avoid facing
reality. The proposed suggestions, they don’t qualify as solutions, are
laughably pointless. You could be forgiven for thinking the writer
started by eliminating what will work and then came up with his list of
solutions.

The most obvious solution to the exploding and stabbing Mohameds is to
stop importing Mohameds. If BMW’s exploded at this rate, Britain would
ban the importation of BMW’s and demand the manufacturer recall those in
the country. Volkswagen is facing billions in fines for violating
trivial emissions regulations. Yet, no one dares say, “there’s a problem
with these Mohameds. Let’s put the brakes on importing more of them
until will can figure out what’s going on with them.” Nope. It is a mad
dash to import more of them.

The trouble is they can’t ignore it, like the bum problem, or even blame
the honkies, like they do with black crime. This one is all on the Cloud
People, but they can’t bring themselves to face the cause of the
problem. Instead, they build out the police state, install more cameras
and turn the country into a game preserve. Cynics say this is
deliberate, but that assumes facts not in evidence. These people are not
that clever. It’s that their multicultural religion forbids them from
considering the right answer to the problem.

It is the aspect of anarcho-tyranny that most people don’t get right
away. It’s not that the authorities are lazy or disinterested. It’s that
they are afraid of their own bizarre religion of multiculturalism. When
you rule out the reality of human nature from the tool set, you’re left
with solutions that are contrary to human nature. The thing that allows
them to rule like tyrants over their own kind, prevents them from
raising a finger against strangers and aliens. It is as if a form
of *Toxoplasma gondii *has infected the brains of the ruling elites.

This is not a terrible way to think of it. The typical person in the
managerial elite has never had to face the hard decisions most of us
take for granted. Theirs has been a life without accountability in a
world stripped of the harsher aspects of the human condition. If you
have spent your life in the dream world of the academy and the
government campus, you can be forgiven for not wanting to question the
underlying orthodoxy. As Tucker Carlson pointed out in
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t2dct9ErA_g" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this speech</a>, it is a great life and no one would
choose to leave it.

The trouble is, once you eliminate the axiomatic, you inevitably end in
a logical dead end, with no real options other than retracing your
steps. Since questioning the one true faith is off limits, the Cloud
People spend their days dreaming up fantasy solutions to real problems
that just keep getting worse. For something like bum control, nature
tends to step in and solve the problem. For a Muslim invasion, the
problem will not resolve itself, at least not in a tolerable way, until
the fever breaks or the system collapses.

This will not end well.
