---
title: "Elephants"
date: "2017-12-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12370"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12370"
---

Watch a TV show or movie from the 60’s or 70’s that touched on current
events and you are likely to see a character mentioning something about
Africa. [Biafra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biafra) was important for
a while. Eritrea once got the attention of Americans. Zaire was another
African country that turned up in popular media. Read anything about
Progressive politics from the era and African causes were all the rage.
The New Left was deeply into liberation movements and Africa was where
the last European colonies were gaining independence. Africa was cool.

Of course, the 1980’s brought South Africa to center stage for the
America Left. It was the easiest way to be pro-black, without having to
move to Oakland. Lefty could be super-pro-black, from the safety of the
college campus or Hollywood studio. In one of life’s little ironies, one
of Mel Gibson’s biggest films featured him fighting South Africans, who
were portrayed by actors obviously directed to act like Nazis. Everyone
knew South Africa was going to be the example that proved Africans could
run a first world country.

No one talks about Africa very much these days. On the college campus,
the word “de-colonization” still pops up in papers, but it is now used
by mentally unstable feminist academics in their howling about white
men. No serious person talks about colonialism or what happened to the
former colonies. Even South America is ignored by the American
commentariat, other than to praise the wonderfulness of immigration.
What used to be called the Third World has largely been forgotten by our
Progressive rulers.

The reason for this is Africa, in particular, stands as proof against
everything the modern Left says about the human condition. There are no
success stories in Africa. Botswana is the closest you get, but it
remains one of the poorest places on earth. The rest of Africa is a
collection of failed states and basket-cases. Sierra Leone, for example,
is no longer able to maintain its water supply and power grid. Nigeria
is in a low-grade civil war with Muslims and Zimbabwe is the glaring
example of the African failed state.

No one talks much about Africa for this reason. Whenever it pops into
the news, the American media handles the topic like a skunk at a garden
party. They crinkle up their noses, get through the story and then
forget about it. American troops are conducting operations in Niger and
no one seems to care. It is why the end of Robert Mugabe has largely
been ignored. Rhodesia, as it was called under white rule, was a great
Progressive cause 40 years ago. Now it just another story of Africans
discrediting the narrative.

You see, Africa is the example that counters everything our Progressive
rulers believe about the world. If the blank slate is true, then
Africans should have made great strides in closing the gap with the
white world. If things like “institutional racism” were real things,
Africa should be racing toward modernity now. If colonialism was the
reason these places were so backward, a half century of freedom should
have gone a long way toward curing the effects of the white man.
Instead. everywhere Africa is worse than a half century ago.

The response from our Progressive rulers is to just ignore Africa. You
see it in this [National Review article on the end of Mugabe’s
rule](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/454674/robert-mugabe-zimbabwe-descent-crisis).
The authoress is young, so she was poached in the warm liquids of
multiculturalism her whole life. Her struggle to explain the decline of
Rhodesia into Zimbabwe reads like a person trying to disarm a bomb while
blindfolded. She not only avoids the elephant in the room, which is
race, she leaves the reader with the impression that there is no such
thing as elephants. Race does not exist.

That is why Africa stopped being important to our Progressive rulers. It
is why the efforts of George Bush to do something about AIDS in Africa
was largely ignored. You cannot talk about Africa without talking about
race and race realism. Those are taboo subjects, so the whole continent
may as well not exist. Bring up the subject in a room full of
Progressives and watch their reaction. You will not see fear. It will be
confusion. The subject has been purged from the catechism, so it no
longer exists. Africa is not cool anymore.

That is why Africa should be a central topic on this side of the river.
It is the easiest way for the normie on the other side to begin his
journey. It is a topic where the facts are so stark, it is easy to
understand the basics of human biodiversity, evolution and the cognitive
differences between groups of humans. The group characteristics on
display in Africa, also look like what Americans see on their
televisions. There is also the great divide between East and West. The
Dark Continent is a living museum of human evolution.

Africa is also a useful lever against Lefty. Most of what our
Progressive rulers say is some sort of moral posturing. Talking about
[the most important graph in the
world](http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-worlds-most-important-graph/) is a
good way to turn that against them.  A good rule of life is to always
focus on what Lefty is trying to ignore. It usually means they fear the
topic. Africa is the biggest elephant in the room right now, in terms of
demographics. Lefty wants you to believe there are no elephants, so it
is a good time to fall in love with the elephants.
