---
title: "The Iron Law of Conservatism"
date: "2017-04-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10000"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10000"
---

The British journalist, and sometime National Review editor, John
O’Sullivan stated that any organization or enterprise that is not
expressly right wing will become left wing over time. This observation
is conveniently named O’Sullivan’s Law and is based on the observation
that non-liberals will hire liberals into their organization, while
liberals apply ideological tests. The result is liberals eventually take
over non-liberal organizations while ruthlessly defending their own
turf.

What O’Sullivan was observing is the natural tendency toward entryism
among members of mass movements. It is the corollary to proselytizing.
The true believer seeks validation so they are always trying to recruit
members to their cause. It’s why Mormons knock on doors offering to show
you their magic underwear. This also manifests itself in the inclination
toward undermining organizations seen as a challenge, often by
infiltrating and co-opting them. When an institution flips to their
ideological camp, it is seen as validation.

The irony here is that O’Sullivan and other Buckley Conservatives
confused their temporary, ad hoc response to communism, with Anglo-Saxon
conservatism. The former existed in the temporary space of the Cold War,
while the latter is the baseline of Western Civilization. It’s why
Buckley Conservatism is now just Progressivism with a blood lust for
Arabs. Once the Cold War ended, their reason to exist ended with it. It
turns out that Buckley Conservatism was not expressly right wing after
all.

That raises the question of what it means to be expressly right wing and
introduces this video from
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UQCZ9izaCa4"
target="_blank">Alt-Lite provocateur, Gavin McInnes</a>. The summary,
for those uninterested in watching it, is McInnes putting up a board
displaying the various figured on the Alt-Right and Alt-Lite. He has a
line dividing the two camps. On one side are those who are Western
chauvinist, rallying around a group of ideas. They are “inclusive” of
anyone that embraces Western civilization and they are not hung up on
race or heritage.

The other side mostly agrees with that, but adds in the fact that those
ideas were invented by white people and that matters. The West is the
result of white people so to preserve Western Civilization you have to
preserve white people. There’s also the “JQ” issue, according to
McInnes, where the Alt-Right places Jews outside the white camp and
outside Western Civilization. He soft-sells it, but the point is that
one side is pro-white and the other side is Pro-West, but both sides
largely agree on the philosophical stuff.

That’s fine and maybe it is correct. To his credit, McInnes makes clear
that it is more of a continuum, than two distinct sets, but he invests a
lot of time talking about a vaguely defined line between the two camps.
Richard Spencer is over on the side near the fringe Nazis and Paul
Joseph Watson is over on the other side, closer to something McInness
never bothers to address. The whole shtick is mostly about
distinguishing himself from the bad guys on the Alt-Right so the Left is
left unmentioned.

To be fair to McInness, he is still young enough to dream of having a
big time job at a big time media operation. He got a taste of it at Fox
News and he probably hopes that one day he gets a shot to host a show on
some other mainstream cable platform. Frankly, they would be wise to
dump one of the Jon Stewart Mini-Me shows they have and give a guy like
a McInnes a shot to be the normie version of Stewart, but that’s a topic
for another day. The point here is McInness is treading lightly.

The defect with the Alt-Lite is the same problem the Buckley
Conservatives had a generation ago. They have no antibodies to resist
entryism, because they lack a timeless definition of what it means to be
Alt-Lite. Western Civilization, after all, includes Karl Marx and
Hitler. Nazism is just as much a part of the West as John Locke. In
fact, Hitler currently casts a longer shadow than any of the men of the
Enlightenment. On what grounds can the Alt-Lite reject Hitler, but
embrace the slave owning Jefferson?

The same is true of anti-racism and egalitarianism. How can these be
rejected when they are inventions of the West? Of course, the Alt-Lite
makes no attempt to reject these as that would get them in trouble with
the Left. That’s what opens the door to, and requires them to accept,
the defining feature of the dominant orthodoxy. That feature is the
blank slate. As McInness goes to pains to point out, if a hotep brotha
is on the Trump Train, he has a place at the table of the Alt-Lite, a
*cherished* place.

That’s the fatal flaw that was the undoing of the Buckley Right. The
Alt-Lite has no affirmative argument. Instead, it is a list of things it
is not and most of those things are to their Right. That firewall they
are building to their Right, just as Buckley did with Kirk and with the
paleocons, comes at the expense of any defensible line of demarcation
between themselves and the Left. That leaves them open to entryism,
corruption and subversion, which is why the leading opponents of Trump
are all Buckley Conservatives.

That brings us back to the beginning. O’Sullivan was mostly correct, but
he left out the most important part of the rule. That’s the definition
of Right Wing. What is it that forever separates the Right from the
Left? What is the thing about which there can be no meeting in the
middle, between Left and Right? The great divide that can never be
crossed, is biology.The Left embraces the blank slate and
rejects biological reality. The Right accepts biology, human diversity
and all the truths about the human animal that arise from it.

The great chain of causality is Biology→Culture-→Politics-→Economics.
It’s why Libertarianism, in its current form, not right wing. The Reason
Magazine crowd are sure that all you have to do to fix Haiti, for
example, is end the licensing of barbershops and other small businesses.
And legalize weed, of course. In other words, they get things backward
and end up rejecting the human condition. This is the crack in the
foundation of all Left Wing movements. It’s what they share in common.

Therefore, any ideology or political movement that does not accept the
great chain of causality will eventually be subverted and become left
wing.
