---
title: "Christianity, Patriotism and The Alt-Right"
date: "2017-10-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11906"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11906"
---

Can you be a Christian and Alt-Right?

That is a question the TRS guys were debating the other day. It comes up
a lot, mostly because the leading lights in dissident politics are not
religious. Some appear to be outright atheists, even if they do not make
a big deal out of it. Of the old guys, I cannot think of any who are
Evangelical. Most were Protestants but have long ago drifted from their
churches. I do not think any of the next generation are religious. Some
grew up going to church but abandoned it as soon as they left home.

The thing with the Gen X and Millennial leaders of the alt-right is most
of them are disinterested in religion and its role in human society. It
is not something that occupies space in their mental framework. Just
because the leadership and intellectual elements of the alt-right are
non-religious, it does not necessarily follow that the alt-right is
hostile to the religious. They spent their youth marinating in
Progressive dogma and as a result, they see culture through a secular
lens, rather than a spiritual one.

There is a lot more to this so there will be many more posts on the
topic, but a good point of entry is the simple question at the start of
the post. The alt-right makes race the primary identity. Christians, and
I am thinking primarily of non-denominational Christians, place their
relationship with Jesus Christ as their primary identity. That is an
obvious conflict, as nothing in Scripture backs the primary arguments of
the alt-right. Even the most expansive reading of Scripture cannot
arrive at a pro-white position.

There is also the fact that many Christians are fanatical supporters of
Israel. They have incorporated unconditional support for the state of
Israel with their Christian identity. That often extends to Jews in the
United States. For many Christians, antisemitism is the worst sin
imaginable. That is an obvious problem with the alt-right. Then there is
the egalitarianism that many Christians have internalized as part of
their relationship with Jesus Christ. They believe they are called to
treat all men as children of God.

None of this is necessarily a deal breaker for Christians and the
alt-right, but it creates some rather obvious complications. What it
means is the alt-right is going to have to get better at understanding
how to talk to and appeal to this type of Christian. Simply making the
pro-white argument is not going to have much appeal to people who root
their identity in something that transcends race. The alt-right, if it
is going to make inroads into the Christian community, is going to have
figure out how to engage these folks on their terms.

What about Patriotism?

Strangely, the alt-right may have an easier time engaging with
Christians, than the hard core Civic Nationalists. Christians have been
oppressed in American for generations and they have learned the hard way
that they cannot vote themselves to freedom. That is not the case with
Civic Nationalists. The narcotic of patriotism keeps them forever
optimistic that one more election and the nation will return to the
1950’s, except with a lot browner people, who magically embrace white
middle-class sensibilities.

As with Christians, the folks listening to Glenn Beck or Ben Shapiro, as
they drive around suburbia, root their identity in something that
transcends race and ethnicity. Civic nationalism is a religion and a
primary identity. They are Americans, no hyphen. More important, these
people look at things like taxes and regulation as primary markers of
fidelity to their civic religion. To them, guys like Richard Spencer
sound like communists, because he does not seem to care all that much
about tax cuts or regulatory reform.

The thing is, the patriotic normie is sure he is working from facts and
reason when investing all of his energy into the current political
arrangements. In reality, gentry conservatism and libertarianism are a
different implementation of the Progressive moral framework. The ends
are different, but the assumptions are the same. You do not talk people
out of their moral sensibilities with facts and reason. In order to sway
patriotic normies, the alt-right is going to have to appeal to them in
moral terms.

Most of the alt-right seems to think this is a self-resolving problem.
Mass immigration and the war on white people will beat the patriotism
out of these people. They will inevitably come to accept identity
politics. Maybe, but it would be preferable to win over these people
before America becomes Brazil. At that point it may not matter. The
alt-right is going to have to think about how to offer something to
these folks that rivals the narcotic power of flag waving patriotism.
That means constructive engagement, rather than mockery.

These are just two facets to a big topic. Racial politics in America has
always been about the two sides of white America debating how to best
deal with the blacks. That has made identity politics two dimensional.
In order to move past that, it means creating an alternative moral
framework. That cannot be conjured from thin air. It must happen in
relation to and in reaction to the current claims on the identity of
whites. The alt-right will have to be reconciled with religion and
patriotism, or it will fail.
