---
title: "The God’s Must Be Crazy"
date: "2017-03-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9824"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9824"
---

Half a dozen years or ago, I had a Facebook page at the insistence of
female friends, who told me I had to have a Facebook page. It did not
last long as my life is not interesting and the lives of my friends are
not interesting either. What killed the idea for me was that I kept
seeing posts for “I Fucking Love Science!” and they were always from
people with no math or science. The posts themselves were never really
about science either. Instead, they were usually about confirming some
belief bubbling up on the Left.

In other words, they were just using science as a placeholder for a
transcendent authority that allegedly validated their preferences.
Instead of claiming that God commands us to put more women and blacks
into STEM fields, we’re to believe science is happier if we put more
women and blacks into STEM fields, because, science!  I dropped Facebook
a long time ago so I have no idea if it is still a thing, but I see
<a href="http://www.iflscience.com/" target="_blank">there is a website
for it now</a>. By the looks of it, it is the same act.

For as long as I can remember, the Left has been claiming that science
confirms their beliefs and preferences. Not that long ago they use to
claim that socialism was based in science. Today it is multiculturalism.
At least once a week, <a
href="https://www.forbes.com/forbes/welcome/?toURL=https://www.forbes.com/sites/stuartanderson/2017/03/11/83-of-americas-top-high-school-science-students-are-the-children-of-immigrants/&amp;refURL=https://t.co/4XO9vIe3xY&amp;referrer=https://t.co/4XO9vIe3xY#5cf15bc92200"
target="_blank">someone, not knowing the difference between statistics
and science, makes a claim that science demands we fling open our
borders to the gathering hordes</a>. You see? Science says open borders
is good, so only a science denier would oppose wholesale immigration and
those people can be dismissed.

Science is not the only stand in for God that we have today. Libertarian
economists worship at the altar of Castor and Pollux, or as they call
them, Efficiency and Productivity. No matter the policy, they demand it
be sent off to the druids of the local economics department so they can
read the goat entrails and then forecast the policy’s impact on
efficiency and productivity. For instance, clamping down on immigration
is a bad thing because it lowers worker productivity and that makes the
gods cross. Handing off trade policy to global planners is a good thing
because it pleases efficiency.

The most stunningly absurd manifestation of this came from the
libertarian economist Alex Tabbarok, who claimed <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2015/10/get-rid-borders-completely/409501/"
target="_blank">the mystery cult of economics demanded open borders</a>.
He argued that your preferences are invalid unless you can please his
gods and he was the guy who would decide if the gods were pleased. This
is Bronze Age oogily-boogily and it exposes a truth about the Left in
the modern era. While they may appear to have abandoned the Christian
concept of God as a moral authority, in reality they just gave him some
new names. They still point to the heavens and demand you submit.

That’s the thing you see with all of these sects within the Progressive
hive. They maintain that old Puritan instinct where they assume to have
special insights into the desires of the heavens and therefore they have
a right to push everyone around. This is clear when you look at the
campus war on whites. When the nutters demand the blanco check his
privilege, they are claiming to speak for some mystical force that has
decided that the honky hegemony must be eradicated. They assume the gods
are on their side and the accused must justify his actions or else.

It’s not just a mysterious supernatural authority that animates their
morality. They have a list of demons and sub-demons they believe are at
war with the forces of light. Racism used to be a white guy refusing to
hire a black guy. Now, it is this thing called “institutional racism”
which you can’t actually see or describe. It’s this dark force that
results in the IT department being staffed with pale penis people,
rather than looking like the multicultural paradise we all know is the
natural destiny of man. We must fight institutional racism!

Feminist have also conjured a monster, the opposition to which has
become their rallying cry. Campus Rape Culture™ is not a real thing in
the sense that it exists. Instead, it is a metaphysical concept that
causes all sorts of bad things. The result is we have a line of hungover
coeds at the rape counseling center blaming the campus rape culture for
why they woke up with their underwear on their head. The rarity of
actual rape on campus is held up as proof of the insidiousness of Campus
Rape Culture™.

Eric Hoffer said, “Mass movements can rise and spread without belief in
a God, but never without belief in a devil.” This is true, but the
latter always results in the creation of the former. Once the great evil
has been identified and described, there has to be a moral code in
response to it and that requires a transcendent authority to animate.
Otherwise, the moral code is just a list of preferences that can be
disputed or discarded. If those preferences have the color of authority,
one beyond the reach of man, then it has power.

That’s what we see with the various utopian tribes in the modern age.
Modern Progressive have “the right side of history” as their spirit god.
Libertarians have Efficiency and Productivity. The open borders crazies
have “it’s who we are” and Buckley Conservatives have “conservative
principles.” All of which serve as a supernatural authority whose word
trumps any argument made by men in opposition. It also gives the
adherents license to use any means necessary to impose their morality on
the rest of us.
