---
title: "Barren Cat Lady"
date: "2017-06-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10454"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10454"
---

The above is the speech from British Prime Minister Barren Cat Lady
after the latest attack by Muslims in Britain. Like all modern political
speeches, hers was vapid and stupid in ways that suggest the people who
wrote it, and the Prime Minister herself, are suffering from brain
damage. The best part of the speech was the airy and frivolous
platitudes about the true nature of Islam. Funny how our pols are now
all experts on Islam.

It is only five minutes long, but it is tough to take so I’ll cover the
key points for you. Barren Cat Lady wants everyone to know that the
people responsible for importing millions of hyper-violent savages into
Britain are on top of things. That’s something you never hear addressed
in public by the pols of any party or the so-called news reporters
allegedly charged with grilling them. No one ever asks, “why did you
import these strangers into our lands?” It’s treated as if it just
magically happened like a freak storm or earth quake.

Of course, someone could start asking these questions, so the Barren Cat
Lady promised to ramp up policing of the Internet. No kidding. That was
her first big proposal. She wants the British government to further
stamp out speech on-line and she wants other countries to stamp out free
expression in their countries as well. When your first response to an
attack by foreign invaders is to crack down on your own citizens, it is
not unreasonable to wonder who Barren Cat Lady is blaming for these
attacks.

After she promise to crack down on the Internet, as if it is a thing
with agency of its own, she makes noises about properly worshiping the
gods of the new religion. She provides an example by informing us that
the Muslims doing this are not practicing real Islam. That despite what
all the Imams say and their holy books instruct, the real Islam is this
wonderful thing that is going to be great for Britain. Even though the
corpses are piling up, what’s important is that you don’t notice that
all the perpetrators are Muslims.

Humorously, she then declares this mysterious, perverted version of
Islam, that looks like all the other versions of Islam, is the great
challenge of our time. She then goes on to say that “British values” of
pluralistic tolerance are superior to anything offered by the preachers
of hate. Well, we will find out soon enough. So far, the British people
have not been able to rouse themselves from their drunken degeneracy to
do anything about this challenge. The scoreboard says the Muslims are
winning in a blowout, pun intended.

Probably the most laugh out loud line in the sermon, and yes, this was a
sermon, was when Barren Cat Lady said that “we have to be less tolerant
of extremism. And yes, that could mean some embarrassing and difficult
conversations.” Embarrassing for whom is never mentioned, but we know.
The reason we know is after the last Muslim attack, the one last week,
the Brits went around arresting white people for saying mean things
about Muslims on Faceberg. Being arrested is embarrassing, even when
you’re innocent.

What was revealed by this speech is that outside of the public eye, the
people in charge of Britain have no emotional or moral attachment to the
British people. As far as they are concerned, the people are just a
burden, whether it is the hyper-violent oogily-boogily people that
arrive over the channel or the native Brits. Barren Cat Lady sees no
difference between a Muslim from Pakistan and an Episcopalian for York.
She just sees grasping hands demanding her time when she would much
rather be elsewhere.

Prior to watching this speech, I figured that this event would get the
sane Brits out to vote next week for the Tories. Labour is led by a
deranged lunatic who should probably be locked away in an institution.
No matter how bad the Tories have been, incompetent is better than
radically deranged. Watching Barren Cat Lady, I think I’d be switching
my vote and going with the black pill candidate, Burn it down. The only
hope is to wipe out the people who put Barren Cat Lady in charge and
then have the final battle with the crazies.

This is the same problem we face in the US. Instead of Barren Cat Lady,
we have <s>faggots</s> fools¹ like Caitlyn Graham and Paul Ryan
supposedly leading the charge against the nihilistic death cult called
the American Left. Trump is the black pill, which is why so many of us
voted for him, despite what it most likely meant. The only way the West
has any chance of defeating the demographic and ideological challenges
facing it is to first hang all of the people currently in charge. Then
new leaders can emerge to lead the fight.

¹ It has been brought to my attention that otherwise respectable and
sensible gay males will use the term “faggot” as insider language and
they would take offense at my use of it here. In short, I was
unintentionally insulting faggots by calling Paul Ryan and Caitlyn
Graham that name. My sincere apology to all the faggots in the reading
audience.
