---
title: "The Power of Theocracy"
date: "2017-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Race
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10186"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10186"
---

Living in a Progressive theocracy means the framework of civic debate is
always going to be a Progressive framework. The Prog mullahs establish
the premises, set the rules and dictate what is and what is not
permitted. They police the debate to make sure no one is coloring
outside the lines or questioning the official orthodoxy. In Iran, they
allow debate until it bumps into heresy, then they start shooting
people. In America, the Progs will ruin a few careers to send a message
to the others that may have heretical thoughts.

It should be noted that the two most successful Middle
Eastern countries, in terms of stability and world influence, are both
theocracies, Iran and Saudi Arabia. If you throw in Israel, which is a
Western implementation of Levantine theocracy, the three most successful
Middle Eastern societies are theocratic. You’ll also note that the
machinations of these three countries are at the center of great power
politics. Russia, China, Europe and the US Empire are fixated on the
Middle East. Theorcracy is not without its merits.

Anyway, the Prog theocracy of America is a hybrid creation that evolved
over the last century into something that relies on the tools of an
official religion to exploit the institutions of a modern social
democracy. Progressives control the normal public debate that occurs
within a social democracy by declaring a wide range of topics off-limits
on moral grounds. This narrows the range of possible answers, funneling
the public debate into the cattle chute of their choosing, thus
resulting in a policy the Prog mullahs prefer.

A good example of this is race. It is largely assumed that Progs use
race as a political lever to win elections or as a cudgel to beat the
bad whites. That’s part of it, but the real utility of race for the
Progs is to maintain their position as the moral authority, the arbiters
of what is and what is not acceptable public discourse. As long as they
are the ones determining the line between good and evil, they control
pubic debate. There’s no argument you can craft that can overcome their
moral superiority.

You see that here in <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2017/05/black-owned-businesses-decline-rate/524283/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story on the collapse of
black entrepreneurship</a>. It’s a long emotive ramble not worth
reading, but the gist of the article is that the collapse of black
business is due to the magic of invisible discrimination by big business
and banks. No evidence is provided, but good thinkers don’t need it. The
bulk of the piece is the writer establishing his credentials as a friend
of the black man, thus providing him with the moral authority to call
out the heretics. Unsurprisingly, it is The Man!

<a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/where-have-all-the-black-owned-businesses-gone/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">As Steve Sailer pointed
out</a>, there are explanations for this collapse in black
entrepreneurship that don’t involve magic. Immigration is one
explanation that leaps out on a ghetto tour. In Baltimore, for example,
Koreans and South Asians go into tough neighborhoods and open cash
businesses like liquor stores and food stands. Their willingness to do
business through bullet proof glass allows them to complete in these
neighborhoods. Their clannishness allows them to dominate.

This is not the result of magic. It is the result of Progressive polices
over the last thirty years. Similarly, is the Prog desire to decorate
corporate enterprise and the academy with non-white faces. Instead of
the <a href="https://www.britannica.com/topic/Talented-Tenth"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Talented Ten Percent</a>
staying in the black community, building businesses, providing
discipline and leadership, they are out in honkyville. Diversity hiring
is a form of colonialism that skims the best and brightest into the
dependency of corporate life, leaving behind the squalor of the rest.

There are certainly other reasons why black enterprise has collapsed,
like the financialization of the American economy via credit money.
There’s no doubt that the concentration of wealth, as well as the lack
of restraint by the political class on its use, has severely disrupted
the American middle class. There’s a lot of material there if someone is
genuinely curious about what is happening in the black community. That’s
not what matters to the Progressives. What matters is establishing their
moral authority.

When the Iranian youth decided it was time to take on the Mullahs at the
start of the Obama administration, they just assumed they had the
numbers to force change on the regime. The regime, on the other hand,
knew they possessed the moral authority to enforce order. That’s the
real power of possessing moral authority. It’s not that it intimidates
enemies of the regime. It’s that it sidelines the uncertain and
motivates the true believers. When you get to draw the moral boundaries,
you always win.

That’s the challenge to any movement that seeks to displace the
Progressive authorities in America. It’s not about winning elections or
getting the numbers in legislatures. It’s about stealing from the Progs
their moral authority and their ability to frame the debate. If they
have to rely on facts and reason, they are doomed, but as long as they
get to set the terms of the debate, facts and reason don’t matter.
That’s why the medieval House of Saud still stands and why the Mullahs
in Iran are still with us. They define right and wrong.
