---
title: "What’s Wrong With The NFL"
date: "2017-10-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11924"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11924"
---

Pretty much the only reason I ever owned a television or had a cable
subscription was so I could watch sports. Growing up, we only have a few
channels and they were often so fuzzy you could not watch them.
Television was just not a central part of my life as a kid, so I never
developed the habit. I grew up on sports, so as I got older, I did what
everyone else did and got cable and a television. In truth, I bought my
first TV after a girl I was dating said she would not come over to my
place if I did not have a television.

Over the years, the only thing I bothered watching with any regularity
was sports. Even as the cable companies kept jacking up the rates, I
liked sports enough to keep paying the rate. In fairness, the number of
games kept rising and the quality of the television got better, as the
prices went up. When I was a kid, we got one NFL game on Sunday. If I
want to watch every NFL game on a Sunday, I can do it now. The same is
true of college and other sports. It really is an amazing change just in
my lifetime.

I no longer have a cable subscription. I will watch movies off Amazon or
off the Kodi, but that is the stuff I can get free. I stopped watching
the NFL a few years ago, even when I still had cable. I am not sure what
happened. The games just got boring to me. I will still watch a college
football game, but I am not arranging my schedule around it. Basketball
stopped interesting me in the 90’s, mostly because I am white. The only
sport I will watch is baseball and I primarily follow it over the
internet and through the box score.

It is popular to say that the NFL is struggling due to the player
protests. There is certainly something to that, but it feels more like
the final straw than the prime reason. I have friends who were regular
fans, going to games and watching on TV, but now they do not follow the
NFL at all. At the same time, they cut the cord and started disengaging
from sports media too. That is not just the protests. There is something
else going on in the culture that is causing people to rethink their
interest in professional sports.

A few years ago, it was received wisdom that the NFL, and to a lesser
extend college football, was the tent pole holding up the cable
business. Americans were football crazy and they would pay the price to
have their weekend games. Now, [ESPN dropping the NFL is no longer a
crazy
idea](http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/why-espn-could-abandon-nfl-football-guest-column-1052792).
They are getting killed by cord cutting, but they are also paying huge
money for professional sports. [They are preparing for another round of
layoffs](http://www.sportingnews.com/other-sports/news/espn-layoffs-latest-news-rumors-firings-mike-greenberg-golic-scott-van-pelt-svp-jemele-hill/1js74yxvu7l0wz8g26kdwl7nd).
There is a limit to cost cutting. Anyone involved in downsizing knows it
is just a way to stall.

The question no one seems to ask is why has the NFL lost its appeal?
Again, the decline has been going on for a few years. Ratings were
dropping before the players decided to demonstrate their hatred for
white people. If we could get an honest accounting of ticket sales, my
bet is those have been in decline as well. People in the secondary
market say prices have been dropping for years, which is a good
indication that retail sales were sliding too. For some reason, normies
in America are losing interest in football.

One possible explanation is that supply created a bubble of demand. We
tend to think of economic bubbles as demand driven but take a look at
the bookstore business. There was a time when the bookstore was the
small shop selling bestsellers at the mall or a shop in the bohemian
section of town. Then all of a sudden, every town had a massive
warehouse selling books. Of course, Amazon came along too. Book sales
went up until people remembered they did not like reading that much.
Poof. Bookstores went away.

Maybe something similar is happening with sports. In the 70’s, it was
rare for a sporting event to sell out. Big games were a hard ticket, but
even some title games failed to sell out. In the late 70’s and early
80’s, the NBA playoffs were on tape delay. The famous US hockey win over
the Soviets was not broadcast live. In the 80’s, new arenas and the roll
out of cable made everyone a sports fan. Then the girls got into it and
being a sports nut became the way people related to one another in the
public.

It could be that after a generation of sports mania, people are
remembering that watching live sports is not all that much fun. Just as
the culture changed with the new flood of sports television and high end
sports arenas, the culture is changing again as the novelty of those
things wear off and people rediscover other entertainments. We tend to
think of fads lasting a week or maybe a summer, but maybe some things
run their course over a generation. Maybe as the Boomers fade, their
cultural items are fading too.

If you think about it, Boomers have driven other sports fads that have
come and gone. In my youth, tennis was important. Boomers were young
enough to play tennis, so they watched tennis too. Then the boomers got
old and moved onto golf. Tennis collapsed and golf took off. Now,
Boomers are getting too old for golf, so it has fallen into decline.
Maybe that is what is happening with professional sports like the NFL.
The demographic cohort that blew the sports bubble is expiring and the
bubble is collapsing.

It is not an elegant answer, but there is no obvious reason football has
a stink on it all of a sudden. The games have been over-hyped circuses
for a long time. They actually made some changes to quicken the pace and
shorten the games. The cost of attendance is ridiculous, but you never
hear that as an explanation for the sudden decline. Even so, that would
not explain the free fall in TV ratings. Whatever the cause, it is part
of a much longer trend and not the result of one thing, like the player
protests.
