---
title: "The Tribal States of America"
date: "2017-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9831"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9831"
---

The other day, I heard someone use the word “kike” in public. I can’t
remember when I last heard someone use the word in conversation. My
grandfather would use it, along with WOP, Spic, Mic, Jew, Polack and
other colorful euphemisms. That was just the way men of his generation
spoke to one another. One of his old friends was Italian and he called
him a “Guinea bastard” so often it may as well have been his given name.
In turn, his buddies would call him a commie, a rook, a pinko, etc.

That was a long time ago. In our sensitive age, people are afraid to
mention the race of a crime suspect, lest they get accused of blasphemy.
The result is we get crime bulletins from the news that tell us the
suspect is tall and bi-pedal. In fact, I’ve learned to take some
pleasure in mentioning race in conversation, just to see the honkies
flinch. Blacks and Hispanics never flinch, but honkies are so beaten
down they come close to tears at the mere mention of race or ethnicity.

In the incident the other day, no one seemed to notice, although I
probably missed the context. Still, I was bit surprised to hear the word
in public. I don’t think “kike” was ever a slur as it has no negative
connotations.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kike" target="_blank">It’s roots
are supposedly from Ellis Island</a>, but that could be apocryphal. It’s
also possible the people I overheard were Jewish, and they were owning
the insult, in the same way blacks use the word “nigger” in every other
sentence. Given the complexion of the people in the room, my guess is
they were not Jewish.

The hand-wringers all swear that we are reliving Weimar Germany and
Trump is the 12<sup>th</sup> invisible Hitler the prophecies foretold.
The inevitable result is the Cossacks galloping through the streets of
Jewish neighborhoods. Maybe so, but I’m skeptical. Trump seems to get
along well with the Tribe and he seems to love his Jewish grandchildren.
He has quite a few Jewish advisers and business partners. Maybe they are
not making Hitlers like they used to, but my hunch is he is not Hitler
and we are not Weimar Germany.

Still, the special position for Jews in American may be changing. It’s
impossible not to notice that the roster of people leading the
opposition to Trump reads like a Manhattan law firm. It’s also hard to
not notice that people with a precious metal in their name are wildly
over-represented in America’s ruling elite. It’s fair to say that
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7805" target="_blank">Jews in
America are the new WASP’s</a>, a narrow ethnic group that dominates the
ruling classes. Instead of Pemberton and Prescott in the overstuffed
leather chairs, it’s Goldstein and Silverberg.

As a result, it will become increasingly acceptable to make sport of the
Jews, just as it was acceptable to make fun of the WASP’s in the prior
century. I grew up in a time when all the rich people were portrayed by
Hollywood as a cartoonish version of the Monopoly guy, plotting with
others in the elite to block the advance of the lower classes. The
horse-faced actor William Devane made a career out of playing the
sinister WASP at the head of a conspiracy against the swarthy people,
excluded from the best golf clubs.

I doubt we’ll ever see Hollywood treating elite Jews that way, since
Hollywood is run by Jews, but you never know. The movie War Dogs was not
very sympathetic to the two Orthodox Jews at the center of the story.
Still, mockery of the new ruling elite will probably be restricted to
the on-line culture, which is increasingly where people get their
enjoyments. The Right Stuff’s podcast *The Daily Shoah* is a good
example. It’s a blend of commentary, locker room humor and Family Guy
style mockery of the Chosen People.

Whether or not this is a sustainable arrangement is debatable. Whites in
American have never been anti-Semitic and have largely accepted the
reality of Jewish success in America. In fact, most whites take some
pride in it, seeing it as validation of America’s meritocratic culture.
The millions of Muslims being imported will obviously be hostile to this
arrangement. Hispanics and Asians don’t seem to care. Progressive
whites, on the other hand, are increasingly anti-Semitic, suggesting
there is a war brewing among the Cloud People. The Democrats coming
close to putting Keith Ellison in charge is a good example.

There’s something else to consider. There are a decent number of Jews in
the Dissident Right, supporting Trump and often sympathetic to the
alt-right. For example, the news site Breitbart is run by Joel Pollak,
an Orthodox Jew. Mickey Kaus has been on the forefront of the patriotic
immigration issue. It’s entirely possible that American Jews will come
to view multiculturalism and open borders as suicidal, because they are
bad for the Jews. Israel, after all, is pretty much the opposite of what
the American Left advocates.

It’s fair to say that the America now passing into history was one built
by the northern WASP elite, that emerged after the Civil War. These were
the men who got rich in the Industrial Revolution. They built a country
in their image. They wanted to conquer the world and they did. The
people in charge now, in the technological age, will remake America into
whatever they believe will suit their purposes. The Tribal States of
America will reflect their interests, their cultural prejudices and
their view of what’s best for the people in charge of the country.
