---
title: "New Solutions"
date: "2017-01-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9338"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9338"
---

The generally accepted theory among archaeologists is that humans began
to settle down and transition to agriculture about 15,000 years ago. It
did not happen all of a sudden nor did it happen everywhere. The first
large scale settlements arose in places that were the most hospitable
to people just mastering agriculture. The region between the Yellow
River and Yangtze River, Mesopotamia and the Indus River Valley are
thought to be the first places humans developed large scale settlements.

The big challenge for the first settled people was how to pick leaders.
Hunter-gatherers had an easy solution for this. The best warrior or most
senior male would be in charge of the group. Since the groups were small
and composed of related males, disputes could be worked out at the
personal level. If Trog turned out to be a bad leader, Trog would fall
off a cliff or have a hunting accident. Once the group got too big for
this to work, cousin Grog would lead his kin off to form a new clan
somewhere else.

Once groups of humans began to settle down in close proximity with one
another, conflict was inevitable. That’s most likely why the first
settled societies happened in the fertile river valleys. They were good
for human habitation, so populations grew. Before long the population
density made group conflict inevitable. In time, one group would come to
dominate and absorb other groups. The old Grog clan from above would
take over the Trog clan and maybe some others. The result was a tribe
distantly related people.

Picking leaders to rule over unrelated people required different habits
and different rules than picking a leader for the small group of related
people. Once you get past second cousins, family relations are not all
the close. Then you have the habit of marrying off women to other groups
in order to broker peace and cement agreements. Governing can no longer
be personal. You need a system to develop and select leaders, adjudicate
disputes and delegate authority.

There are many ways to pick leaders, but the real challenge is how to
deal with a bad selection. The Roman Republic solved this with what
amounted to term limits. The Roman Empire relied on assassination to
solve the problem. The Chinese never have figured out how to remove
defective rulers, but they did come up with a very good way to filter
them out before they gained power. Mao remains the best example of what
happens when their filtering fails. The Great Leap Forward killed
between 30 and 50 million people.

The European method that developed after the fall of Rome was feudalism.
The king had to rely on the large land owners for money and soldiers.
Those large landowners often relied on lesser nobles to collect food
rents and conscript men for soldier work. This system put limits on the
power of rulers, so a tyrant or lunatic could be controlled until he
fell off his horse or got some bad wine. It was not perfect, but it
protected the landowners from a predatory tyrant or a dangerously
ambitious monarch.

The other unique thing about Europe that effected the evolution of
governance is the fact that no one group was ever able to dominate the
rest of the continent. The Qin unified China over 2000 years ago.
Various Arab tribes dominated the Near and Middle East for very long
periods. The Romans dominated Europe, of course, but that domination was
their undoing. The cost of holding the Empire together exceeded the
benefits of keeping it, leading to the collapse of the Western Empire.
The fact that the Eastern Empire held on is not an accident. Europe is
not built for unification.

Europe’s governing structure where rulers were limited and ethnic groups
competed with one another, but were never able to fully conquer one
another, was probably the recipe that eventually led the West to race
ahead of the world economically, militarily and technologically. There’s
more to that story, but things like the rule of law and property rights
were essential ingredients for the Industrial Revolution. Without
property rights and limits on the state’s ability seize property,
there’s no reason to save and invest.

The sudden changes in governance that swept Europe coincided with the
Industrial Revolution. One way of looking at the French Revolution is
that the old governing model was built for an economic system that was
being replaced by a new economic system, one that would require a new
governing model. Liberal democracy has only flourished in nations with
merchants and manufacturing. Industry does not automatically lead to
democracy (China), but in order to have self-government you need a
market economy.

The point of all this is that social structures like liberal democracy
are not the product of inevitable historical forces. The Chinese form of
government is the product of the evolutionary history of the Chinese
people. Pluralism, openness, self-government, the rule of law, all the
things we associate with liberal democracy, are the product of the
unique history of the people of Europe. It is why they have proven to be
impossible to transplant to other parts of the world. The rest of the
world is not built for Western social structures.

That’s a lot of book length material summarized into a few paragraphs,
but it is an important lesson of history. The people of the West have
unique organizational structures because they have unique histories. As
a result, they have different human capital, because the people evolved
with those social structures. These small differences on the individual
level, roll up to be rather large differences when expressed in customs
and social institutions. Just as important is the fact that it is
*ongoing*. People and their societies continue to evolve.

With that in mind, what we call liberal democracy is the product of the
industrial age when making and selling things was the core of European
economies. The challenge every ruler in Europe faced in the 17th century
was how to get the most of the available human capital. That not only
meant getting everyone working, it meant increasing each worker’s
productivity. If you are going to have a big standing army, for example.
your farmers have to produce lots of surplus food and supplies for that
army.

The technological revolution is going to lead to a different economic
model. Instead of one that gets the most from the available human
capital, the new economy will be one that gets the most from
technological capital. The robot revolution is oversold, but the future
will require fewer people to produce the goods and services we demand.
It is not just labor being replaced with machines. It is <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2017/jan/05/japanese-company-replaces-office-workers-artificial-intelligence-ai-fukoku-mutual-life-insurance"
target="_blank">intellectual capital being replaced with technology</a>.
The future is about how best to organize society when technology is
handling the bulk of work.

The so-called populist uprising in the West, seen through this prism,
takes on a different color. For instance, the reason Hillary Clinton
lost is that technology allowed for a different type of campaign and new
way around the government controlled media. The establishment showed up
in its 1960’s muscle car and the challengers arrived in Teslas. In 2016,
the twitter account of thousands of alt-right types carried as much
weight as the pages of the New York Times.

This post is going on too long, so let’s wrap this up. In 1789, no one
in France could imagine what was coming. That’s in part because they had
not noticed the demographic and economic changes that had been going on
for generations, which led to the Industrial Revolution. The modern West
has been in a post-industrial phase for at least a generation, maybe
two. Yet, the organizational model we have is still an industrial one.
Consider this. Who has more power? Congress or Google? Your PM or Tim
Cook?

It may not be 1789 all over again, but these populist uprisings that are
vexing Western leaders could simply be the tremors that precede the
earthquake of social upheaval, as the old organization system falters in
the face of new challenges. Ours is a less violent age so Madame
Guillotine will not be making an appearance, but systematically altering
the governance model is not out of the question. Our constitutions were
not handed down by God. They were always temporary solutions to
immediate challenges. We have new challenges and maybe social democracy
has run its course.
