---
title: "The Nazi Tar Baby"
date: "2017-09-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11446"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11446"
---

Thirty-five years ago I sat in history class, as one of my fellow
classmates told Father O’Connell that Hitler must have been a liberal
because he was a socialist. The old man smiled and said, “Then that
would mean Teddy Roosevelt was an actual moose.” It took a minute, but
eventually we got the joke. You can call yourself a leprechaun, but that
does not make you a leprechaun.

Where to put fascism, especially Nazism, on the political spectrum is a
big topic due to the use of Nazi iconography by some movements and the
defensive position of most conservatives on the issue. It is also
important because our rulers are making the claim that any resistance to
their nation wrecking program is fascism. Everyone is now required to
have an opinion about a political movement that stopped being relevant
close to eighty years ago.

The first thing to note is that relying on a two-dimensional political
spectrum cooked up by 18th century French radicals is not a good way to
understand the world. Even the updated Cold War version that places
internationalism at one end and nationalism at the other is of little
value to our current age. Embracing the ahistorical Progressives
worldview that insists history started when they synthesized their
current worldview is equally foolish. It leads to nothing but error.

There is also the fact that there are no Nazis or fascists today. These
movements were outliers that existed in the narrow space book-ended by
the Great War on one end and the Second World War on the other. The late
historian [Ernst Nolte](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernst_Nolte)
argued that fascism, broadly defined, was a reaction to the violence and
mayhem created by the Russian Revolution and the spread of Bolshevism.
It should be noted that Bolshevism was also an outlier movement that has
long since died off.

This is a point that [Paul Gottfried makes in his
book](https://www.amazon.com/Fascism-Career-Concept-Paul-Gottfried/dp/0875804934)
on the history of fascism as a political concept. Note the difference
between concept and ideology. An ideology has a tight, well defined set
of rules, while a concept is vague. Progressives took the dead ideology
of fascism and turned it into a political concept to include the set of
people who oppose the Progressive project. As the opposition adjusted,
the definition adjusted to meet the new threat. As a result, fascism is
as meaningless as it is non-existent.

Any effort to connect modern political movements to fascism, therefore,
is nothing more than rhetoric or cynicism. The conditions in which both
fascism and Bolshevism were born no longer exist and are unlikely to
exist again. To Western Europeans of the age, the excesses of communism
were frightening. It is eastern origins appeared sinister. The ad-hoc
and incoherent response called fascism, to what appeared to many people
as a foreign conspiracy to bring down the West, was, in context, quite
sensible.

Putting fascism on the right of your antiquated political scale probably
makes sense, as it was opposed to what is on the left end of that scale.
That means, of course, you are [embracing a base assumption of
Progressives](https://www.counter-currents.com/2017/09/my-debate-with-vox-day/).
They argue that all opposition to them is reactionary and incoherent.
Therefore, nothing on the Right can exist in isolation. It can only
exist in opposition to the Left. In that regard, they are correct about
fascism. It was a devil with an expiry date that has long passed.

A more reasonable argument, with regards to fascism and the Western
Right, is that fascism was a rearguard action. It was a final last
desperate gasp of the old culture before it was destroyed by liberalism.
Fascism therefore is a grab bag of items from the *ancien regime*,
bolted onto some modern industrial economics and sold to the public with
modern public relations techniques. That would put fascism on the Right,
but only when it is defined on a spectrum that has not had relevance for
close to a century now.

The fact is, debating the place of fascism and the relevance of Nazism
to our current age is a pointless waste of time. It lets grifters like
Dinesh D’Souza peddle books to well-meaning normies and it lets internet
pranksters generate some laughs, but otherwise, fascism, as a political
force, has no relevance in our age. It is as salient as free silver or
calls to restore the king of France. There will always be people
clinging to the detritus of past failures, but there are [people that
believe they are space
aliens](https://www.gaia.com/article/are-you-starseed) too.

The great divide today is not over economics. It is demographics. The
cultural struggle that is developing, therefore, will be how our people
will thrive in a world of modern challenges and modern threats. What
will drive politics in the West, in the coming decades, is what Steve
Sailer calls [the world’s most important
graph](http://americandigest.org/mt-archives/5minute_arguments/steve_sailers_worlds_most.php).
How to survive as a people in a world dominated by races unable to
escape the Neolithic, is not something contemplated by Bolsheviks or
fascists.

The debate itself underscores the fact that we are at the end of a
cultural cycle, one born in the Great War, defined by the Second World
War and formalized during the Cold War. Modernism as a cultural force
has come to an end. Those in charge of the brittle husk that is the
prevailing orthodoxy keep reaching into their past for villains to
maintain support among the faithful. Those in opposition find themselves
without fully formed alternatives in the present, so they look to the
past.

Regardless, the place of fascism on the political spectrum then or now
is as irrelevant as the spectrum itself. The arguments putting the
fascists on the Right only make sense in the context of the long gone
era in which they were born. Putting them on the Left only makes sense
in the context of the dying era, if you are hoping to squeeze a few more
bucks out of the rubes. Hitler is irrelevant to the current age and will
have no more bearing on what comes next than Genghis Khan or Henry VIII.
