---
title: "The Provacateur"
date: "2017-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11442"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11442"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, there was a guy calling himself Ken Kesey.
He is famous with Baby Boomers for having led the [Merry
Pranksters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merry_Pranksters), a group of
hippies and degenerates, who scandalized American society in the 1960’s.
He and his crew drove a psychedelic school bus across country, hosting
parties and handing out LSD. Tom Wolfe wrote about their early escapades
in *[The Electric Kool-Aid Acid
Test. ](https://www.amazon.com/Electric-Kool-Aid-Acid-Test/dp/031242759X)*Most
people no longer recall that Kesey wrote *[One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s
Nest](https://www.amazon.com/One-Flew-Over-Cuckoos-Nest/dp/0451163966/)*.

That last fact is important. The movie version of his book is a classic
that transcends generations. The movie was released 42 years ago and
people still reference it today, even when they do not know it. It is
like The Godfather or Gone with The Wind. Despite its status, Kesey is
best remembered for a bus trip a half century ago. That is because his
provocative hijinks came to represent a key element of the
counter-culture movement we associate with the 1960’s and the baby
Boomer culture that arose from it.

The provocateur has always had a role in human affairs. The court
jester, in many respects, was the formalization of this role. The jester
was the one person who could mock public piety – to a point. Eventually,
the role of the formal jester was replaced by theater and then comedians
and writers. The internet provocateur is an extension of this, and to
some degree a revival of the classic jester. Kesey was jester for his
age. Today, an Andrew Anglin is the jester of the modern information
age.

For those unfamiliar with Anglin, he is the guy behind the website The
Daily Stormer, which has been shutdown on numerous occasions. Whether or
not it was actually shut down by his registrar is hard to know. If it
was shut down because it was outlandishly offensive, or he cooked up the
story as a prank, is not important. Whether it was a provocation or a
prank, it has put the spotlight on the very real fact that on-line
speech is now controlled by an oligopoly.

That is precisely the role of the provocateur. By breaking every
conceivable taboo, Anglin is forcing a debate on the topic of speech.
How much speech will be permitted and who will set and enforce the
limits are fundamental questions that determine the arc of a society. In
America, it has long been understood that the limits are immediate
public safety and they are set after long public deliberation and due
process. Everyone is taught the famous line about burning theaters for
that reason.

Americans have also just assumed that free expression is too sacred that
no one would dare violate it, but that is not where we find ourselves
today. The people in charge believe they have found a loophole. They
have outsourced policing speech to private companies, who can claim to
be enforcing terms of service as private companies. Under the current
arrangements, [FaceBorg can ban any mention of the country
Niger](https://twitter.com/Steve_Sailer/status/879112200144605184), even
though it is perfectly legal to yell “Niger!” in a crowded theater.

That is the value of an Andrew Anglin. Yes, his Nazi routine is
troubling and his followers on-line are embarrassing to those involved
in politics. This was true of hippies and the Merry Pranksters too. Read
a guy like David Horowitz and you will learn that people in the New Left
worried greatly about the loose cannons and provocateurs. In the end
they figured out it was best to just let those guys do their thing and
not comment on the acts but focus on the larger moral issues they
raised.

That is how a guy like Andrew Anglin should be treated. You do not want
to be seen standing next to him at a public event, but you do want to be
seen supporting his right to attend public events. You do not want to be
paling around with him on-line or posting links to his stuff, but you do
want to be the guy defending his right to be a Nazi asshole on the
internet. When his antics threaten your assets, you want to be the guy
who crushes him like a bug. The jester must always serve at the pleasure
of the king.

That is what some of the important figures in this thing have to learn.
Anglin causing trouble on Gab, for example, is fine up to the point
where he puts the enterprise in jeopardy. At that point, the owner needs
to quietly step on him. Similarly, alt-right big shots would be wise to
comment about Anglin and his antics, but not get in bed with him. Anglin
is a pyromaniac who can just as easily burn down your house as someone
else’s house, so you do not invite him to stay in your basement, where
you keep the flammables.

The thing to remember is provocateurs and jesters are important tools in
modern political discourse. The key to victory is to destroy the other
side’s moral authority. The most effective way to do that is to mock
their piety and taunt them into revealing the face behind the mask they
present to the public. When someone loses their marbles over being
mocked by an Andrew Anglin, they inevitably say and do things that
reduce their status in the eyes of the public. Do not be that guy and do
not be the guy standing next to Anglin.
