---
title: "Stalin’s Children"
date: "2017-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9564"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9564"
---

When I was just starting out in the world, I worked for a company that
had an active human resources department. This was when HR was being
overhauled to accommodate middle-aged women without useful skills.
Companies were trying to “diversify” their management so they hired a
bunch of women for their personnel departments, re-branded them as
“human resources” and set them loose to get involved in things well
outside the normal scope of corporate personnel departments.

I was new in the world so I had no way to see what was happening. I just
assumed it was the way things worked, even if it was obviously insane.
There was one woman, who was always gossiping with the female staff,
trying to find out who was dating whom, who was socializing with whom
and generally playing the role of busybody. In a better age, she was the
sort of woman who would end up fitted with a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scold&#39;s_bridle"
target="_blank">bridle</a>. As far as I could tell, her only job was
to gossip, as I never saw her doing anything else.

Inevitably, people would be called into HR for some crime. Once in a
while, someone would disappear. It was always males getting the call and
it was almost always over having said or done something that offended a
female employee. The thing that puzzled me at first was that the males
who survived the interrogation never spoke of it. Maybe it was shame or
fear, maybe something else that was not obvious. They got called in,
something happened and they came back chastened from the experience.

The way it worked is familiar to anyone who has read about Stalin’s show
trials. The prosecutor, in this example it was the gossip, functioned as
a spokesman for the accusers, as well as the witnesses, in addition to
laying out the case against the accused. She would say something like,
“Some people have said you said X and you know that you have a
reputation for saying X so you can see how we would be concerned. In
order to get to the bottom of this, we thought it was a good idea to
call you in so we could talk about it and hear what you have to say.”

The accused was presented with an invisible accuser who could never be
confronted so their testimony went unchallenged. Slipped into it was the
assertion that the accused had a reputation for whatever it was he was
accused of doing. Again, there’s no way to confront this as there is no
accuser, just a whisper in the wind. The poor bastard in the hot seat
was faced with the impossible task of not only defending himself, but
doing so as a person assumed to be a habitual offender or at least known
as one.

The use of invisible victims and imaginary crimes is the core tactic of
the social justice warriors. You see that in this response from Apple to
Gab about their application to the Apple app store.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/589a2a09ec78a.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-9565" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 750px) 100vw, 750px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/589a2a09ec78a.png 750w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/589a2a09ec78a-175x300.png 175w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/589a2a09ec78a-597x1024.png 597w"
width="750" height="1287" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/589a2a09ec78a.png)

Notice the language. They “find content that is defamatory and mean
spirited” but they never mention who is being defamed. The only way
words can be defamatory is if someone, a real living human, is being
defamed. You see the same thing when they write “there is no tolerance
for objectionable material.” Objectionable to whom? The only way
something can be objectionable is if someone objects. The person defamed
and objecting is an undefined entity that is just assumed to exist.

In Stalin’s show trials, the victims were accused of mysterious crimes
like conspiracy and sabotage, even though it was never clear with whom
the accused were conspiring or what it was they were sabotaging.
Stalin’s henchmen would use pressure to get some of the victims to
confess, which was then used as “proof” that the rest of the accused
were not just guilty, but guilty of obstructing the revolution’s search
for truth. An innocent man trying to defend himself was left to swing at
ghosts and shadows.

The modern day Stalinists use the same tactic, in which they accuse
enemies of fostering a hostile environment or promoting objectionable
material. Apple is not saying they object to the material. They are
claiming to speak for those unnamed people who do object, because Apple
is just looking out for them, whoever they may be. Since these alleged
victims are a mystery, there’s no way for Gab to confront them or argue
that they are complying with Apple’s terms of service. It’s just modern
show trial in which the verdict is known in advance. The only question
is how long before the accused breaks.

Those who confessed quickly in Stalin’s trials did so hoping for
leniency, but that never came. Just as the verdict was known in advance,
so was the punishment. The same system applies today. Gab could ban all
of its users and just have pics of Hillary and Obama and they would
still not get on the Apple store. They have been found guilty of
blasphemy and heresy. That will be the verdict of the trial and the
punishment will be banishment. The only mystery is whether Apple can
make them grovel.

The guy running Gab is not going to grovel. He knows the deal. In fact,
more and more people are figuring out that there is no dealing with the
Left. There’s no accommodation to be made, no compromise to be found. In
fact, that was true thirty years ago when I was just getting started.
The company gossip was not a person with whom you could strike a
bargain. She was a Torquemada, who existed to find the guilty. The
answer then as now was what Andrew Breitbart said years ago. The answer
is “Fuck you! War!”
