---
title: "South Africa"
date: "2017-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9903"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9903"
---

Back in the 1980’s, “ending Apartheid” was the celebrity cause of the
Left. Every Hollywood nitwit was slobbering over the ANC and babbling
about how the internal affairs of a country, on the other side of the
globe, were the most important thing in America. In many movies, the
villain was made to be an Afrikaner, giving work to all the actors, who
used play Nazis in the previous era. Eventually South Africa buckled
under the pressure and Apartheid was ended in 1991.

Sober minded people made the point that eventually, the blacks would do
what they have always done and murder all the whites. It was a process
that was well underway in the former Rhodesia. The white farmers were
being harassed, having their lands seized and in some cases getting
killed for being white. But, the good thinkers in the West claimed it
was exaggerated and anyway, Nelson Mandela was black Jesus so nothing
but good would come from the end of Apartheid.

Of course, Zimbabwe is a complete disaster under black rule as <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/africa/zimbabwe-seized-white-farmers-land-now-some-are-being-invited-back/2015/09/14/456f66d6-45d2-11e5-9f53-d1e3ddfd0cda_story.html?utm_term=.7e6c0c2d8c92"
target="_blank">the white farmers were chased off</a> and the economy
then collapsed. Now, South African appears to be headed for a similar
fate, maybe worse, as the <a
href="http://www.news.com.au/finance/economy/world-economy/bury-them-alive-white-south-africans-fear-for-their-future-as-horrific-farm-attacks-escalate/news-story/3a63389a1b0066b6b0b77522c06d6476"
target="_blank">lunatic running the place declares war on the white
population</a>. Jacob Zuma is all but authorizing genocide against the
white population and other prominent black leaders are running around,
openly advocating war against the whites. The result of this is
inevitable. It will be a race war.

Today, whites are about 9% of the South African population. Fifty years
ago they were just over 20% of the population. Those are important
numbers. A well organized minority that is 20% of the population can
defend itself pretty well, as long as they have the intellectual
firepower to maintain discipline and a willingness to fight. Once a
population falls below 10%, they can only survive by appealing to some
faction of the majority for protection or by moving out to the fringe.

Jews in Europe are the most obvious example. They carved out a space on
the fringe where they could survive as a tiny minority. They also had
the cognitive skills in demand by the ruling elite, so a semi-peaceful
existence was possible, despite their numbers and outlier status.
Gypsies are a variation on this, except they have to exist even further
out on the fringe, as they have nothing to offer the ruling classes.
They exist as a semi-tolerated parasite population that is always on the
move.

That’s not realistic in Africa, where the moderate black leaders are
just a bit less homicidal than Pol Pot. Anyone familiar with sub-Saharan
Africa knows that tribal politics still dominate the culture.That
precludes peaceful alliance between out-groups. The best you get is a
hostile stand-off. The questions for South Africa are a) How long before
the blacks decide it is time to kill all the whites, b) How many blacks
will the whites be willing to kill in order to survive? and c) How will
the West respond?

The most likely answer to the first question is soon. Zuma will follow
the Mugabe formula and keep ratcheting up the violence
incrementally. Given that he is the moderate at the moment, he will play
the triangulation game where he will promise to hold off the more insane
elements of the black leadership, in order to get concessions from the
white population. This will roll along until Zuma is killed, or decides
he has to go for it in order to maintain his position.

Talk to a typical South African and they have a bizarrely optimistic
view. Many just assume they will find refuge in English speaking
countries if things get bad. That means there will be a large cohort of
Afrikaners who will prefer working with Zuma. This is just paying the
crocodile to eat you last. The answer to that second question is “no
where near enough nor soon enough.” By the time it dawns on the
Afrikaners that it’s fight or die, it will be too late to fight. Math
and modern morality have sealed their fate.

That’s where the third question gets interesting. Barak Obama, of
course, would never have allowed mass migration of whites from South
Africa. If anything, he would have shipped arms to the black government
along with a wishlist of whites he wanted killed. That list would have
had one item, “all of them.” Similarly, a squirrel like Trudeau in
Canada would block any escape for all but the trans-gendered Afrikaners.
Australia would take them and Trump would probably accept them, but
Europe? It’s no guarantee.

There’s a lesson here for the people currently in charge of the West.
There are no right answers when it comes to biology and culture. The
blacks in South Africa are not going to be talked out of genocide. There
is no reasoning with them. They want what they want and it is not about
wrong and right. it is about their will to do and their ability to do
it. Similarly, the Muslims dynamiting Europe are not motivated by facts
and reason. They are doing it because they want to do it and they can do
it.

Humans have always been hierarchical, tribal and territorial. That means
there is competition within the group for status and competition between
tribes for territory. Your tribe does not hold what it has because of
some piece of paper or the airy notions of dead ancestors. You hold what
you have because you hold it against all challenges. That’s the iron law
of life on this planet and we will get to see it play out over the next
decades in South Africa. The winner will be the side willing to kill as
many of the other tribe as it takes to win.
