---
title: "Bring Back Smoking"
date: "2017-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10128"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10128"
---

Are we getting stupider?

This is hard to know as we don’t have IQ exams from further back than
last century. We have some ways to approximate IQ going back into the
mists of time, but those will always get bogged down by debates over
methods.Then you have the flat earth types who argue that IQ is not a
real thing or that there are multiple forms of intelligence. Just
sticking with the good data we have for the last 100 years or so, it
does appear that the West is getting dumber. By how much and and how
fast is the debate.

Why this could be happening is not much of a debate. There are three
reasons related to biology. One is the Idiocracy example. The stupid are
breeding like bunnies while the smart are reproducing at less than
replacement levels. The high achieving man marries late and marries a
high achieving women with a head full of feminist nonsense. They put off
childbearing until she can only produce one child. Meanwhile, the guys
that cut their grass are knocking up their girlfriends in high school
and producing five kids.

Another reason is that stupid people are migrating into Western
countries. This is an easy one as we just have to look at the news. The
migrants flowing in from south of the equator into Western countries are
bringing a mean IQ in the 80’s and sometimes, in the case of Somalis,
the 70’s. They also breed like rabbits. A country full of 95-IQ white
people that becomes 90% white and 10% Somali will lose almost ten IQ
points. This is just an accelerated version of the above answer. It
turns out that Magic Dirt is not real.

Finally, the hardest one to grasp is that something has happened to
change the evolutionary pressure on the population that is now changing
the rewards and punishments. Traits that in the past were punished, thus
resulting in fewer children by those with those traits, are now neutral
or maybe even slightly favored. We know smart people tend to live
longer, so reducing the risk of death by misadventure or even death from
common maladies could be lowering the over all IQ of Western
populations.

If you want to read a bunch of smart people debating this,
<a href="https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2017/04/21/dysgenics-general/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post by Greg Cochran</a>
has a lively comment section. What you’ll note is that people focused on
genetics tend not to consider environmental factors. In fact, they often
veer into a form of genetic determinism that sounds a lot like
astrology. The fault dear mortal is not in our stars, but in our genes,
that we are just moist robots. People who tend to this sort of thinking
are usually unfamiliar with 4GL programming languages or write
JavaScript for a living.

That’s not to say free will is a real thing. Humans are not free to
rewrite their personalities anymore than they can make themselves
taller. We are the result of our wiring, plus some environmental factors
like the community in which we were born, climate and serendipity.
Someone born to the Amish will be raised to develop pro-Amish traits and
ignore traits that are no useful to the Amish way. Environmental factors
may play a small role over all, but they do play some role in what we
are as people.

In specific cases, it could have an enormous role. <a
href="http://www.unz.com/jman/greg-cochrans-gay-germ-hypothesis-an-exercise-in-the-power-of-germs/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Greg Cochran’s Gay Germ</a> idea
is a great example. Homosexuality is most certainly not genetic. Nature
works against low-fitness. Males with a trait that sharply reduces their
ability (or willingness) to mate will have far fewer offspring and
therefore pass on this trait in low numbers. In just a few generations,
the trait would die out. In the case of homosexuality, we know there
were gay Roman emperors and Elton John is still with us, so this trait
cannot be genetic.

Alternatively, homosexuality is either taught or the result of
psychological damage done at a young by something like molestation. This
is a popular idea on the Right, but it does not explain most cases. Lots
of homosexuals grew up fairly normal lives and were simply attracted to
the same sex once they hit sexual maturity. That’s where Cochran’s gay
germ comes in. Instead of a trauma, it is a virus or parasite that
triggers changes in brain chemistry, resulting homosexual behavior. That
would provide an answer that fits the data.

Bringing this back to IQ, what if something like this is at work with
Western IQ? Maybe not a germ, but environmental factors that are having
a cascading effect on mean IQ. For example, such an idea has been
posited to explain the spike in black crime. <a
href="http://www.motherjones.com/environment/2016/02/lead-exposure-gasoline-crime-increase-children-health"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Many on the Left think the
Tragic Dirt is contaminated with lead</a>, leading to low-IQ and
increased violence for the people living on the Tragic Dirt. It’s not a
crazy idea, but like the Gay Germ, it is not proven idea. It’s more of a
thought experiment at this stage.

Here’s soemthing else. Smoking rates began to decline in the middle of
the last century, with the Baby Boomer interest in health. Nicotine is
known to increase focus and increase your cognitive abilities. It’s why
writers and computer programmers were all smokers. In fact, STEM fields
in the 20th century were dominated by men who chain smoked at their
desks. Anyone who has had to sit for hours working a math problem knows
how exhausting it can be. Even a small boost in focus has enormous
results.

What if the apparent uptick in Western IQ was accelerated by smoking?
Tobacco was introduced to the West in the 16th century and its use
increased steadily. By the 18th century, the use of tobacco was common.
By the 19th century, smoking cigarettes was ubiquitous. Everyone smoked.
It also corresponds with the Industrial Revolution. Once tobacco use
became universal, Western technological progress took off like a rocket,
culminating in a rocket literally taking off and putting men on the
moon.

Once the anti-smoking crusades got a purchase in the 60’s and smoking
rates declined, it does appear that the West began to decline. Perhaps
that small boost to our cognitive ability had a huge impact on our
intellectual achievements. Now that the crutch is gone, we’re doing
idiotic things like putting minorities in charge and inviting in low-IQ
barbarians from the fringes of civilization. Perhaps the lunacy that has
gripped the West is simply the withdraw symptoms of kicking the habit.

Maybe we need to start smoking again.
