---
title: "The Norks"
date: "2017-12-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12450"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12450"
---

Is North Korea about to collapse?

That is the question Don Surber asks in [this
post](http://donsurber.blogspot.com/2017/12/is-north-korea-collapsing.html)
last week. He is looking at the recent defections of soldiers and
civilians. We have at least one soldier, an elite soldier no less, who
simply walked across the border unmolested. Maybe this happens from time
to time, but the impression from news reports is that the Norks guard
that border ferociously. The Norks have special units that do nothing
but roam the border looking for anyone trying to flee. [Here is a recent
video](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-5200553/North-Korean-soldier-defects-South-S-Korean-defence-official.html#ixzz51rSoBHxs)
of them shooting a guy trying to escape.

Surber is looking at these recent incidents where North Koreans have
managed to escapade unmolested and compares it to the last days of the
Soviet empire. There is also the fact that the one soldier was from an
elite unit. That seems unusual. There was also the solider that escaped
and was found to be infested with parasites, suggesting the regime is
struggling to care for even the soldiers that protects it. The Kim
regime can only survive if it has the absolute loyalty of the military,
so they have to make sure they are fed.

I think we can also wonder if the recent Chinese cooperation may be
another signal that all is not well in the hermit kingdom. It is
reasonable to assume that the Chinese know the most of any outsiders
about what is going on inside the country. The assumption in the West is
that they were willing to prop up the Norks, in order to avoid dealing
with the collapse. Maybe they have decided that Kim’s days are numbered,
no matter what they do, so they are now looking to turn the inevitable
into an opportunity.

American military intelligence probably knows a great deal about what is
happening inside North Korea, but it is tightly held information. As a
result, the public defense experts have no idea what is happening.
Trump’s dramatic ramp up of pressure is reminiscent of what we did with
the Russians in the 1980’s. Reagan’s great insight, and it was truly his
insight, was that the Russians simply could not compete with the West,
if we got our act together economically. That proved to be correct. The
Russians were spent as an empire.

Maybe that is what Trump is sensing. A generation ago, standard
operating procedure in the US was to try and negotiate with the
Russians. It was done on the assumption that the Soviets were strong.
Reagan’s insight was that they were weak, so he abandoned appeasement.
Trump seems to be going down the same path with the Norks. He has said
that negotiations are a waste of time. That would explain the build up
of assets in the region, along with the moves to cut off the North’s
access to hard currency.

It is all speculation, but we can tease out some things from what we do
know about the Norks. Countries have a finite amount of resources. Some
portion are used for the necessities of maintaining society. Some
portion are used for defense. Some other portion is used by the ruling
class to maintain their positions. Similarly, the ruling class will use
some portion of their available capital to expand their position, both
internally and externally. A country is not a closed system, but about
90% of its resources are internal.

It is assumed that the Norks have a lot of human capital, relative to
rogue regimes in the Arab world. This is based on the unspoken
assumption that Asians are smart, while Arabs are dumb. The Norks have
split the atom and developed respectable missile technology, which is
more than Saddam was able to do and more than the Persians have mustered
to this point. The Norks have also shown themselves to be very
resourceful in gaining access to the global arms market and the global
drug trade. The Kim regime is clever.

That said, we know that most of the population is living with barely
enough to eat and the bare minimum of health care. So much so that the
[North Koreans are shorter than the South
Koreans](http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-17774210). We know from
Western history, that as nutrition improved in the West, Europeans got
taller. People also got smarter. The Flynn Effect is most likely a
result of nutrition and health care. The Norks are probably experiencing
a reverse of this, where starvation and poor sanitation are lowering the
average IQ of the population.

Then there is the math of every extraction regime. North Korea is closer
to a feudal society than a modern country. Every level of society sees
the excess from its labor siphoned off by the layer above it. This not
only stifles productivity and innovation, but it also encourages
corruption at all levels. This was the experience in the Soviet Union,
where trust in institutions fell to zero. That was the joke among Soviet
workers. The government would pretend to pay the workers and the workers
pretended to work.

The point here is that the sum of human capital in North Korea is
probably an order of magnitude less than many assume. They have a large
enough smart fraction to build crude nuclear bombs and launch some long
range missiles into the sea. They do not have enough of a smart fraction
to do that, feed their people and provide the basics of health care.
Throw in the fact that Kim may have been forced to kill off many of the
regime’s best people in order to solidify control, and North Korea could
be very weak right now.

In fact, the saber rattling may be an attempt to get South Korea and
China to put pressure on the US, in order to get some food and medical
relief. That has worked with past presidents. Clinton, Bush and Obama
were all willing to cut a deal. Trump calling the bluff may be why the
Nork solider was allowed to just walk across the border to the South. He
is carrying antibodies for anthrax, suggesting he has been exposed to
it. That could be intended to send a message that the Norks have it and
will use it in a war.

It is impossible to know the true state of affairs in North Korea. One
feature of all authoritarian regimes is a high degree of secrecy and
deception. The same skills used to lie to the people, are used by the
political factions inside the regime to lie to one another and to the
outside world. The one thing low trust societies are good at producing
is gifted liars. Still, the fundamental math of society strongly suggest
the Norks are much weaker than they wish the world to know. That may
explain the shift in US policy under Trump.
