---
title: "I Was Wrong"
date: "2017-11-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12039"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12039"
---

A while back, I said the “deep state” stuff was wildly overdone. There
is no deep state secretly pulling the strings. Well, I may have been
mistaken. <a
href="https://www.investors.com/politics/editorials/khalid-al-mansour-helped-barack-obama/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This IBD story</a> makes me look
ridiculously naive.

*A 1979 column confirms our 2008 editorial positing that the 44th
president might owe his meteoric rise to an education funded by
Israeli-hating adviser to a Saudi billionaire.*

*On Sept. 9, 2008, we published an editorial as part of our attempt to
properly vet the then junior senator from Illinois, Barack Obama, whose
past was somewhat foggy. We pointed out the connection between one Dr.
Khalid Abdullah Tariq al-Mansour, born Donald Warden, an Israeli-hating
Islamist supporter and top adviser to radical Saudi Prince Al-Waleed bin
Talal, and a college student .*

*That college student, a young Obama, found al-Mansour’s favor and would
one day be president as Israel was abandoned by America and the Middle
East burst into flames amid a sea of presidential apologies, including
one for our freedom of speech.*

*In a televised interview in 2008 on New York’s all news cable channel,
NY1, 88-year-old Percy Sutton, a former borough president of Manhattan
and a credible mayoral candidate in 1977, made some interesting
revelations about his links to the young Obama.*

*Sutton told NY1 reporter Dominic Carter on the show “Inside City Hall”:
“I was introduced to (Obama) by a friend who was raising money for him.”
He asked Sutton to write a letter in support of Obama’s application to
Harvard Law School.*

*“The friend’s name is Dr. Khalid al-Mansour, from Texas,” Sutton said.
“He is the principal adviser to one of the world’s richest men. He told
me about Obama.”*

*Sutton recalled that al-Mansour said that “there is a young man that
has applied to Harvard. I know that you have a few friends up there
because you used to go up there to speak. Would you please write a
letter in support of him?” Sutton did.*

*According to Newsmax columnist Kenneth Timmerman, “At the time, Percy
Sutton, a former lawyer for Malcolm X and a former business partner of
al-Mansour, says he (al-Mansour) was raising money for Obama’s graduate
school education, al-Mansour was representing top members of the Saudi
Royal family seeking to do business and exert influence in the United
States.”*

Steve Sailer has written a lot about Obama’s spooky family connections
to Indonesian potentates and US intelligence people.  <a
href="http://takimag.com/article/a_small_world_steve_sailer/print#axzz4yBrd4ipQ"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s one of his posts on the
subject</a>. Here’s <a
href="http://takimag.com/article/making_sense_of_obama_the_muslimist_steve_sailer/print#axzz4BXwsqKYE"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">another one</a>. What’s always been
remarkable about Obama is that no one ever looked too closely at his
background. That IBD story has been kicking around for years, but is
just getting attention now. It’s almost like the major news
organizations all agreed to not cover any stories about Obama’s past
that would complicate the narrative.

My default explanation for this wall of silence about Obama’s dodgy past
was that the mass media is both lazy and biased. They report what the
Democrats deliver to them. The small portion of the media that is not
Progressive gets its stuff from the GOP, but the Republicans are always
careful not to upset their friends on the Left. I still think there is a
fair amount of that, but most of it is probably the people at the top
agreeing to put their thumb on the scales. They thought a black
president was a good idea.

That’s all fine, but how is it the Saudis saw Obama as a good investment
all those years ago? By his own account, Obama was not looking like a
good bet as an undergrad. It was only after he got into Harvard Law that
he started to develop the personality to get into politics. As the IBD
story notes, the Saudis were sponsoring lots of minorities, hoping to
build a class of policy makers and politicians that were pro-Arab. The
story mentions their plan was to sponsor up to 10,000 students at $20
million per year.

What the story does not mention is how they would make it work. The
story mentions the now imprisoned Prince Alwaleed bin Talal interceding
on Obama’s behalf to get him into Harvard. Again, how could he know
Obama was a keeper? How could these guys know about any of the students
they were sponsoring? As a skeptic of the deep state stuff, that’s a
question that I can’t easily answer. I know they were not stopping
random blacks, asking for their GPA and whether they hated Jews. It must
have been more sophisticated.

I’m not ready to start listening to InfoWars. I’m going to need a lot
more than a president with a dodgy back story before I start talking
about chem trails and conspiracies. But, I think I was too hasty in
dismissing the deep state claims. There’s a level of coordination done
out of site that shapes our politics and the coverage of our politics.
Foreign powers look for people in the empire to bribe, and those people
help grease the wheels and coordinate efforts like the Saudis were
apparently running for the last forty years.
