---
title: "Family Friendly"
date: "2017-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - HBD
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12227"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12227"
---

If science suddenly noticed that birds were laying fewer eggs, they
would ring the alarm and warn of a coming bird-apocalypse. The
assumption would be that humans were doing something to make the birds
unable to reproduce. The same would be true of any species that saw its
fertility decline. The starting assumption of biology is that all living
things are built primarily to reproduce. That is the biological
imperative. With one exception, a drop in an animal’s fertility must be
due to some exogenous factor. That exception is humans.

In the West, human fertility rates have steadily fallen for over a half
century. This is celebrated by our betters as the hallmark of human
progress. Anytime the subject of fertility rates is raised, the
knee-jerk response is to start hooting about women being more educated
and having more options. The underlying assumption is that stupid people
have lots of kids while smart people have few children. The implication
of this is that the people who built Western Civilization were stupid,
because they had high fertility rates.

The whole “women are more educated” argument is not really an effort to
understand why fertility rates, especially white fertility rates, have
fallen. Rather, it is an effort to *not* understand it. It is a
deliberate distraction, a way of shifting the focus from a problem that
cannot be addressed by the Left, whether it is the materialist Left of
Europe or the spiritual Left on America. To even acknowledge that the
purpose of women is to have children gnaws at the extreme egalitarianism
that animates the Western Left.

To some degree, efforts to level off fertility in Europe make sense.
There are lots of people on the Continent who do not always get along
with one another. Generations of warfare pounded home the message that
stable societies, respectful of national borders, is the way to keep the
peace. Keeping fertility rates at something just above replacement was
an understandable goal. In America though, that is not an issue. The
country is mostly empty space with lots of room to expand. Americans
should be breeding like Africans.

It really is an odd thing that has happened in America over the last
fifty years. Starting in the 1960’s, motherhood became something close
to a badge of shame with our cognitive elites. This rather quickly oozed
into the upper classes and then the middle class. As a result, public
policy has been altered to discourage childbearing. Just look at the
hysterics from Progressive women anytime they do not get their way. They
immediately start howling about how they will not get easy access to
abortions and free prophylactics.

This came to mind when I saw a tweet by the left-wing political science
professor George Hawley, commenting on the GOP tax bill. He linked to
[an essay he posted about public policy and fertility
rates](https://www.georgehawley.com/single-post/2016/07/23/Ivanka-Trump-fertility-working-mothers-and-policy).
For those familiar with this territory, the points he makes and the
errors he commits are all familiar. France may have a TFR of 2.08, but
the *French people* do not have that TFR. The invader population has
rocket high fertility rates, but the French, well, not so much. [Steve
Sailer touched on one aspect of this in a Taki
post](http://takimag.com/article/le_grand_remplacement_steve_sailer/print#axzz50IhbyMZU).

[A similar
pattern](http://www.pewhispanic.org/2015/09/28/modern-immigration-wave-brings-59-million-to-u-s-driving-population-growth-and-change-through-2065/9-26-2015-1-30-23-pm-2/),
though less pronounced, is seen in the US. White fertility rates are
below replacement, while black fertility is still above replacement.
Although the homicide rates among blacks probably requires a different
definition of “replacement.” Hispanics have the highest fertility rates.
In other words, simply looking at TFR for a country that is slowly being
overrun by a third world population will lead to errors. In majority
white countries, the salient issue is not TFR, but white fertility
rates, relative to the whole.

Putting that aside, we return to the original question. Two questions,
actually. Is it simply that whites are choosing to die out or have
whites simply wandered down a cul-de-sac, in terms of public policy,
which is having adverse effects on white fertility? One way to tease
this out is something that Steve Sailer did after the 2012 election. [He
looked at how white women
voted](http://www.unz.com/isteve/voting-republican-marriage-and-happiness-pick-3/),
relative to their marriage habits. In places where white women can and
do marry, stay married and raise children, whites vote Republican.

Another way of putting this is that where affordable family formation is
highest, you get more families. Despite being run by a cult, Utah is a
wonderful place to raise a family. It is like the set of *Leave It to
Beaver*, but the size of a European country. At the other end, a state
like Massachusetts is wildly expensive and hostile to family formation.
Those who do choose to marry and start families, often move to other
states. The decades long migration, north to south and east to west, has
largely been driven by cost of living.

None of this answers the basic question. Is it crackpot public policy
driving down white fertility or is some weird desire for extinction? The
latter is impossible to know, so the prudent course is to assume the
former is the correct answer. That is basic logic. This means any
movement that is explicitly for preserving the nation’s racial character
should promote public policies that are explicitly and overtly
pro-family. That is the part of Hawley’s post that is correct. The GOP
should be fanatically pro-family, not pro-business.

This especially holds for the dissident right. The alt-right is all over
the map on public policy, because they get bogged down squabbling over
aesthetics. Oddly, the best thing they could do, in terms of “optics”,
is cast themselves as the extreme end of the pro-family spectrum.
Redefining pro-women to mean pro-mother would go a long way toward
rallying white Americans to their cause. After all, being for something
always trumps being against something, even when the thing you oppose is
awful. Positive always beats negative.
