---
title: "The Torquemadas"
date: "2017-07-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Moonbats
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10871"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10871"
---

Long ago, it became clear that genetics was going to upend all of the
Progressive assertions about human nature. In fact, it was going to
challenge the core of Western Liberalism. It’s a little hard to hold
onto the idea that “All men are created equal” when you no longer
believe in God and science says some men are more equal than others.
It’s impossible to maintain the universalism that is the foundation
stone of the prevailing orthodoxy, when group differences are clearly
rooted in genetics and evolution.

This is, of course, the end of the world. All of the laws and political
institutions of the West have been modified to comport with the belief
that all humans are the same, regardless of location. Race, ethnicity,
even sex, are now considered outmoded notions from a less enlightened
era. The reason American Progressives endlessly talk about institutional
racism, for example, is it is the only acceptable answer for why blacks
perform so poorly compared to other groups. To consider anything else
runs counter to accepted dogma.

It’s not just Prog dogma that is under pressure from science. Most of
what people in the West believe about human nature is rooted in the idea
of free will. It is assumed that people can choose to be good or evil. A
drunkard, with help and training, can choose not to drink. Everything
about the self-help industry is based on free will. If you work at it
and buy his materials, you can be just as successful as Tony Robbins.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsiO16zcV_E" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">If you take his class</a>, you can be like Mike
Cernovich. The assumption is you can make yourself into anything.

Again, the universal belief in free will and the blank slate is the
bedrock of the modern West. You see it in this
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xrBCsLsSD2E" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Joe Rogan podcast with Sargon of Arkkad</a>. Both guys
are right-libertarians, or at least that is how Rogan would describe
himself. Arkkad calls himself a liberal, but he most likely means it in
the British sense, which corresponds to our conservatives. In their back
and forth, they both start from the premise that people are free to make
of themselves what they will, regardless of their biology.

Whether we like it or not, science is punching big holes in this
underlying belief. At the individual level, it is becoming increasingly
clear that your general intelligence is a result of your genes.
Personality traits are clearly biological. Even without genetics, people
had understood this to be true up until fairly recent. Then there are
group differences, which have always been out in the open, but made
taboo. It is only a matter of time before science  begins to confirm
what people have always known about human diversity.

We are on the cusp of an age, not all that dissimilar to the end of the
[Renaissance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Renaissance "Renaissance")
when science and philosophy began to challenge the age old assumptions
of the West. The Church gets a bad rap for Galileo, but they were not
acting without reason. From the perspective of the people in charge,
challenges to the prevailing assumptions about the natural world felt
like a leap into the void. Maintaining public order is the first duty of
an elite. In that age, it felt as if the ground was shifting under their
feet.

The difference, and it is a big difference, is we are not experiencing
science for the first time and the public is better informed than 400
years ago. In fact, much of what is coming from genetics and the
cognitive sciences confirms what our grandparents took for granted about
humanity. The expression “the apple does not fall far from the tree” did
not become a hearty chestnut by accident. Long before anyone could
conceive of the human genome, humans knew that you inherited your
physical and mental traits from your parents.

Another big difference is the modern keepers of morality are far less
reasonable and more prone to hysteria than the leaders of the Church in
the Renaissance. You see it in <a
href="http://www.chronicle.com/article/Medievalists-Recoiling-From/240666"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">stories like this one</a> the other day
and in efforts like
<a href="http://adangerousideafilm.com/#synopsis" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this one</a>. Race mongering is a sacrament of the Cult
of Modern Liberalism. Academics are forced to play along with the
morality of the one true faith,. Those who refuse are accused of heresy
and threatened with internal banishment, which is exactly the point of
promulgating the term “scientific racism.”

The point of a movie called “A Dangerous Idea” is to serve as a warning.
The term “scientific racism” is a nonsense phrase. It has no meaning in
the literal sense, but it carries with it the implication that science
is subject to moral scrutiny. It does not matter if the conclusions of
your research are accurate, you could still be found guilty of the
mortal sin of racism. Accuracy is no defense against the charge of
heresy. The PC enforcers may not have an Inquisition, but they have an
unlimited supply of Torquemadas.

They also will have a lot of sympathetic minds in the general public. In
the current age, racism and antisemitism are at the top of the hierarchy
of evil. White people stumble all over themselves to prove they have
nothing but love in their heart for all mankind. At least three
generations have been programmed to think that the ultimate goal of
society is to achieve perfect racial parity, where everyone is equal and
in perfect harmony. Demonizing anyone who speaks out against the
prevailing moral hierarchy is not going to be difficult.

It is easy to be pessimistic about these things, but history says that
reality does eventually carry the day. There’s also the fact that
science has greater moral authority with the public than the PC
enforcers. Then there is the reality on the ground. The migrant invasion
of Europe is teaching the West that it is a good idea to have separate
countries for different people. Even so, the people in charge are not
going to yield without a fight. We are on the cusp of a long ugly period
in the West, as the old beliefs give way to the new.

It will not end well.
