---
title: "Suicide Cult"
date: "2017-10-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11901"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11901"
---

I have a friend who was a reverend in the Episcopal Church. He is
technically still in the church, but he has decided to find another
vocation. The main reason is that most of the people running the church
are women, along with a high number of homosexuals. The result is the
people running the church care more about social justice and their
genitals than anything else. Like most of the mainline Protestants
churches, the Episcopal Church has become a circus of degeneracy and
general lunacy. As a result their pews are empty.

That said, you can learn a lot about the direction of the Cult of Modern
Liberalism by watching the mainline Protestant churches. They are so
desperate for attention, they tend to give the game away by going
overboard in the latest Progressive fads. Their internal war on
heterosexual white men has been going on a long time now, long before
the rest of the Progs decided to make war on the honkyman. <a
href="http://insider.foxnews.com/2017/10/28/george-washington-church-plaque-honoring-first-president-must-come-down"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story out of Virginia</a> shows the
true nature of the statue toppling stuff and its ultimate goal.

*Leaders at the church that George Washington attended decided that a
plaque honoring the first president of the United States must be
removed.*

*Christ Church in Alexandria, Virginia will take down a memorial marking
the pew where Washington sat with his family, saying it is not
acceptable to all worshipers.*

*“The plaques in our sanctuary make some in our presence feel unsafe or
unwelcome,” leaders said, a reference to the fact that Washington was a
slaveholder.*

*“Some visitors and guests who worship with us choose not to return
because they receive an unintended message from the prominent presence
of the plaques.”*

*“Many in our congregation feel a strong need for the church to stand
clearly on the side of ‘all are welcome- no exceptions,'” they
concluded.*

*A memorial to Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee will also come down.*

These churches are big on the “all are welcome” stuff. They hang banners
outside their empty churches with this slogan, usually decorated with
rainbows. My suggestion is the alt-right toughs should take pics of
themselves dressed as Hitler, posing in front of these stupid signs.
That would make for a hilarious social media campaign. The fact is, the
only people welcome in these hell holes are Progressive nutters and
sexual deviants. As is always the case with The Cult, the opposite of
what they say is usually the truth.

If you have any doubts about any of this,
<a href="http://www.historicchristchurch.org/about-us/clergy/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">take a look at the roster of clergy</a>
running this church. The rector has two last names, suggesting she is
keeping her options open. A good rule of thumb is that a woman with two
last names is a nut. That’s probably why she
<a href="http://www.historicchristchurch.org/about-us/clergy/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hired a tranny as a youth counselor</a>.
Her second in command is a former actress, a profession known to attract
the stable and virtuous. Two more women fill out the priestly class of
this old church. It’s not hard to see why they are waging jihad on
George.

That’s the thing with these churches. They are run by social justice
warriors who see the church as a vehicle to inflict Progressive morality
on their congregations. You can be sure that no one in the church gave a
damn about George Washington. These hens spend all day clucking about
what they read in the New York Times or heard on NPR. They came up with
the idea of evicting the father of the country, because they wanted
attention. It is virtue signalling, but their idea of virtue originates
outside the Episcopal Church.

Of course, this was always the end point of the Rebel Flag burning and
statue toppling. It is the thing everyone knew all along. It may have
started as a tantrum by Cloud People aimed at the Dirt People, but it
was going to end as a orgy of self-abnegation. These people hate their
own kind. They hate their ancestors. The reason is, they hate themselves
and the way to erase themselves is to erase their past. Progressives
dream of the day when they no longer exist and any memory of them is
gone too.

God speed Christ Church.
