---
title: "The Destroyer of Worlds"
date: "2017-03-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9770"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9770"
---

<img
src="https://frankreportdotcom.files.wordpress.com/2015/12/mule.png?w=341&amp;h=548"
class="alignleft size-full" decoding="async" width="255" height="410" />Since
Trump has entered the White House, the Left has been spinning bizarre
fantasies about how the Trump team is part of some super-secret Russian
conspiracy. You cannot turn on the television without seeing a liberal
nutter hooting “Russian hacking!” To date, no one has bothered to
explain what that phrase is supposed to mean. The implication is that
through some special magic, the Russians caused the voting machines to
register results in favor of Trump. They don’t come out and say it, but
that’s the game.

A big part of this lunacy is the fact that the Left was sure that Trump
*could* not win the election. It’s not that they were sure they had the
better choice. It was that they were completely convinced that there
were no circumstances where Trump *could* become President. They were so
sure, in fact, that they had all of official Washington convinced of
this as well. A month before the election there was no one in either
party talking about a Trump victory. In fact, the topic of debate
was the size and scope of the Clinton victory.

This belief was so pervasive, that both parties spent the summer
plotting how they were going to configure themselves after the disaster.
Team Clinton spent the summer figuring out how they could use the
landslide in order to steamroll the Republicans and enact their agenda.
The Republicans were similarly planning for the onslaught and how they
could somehow preserve themselves after the election. The day after the
election, the stunned looks on the faces of everyone in the political
class made this hilariously clear.

There’s another aspect to this that has become abundantly clear over the
last couple of months. Both parties wanted to see Clinton win. The
Republicans, at least the leadership, liked the setup under Obama. They
got to pose as rock-ribbed conservatives fighting Obama, without ever
having to do anything. Democrats liked that Obama was just issuing
executive orders and bypassing the parliamentary process. The Washington
ecosystem was at equilibrium as long as everyone on both sides played
their part.

The proof of this is the fact that the GOP has no plans ready for the
2017 legislative session. They have been talking for years about
ObamaCare and now we know they never planned to do anything. The same is
true of taxes, which is the one thing Republicans like doing. They have
no plans for anything, not even something symbolic. They not only have
no plans, they are still staggering around in shock, not sure what they
should be doing. Suddenly nothing makes sense to the people inside the
bubble and they are scared.

In a world where the rules no longer apply, it quickly becomes every man
for himself and that’s what is happening in Washington right now.The
Left accusing Trump of colluding with the Russians is not just a
reckless political attack. It’s war on the very system of governance.
It’s the sort of thing that goes on when the political system is
breaking down. Trump’s charge that Obama was spying on his
campaign makes perfect sense in light of what see happening. <a
href="https://www.conservativereview.com/commentary/2017/03/mark-levin-on-fox-news-lays-out-the-case-on-obamas-spying"
target="_blank">The evidence of some sort of Nixonian skulduggery is
pretty strong</a>.

Of course, in a world where the scrupulous following of protocol is
essential to maintaining the status quo, a break down in the rules puts
everyone at risk. That seems to be Trump’s game here with the spying
charges. The establishment has tossed out the rules in their effort to
attack him, so he is threatening to further bust up the system, which
works to his favor and to their disadvantage. it’s a foolish game the
Left has decided to play as they have much more to lose in a world
without rules.

There’s another aspect to this. Trump has fewer skeletons in his closet
than any president in generations. In Washington, that makes him a very
dangerous man. All of these guys have shady deals in their closet. All
of them bend the rules to reward themselves and their associates. No one
says anything about it because everyone is dirty. Washington is a lot
like a corrupt police precinct, where everyone is on the take so no one
dares rat on anyone else. Trump’s life is an open book so he does not
have to play along.

That’s probably why he went nuclear over the weekend. He’s looking
around at a city full of crooked politicians calling for investigations
so he is turning the table and threatening to open the investigation up
to everything. Imagine Trump coming out and asking for a special
prosecutor to look into Obama, Clinton, the IRS people, the DOJ and
maybe even the FBI itself. There’s a lot of people in Washington with a
lot to hide and Trump certainly knows it, which is why he is going on
the attack over the tapping of his offices.

A long time ago I pointed out that Trump was
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mule_(Foundation)"
target="_blank">The Mule</a>, the character from the Asimov novels.
Trump is the destroyer of worlds, not because he has some grand vision
of the future and wants to plow under the existing order to make
room for his utopia. He is the destroyer because the old order can only
exist if Trump does not exist. His rise to the White House is the
nullification of the established order. It’s why Washington is going for
total war to destroy him. They see it is a matter of survival.

It’s probably too late. The Mule has arrived.
