---
title: "Nature Finds A Way"
date: "2017-11-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12019"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12019"
---

One of the more frustrating things about biological realism is that most
people really wish there were no such thing as biological realism. The
reason ad makers keep trying to sell stuff using little girl football
players or race mixing campers is they know most white people wish all
that stuff were true. Those ads and their assumptions are flattering to
SWPL-ville types. The studied dismissal of human biology by our ruling
elite goes largely unchallenged, because the great white middle class
hopes they are right about all of it.

I’m always reminded of this when the topic of African population numbers
and the [world’s most important
graph](http://www.unzcloud.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/Worlds-most-important-graph-2017.png)
are mentioned. Putting the racial issue aside, the population explosion
in Africa is going to be the defining issue of the 21st century.
Inevitably, someone always says something like “that assumes those
trends go on forever.” The implication is that population math will
magically correct itself. Any effort to explain the math is met with
more denial and hand waving. Most people do not want to know about it.

The fact is, the West is struggling with a sub-Saharan population of
about three quarters of a billion people. Those flotillas of Africans
crossing the Mediterranean every day are causing all sorts of political
and economic trouble for Europe. The number of migrants landing on the
beaches of Europe are in the thousands right now. That is thousands per
day. Imagine what happens when it is ten thousand a day. In fifteen
years, the population of Africa will double. The migrant troubles of
today will feel like the good old days.

Nature finds a way of solving these sorts of problems. Thomas Malthus
gets a bad rap from history, but he gave us a great concept. It is the
Malthusian catastrophe. Once population numbers reach the carrying
capacity of the land, society collapses and humans fall back to
subsistence level existence. It has never happened, as agricultural
technology has far outstripped population growth, but that does not mean
catastrophic risk does not increase with population numbers. Risks like
pandemics, for example.

Right now, Africa has a
[Marburg](https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/658209/Ebola-Marburg-outbreak-deadly-virus-Africa-Uganda-Black-Death-plague)
outbreak and a [Madagascar
Plague](http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/874162/The-Black-Death-Madagascar-plague-2017-deadly-infection-East-Africa)
outbreak. The Marburg virus is the most interesting. It kills 88% of the
people that contract it. There is no known treatment for it either. The
outbreak thus far is limited, but Africa is not exactly a well oiled
machine when it comes to managing large scale social projects, like
containing disease outbreak. Talk to people who study this stuff and you
come away with the sense that Africa has been incredibly lucky and their
luck is about to run out.

The Madagascar Plague is a different sort of problem. It is a
combination of bubonic, pneumonic and septicemic plagues. Modern
medicine has treatments for all three and they are cheap enough to get
to Africa. The trouble is these diseases spread quickly. African medical
services are like everything in Africa. They are a circus of
inefficiency, corruption and ineptitude. It would not take an
exceptionally large outbreak to tip over the medical system, as well as
the supply chain from the West to that medical system.

Getting back to the most important graph in the world, one possible
change to it could come from a wide scale pandemic. It is conceivable.
There have been plenty of pandemics in human history. The Black Plague
not only altered the structure of European society, [it altered European
DNA](https://www.livescience.com/43063-black-death-roma-evolution.html).
There are some good arguments that the Black Death helped accelerate
Europe’s cultural progress out of the medieval period. The relationship
of land, labor and status were thrown over by a great die off.

There is another angle to it. The Black Plague did not originate in
Europe. It arrived by sea in October 1347 when 12 Genoese trading ships
docked at the Sicilian port of Messina. Most of the sailors aboard the
ships were dead, and those who were still alive were close to it. They
had The Plague. Even if those ships had never made it to Europe, the
strange disease that was killing people along the great trade routes of
Asia was on its way. The Black Death came to Europe the same way the
first people came to Europe.

Human-like animals burst out of Africa at least twice and probable three
or four times in history. We know that modern humans displaced the
Neanderthals, who left Africa and settled Eurasia. The Denisovans were
probably displaced by Neanderthals, but that is open to debate. [There
is the possibility that the out of Africa narrative is
wrong](http://news.artsci.utoronto.ca/all-news/scientists-identify-7-2-million-year-old-pre-human-remains-balkans/)
in some important ways, but the available data still suggests that there
have been waves of humans out of Africa for as long as there have been
bipeds on earth.

Maybe that’s how Mother Nature erases the board and starts over. When
one wave of humans runs its course, a new batch of humans burst forth
from Africa to replace the old, outmoded ones. The new batch being raw
and unformed, they adapt to the new lands they inhabit and give the old
evolutionary process another shot. Because they bring new diseases or
new forms of diseases, they do not have to be more fit than the
indigenous populations initially. Those invisible bugs they bring with
them become the great equalizer.

That could be what we are seeing today. The people of Europe and Asia
had a nice run, but they have reached a dead end in the eyes of nature.
The fertility rates have plummeted, even in China. In Europe, the
willingness of the natives to defend themselves and their territories
has collapsed. From the perspective of nature, Eurasians are looking a
lot like the giant Panda. Humans may think it worthwhile to maintain a
species that no longer will reproduce, but nature is unemotional about
these things.

Alternatively, a great plague that originates with the swelling
populations of Africa and then spreads around the world is another
option. Most people who study the current crop of diseases in Africa do
not think they will mutate into something wildly contagious that
overwhelms our social structures. They could be wrong about this. It
could be that some new bug alters some common bug, like the flu, which
then ravages the human populations of the world. Like the Black Death,
it would be carried by outsiders to Europe.

Those are all pleasant outcomes to consider, but there is another
option. The population of sub-Saharan Africa could reach a point where
it exceeds the capacity of the West to subsidize it. Right now, without
foreign aid, Africa would fall into famine and civil war. What if as
their numbers increase, the per capita aid required to sustain them
increases? The ability to manage the problem could have a much shorter
time horizon than Western planners assume. Economic crisis could come to
the West like the plague.
