---
title: "Financialization"
date: "2017-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10351"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10351"
---

One of the things that ails us in the modern age is we have yet to
adjust our thinking to the modern economy. The great political-economic
thinkers lived in a time when money was either gold, backed by gold or a
fiat currency. The result is our political and economic debates are
based in the logic of a world that no longer exists. The modern global
economy is not based on fiat money or hard money. It is based on credit
money, which has a unique set of characteristics.

For instance, the US government is no longer able to print up greenbacks
and sprinkle them on the economy. Instead, when they expand the money
supply, they expand lending, both domestic and global. It’s not just any
sort of lending either. The central bank can buy up long term notes in
order to drive down long term lending rates, thus expanding lending for
capital goods. Alternatively, they can buy up short term debt and
increase the amount retail lending. The Federal Reserve holds close to 2
trillion in mortgages, for example.

There’s no question that this new form of currency arrangement has had
benefits to the West. Libertarians and goldbugs will spend hours arguing
against this sort of currency manipulation, claiming it will lead to a
financial collapse, but so far, the opposite has been true. The mortgage
meltdown of 2008 did not result in a global depression. The worst you
can say of it is the result has been a long, localized recession. The
rulers look at current asset values and see a ringing endorsement of
credit money and central banks.

Putting that debate to one side, there are longer term problems that
come with credit money. One is the slow eating away of the middle class
by eating away at small and mid-sized business. The most obvious example
is the collapse of retail. The old joke was that Amazon turned big box
stores into their showroom. Consumers would go to Best Buy to look at
electronics, get free advice and then go on-line to buy them. This can
only last for so long and the mass closure of retail stores we see this
year suggests the end is near.

The libertarian argument is that the more efficient business has
displaced the less efficient business, and that’s not completely wrong,
but it ignores the salient aspects of this phenomenon. A world in which
everyone either works for or buys from a global company run by a Bond
villain is not a world most people want for themselves or their progeny.
There’s also the question as to whether it is economically sustainable.
Business needs customers and customers need jobs in order to have money
to be customers.

There’s also the fact that Amazon would not exist without credit money.
In a world of real money, Amazon would have gone bankrupt long ago. This
is true of the social media companies that now control public debate.
None of them would have made it past the hobby stage if not for the
financial system’s ability to conjure credit money. In effect, we now
live in a world where the rulers can make their money more valuable and
your money worthless, simply by manipulating the amount of credit money.

There’s another way in which the financilization via credit money erodes
social stability by undermining the middle-class. Take the example of
industrial supplies. This has always been a middle-class, local
business. The “value” added was the owners willingness to invest in
their location and facility in order to meet the needs of their local
customers in the commercial trades. They were almost always family
businesses with the wife running the office and the husband running the
shop.

The miracle of credit money has allowed investors to back the
acquisition and consolidation of these mom and pop businesses. The way
it works is investors back one business buying up other shops in the
area. This allows the new owner to replace the previous owners with low
cost salary men. It also allows for the consolidation of accounting, IT,
human resources, etc.. This makes the over all business more efficient,
giving libertarian economist a tingle in all the wrong places.

This increase in efficiency does not mean lower prices to consumers. It
often means the opposite. In some areas, there’s no longer competition
so prices rise. The economic gains from efficiency show up in the
returns to the investors. The lack of community investment, like
sponsoring local little leagues and social organizations, is also
stripped out and returned to investors. This is great for a Bain
Capital, but it is terrible for the local communities. Instead of
communities, we now have areas populated by strangers.

Another useful example is education. Just a generation ago, a college
diploma had real value that exceeded the purchase price. The
financialization of college has not only <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2017/04/coming-collegiate-collapse.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">decreased the initial value of
the diploma</a>, it has stripped away much of its long term value
through the student loan rackets. The only people benefitting from
college today are the people running the colleges and the money men
financing it. The school makes millions staging mock combat with
retarded black men and your kid gets saddled with the debt.

Credit money has unleashed financial pirates on the American middle
class, turning every small town and family business into a <a
href="http://www.english-heritage.org.uk/learn/story-of-england/dark-ages/viking-raid/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Lindisfarne</a>, in the eyes
of our financial class. A big reason why the economic data looks good,
but the the people are revolting is the social capital that held
together the American middle has been financialized and moved to the
balance sheets of global financiers. Increasingly, the relationship in
the modern American economy is not between buyers and sellers, but
between predators and prey.

At least when the Vikings raided a village, they did not demand that the
locals celebrate their ruination. It was a raid and the local
authorities tried to prevent it. That’s the other aspect of this that is
eating away at our civic life. It used to be that government worked to
reign in the financial tricksters, not because they cared about the
suckers, but because it was bad for politics. Today, if the political
class has anything to say about it at all, it is usually a celebration.
The Danegeld has now become an institution.

When Alfred the Great faced off against the Great Heathen Army, he
quickly learned that adherence to old customs and old ways was a
liability. The world had changed. In fact, it changed so much that he
nearly lost his crown before he could adjust to the new realities
presented by the Viking raids. The Norse played by a different set of
rules and they had no respect for the Anglo-Saxon ways. In fact, they
sought to exploit those ways to their advantage. To survive, Alfred had
to embrace new tactics and new methods.

Eventually, Alfred resorted to guerilla tactics, something previously
seen as dishonorable by the Anglo-Saxons, to weaken the Danes and
maneuver them into the decisive battle at Edington. The point here is
that those old economic arguments from the libertarians, like those
constitutional arguments from the Buckley Right, are no longer relevant.
In fact, they are now hindrances. The modern pirates have figured out
how to turn our virtues into vices. That means we will need new virtues
and new tactics.
