---
title: "TV And The Cloud People"
date: "2017-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11562"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11562"
---

The other day, [Tucker Carlson told someone that Trump trusts
television](http://dailycaller.com/2017/09/17/tucker-trump-thinks-tv-more-accurately-reveals-the-publics-beliefs-than-polls-do/)
more than he trusts the pollsters, when it comes to judging the public
mood. Having spent years working in TV, Trump not only knows a lot about
it, but he thinks the good TV people know more about public tastes than
the political professionals. The political class, of course, roared in
laughter. They think Trump is a rube, of course, but they are also sure
they know more about the Dirt People than the Dirt People know about
themselves.

This is another case where Trump’s common sense serves him well. The
people who have long careers in television all have something in common.
They make it their first priority to give the public what they want.
Whatever political or personal agendas they have are secondary to
putting on a good show. Unlike a pollster or political operator, the guy
pitching TV shows has skin in the game. He has to be good at gauging
public attitudes or else the show flops. The pollsters never suffer for
being wrong.

The thing is though, the TV shows also tell us, the Dirt People,
something about the people who rule over us. Hollywood is, after all,
the class of people in American, whose duty it is to sing the praises of
our rulers. It is also their job to sell the public on the official
cultural agenda. Whatever fads or social issues are being pushed by our
ruling class, will be praised in our TV shows and movies. It is why all
of our action heroes are barren cat ladies now. It is why commercials
are now full of race mixing.

On rare occasions, the people making this stuff reveal things about
themselves and about the ruling class in general. Someone recommended
the series *House of Cards* to me the other day, so I have been watching
a few episodes a night over the last week. As far as this stuff goes, it
is not as good as I would have expected. The chattering classes swooned
over it when it came out, but it is not in the same league as a show
like *Breaking Bad*. Still, it is not terrible and it is easy to see why
people would enjoy it.

Usually, political dramas are terrible because the makers are more
concerned with selling a political agenda. The shows are just thinly
veiled political ads for the Democrat Party and various Progressive
agenda items. That means lots of shows about abortion or sexually
confused people being roughed up by the honky. *House of Cards*, at
least so far, avoids that stuff and sticks to the intrigues of the main
characters. People, especially women, like watching that sort of thing.

The fascinating thing is that is the politicians are portrayed as true
masters of the universe. Everyone is portrayed as shrewd political
operators. The main character would make Machiavelli blush. Usually,
Hollywood portrays politicians as evil and stupid or sincere and naïve.
*House of Cards* is a one long celebration of the genius and cleverness
of the political class. It is not the issues they champion that makes
them wonderful. It is their *nature*. They are simply better than us.

That is made clear in how the politicians in the show deal with Dirt
People and the news media characters. The Dirt People are all dumb and
helpless without government. The main character solicits a rib joint in
the first season. Once this gets out, the rib joint gets famous, but the
inherent defects in the proprietor and his Dirt People habits, lead him
to failure, as he inevitably does stupid Dirt Man things, like try to
help his son. The main character is forced to cut him loose and let him
slide back into the muck.

The portrayal of the news media is the most interesting. On the other
hand, they are universally portrayed as loathsome clingers, who serve
only to drag down the Cloud People. The female reporters are whores, who
will bang anyone for a story. The males are feckless and stupid. The one
exception thus far in the show is the owner if a newspaper that is
supposed to be the Washington Post. The owner of it is a Katherine
Graham like Cloud Person, but her people are all loathsome Dirt People.

This is the most interesting part of the show thus far. I am into season
two now. The main character has murdered one reporter, had one framed
for a serious crime and scared another off to the hinterlands. He also
has engineered the termination of a big shot editor at the Washington
Post. None of this treated as a big deal. These news media types are so
low on the food chain in the mind’s of the writers, which throwing one
of them in front of a speeding train is no big deal. Even Trump does not
hate the media that much

It is easy to overstate these things, but House of Cards is one rare
example of the Hollywood people revealing things about themselves and
their masters. It may be the result of Netflix producing it, rather than
a Hollywood shop. For generations, the people making TV shows have stuck
to the script when it comes to the class structure in America.
Alternatively, this was deliberate. The makers wanted to flatter the
political class by telling them things they tell themselves. The result
is a window into the political class.
