---
title: "A Rambling Car Shopping Post"
date: "2017-11-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11956"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11956"
---

I have been looking at new cars for a year or so. I started thinking
about getting a new car a few years ago, when I realized I was getting
to the age where owning a sports car might be a now or never
proposition. To enjoy a sports car means driving fast in places where
you are not supposed to drive fast. That means having the reflexes and
risk tolerance to take chances. There really is nothing sadder than
seeing an old woman driving a Porsche or some old guy putt-putting down
the road in a Corvette.

I have yet to pull the trigger on the car buy. The main reason is I hate
the hassle of buying a car. The way cars are sold in America has never
worked for me. I do not want to develop a rapport with the car salesman.
I do not want him (her) to help me develop a relationship with the car
that will tell the world about me. I am not interested in having a
self-actualizing experience with a car. I guess I am a weirdo, but I do
not think the way I live my life needs to make a statement. I just want
to enjoy the time I have.

There is also the fact that I cannot seem to make up my mind. I am not a
car guy, in that I do not get into the car culture. A part of owning a
sports car is being a part of the social life around owning it. I think
a car is, for the most part, a necessary item of life. I want my car to
start in the morning, warm up quickly and have a cold air conditioner. I
never listen to the radio, but Bluetooth is a nice feature so I can
listen to my favorite hate-thinkers on road trips. Otherwise, a car is
like the toilet. I only notice it when it does not work.

Still, I feel like I should buy a sports car before I am too geezerly to
enjoy it. I have looked at a number of them over the last year. The last
sports car I owned was 30 years ago and it was used when I got it. It
was fast and fun to drive, but compared to what is on offer today, well,
there is no comparison. Modern technology has made affordable sports
cars that are vastly better than the most enthusiastic drivers. A modern
sports car is not a machine you control. It is a technology platform and
the driver is just one part of it.

Something that I did not expect when getting into this is the class
issue. I grew up country poor, but I am not country poor now. I have
been all over the world and I have been around very worldly people. I
retain my working class sensibilities, but I am not going to lie and say
I prefer the proletariat to the bourgeoisie. Whether I like it or not,
the car I buy will say something about me. Am I a man who prefers an
Audi or a guy who thinks a Camaro ZL1 is the right choice? I never had a
reason to think about it until now.

Having driven a number of different cars over the last year, I have come
to believe that the professional auto journalists are just public
relations flacks for the car industry. For instance, I drove a Mustang
and a Camaro on the same day. I was in the muscle car mood and they are
the two premier options in the category. I read the reviews of them on
the popular car sites. I was expecting one model to be refined and the
other more brutish, as that is what all of the reviews indicated. Both
cars felt pretty much the same.

That is probably the biggest obstacle to me pulling the trigger. There
is a weird sameness to all of the new cars. A few weeks after the muscle
car testing, I did a day of driving European sports sedans. The sameness
of the cars, at least in terms of driving them, is the one memory. I
found I had to keep a list of the small differences between, say, an
Audi and a BMW, as they were otherwise indistinguishable. There is no
quirkiness or originality to set one off from the other. It is like the
car makers are all aiming for the same goal.

This sameness is due to the fact the car makers are global companies
now. Instead of the British car makers building cars mostly for Brits
and the German makers building cars for Germans, car companies are
rootless cosmopolitans, making cars for the world. That means they think
they need to avoid the quirky, local flavor, as much as possible. It
used to be that America cars were utilitarian and made for the open
road. European cars were sophisticated and built for tight corners. Now,
they all do the same things and look alike.

This sameness extends to how they sell cars. The last time someone tried
to re-think the retail sale of cars was when Saturn was rolled out.
Their pitch was the “no-haggle” price and a limited set of options. It
never really worked as people have been conditioned to haggle over the
price of a car. That and they rolled out the no-frills option idea just
when technology was allowing everyone to have a bespoke experience
buying everything. The “customized experience” is a great sales tool as
everyone wants to feel special.

Look at the car dealers today and they all do exactly the same things.
Even their website is cookie cutter. Other than some aesthetics, it
appears that maybe one or two website companies have built every
dealer’s website. That is realistic. There is one main software maker
for car dealership software. I no longer recall the name of it, but one
software package was used by something like 90% of all new car dealers.
It is realistic to think that they or someone else is doing the same
thing with the websites.

Despite the uniformity, the other thing that strikes me about the
dealership websites is their uselessness as sales tools. I have noticed
that the cars on the site, often do not exist on the lot. At the same
time, the cars on the lot are often not listed on the site. Dealers are
famous for the bait and switch tactic, but this just looks like sloth.
Spending time in the dealerships, the vibe I get is that the business
remains hostile to technology. They just want to sell cars to the people
who walk into the showroom.

As far as the car purchase, I am still weighing my options. I am down to
one of the muscle cars or one of the German sports sedans. I have always
liked the look of an Audi, but I fear the repair costs. BMW’s are known
for sturdiness, but I am told that is not longer true, so maybe a
Mercedes. Having driven enough of them, I am sure I would enjoy owning
any one of them. But I still cannot get over the thrill of driving that
Camaro ZL1. It was like being strapped to a rocket sled. I could get
used to that in a hurry.
