---
title: "The Long Struggle"
date: "2017-08-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11207"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11207"
---

At this point, everyone who is anyone has chimed in with a misinformed
hot take on the riot in Charlottesville. I’ve done my share on Gab about
it, but I thought a full post was a better way to make myself clear on
the subject. A feature of outsider politics is that every event requires
a response. It becomes a way for everyone to position themselves in
relation to everyone else. For instance
<a href="https://twitter.com/ramzpaul/status/896756409123172352"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">RamZPaul</a> is out reminding everyone
that he does not like Richard Spencer, using Charlottesville as a
jumping off point.

Having had some time to think about my own range of responses over the
last 48 hours or so, I think the most important take away is that a
whole lot of people who never heard of the alt-right, now know there is
another team on the field. We forget that most people don’t know Antifa
from Auntie May. Over the last 48 hours a lot of normal people are
looking up these groups they see on TV. Despite the media barrage, most
normal people are repulsed by these left-wing groups.

That said, you can be sure that many of the CivNats and Buckley Cons
were rushing to their nearest liberal and begging them for forgiveness.
Poor old Gavin McInnes wore himself out telling his friends on the Left
that
<a href="https://twitter.com/Gavin_McInnes/status/896431393395396609"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">his PoofBerry group</a> disavowed
everyone they were told to disavow.  Obviously I enjoy mocking this more
than I should, but he has a big audience. He and the other
<a href="http://www.dailywire.com/authors/ben-shapiro" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">accommodationist</a> types have a lot of influence and
they are using this to fund raise and hurt our thing.

You learn more from failure than success, but success does offer
lessons. The Friday night torch light march into the park was a smashing
success. It was clever and original. It also showed a high level of
discipline. That was the sort of thing that you do when you know the
system is willing to use any means necessary to stop you. You get
creative and use their weight against them. The cops and politicians did
not see it coming so they could not get their goons out of the
flophouses to smash it up.

In retrospect, the alt-right should have simply cancelled the Saturday
event, leaving the cops to figure out how to blame the inevitable Antifa
rioting on the alt-right. That would have left them guessing about the
sort of people they are facing. The important thing about the Left is
they believe their own bullshit. That’s why they put so much effort into
forcing their enemies to play the role designed for them. Outfoxing them
and not playing that role is the best psychological weapon that can be
deployed.

That’s not what happened and it is a good lesson for our side. The cops
lied about their intentions and the politicians lied too. Cops are
mostly guys who like pushing people around and they are not giving up
that privilege for anything. They would mace a nursery school if their
bosses ordered it. In all future dealings with the cops, the underlying
assumption must be that the cops are lying. Security needs to be
designed with the assumption that the cops are working with the other
side.

There’s another lesson. The whole point of the event was to unite all
the factions of the Right, including the idiotic Nazi larpers and KKK
clowns. I get it. They were there for you from the beginning. Not
punching right is a big deal. I get it, but the alt-right needs to
understand that these micro groups do vastly more damage to the cause
than any benefit gained from unity. The truth of life is you can’t save
everyone. Some people get left behind and the Nazi larpers have to be
sidelined.

I can hear the objections from some readers, but here’s the question. Do
you want to win or do you want to be ideologically pure? If it is the
former, it means getting the Chad and Stacy types to come to your side.
The middle-aged guy with a mortgage and kids is not rallying to a
knucklehead waving a Nazi flag. Pleasing the handful of yesterday men
costs tens of thousands of recruits. You can’t win that way. If the
alt-right makes ideological purity into a suicide pact, they are done.

There is always someone who will say “the media will call us Nazis
anyway, so why worry about it?” This is loser talk. If the media screams
“Nazi” and they only have images of clean-cut, well dressed guys being
polite and smart, it just reminds everyone that the media is full of
liars. If on the other hand the media screams “Nazi” and you’re out
waving Nazi flags, the public will believe the media. That’s how it
works. Blaming the media for *your* failure to grasp this *reality* is
just an excuse.

Finally, the main lesson here is that the people in charge are not going
to leave the field without a fight. They will fight to the last man. The
last few weeks, there has been a whiff of triumphalism on the alt-right,
leading up to this event. Listening to Mike Enoch last week, he sounded
like he was winning. <a
href="https://altright.com/2017/08/11/a-note-on-the-charlottesville-statement/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Richard Spencer</a> was posting his
version of the *The Port Huron Statement.* Charlottesville was a good
reminder that we are just at that early days of the great culture war of
the 21st century.

I’m fond of saying that it is a long war. This is the long twilight
struggle of our people, so learning how to take a punch, even the
self-inflicted one, is important. The people organizing and trying to
build organizations are not professional organizers. They are learning
on the fly, so that means making mistakes. Success counts on the leaders
learning from mistakes and the rank and file holding them to it. The
leaders need to get better and we need to get better.

Tomorrow, the struggle continues.
