---
title: "The Wages of Proportionalism"
date: "2017-04-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9975"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9975"
---

Ethical theories like utilitarianism, say that an action is right or
wrong, depending on the consequences it produces. A deed is judged as
good if it has a good result. The intentions of the actor are of little
or no consequence, because what matters is the final result. Similarly,
the deed has no intrinsic morality because the morality is entirely
dependent on the results. The most common expression for this is that
the ends justify the means. Most of what we think of as the Left falls
into this ethical category.

The obvious alternative to this is what Jeremy Bentham called
deontological ethics or deontology. This loosely means the knowledge of
what is right and proper. A Catholic, for example, acts in accordance
with the teachings of the Church. A lawyer conducts himself in
accordance with the demands of Lucifer. The act is good or evil
intrinsically, regardless of downstream outcomes. What matters is the
fidelity to principle or a moral code. The means justifies the ends is
the most common formulation of this.

Then there is Proportionalism, which was discussed in
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8318" target="_blank">this post
with regards to how our rulers manage race relations</a> in the current
age. That is the ethical theory that says it is never right to go
against a principle, unless a proportionate reason would justify it. For
example, discrimination is always wrong, unless doing so mitigates some
greater wrong. Affirmative action is the policy of discriminating
against living whites, based on their race, in order to address the
racism of white people too dead to be punished.

The obvious danger of utilitarianism and pragmatist is that it gives
license to all sorts of horrible things. A despot, for example, can kill
wantonly, claiming it is necessary in order to achieve some greater
purpose. Similarly, a pathological adherence to principle, or simply
adherence to some bizarre moral philosophy like Nazism, can lead to
monstrous ends. Even so, there’s at least a principled argument to be
made in order to limit or block the despot and the zealot. There are
rules against which they can be judged.

In the modern age, our rulers are quick to point out these things when
criticizing whatever it is they are railing against at the moment. They
favor Proportionalism because it allows them to make the rules up as
they go along, in the moment, in order to take maximum
advantage. Proportionalism lets them bet both sides of the wager. When
it suits them, they can assiduously apply the rules. When the rules are
inconvenient, they can claim that a rigid adherence to principle is not
in the public interest.

This moral ambiguity has worked reasonably well, but it is proving to be
their undoing as we see with the ongoing spying scandal in Washington.
The political class is now faced with an impossible choice. They can
pretend that none of this happened and hope Trump stops dumping details
about it into the alternative media. That’s pretty much what happened
with the Susan Rice story that was handed to Cernovich. That’s an
unknowable unknown because Trump plays by a different set of rules and
has unknown motives.

There’s also the problem of letting what Team Obama did go unpunished.
It sanctions this sort of activity and exactly no one wants the
executive having that sort of power. Imagine if a soulless sociopath
like Clinton had won the election and had the power to unleash the
intelligence agencies on her enemies. On a regular basis, assassins
would be gunning down political figures on the streets of Washington.
The organized and brazen abuse of power that went on in the last year
cannot be left unaddressed.

That, of course, leads to the other unpleasant option. Investigating the
former staff of the former president for the crime of domestic espionage
and perhaps conspiring to undermine the election is no small thing.
After all, that former president is the most precious trophy of the
party that runs Washington. That party has been willing to excuse just
about anything in order to win political fights. No one knows what sort
of dirt Team Obama has at their disposal to use in a bloody political
war over this.

That brings it all back to Trump. This latest twist was rather obviously
a White House caper. They had the goods on Susan Rice and probably
several others so they found a willing outlet. This is one of the oldest
political tricks. You find an obscure reporter looking to make a name
for himself and you give him the scoop of his lifetime. In this day, a
blogger works even better because they don’t have to clear things with
a boss. Picking Cernovich is the sort of flourish that a guy like Trump
would find amusing.

It’s also a reminder to the political class that Trump is a fast learner
and he is willing to play the hardest of hardball.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5029" target="_blank">Trump is
a leverage guy</a>. He always looks at what he has in order to leverage
it to get something else. He’s just turned this Russian hacking nonsense
into a weapon he can now use on the political class. The Republicans
don’t want to go to war with the Democrats and the Democrats don’t want
anymore of their soldiers getting dimed out to ambitious bloggers
looking to make a name for themselves.

It is the inevitable end to Proportionalism. In the 90’s, the Left made
all sorts of compromises in order to win elections with the Clintons.
The Right decided to do the same the following decade with Bush and the
neocons. As a result, the political class lost their moral authority.
Team Obama had no reason to obey the rules, because no one was obeying
the rules. There was always some proportionate reason to justify
violating principle. After all, they let the IRS caper pass. Why not
some domestic spying?
