---
title: "Late Phase Capitalism"
date: "2017-06-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10619"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10619"
---

The song we hear from our rulers is that America was built by
immigrants. The other version is that America is a nation of immigrants.
The latter does not hold up under scrutiny, but the former probably gets
closer to the truth. The nation was obviously *settled* by people from
over the sea and that *settlement* continued into the 19th century. The
word “settler” is correct as most people who came over came in search of
land, which is why there was a steady march west during the 17th and
18th centuries.

The last couple of decades of the 19th and the first decades of the
20th, on the other hand, were a time of high immigration. These were
people headed for urban centers to work in factories. The new industrial
barons wanted cheap labor so they imported it. It is probably true that
the rapid industrialization of American could not have happened without
the massive flow of migrants from Europe. It is certainly true that the
newly minted industrial millionaires got rich from the supply of migrant
labor.

By the second decade of the 20th century, the great fortunes of the
industrial age had been built. Men were still getting rich, but they
were not getting rich like Carnegie, Rockefeller or Mellon. There was
also a move to reign in the super rich of the day by busting up trusts
and forcing competition back into the market. Again, you could still get
rich making stuff, but it was mostly by applying industrial techniques
to narrow areas of the economy. Of course, the end of the industrial
boom saw the boom in global finance.

The other thing that developed in the late phase of the industrial era
was organized crime, most notably La Costra Nostra. The official
narrative says it was Prohibition that ignited organized crime, but
there were gangsters in America before that event. A better way to frame
it is that urban criminal organizations were uniquely positioned to
flourish in the era of illegal booze. They had worked out most of the
problems that come with organized crime and so they had the people and
structures in place to be rum runners on day one.

Prohibition era gangsters were cold blooded killers, for sure, but many
were quite innovative in the crime business. Many of the techniques they
employed to secure their businesses, territories and settle problems in
their organizations are right out of the modern business school. The
more famous gangsters could have been successful in legitimate business,
but by the time they cam along, the big money from industry had already
been made and the doors were closed to newcomers, so they went into
crime.

It should also be noted that organized crime did pretty well through the
Depression and the Second World War. Things got a little tougher in the
post-war era, but the Mafia was still going strong into the 1970’s. The
wheels came off for the Mob in the 1980’s, at the dawn of the
technological revolution. New laws, but mostly new technology allowed
the Feds to roll up the Mafia. The state had also taken over their
rackets, like gambling and loan sharking, while foreign cartels took
over the drug trades. Today, the mafia is dead.

Like the industrial revolution, the technological revolution has created
some fantastically rich men. The difference is that the modern
billionaire is most likely making his money from all over the world.
Technology has allowed him to get rich because it allowed him to easily
do business everywhere. The men who made the railroads were constrained
by geography. They had to settle for being rich men in one country.
Therefore, they took an active interest in their host country, often
being very patriotic and nationalistic.

The new over-class lives globally so they think globally and that has
brought problems unique to the technological era. But like the
industrial age, the great fortunes were mostly made early on as everyone
raced to apply the microprocessor to the big problems of society. Men
are still getting rich, but the age of the instant billionaire are
largely over. The SnapChat people are probably the last guys to hit the
lottery with a killer app. The low hanging fruit has been picked. What’s
left is the stuff that is harder to reach.

Another similarity to the industrial age is the role of immigration. As
Steve Sailer has pointed out, the tech people  were granted an
unofficial waiver with regards to labor laws and identity politics. Up
until very recent, we have not seen any pressure on Silicon Valley to
hire blacks or women. They have relied on an army of helot labor brought
over on visas or setup up in camps over in Asia. In many cases, firms
have flagrantly violated the laws aimed at curtailing this stuff,
without facing much in the way of scrutiny.

In all probability, there will be people in the coming decades who point
to the microprocessor revolution and say it was built on the backs of
immigrants. Our cosmopolitan grifters already believe this. As with the
industrial revolution, it will not be entirely wrong. The more accurate
way of stating it is the great fortunes could not have been amassed
without cheap foreign labor. The initial work, the groundbreaking work,
was done by locally grown pioneers who did the inventing and innovating.

The one main difference between this age and the prior age is we have
not seen the growth of organized crime. There are Russian gangsters
stealing credit cards and running various financial scams, but nothing
like the Italian Mafia. No one has tried to organize tech workers like
the mob organized Jewish butchers or the garment industry. The old mob
used fear to tax legal business and fearlessness to monopolize illegal
business. We are not seeing anything similar, outside of the drug game
run mostly by Mexicans.

Part of this is due to the fact that most vice is legal. Gambling is
everywhere now, mostly run by the state or state sanctioned enterprises.
Booze is everywhere and pornography is on TV. Even prostitution is
largely ignored by the state. The only illegal business is drugs and
that’s run  by Mexican cartels. There’s also that fact that there are
many ways for a clever and adventurous person to get rich in politics or
the shadier sides of finance. Crime simply does not pay as well as
politics or banking.

That may be the way to look at something like the Clinton Foundation
and, coming soon, the Obama Foundation. These are not explicitly
criminal organizations, but they certainly play outside the spirit of
the laws. Obama is out of office and prohibited from running again, but
he still controls the Democratic party. The Clintons would be in charge,
if not for the fact that the voters took their under boss out in the
Tuesday Night Massacre, otherwise known as the presidential election.
Even so, the Clinton Family is still a player.

In other words, the analog to the great mafia families of the prior era
will be political organizations and operations that work the fringes of
the system to rake in huge piles of cash for the people running them.
Right now, the best way for a moderately intelligent person to get rich
is to win a seat in Congress. Even a seat in the state legislature can
be parlayed into a comfortable lifestyle paid for by insider deals and
influence peddling. If you are not the sort to run for office, helping
those who do run for office is very lucrative.

In one of histories great ironies, the English speaking world went to
war with fascism and defeated them on the battlefield, but ended up
adopting most of the fascists socio-economic polices. Similarly the US
government went to war with the mob, but is now embracing the same ethos
as those long vanquished gangsters. Maybe like the oxpecker, the tiny
bird that lives off rhinos, human society will always have a
quasi-criminal class that lives off the people at the pleasure of the
people in charge.
