---
title: "Is It Time To Worry About North Korea?"
date: "2017-07-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10752"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10752"
---

News brings word that the North Koreans finally had a successful missile
test, <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-07-04/north-korea-fires-ballistic-missile-south-korea-says"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">launching what some think was an ICBM,
600 miles into the sea</a>. As is always the case with these stories,
the news will be mostly wrong and the “experts” will be saying whatever
pays them the most money. All that is known is that it was their most
successful missile test to this point. Whether it means more is hard to
know, but it *could* be big.

The North Koreans seem to think it is a big deal. <a
href="http://www.france24.com/en/20170704-nkoreas-veteran-newsreader-returns-declare-icbm-launch"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They wheeled out a famous granny</a> to
announce the news on state TV. Professional North Korea watchers put a
lot of emphasis on this sort of symbolism, but it could simply be
counter-signalling. The Norks know the habits of the US media better
than Americans, so you can be sure they do things like this, knowing it
will trigger a predictable response from the so-called experts in the
media.

Whatever the real internal thinking in Pyongyang, they are making an
effort to let the world know it was a big breakthrough and they are
ebullient about it. National pride is to be expected, but in the context
of North Korea, their boasting is assumed to be something more than just
a little flag waving. The question no one can answer is whether the
boasting is for internal consumption or directed at their neighbors in
Asia, including the US.

It would be good news if the Norks were simply poking a finger in the
eye of the US and China by continuing on with a pointless missile
program. That’s a manageable problem as it would suggest the regime is
stable and coherent. There is no good result for the regime in a war
with the US. If the Norks are sane and stable, then they will understand
this and eventually settle for some sort of cash payment to settle down
and play nice for a while.

On the other hand, if this act is aimed at internal elements, then it
could suggest the regime is not stable or not acting rationally. No one
really knows if Kim Jong-un is mentally stable. Many of the things he
has done can be interpreted as either the result of immaturity or
insanity. It is rare for a family dynasty to make it past two
generations before producing a lunatic or a loser. This Kim was not the
first option, so no one knows.

One indication that things may not be good inside the regime is the
death of the American student, Otto Warmbier. The kid was either killed
on purpose or killed by accident. If it was on purpose, it was done in
such a ham-handed way to suggest the shot callers are either amateurs or
careless. If it was an accident, it could mean the regime is not in full
control of the state apparatus. Kim’s old man would not have made this
sort of mistake.

The prior Kim would have had the show trial, but with an eye on using
the hostage as a bargaining chip. A nice Jewish boy from a small town is
a very good bargaining chip. In prior cases, the regime would grab a US
citizen of Korean decent and then release them in a few months. The
whole point of the game was usually to get someone back we had grabbed
as a spy or that the South Koreans were holding for espionage.

The Warmbier case was bungled from the start and then was bungled
further when they killed him in prison. No one believes it was an
accident. The US is downplaying the obvious, but Trump now has a bloody
shirt to wave around if things get ugly and he decides to pre-emptively
attack the Norks. As Derb pointed out the other day, the US cannot
tolerate anyone killing our people. Otto Warmbier must be avenged.

This is a massive blunder by the Norks, and coupled with his missile
tests, it strongly suggests that either Kim is a nut or he is reckless.
If he is a modern day Caligula, then he will not get better at
diplomacy. He will get more provocative and unstable and eventually do
something that requires action from the US. Imagine a missile test where
it lands on Japan or Taiwan. That’s not too far fetched even under ideal
conditions.

There is a worse possibility. The killing of Warmbier could be the
result of intrigue and turmoil within the regime. These provocative
tests are part of an effort by the Kim faction to assert authority over
the other factions. Authoritarian regimes are always subject to
factionalism and palace intrigue. Strong rulers have subtle ways of
dealing with trouble makers, while weak rulers rely of ostentatious
displays to intimidate threats.

The good news is that unlike the Middle East, the US has had eyes and
ears on the Norks for a long time. In all probability, we have been able
to monitor their internal communications for decades. There’s also the
fact that the Chinese have an interest in maintaining peace on their
border and keeping on good terms with Trump. As much as the swells like
to call Trump an oaf, his saber rattling over trade is a great lever in
this case.

There’s also the fact that Trump is not surrounded by warmongers looking
for a reason to pick a fight. The provocations by the North Koreans can
be ignored for now, but also dealt with by more subtle means. The Norks
need access to the global banking system and that’s controlled by the
US. It’s hard to sell weapons and drugs when you have to do all your
dealings in cash.
<a href="http://www.latimes.com/world/la-fg-macao2nov02-story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Bush administration figured this out
20 years ago</a>.

Even so, having a nuclear armed lunatic is never a good result. Even if
Kim is not an Asian Caligula, general instability can be very dangerous.
Regardless of the cause, the Warmbier case strongly suggests that the
current regime in North Korea lacks the professionalism and skill of
prior regimes. If they can bungle a simple job like grabbing a hostage
and then negotiating his release, they can bungle anything.
