---
title: "The Shadows Grow"
date: "2017-11-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12180"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12180"
---

On election night last year, Fox News rolled out Britt Hume to
editorialize on the results and what it meant for conservatism. Hume
went through the list of things that he said defined conservatism over
the last number of decades. He then pointed out how Trump rejected these
items, in full or in part, to win the GOP nomination and then the
general election. Hume’s definition of conservatism sounded like a lunch
order. It was just a list of policy goals, like cutting taxes, reducing
regulation and free trade.

That’s because over the last several decades, Official Conservatism™ has
been reduced to a soulless list of agenda items, based on the same
assumptions about the human condition as Progressivism. In many cases,
the official Left and the official Right agree on the same goals, but
disagree on tactics. Tax policy is a great example. Both sides agree
that tax policy is about social engineering, by rewarding certain
behaviors and punishing others. The debate, such as there is, is about
which behaviors to prioritize.

The critique of Official Conservatism™ from the Right is rooted in the
observation that Conservatives now agree with Progressives on base
assumptions about the human condition and human organization. Humans are
infinitely malleable and human society has no organic, natural form. As
a result, both Left and Right now share a moral code, which is a
Progressive moral code. This has reduced conservatism to an assistant’s
role, where its primary job is to police the Right and purge those who
threaten the moral order.

For the last 25 years, the institutions of Official Conservatism™ have
done a good job of imposing their will on the other elements that
allegedly make up the coalition of the American Right. Social
conservatives have been coerced into supporting globalist economics.
Foreign policy realists have either been purged or forced into accepting
the neocon position. Everyone has been marinated in immigration
romanticism to the point where even the most sensible will genuflect
when passing the Statue of Liberty.

The trouble is, the old paleocons were right all along. The hip and
modern version of conservatism, what the alt-right boys call Boomer
Conservatism, has been a complete failure, even by its own standards.
Globalism has not made the typical American more prosperous. In fact, we
have experienced a decline in living standards. Wars of choice to bring
the joys of social democracy to the savages have resulted in America
looking like a police state. The effort to spread liberty has made all
of us less free.

It is the area of social policy where Official Conservatism™ has been an
unmitigated disaster. It’s not just the trannies stalking the girl’s
restroom or the degenerates running wild in the public square. Those are
the sorts of things that can be rectified in an hour, if the state feels
the need. The real disaster is in the institutions that define the
culture at the street level. Social groups, churches, even religion
itself, has seen its legitimacy undermined by the new consensus forged
between the Left and the Right.

[This post on National
Review](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/453923/conservatives-criticize-free-markets-liberal-democracy-propose-no-alternatives)
the other day by Ramesh Ponnuru is about the rethinking of this
arrangement by social conservatives. He is working off [this essay by
the editor of *First
Things*](https://www.firstthings.com/article/2017/10/the-spirit-of-democratic-capitalism),
a religious-right operation founded by [Richard John
Neuhaus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_John_Neuhaus). Ponnuru’s
post is mostly hyperventilating and hand-waving, in an effort to not
address the main observations made by the author. Guys like Ponnuru
never imagined they would need to defend themselves from their Right, so
they have no way to do it, other than dismissal.

One thing that stands out about the *First Things* post is the
acknowledgement that the bargain struck between traditional Christianity
in America and the political Right was deal salient in another age. It
no longer makes sense in a post-Cold War America where the challenges
are purely cultural. This is a critique of Official Conservatism™ that
is popular with blogs like this one. The marriage of convenience between
social conservatives, anti-communists and libertarian economists stopped
being convenient when the war ended.

Now, *First Things* is not about to embrace the alt-right, or even
biological realism anytime soon. You see that in the post, where the
author goes through the usual rituals to signal his fidelity to
anti-racism. His discussion of Charlottesville brings to mind a man
trying to bury something that keeps rising to the surface no matter how
much dirt he piles on it. The thing that is rising from the earth,
despite his frantic efforts to cover it up with scare words, is the
realization that the old moral paradigm is no longer useful in this age.

For the longest time, Official Conservatism™ was defined by the three
key elements of its coalition. Social conservatives, free market
libertarians and hawkish anti-communists made up the Grand Army of the
Right. They even sang The Battle Hymn of the Republic at the GOP
convention. Once the Cold War ended, the anti-communist leg no longer
had a reason to exist, which is why the coalition spiraled out of
control. Social conservatism had always been a junior partner, but after
the Cold War it was reduced to window dressing.

Fundamentally, the Dissident Right, of which the alt-right is a part, is
a reaction to the failures of American conservatism. If Official
Conservatism™ is unable to keep men in sundresses out of the girl’s
restroom, what good is it? The answer from the Dissident Right is that
it is no good at all. Seeing elements of Official Conservatism™ begin to
openly question their arrangements along the same lines suggests the
shadow of the Dissident Right is starting to reach the walls of the
Orthodoxy. They are noticing us.

It goes beyond noticing though. Read conventional right-wing journals
and what you find is a vapid recitation of 1980’s dogma, salted with
references to Buckley and Reagan. It’s like listening to disco. Read
sites on the Dissident Right like [American
Greatness](https://amgreatness.com/) and you find thoughtful criticism
and reasoned attempts at making sense of the current age. The shadow of
the Dissident Right is growing, because relative to the legacy right,
the people in this thing are intellectual giants. Ideas do matter and
we’re the ones with the ideas now.
