---
title: "Combat Sports"
date: "2017-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11358"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11358"
---

Like a lot of people, I watched the big fight between Floyd Mayweather
and Conor McGregor on Saturday night. They say six gazillion people
watched it. As is always the case these days, the numbers are all lies
and the real numbers are vastly lower than claimed. [The live gate was
about what you see from a typical
fight](http://www.latimes.com/sports/la-sp-mayweather-mcgregor-less-than-capacity-crowd-still-paid-1503817870-htmlstory.html),
but the PPV was probably much higher than typical. UFC fans are
conditioned to view their sport through television and on-line, rather
than live.

Despite the fakery, it was a big deal and even casual fans found a way
to watch it. The dirty little secret of modern life is that watching
these things via a pirate stream is getting easier and more difficult to
police. As we saw with the music business, the video rackets are nearing
that point where the cost of policing the underground feeds will exceed
the value of their product. There are simply too many ways to get around
the paywalls and blocking mechanisms. This fight was probably the last
big pay-per-view fight will see.

That is always the problem with artificial scarcity. It works for a
while as the laws of supply and demand are universal. Make something
scarce, relative to demand, and the prices rise. There is another
universal law of economics though. Anything that has value will be
stolen or faked. That means attempts to create artificial scarcity will
be met with equal efforts to get around those barriers. That is what
happened to the music business and now music is just about free. That is
what is happening with pay television.

Still, the fight proved something that our betters have been telling us
was no longer true and than is men still like being men. Fights are
never and can never be pink hat affairs, where the girls show up and
pretend to be fans. Boxing and MMA are male sports aimed explicitly at
men. This fight was a contest between a bigger, younger man versus the
older, but vastly more skilled smaller man. Men enjoy seeing that sort
of thing. We like competition, but we like comparisons and contrasts in
our competition.

During the broadcast, it became clear that the on-air people were
instructed to use the phrase “combat sport” rather than the more common
phrases. My hunch is the promoters saw the numbers for this thing and
see a chance to bring fighting back as a popular sport again. Boxing
killed itself with corruption and the UFC has a bum problem, but there
is a market for good fights and the UFC is great at selling their
product to young males. The contrast is styles between McGregor and
Mayweather made it a great show.

If they fused the two sports, dropping the wrestling and tackling stuff
entirely, there is a good chance they can create fun shows like this on
a regular basis. Imagine if McGregor was allowed to kick and rabbit
punch. It probably would not have changed the outcome, but it would have
made it a bit fairer. Change the ring to make the ropes sturdier, like
the cage in UFC, and the boxer has to change his strategy. There is a
middle ground where you can create fun and interesting contests that men
will pay to see.

The other thing the UFC can teach boxing is how to develop its talent.
Boxing was destroyed by the crack epidemic. The urban gyms that worked
as feeder systems for boxing were wiped out by the crack wars. The young
guys looking for a way out of the ghetto were drawn into the big money
of the drug game. Those still looking to go straight were too afraid to
go into the rough areas where boxing gyms tend to be located. As a
result, the flow of young talent in the US evaporated and so did the fan
base.

That is the thing about MMA, which boxing can adopt. Go around the
country and the mixed martial arts gyms are now where the old martial
arts places were located. That is in suburban shopping centers.
Middle-class white women are fine letting their boys go to these places
as it feels safe and their snowflake is not getting bullied by urban
blacks or robbed in the parking lot. Boxing can be sold to the white
middle-class again, but in has to be sold on their turf. White people
with kids no longer live in cities.

That is not to say boxing can ever make a comeback, at least to the
status it once enjoyed. That world is gone. We live in the age of niche
sports. Even mighty football (American) is feeling the pinch. There will
always be a market for men fighting one another under agreed upon rules.
Boxing and MMA are just that. If the end result is some fusion of the
two that is both white-ish and suburban, that is not a terrible result.
Healthy cultures have ways for men to compete, as well as watch and
encourage other men to compete.

As to the fight itself, it was a fun show. As I pointed out prior to the
fight, boxers are vastly better conditioned than MMA guys. McGregor was
sucking wind in the third round and by the sixth he was clearly gassed.
Mayweather is a great boxer and he knew exactly how to take apart
McGregor. That said, the Irishman had a great plan and executed it well.
He showed tremendous heart. He was just beaten by the better boxer, like
everyone else Mayweather has faced. Both acquitted themselves well. It
was a great show.
