---
title: "The Day At The DMV"
date: "2017-01-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9398"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9398"
---

My driving license had expired so I was forced to head down to the local
motor vehicle office to get it renewed. The state offers a “service”
for renewing by mail, but this requires getting a separate eye exam,
filling out some forms and hoping that the postal service does its job.
Having had my state tax returns lost the last two years, my confidence
in that link in the chain is not very high, so I elected to do it the
old fashioned way. That meant standing in lines and dealing with surly
functionaries of the state.

When you enter the place, you are “greeted” by a functionary that asks
you for the purpose of your visit. You are then assigned a number or
directed to a kiosk. More on that in a bit. The numbers are assigned in
a way that almost seems random. The person in front of me got “G23” and
I was given “B80.” The idea is to make sure no one waiting truly knows
who is next in the queue. Maybe they had riots in the past or perhaps
people sold their place in line. Maybe there is no reason for it.

The office near me is not in the ghetto, but serves the ghetto so
that means lots of vibrancy in the waiting area. One of the first things
I noticed was that many of the people there were trying to pay off
violations, mostly parking tickets. The angry greeter at the front
desk barked at those people to get in the line for the “self-service”
kiosks against the wall. He had that look of a man irritated that these
people had interrupted his work, even though his work was to greet
people entering the facility.

Of course, these kiosks could be located all over the malls and shopping
centers around the state so people could do this task anywhere and at
any time. For that matter, this could be a phone app, but that’s not how
the government works. The kiosks are not for *your* convenience. They
exist for the convenience of the government workers. In all probability
they were sold to the state as a way to make life easier for the clerks,
who had to haggle with citizens over unpaid fines. Given the color of
the place, it is not irrational.

Of course, the lines for those machines were long as most of the
machines were out of order. Then you have the fact that the diverse
community is not very good at following instructions. You see this in
fast food joints where they struggle to order from the menu. A system
that requires someone to select from a menu of options, with no
modifications, is never going to do well in the diverse community. The
result is a struggle of diverse man versus machine, with outbursts and
demands for service from the staff.

I spotted a Muslim women in a trash bag shuffling up to one of the
counters. Two swarthy men were hovering around her. They guarded her
virtue as she exposed her head for the license photo. From what I saw,
they have no fears of rival males carrying her off. Everyone in the
place was intently watching the scene, even the surly functionaries. For
a minute, all of us were plugged into the collective consciousness,
wondering why our rulers are doing this to us.

This is an example of why open borders will end in disaster. In a world
without government, people will sort themselves out, one way or another.
In the custodial state, everyone is dealing with the state. That means
the interface has to accommodate all comers. In a world where the
picture ID is critical, a people who think photos steal their soul or
make Allah angry with their women is doomed to failure. The DMV can
handle Mexican fruit pickers, it cannot adapt to Bronze Age barbarians.

The funny thing about the diverse community is they will sit forever,
waiting for government service. Honkies get impatient with lines and
expect the government to work like the private sector. The diverse are
much more reasonable in this regard. Everyone had head phones so they
could listen to their music while they stared at their phones, doing
whatever it is they do on their phones. They came prepared to entertain
themselves for the day. Maybe it is from habit or maybe it is from
nature. Regardless, these are not people who will be voting libertarian.

That’s the other thing you see in a government office. Libertarianism
works fine as long as your society is composed of high IQ sociopaths,
who can manage on their own. Once you have people like those working for
the state, and getting services from the state, libertarianism
collapses. The people in the waiting area not only need rules, they need
help following the rules. That’s not going to happen through voluntary
association. Unless you have genocide in your heart, libertarianism
cannot survive outside the lab.

The other interesting thing is that the motor vehicle office no longer
issues a license. It is mailed to you. I did a little sleuthing and
discovered that the selling of ID’s was a problem. No one admits it, but
the rules they have in place now are clearly aimed at preventing
insiders from selling your information. Allegedly, they now account for
each blank that is used for a license. By mailing it, they insure the
person applying for the license is at the location they claim.

This will not work so the next step will be bio-metric ID’s where you
provide a thumbprint or some other biologically unique credential. All
of our credentials will eventually be multi-factor authentication. That
means you will present the physical ID, some sort of randomized PIN that
is linked to the ID and a password. Secure facilities do this for system
access. Adding a thumbprint or DNA sample is the logical next step once
the costs are low enough to make it practical.

That also means all of us will be in the government database. Our
medical records, credit history, internet pornography interests, will
all be tied to our official government issued citizen ID. It’s not
unreasonable to think that people will have a chip implanted at birth
that links to the ID and other items that require authentication for
access. It’s not happening tomorrow, but you can see where it is headed
when you look at things like
<a href="https://www.dhs.gov/real-id-public-faqs" target="_blank">Real
ID</a>. Like a fungus, this is slowly growing on us and will one day
feel like a normal part of life.

Of course, it will still require us to stand in line to get our license
renewed.
