---
title: "Iceland"
date: "2017-06-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
  - HBD
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10469"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10469"
---

Iceland is one of the weirdest places on earth. In fact, it may be the
weirdest, at least that is what many Icelanders will tell you. Some of
their weirdness is made up for the tourists, but some of it is made up
for their own entertainment. The belief in elves and “hidden people”
seems to be mostly for local
amusement. <a href="http://phallus.is/en/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">The Icelandic Phallological Museum</a>, on the other
hand, is harder, so to speak, to explain. But, when you live on a
volcanic rock in the North Atlantic, indulging in weirdness is probably
to be expected.

The little island republic came to world attention back in the financial
collapse when they went bankrupt. Iceland had managed to become a hedge
fund with a fishing village attached to it.
<a href="http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/2009/04/iceland200904"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Michael Lewis wrote a
fascinating and humorous piece</a> on them back in 2009. When I was over
there last summer, I mentioned this to locals a few times and they had
never heard of it. When I mentioned some of the colorful anecdotes from
it, they laughed at me like I was an idiot, so Lewis may have been
liberal with the truth.

In addition to the Dungeons & Dragons vibe to the place, Iceland is
interesting for biological reasons. It is a small and extremely
homogeneous population located on an isolated island. That means
it makes for a good place to tease out things about the human genome.
The genetics company
<a href="https://www.decode.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">deCode</a> is located in Reykjavik and has been doing a
lot of interesting work for decades. The willingness of the population
to participate in this research makes it a great laboratory for this
type of work.

Another topic of interest is how the people have organized themselves
over the last 1,000 years since settlement. Unlike most places on earth,
human settlement on the island is very recent and it has been written
down. We can only guess about the waves of humans that settled in the
Ruhr Valley or along the Thames, but we have written records about who
settled Iceland and how they developed their society. It is, in this
regard, an interesting anthropological study.

A Norwegian chieftain named Ingólfur Arnarson is usually considered to
have been the first permanent settler in Iceland. His legend says he
threw two carved pillars overboard as he neared the island, vowing to
settle wherever they landed. He then sailed along the coast until the
pillars were found. There he settled with his family around 874 and
named the place Reykjavík, which means “Bay of Smokes” due to the
geothermal steam rising from the earth. As is always the case,
historians are not sure if this entirely true.

Eventually, Ingólfur was followed by other Norse chieftains, who brought
their families and slaves, settling all the inhabitable areas of the
island in the next decades. The Chieftains were Norwegian, while their
slaves were Irish and Scottish, according to the Icelandic sagas and
*Landnámabók*, which is a written history of the settlement. This tracks
with the findings of modern genetics. That’s what makes Iceland so
useful, We have written records and archaeological findings, that are
validated by genetic data.

There are two theories for why the Norse fled Norway and settled on a
volcanic rock in the middle of the North Atlantic. Legend says it was
due to people fleeing the harsh rule of the Norwegian king Harald the
Fair-haired. Norway was undergoing a consolidation of power under one
powerful family and the losers were heading off for new lands. It is
also possible that the western fjords of Norway were simply overcrowded
in this period. The general theory for the rise of the Vikings is simple
over population.

Once there was enough people to farm the land and create an economy,
they set about organizing themselves. In 930, the ruling chiefs
established an assembly called the *Alþingi *that convened each summer.
The representative chieftains made laws, settled disputes and appointed
juries to judge lawsuits. Because writing down laws could lead to the
use of force to interfere with an individual or individual’s property,
the laws were instead memorized by an elected *Lawspeaker* until the
next assembly.

Since there was no central executive power, it meant the laws were
enforced by the people on an ad hoc basis. A land dispute, for example,
would require hiring some third party to act as the judge. Violence
against people or property would require the people temporarily banding
together to address the problem. This is the sort of arrangement that
results in blood-feuds. Consequently,  the writers of the Icelanders´
sagas had plenty of material. Trial by combat was a real thing when it
came to disputes.

Iceland did pretty well into the 13th century when the growing power of
a few families led to a break down in the system. Rather than adjudicate
disputes the old fashioned way, for example, it was easier to go to the
head of one of the powerful families for relief. Inevitably, the ruling
families began to resolved things, like land disputes, in a way that
benefited them over other rival families. This led to other powerful
families doing the same in order to check the power of their rivals and
soon Iceland was dominated by a few chieftains.

The start of the 13th century known by the very cool
name *Sturlungaöld*, which means “The Age of the Sturlungs.” Sturla
Þórðarson and his sons were one of two clans waging war for domination
of the the island. This clan eventually won the support of the king of
Norway who was looking to exploit the conflict. Sturla Sighvatsson
became a vassal of Haakon IV of Norway in 1235, thus allowing the
Norwegian king to exercise authority over the island, by backing the
Sturlungs against their rivals.

In 1262 Iceland signed the Old Covenant establishing a union with the
Norwegian monarchy. It was a nice run as a transactional society, but
they ran into the problem of how to deal with inequality once their
society was able to amass excess wealth. The rich were not satisfied
with being rich, they also wanted power, which means authority over
others. It is the natural human impulse and the ad hoc system of
governance was unable to respond to this internal challenge. The result
was domination by a few.

Of course, they also had the problem of how to deal with powerful
neighbors looking to dominate the island. Norway could use a combination
of force and political meddling to create the sort of conditions they
could exploit. An iron law of the human condition, and of nature, is
that the strong come to dominate the weak. In the case of Iceland,
Norway was the strong neighbor determined to dominate the island. They
were not going to be talked out of it so Iceland eventually fell under
her dominion.
