---
title: "Essential Knowledge: Part II"
date: "2017-01-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8599"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8599"
---

A thorough understanding of human history has been the hallmark of an
educated man in the West since the Middle Ages. Herodotus is considered
the first historian, but there is debate about whether the ancients had
an appreciation for human history. Oswald Spengler argued that the
ancients were <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahistoricism"
target="_blank">ahistorical</a>, as they lacked a historical
consciousness. Perhaps that is true, but for our purposes, the point is
that a classical education in the West has always included a thorough
understanding of history.

Now, we live in a post-Christian age, but there remains a high degree of
hostility to religion in general and Christianity in particular. As a
result, religion is either left out of the history books or cast as some
sort of malevolent influence. That’s a big problem as it is impossible
to understand human history without understanding religion and its role
in human affairs. This is especially true in the West where Christianity
is arguably the most important feature of Western culture since the fall
of Rome.

Obviously, knowing European history means knowing Christianity and that
means knowing something about the Jews and Judaism. I’d recommend
starting with
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/History-Jews-Paul-Johnson/dp/0060915331"
target="_blank">Paul Johnson’s History of the Jews</a> as it is very
readable and covers the important bits without getting bogged down in
academic posing. Given the outsized influence of the Jewish people on
world history, as well as current events, you cannot be an educated man
without fully appreciating the role of Judaism in world history.

Of course, a solid understanding of Christianity is important. You
cannot understand the last 2,000 years of Western history without
knowing Christianity and the history of the Church. There are so many
books on the subject that you are spoiled for choice, but Paul Johnson’s
<a
href="https://www.amazon.com/History-Christianity-Paul-Johnson/dp/0684815036/ref=pd_bxgy_14_img_2?ie=UTF8&amp;psc=1&amp;refRID=6PDFAHED837FCT296ZNH"
target="_blank">History of Christianity</a> is the one I’d recommend to
every atheist that can read. The point is not to become a theologian.
The point is to have an appreciation of and knowledge of the role
Christianity has played in Western history.

Eventually, learning Christian history leads to how it evolved from its
antecedents. Greek and Roman mythology is not just the starting ground
for the fantasy role playing crowd. It laid the groundwork for the
monotheism of the Jews to jump into the rest of human society. Once you
fully appreciate what came to replace Greek and Roman theology, you can
fully appreciate a classics like <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Mythology-Timeless-Tales-Gods-Heroes/dp/0446574759"
target="_blank">Edith Hamilton’s Timeless Tales of God’s and Heroes</a> and Hilda
Davidson’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0140136274/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&amp;camp=1789&amp;creative=390957&amp;creativeASIN=0140136274&amp;linkCode=as2&amp;tag=norsemytho-20"
target="_blank">Gods and Myths of Northern Europe</a>.

Islam is a thornier topic as there has been a flood of books and
articles on the Religion of Peace that are more about modern political
topics than the history of Islam. A book worth reading to get a positive
introduction to the history of Islam is Karen Armstrong’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Islam-History-Modern-Library-Chronicles/dp/081296618X/ref=sr_1_3?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1483624881&amp;sr=1-3&amp;keywords=history+of+islam"
target="_blank">Islam: A Short History</a>. Like every book about a
specific religion, it has its short-comings and critics, but it does the
job. Another good option and maybe a companion to the other book is Reza
Aslan’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/god-but-God-Updated-Evolution/dp/0812982444/ref=pd_sim_14_4?_encoding=UTF8&amp;pd_rd_i=0812982444&amp;pd_rd_r=0C6NMX5BWY73X2ZD9X40&amp;pd_rd_w=yRJoj&amp;pd_rd_wg=sKPvu&amp;psc=1&amp;refRID=0C6NMX5BWY73X2ZD9X40"
target="_blank">No god but God: The Origins, Evolution, and Future of
Islam</a>.

The hard part about Islam for Western readers is we tend to look
at religion through the lens of European Christianity. There was the
world before Christianity and then the Christian era. Islam did not
spring from nothing. It is the result of a long evolution of religion in
the region. A good book to get a fuller understanding of that is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/0465030564/ref=wl_it_dp_o_pC_nS_ttl?_encoding=UTF8&amp;colid=3OOE7NHH1H5WD&amp;coliid=I268HPMGZ185SG"
target="_blank">Heirs to Forgotten Kingdoms: Journeys Into the
Disappearing Religions of the Middle East</a>. It provides a nice
history of religion before Islam and a fuller picture of the complexity
in the modern Middle East. It’s not all raging Imams and Jihadists.

As far as Eastern religions like Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism and
Taoism, this is where it can get difficult for the Westerner. Thousands
of books have been written on Eastern religions by hippy crackpots  All
of them are terrible and useless in terms of learning anything about
these religions and their role in the development of those societies.
The right answer is an old book by a long gone professor named Huston
Smith. The book is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Worlds-Religions-Plus-Huston-Smith/dp/0061660183/ref=sr_1_3?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1483626185&amp;sr=1-3&amp;keywords=history+of+religion"
target="_blank">The World’s Religions</a> and it has good sections on
these topics.

Belonging to a church or religious sect is not the same as joining the
stamp club or volunteering down at the school. It is the defining
feature of a person’s life and the defining feature of his group. For
those who lack faith, this is not always easy to grasp. A good book on
this subject is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Dynamics-Faith-Perennial-Classics-Tillich/dp/0060937130/ref=zg_bs_12785_16?_encoding=UTF8&amp;psc=1&amp;refRID=7BWBJYAJCY4AH5PD7BGP"
target="_blank"><em>Dynamics of Faith</em></a> by Paul Tillich. It’s
easy to see why a great cathedral could be inspiring, but it is not easy
to see what inspired men to build the cathedral. Understanding faith at
the personal level is critical to understanding religion.

The point of learning about religion, as an intellectual exercise, is
not to become a theologian. The point is to have a grounding in the
basics in order to better understand human history. Belief is one of the
oldest modern human traits. It is thought to have co-evolved with
language. It is the main driver of human history and it remains a
principle force in human affairs. There’s simply no way one can have an
understanding of history, especially Western history, without
understanding religion.
