---
title: "Positive and Negative"
date: "2017-08-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11058"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11058"
---

[Buckley
Conservatives](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/435567/identity-politics-race-are-ripping-us-apart)
have tried hard to make the term “identity politics” into an epithet,
but like all their other efforts, it has been a failure. The only thing
David French managed to do in that piece is reveal that he has no
respect for his ancestors and he remains petrified of the Left. He and
the other wimps of the Right can beg and plead all they like, but
identity politics is going to be a feature of the next generation of
culture wars, probably the focus.

What is driving the growth of the Dissident Right, in part, is the
realization among whites that the old political groupings no longer make
sense in an age of identity politics. The one common theme among the
people and groups now populating the movement is white identity. Some
people prefer white nationalism, but that is mostly the older crowd.
There are others who simply go with pro-white. The salient feature here
is whiteness and that is generally defined as European, but there is
some debate about that too.

Since no one is ready to roll out the equivalent of the [Brown Paper Bag
Test](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brown_Paper_Bag_Test) to determine
entry into the Honkyverse, debating these fine distinctions is mostly a
waste of time. Like porn, most people know white when they see it. What
does matter is the *nature* of white identity. It is easy to generalize
about what it means to be white and list off some things that are in the
interest of white people, but that is not an identity. At best that is a
list of political goals and at worst a list of complaints about the
prevailing order.

Identity movements, as cultural or even political phenomenon, come in
two flavors. One is positive and the other is negative. A positive
identity is one that exists independently and in isolation. It is true
in all times and all places. Its logic is entirely internal and only
modifiable by those within it. A negative identity, in contrast, exists
only in context, usually in relation to or in opposition to something
else. It is dependent on some outside thing. Its logic is external and
modifiable by whatever exogenous thing upon which it depends.

Consider something like Icelandic identity. To be an Icelander means you
or your ancestors were born in Iceland. If the rest of the humans on
earth die off, the person born on that rock in the North Atlantic is
still an Icelander. If for some reason the people within that identity
group decide to change the rules, adding some morphological feature,
then that will be the new definition. Even if the French protest that
change, the Icelandic identity is whatever the Icelanders decide. That
is a positive identity.

Now, think about black identity in America. sub-Saharan Africans come to
America and refuse to call themselves black or even African-American.
They have a different identity, their own identity. Black Americans are
defined by the fact that whites needed farm equipment and brought blacks
over to the colonies to work the fields. Everything about the black
experience is in relation to this history and its alleged effects on the
present. To be black in America is to be defined entirely by your
relationship to white America.

This difference in nature is why Icelanders do not spend all their time
listing their grievances against some group outside their group. Blacks,
in contrast, do nothing but complain about whites. They define
themselves in relation to whites, mostly in how they are treated by
whites. It is why they insist on being close to whites. Section 8
housing is popular with blacks, because it lets them mix with whites and
have a daily validation of who they are as people. If whites suddenly
went away, blacks would lose their identity.

These are extreme examples. A less obvious example of negative identity
is Ireland. The Irish fell into the negative identity camp, defining
themselves in opposition to the English, over the years of British
occupation. The Irish certainly had plenty of cultural history of their
own, but their subjugation by the British eventually began to shift the
Irish identity from a positive and internal one, to an external and
relational one. It is why the Irish continue to obsess over British
politics, despite having their own government now.

The point of all this is that what is happening now with white identity
has to avoid going down the negative road. If the alt-right, for
example, is going to be a laundry list of complaints about non-whites,
it can never chart its own destiny. It will always be dependent on those
outside groups. On the other hand, if this thing follows the course you
see with Jared Taylor, then it can chart its own course. Taylor does not
waste a lot of time with grievances, beyond those related to the right
to have a white identity.

Put another way, if being pro-white is only going to mean anti-black or
anti-Jew or anti-Asian, then it is never going to be a useful identity
group. It is just going to be the nullification of other identity
groups. That is not a movement with a future, because it is definition
lies outside its control. It is why feminism is curdling into a home for
barren spinsters. It is just a list of grievances. In order to avoid
that fate, white identity is going to have to be a positive identity
that defines itself, independent of the rest of the world.

The way to do that is as a cultural movement. The reason Progressivism
lasted for half a century, despite being at odds with reality, is it was
a cultural phenomenon. Being a Progressive was not just politics. It was
a lifestyle. Even today, you can tell a Lefty from a distance because
they dress a certain way and act a certain way. One Lefty starts wearing
fake glasses and all of them do it. Whatever white identity or pro-white
comes to mean, it has to define itself internally, if it is going to be
anything more than a passing fad.

Proof of this is the old white nationalist and white supremacist
movements. Those old guys complaining about blacks and Jews were just
that, old guys complaining about blacks and Jews. You got nothing by
being a part of their thing other than endless lectures about blacks and
Jews. Even racists run out of ways to keep that interesting. Avoiding
the fate of those movement means steering a path down the positive road,
even if it takes longer and is less clear. It has to be this way because
this is probably the last shot at it.
