---
title: "Cheering For My Team"
date: "2017-09-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11538"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11538"
---

Yesterday’s post could have been much longer, as there are many angles
to the modern American skins game. In the fullness of time, there will
be many books written on the subject or at least using it as a launching
pad in analyzing the late America collapse. One point of entry is
belief. People are believing machines. They will organize themselves
around a set of beliefs, even if those beliefs are insane. That is what
we are seeing in modern America. Christianity has faded, so something
new filled the void.

That something new is a grab bag of ideas borrowed from Cultural
Marxism, hung like ornaments on the burnt out husk that is Christian
universalism. That is modern Progressivism. Cultural Marxism, by itself,
has never made much sense, but inflated with the zeal of universalism,
it is a very powerful force in modern society. It certainly does not
make a lot of sense and it does not offer anything as pleasing as an
afterlife, but for the true believer, it fills the void that
Christianity once filled.

That’s most obvious when it comes to race. Progressives are endlessly
chanting that race is not real. They are also endlessly chanting that
racism is the most dangerous evil spirit in their hierarchy of evil.
Most of what is going on today is based in their belief that whites are
racists, simply because whites have acted to benefit whites. The trouble
for Progs, though, is that this contradicts their support for
non-whites. Everywhere you turn, non-whites are out flying their team’s
flag and cheering for their side against the honky.

<a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/18/opinion/issa-emmys-rooting-everybody-black-.html?rref=collection%2Fsectioncollection%2Fopinion&amp;action=click&amp;contentCollection=opinion&amp;region=rank&amp;module=package&amp;version=highlights&amp;contentPlacement=1&amp;pgtype=sectionfront"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This New York Times op-ed</a> is a good
example.

*I was 13 when the black woman I was rooting for on “American Idol” won.
After black women failed to reach the top spot in the first two seasons,
Fantasia finally did. With vocals straight out of a church choir in
North Carolina, she deserved it.*

*All the black people I knew — my mom, classmates and acquaintances —
were so proud. We celebrated this moment together. Fantasia’s victory on
one of America’s most watched television shows at the time wasn’t just a
win for her: It was a win for us.*

Yes, we all recall the long struggle for equality on TV game shows.

*Issa Rae, a co-creator and the star of the HBO sitcom “Insecure,” stood
on the Emmys’ red carpet on Sunday and proudly proclaimed to a Variety
reporter who asked which people she was cheering for, “I’m rooting for
everybody black.” When I heard that, I jumped up and shouted: “Same,
Sis! Same!” Because that’s what I’ve been doing all my life. And
apparently many other people have, too, because Variety’s video went
viral on Twitter, garnering more than 16,000 retweets and countless
reshares up and down my social media timelines.*

*Ms. Rae told the reporter what so many black people have told their
family members at dinner, their friends on group texts and their black
co-workers over water cooler talk. As many obstacles as we face in our
lives, there are times when we need to see one another win.*

*But what so many people missed in her comment is that expressing black
pride is not the same as being racist toward whites.*

Of course not. Only a blue-eyed devil would think such a thing!

*Ms. Rae’s critics don’t understand that when it comes to racial pride,
the playing field is not level. Black pride does not carry the power to
shut others out as white pride does. And that’s the difference.
Hollywood has a long history of privileging whiteness, from who gets to
greenlight movie ideas to whom studios target for consumption. While
white people have the luxury of turning on any given channel and seeing
themselves reflected with nuance and depth onscreen, black people
haven’t been so fortunate.*

One byproduct of Progressive race mongering has been that blacks are now
just swarthy toddlers. They assume they are entitled to whatever they
desire at the moment. Mx. Finley just assumes she has a right to *your*
stuff and right to live *near* you. At the same time, she is sure that
her status as a sacred person means she gets to have stuff to herself,
just for black people. Why wouldn’t she? All her young life, she has
been pushed along by the guiding hand of the skins game. She points,
demands, and a honky gives it to her.

As Steve Sailer points out, the basis of the skins game now is a blood
libel. Because your ancestors were mean to non-whites, you just have to
shut up and take whatever abuse non-whites heap on you. That includes
the humiliation of pretending that airheads like Mx.Finley are saying
anything of value. It means pretending that Genius T. Coates is not a
puerile blockhead with the reasoning skills of a sixth grader. It is not
enough to write the check.No, the honky has to grovel while delivering
it.

This is the fire that fuels the Dissident Right. You can pass this
lunacy off to the zealous crazies who read the NYTimes, but it’s not
going to fly with the average honky. Instead, they will be open to the
alternative, the one that flatters them and gives them a reason to be
proud. The racism Progressives fear, the dark force they are sure lurks
in the heart of white men, is their own creation. American Progressives
cannot stop making war on the honky so it is inevitable that the honky
will make war back.

In this war, I’m cheering for my team.
