---
title: "Female Trouble"
date: "2017-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Immigration
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9881"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9881"
---

The one thing that Europe has in common with America is the thorny issue
of immigration, especially the problem of Muslim immigration. Europeans
are also facing the problem of sub-Saharan African immigration, which is
a different problem. Black Africans are not yet forming up terrorist
rings and threatening to destroy Western civilization, at least not on
purpose. The daily drumbeat of terrorism stories we see in the news
are all tied to Islam and its hostility to Western civilization. The
fact is, Islam is incompatible with the West.

The question that never gets asked is why are European politicians so
wedded to the idea of open borders, when it means Muslim immigration?
Letting Poles move from their homelands to London, as tradesman, is one
thing. There’s an economic argument there, not a good one, but at least
there’s an argument. Making it easy for Mercedes to build car parts in
Slovakia has an economic argument to it. Again, it is a fallacious
argument, but you can see how some people, especially politicians, could
be dull enough to fall for it.

There’s no economic argument for importing Syrians or Turks. Muslims are
overwhelmingly represented on the welfare roles. In Denmark, people from
MENA countries make up 5% of the population, but consume 40% of welfare
benefits. This is a story across Europe. It is not just the new
arrivals. Turks in Germany have been there for a couple of generations
and have been the worst performing economic group in the country.
Estimates put the total working population at 20%, while the rest live
off welfare benefits. Then there is the issue of
<a href="http://www.unz.com/akarlin/immigrant-crime-in-germany/"
target="_blank">sky high Muslim crime rates</a>.

There is no economic argument in favor of importing these people.
Businesses that want cheap labor have options within Europe. Like US
companies, global European firms have used Asia for slave labor in the
old dirty industries. Just like Silicon Valley, European tech firms have
used indentured servants from India and China to undercut domestic wages
and dodge local labor laws. The fact is, human capital from MENA
countries has little value in modern, Western countries. The only people
benefiting from the importation of them are security firms and prison
builders.

That leads to the other possible reason the political class is in love
with mass immigration from Muslim countries. Is there popular support
for importing these people, despite their uselessness as citizens?
Again, there’s no data to suggest this is the case. European leaders
could have put the issue to the voters, but they fanatically avoid it.
In fact, anyone who dares run on the issue is branded a Nazi.
Politicians love democracy when they are assured of winning. They avoid
it when they are assured of losing. Therefore, it is safe to assume they
don’t think this is a winner for them.

What makes the political math crazy is <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/world/2017/02/09/majority-europeans-in-favor-trump-style-muslim-ban-poll-shows.html"
target="_blank">the polling shows quite clearly that the majority of the
public would support a ban on further Muslim immigration</a>. Clever
politicians could easily dress such a thing up in flowery language and
have a winning issue. Even not-so-clever politicians could simply call
for a halt to further immigration, without naming Muslims directly. One
of the French candidates could cut Le Pen off at the knees by simply
adopting a restriction position on immigration. Yet, all of them go the
other way.

If it is not good economics or good politics, why is the European ruling
class hell bent on replacing their native population with openly hostile
foreigners? Mass insanity is the tempting response, but that’s just
another way of blaming magic. If it were mass insanity, it would have
some sort of external cause, like a virus that strikes middle-aged white
politicians. How come it only seems to cause hyper-altruism among people
in political power? It’s a fun thing to say, but it is not fruitful
speculation.

A better answer may be that this is the inevitable result of the
feminization of Western civilization. The most important country in
Europe is ruled by a barren old women, who started out in life as a
communist. The most masculine politician in France is Marie Le Pen.
Germany’s opposition party is led by a mousy little wood nymph
named Frauke Petry. Even the Brits turned to a woman to lead them out of
Europe after the Bexit vote and the collapse of Cameron’s government.
The West is now a matriarchy.

Look at the reaction to Donald Trump among the ruling class of the
United States. He is detested, mostly by upper class women. Their reason
is he has a penis and enjoys using it. As a comparison, Le Pen’s support
is lowest among upper middle-class women in France. Sweden, which now
runs on the principles of the womyn’s studies department at your local
university, is also  the poster child fro immigration restriction. The
broads in charge of that country have destroyed at least two of their
cities with Muslim migrants.

The fact, men and women are different cognitively and well as
physiologically. This is not just old school male chauvinism.
<a href="https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2017/03/20/old-t-rex/"
target="_blank">It is solid science</a>. Women like drama and emotional
theater. They also like the idea of the alpha male coming to their
rescue. Put women in charge of a country and they will set about
creating danger and chaos so that the males will come rescue them.
That’s where the swarthy rapists from the south come in. Europe and
America settled their differences and ran out of dragons to slay, so the
gals created new one in the form of Muslim lunatics imported into the
West.

The trouble is the men of the political class are mostly pussies. Look
at the men in positions of authority in the West. Barak Obama was a
wigger dork. Paul Ryan is a ridiculous pussy, afraid of his own shadow.
The males in Western politics are effeminate, fragile peopel, who spent
their youth in the library. There are no tough guys, former soldiers or
adventurers in Western politics. It’s all power-skirts and the men who
secretly wish to dress like them. The result is the female side is
creating drama and the male side is sobbing in the corner, promising to
hold the camera steady.
