---
title: "Extra Crispr"
date: "2017-08-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11148"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11148"
---

Every few months we get a blazing headline about a breakthrough in
genetics that will allegedly lead to super babies. [This
one](http://www.foxnews.com/science/2017/03/16/chinese-researchers-announce-designer-baby-breakthrough.html)
from a few months ago is a good example of the genre. It makes for a
catchy headline. Of course, the story is never as claimed, as we are not
close to creating a race of mutant super babies. Instead, science is
creeping up on the ability to do some very narrow gene editing to
eliminate well known genetic defects. In fact, [a lab has just
successfully edited a viable
embryo](https://www.theverge.com/2017/7/27/16049340/human-embryos-dna-crispr-gene-editing-us)
for the first time.

This is a huge step in science, but we are nowhere near close to
creating the master race or even making small changes in real humans.
The most recent research on human intelligence, for example, [identifies
50
genes](http://www.newsweek.com/intelligence-genes-discovered-scientists-iq-clever-inherited-613348)
that correlate to IQ. That is a lot of combination to sort, assuming
that is the whole set of genes related to IQ. There is also the
possibility that other traits are indirectly related to those genes.
Even something as simple as hair color can get wildly complex, so we
will not be decanting babies anytime soon.

While we are nowhere near close to making super babies, this is one step
down the road toward altering the foundations of human existence. The
ability to inexpensively alter DNA, even in quite simple ways, will lead
to better food and better medicine. Imagine a treatment that alters a
pathogen such that it attacks cancer cells in the human body. It sounds
outlandish, but that is essentially what your immune system does with
disease. Of course, the ability to “correct” genetic defects will have
an enormous impact on human health.

It is easy to fall into the science fiction fantasy stuff when thinking
about these topics, but small things can have a huge impact on human
behavior. Improvements in sanitation, food production and basic medicine
greatly altered the human condition. Just look at the impact of life
expectancy. If lifespans were still as they were a century ago, things
like pension costs and health care would not be topics in politics. It
is because we can live, and live vigorously, into our 70’s that these
issues are now major topics.

That is why this gene editing technology is so important. Up until very
recent, the consensus in science was that we were generations away from
having the ability to edit human DNA. All of a sudden, the future is now
and the rush is on to be the first to alter an actual human embryo and
bring it to term. It also means that science will suddenly shift from
the purely theoretical to the practical. The first guy to figure out how
to fix defects in something as frivolous as purebred dogs will become
rich and famous.

There is another aspect to this that is probably more important than the
potential impact on human biology. What this technology is doing is
bringing to center stage a truth about humanity that our betters have
been trying to suppress for generations. That is, what we are is what we
inherit from our parents. What they are is what they inherited from
their parents. Each of us is the result of thousands of generations of
breeding. Our physical and cognitive traits are the result of that long
ad hoc experiment.

At a basic level, people know this. Anyone who is familiar with human
children knows that they look and act like their parents from an early
age. People do not think to hard about this stuff and our rulers work to
keep us from thinking about how this scales up. If a white man is the
result of thousands of generations of white people, that means the
African is the result of his ancestors evolving in Africa. It is not a
long walk from there to accepting that race is real. That is why this
thinking is a mortal sin on our age.

This becomes increasingly difficult when it becomes more common for a
doctor to use ideas and techniques from genetics to better serve his
patients. The old gag about race is that race is a social construct
until you need a bone marrow transplant. Not a lot of people have *that
talk* with their doctor but imagine a world where everyone has a genetic
realism talk with their dog breeder. When you know Rover had a known
defect in his breed fixed by a vet at the canine gene clinic, talking
about biological reality gets a lot easier.

As people come to accept the reality of gene editing, even if it is just
to make better dog breeds, it is much more difficult to maintain the
mythologies of the blank slate. Once people come to accept that things
like IQ and personality traits are determined by our genes, the blank
slate is finished. Even if people do not accept genetic determinism,
they will accept testing for IQ and personality traits to fill
engineering positions. In other words, strides in genetics will restore
a more sober understanding of the human condition.

This is the negation of the core belief of our ruling elite, but it is
telling that our rulers seem to be going in the opposite direction. As
science makes clear the realities of human biology, our rulers scream
ever louder to the contrary. Instead of simply ignoring the new
information, they are waging pogroms too root out anyone not fully
committed to their biological denialism. Every week were treated to some
new scandal where a heretic is brought forth and punished for
acknowledging reality.

It is common to compare our current age to the scientific revolution.
Galileo is a compelling figure. That does work at some level, but what
we are really experiencing is something like what happened in the Roman
Empire, prior to Constantine. As the people began to embrace the new
religion, the rulers tried to crack down on it. This only made the new
religion more popular. The great insight of Constantine was to recognize
the strategic advantage that was available to the first ruler who
embraced the new religion.

That is probably what awaits us. Science is moving along faster than the
current throne and altar cabal can follow. Some clever politician is
going to embrace biological realism and ride it to victory over the
prevailing orthodoxy. The first politician to say, “Of course men and
women are different” and not get run out of town will be the snowflake
that sets off the avalanche. Regardless, breakthroughs like CRISPR are
about to shake the foundation of our culture. The blank slate’s days are
numbered.
