---
title: "The Trumpening So Far"
date: "2017-07-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11004"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11004"
---

One of the more amusing aspects of the 2016 election was how the pearl
clutchers of Conservative Inc. would rush out of their hobbit dens every
week, shrieking, “That’s it! Trump is finished!” It was always after
Trump mocked their virtue in some way. They would carry on like it was
just a matter of time before their adoring public rallied to their
banner and chased away the evil dirt monster. They are still waiting for
anyone to show up and take their side. Meanwhile Trump has completed his
sixth month in office.

Since January, another pattern has emerged. The Fake News makes up a
story and the commentariat carries on as if it is fact. A few months
ago, the Fake News swore that Bannon was about to be fired. That did not
happen so they moved onto Kushner. His alleged ties to Tsar Alexander
were going to force him out. Now, the Fake News swears that Trump is
about to fire Sessions. Suddenly everyone in Conservative Inc, who hated
Sessions, is now defending him as a great statesman and politician.

The key to understanding Trump has always been that he loves drama. The
never ending quarrel is what gets him up in the morning. He thrives in
chaos and when he cannot find it, he creates it. The reason is Trump is
an opportunist. That’s his nature. He seeks to maximize what he has in
order to leverage it into a chance to catch someone sleeping, so he can
get a bargain in his next deal.
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5029" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">This post from two years ago</a> described Trump pretty
well and it is holding up now that he is in the White House.

There’s another aspect of Trump that has always been true, but is taking
center stage now that he is in the White House. Two decades ago, he was
often compared to George Steinbrenner, the late owner of the New York
Yankees. Like Steinbrenner, Trump is an unpredictable and often
impetuous boss. He gets mad at people for no sensible reason and he hold
grudges that make even less sense. Steinbrenner fired people for trivial
reasons, but would then hire them back. That’s what we see with Trump
now.

The reason Trump was so perfect for the reality show *The Apprentice*
was that he had the reputation for being the hot-headed boss. It was not
hard for Trump to be convincing when he would say his catchphrase,
“You’re fired!” It was something that people imagined he said every
week, because he had the reputation for firing people. It may have been
exaggerated, but we see now that Trump is not only a tough boss, bu he
can be petty and small. His treatment of Sessions is childish and
pointless.

The thing is though, guys like Steinbrenner and Trump got very rich in
the toughest of businesses. The reason is they had a knack for creating
chaos, forcing people out of their comfortable positions. An enemy on
the move is vulnerable. By creating a whirlwind of chaos, Trump gets
everyone moving and inevitably, making mistakes. One possible reason for
the paralysis in Washington right now is that the snowflakes in the GOP
are too frightened to move. They have never experienced anything like
this and they are scared.

From the perspective of the Dissident Right, this is a good result. Most
of the GOP are liars, who have been <a
href="https://www.washingtonian.com/2017/07/26/eric-cantor-republicans-obamacare-donald-trump/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">finking on their voters for years</a>.
Their inability and unwillingness to repeal ObamaCare has exposed this
to even the most naive voters. Of course, Trump’s penchant for creating
chaos has collapsed the Washington media. Even the most gullible is now
assuming the news is fake. The ability of the political class to peddle
their agit-prop has been greatly diminished because Trump has destroyed
the media universe.

On the other hand, Trump’s mad man management style is keeping him from
getting anything through Congress. He thinks he can wear down people
like Ryan and McConnell, but he is misreading the situation. Being
Speaker is not like being the CEO of a company. Leadership can only
enforce discipline by withholding favors and that has a limit. Ryan
can’t fire uncooperative members of his caucus. Trumps’ bullying style
is probably making that task harder for the leadership.

Of course, the bigger issue is Team Trump does not know what they are
doing. Jared Kushner was good at marrying well and maybe he is good at
business, but he does not have the slightest clue about Washington
politics. Trump’s penchant for relying on family over smart advisers is
fine in business, because Trump is usually the smartest guy in the room.
In politics, the only person less qualified than Trump is his daughter,
who he seems to rely on more than political strategists like Kellyanne
Conway and Steve Bannon.

Regardless, six months into the Trumpening and there is plenty to
disappoint and dishearten his voters. His vacillating on immigration is
the most worrisome. It’s why he is in the White House. His unwillingness
to bring the hammer down on <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2017/07/26/the-six-senate-republicans-who-flip-flopped-in-favor-of-obamacare/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">recalcitrant Republicans</a> is mind
boggling. Instead of tormenting Sessions, he should be blasting the
bugmen of the GOP. Again, Trump’s impulse to keep everyone on edge, even
his allies, makes supporting him an exhausting and unrewarding endeavor.

On the other other hand, Trump did not get to this point by doing things
like a normal politician so it would not make sense for him to try to
become a normal politician. His unconventional style has worked when the
professionals said it would fail. A point worth making again is that
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10028" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">you can’t judge Trump by traditional metrics</a>. He’s a
once in a century political force who will be judged more on what he
destroys than on what he creates. He is the destroyer of worlds, because
the world of Washington needs destroying.
