---
title: "The Deadend Men"
date: "2017-11-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11988"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11988"
---

When I was a young man, starting out in the world, I took a graduate
class on proto-Marxism. I was just a freshman, but the professor was
satisfied that I could handle the material, so I was waved into the
class. My main interest in taking the class was to get a look at real
communists. The Cold War was in its denouement, so I thought I had
better get a look at some real Marxists before the whole thing collapsed
into a carnival of finger pointing and embarrassment.

The two big lessons I carried away were that ideologues always believe
their thing transcends time and space. They cannot imagine that there
will be a time when their tool set of ideas is no longer relevant. The
other thing that seemed obvious, is that observable reality is not
enough to shake someone from their ideology. The professor was well
aware of the problems with Marxism, but he had committed his life to it.
so he could never accept that it was mortally flawed.

I am reminded of that every time I scan conservative sites like National
Review, the Federalist or even The American Conservative. They continue
to talk about what they call conservatism as if it is a timeless set of
truisms. The fact that the conservatives of today would have been viewed
as alien weirdos by the conservatives of just 30 years ago is completely
lost on them. The fact that the world is an entirely different place
than 30 years ago goes unnoticed.

Read a post like this <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/453416/john-boehner-donald-trump-conservatives-should-learn-both"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">one</a> from National Review, and the
thing that jumps out is the lack of self-awareness. Conservatives have
convinced themselves that Trump is Nixon and the current tumult is just
a replay of the years between LBJ and Reagan. Rather than look at what
is happening now, they are playing make believe. The Progressive tide
that peaked with Obama is receding. Next comes the conservative wave to
carry them to the promised land.

There is no mention of immigration or the changing demographics of
America in the article, so that means there is no mention of race
either. Look through the [source
document](https://www.americanproject.org/a-way-forward/) and it reads
like a policy paper put out by people who have been asleep for the last
30 years. It also is written in the graduate school jargon that sounds
convincing to men unfamiliar with the dreaded private sector.
Apparently, conservatives are convinced that the “way forward” is to
pretend it is 1988.

Conservatives keep getting up on the same horse, an image of Reagan on
their shield, prepared to dash into the nearest food co-op, in the name
of ordered liberty. The fact that the food co-op closed down years ago
and their horse and shield are paid for by a 501(c)(3) tax shelter,
supported by a billionaire oligarch, makes no difference. Even the fact
that their trusty side kick, the libertarian Sancho Panza, is now
hanging out on Gab, posting identarian and Pepe memes, has had no effect
on them.

*When Prophecy Fails* is a classic work of social psychology, from which
we get the concept of cognitive dissonance. It is the study of a UFO
cult in the 1950’s led by a charismatic named Dorothy Martin. She
predicted the end of the world would occur on December 21, 1954. That
did not happen, obviously. The study is about how the group handled this
reality. One of their observations is that the group drew closer
together and became more committed. They even began to proselytize about
their beliefs being correct.

Conservatives seem to be going through something similar. They went into
the final years of the Obama presidency with a narrative about how the
next phase of their thing would unfold. Their “principles” said they
needed to embrace multiculturalism, globalism and open borders. That was
the future. Then Trump came along running on the exact opposite of those
things. His victory was the nullification of the narrative. Instead of
accepting it, they seem to be committing themselves to a renewed version
of the narrative.

It is tempting to write off Conservative Inc as just a bunch of cynical
grifters. There is certainly an element of that to it. Guys like Jonah
Goldberg are living one percent lifestyles peddling outdated nostrums
and ideological nostalgia. Most, maybe even all of them, do not see
themselves as useful idiots of the donor class. They really believe the
conservative jibber-jabber. They think the world has not changed a bit
and it is the same old fights over the same old issues. All they need to
do is repeat the magic words one more time.

Conservatives, like the dinosaurs seeing the comet streaking across the
sky, do not understand what is happening to them. Even as the signs of
change become more obvious, they cling to the old ideology. They have a
lot in common with those old Marxists of the previous generation. Even
when the futility of Cold War conservatism is explained to them, they
just cannot accept it. To accept that politics and economics are
downstream from culture, means erasing themselves from the ideological
map. They just cannot do it.

So, it will be done for them.
