---
title: "Space Aliens & Talking Monkeys"
date: "2017-03-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9885"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9885"
---

On the Twitter machine,
<a href="https://twitter.com/TheRealZBlog/status/844230228817969153"
target="_blank">I saw this posted by Chris Hayes</a>, a liberal airhead,
who makes noise on cable television. Given that <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/tech/2017/03/17/right-punishment-blasphemy-asks-muslim-focused-bbc-channel/"
target="_blank">the BBC is advocating the return of blasphemy laws</a>,
I naturally assumed American liberals were now agitating for a police
state. But, that was not the point of the tweet. It was a link to his
article on something called <a
href="http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/03/virtual-reality-training-police-shootings"
target="_blank">The Hive</a>. The irony was completely lost on him.
Almost two decades ago
<a href="http://www.sobran.com/hive/" target="_blank">Joe Sobran and Tom
Bethell coined the term</a> to describe the Left-Intellectual orthodoxy
that rules us.

Hayes, of course, is an incurious dullard so it is hardly a surprise
that he was unaware of the irony. MSNBC could have people dressed up in
bumblebee costumes, dancing around the set of his show, and he would
still not get it. Still, most people under the age 50 would not be aware
of Joe Sobran and his writings about Progressive fanatics. The great
convergence of the so-called Left and the so-called Right has sent all
the old paleocons down the memory hole. Vast swaths of conservative
thought has been largely forgotten.

The point here is that it is easy for information to get lost between
generations. Most of the people, who were around when guys like Sobran
were active, are either old men now or they were too young to appreciate
what was being said. That and the long neocon war against Anglo-Saxon
conservatism has gone on for so long that multiple generations of people
have grown up believing these ideas were outside the realm of
respectable thought. This has happened to libertarians, as well. How
many Reason Magazine types are aware of Lew Rockwell?

The modern assumption is that human knowledge is accretive, which means
it builds up over time. Each generation adds another layer of knowledge
upon which subsequent generations puts down their layer of knowledge.
After all, the technology of this age is more advanced than the
technology of a century ago. The people in the age of the Great War were
far more advanced than the people of the Napoleonic era. It certainly
feels like technological progress is a steady accumulation from one
generation to the next.

While it is true that we are technologically advanced compared to people
in ancient Greece, the progress has been in fits and starts. Further,
the progress has not been universal. The Greeks knew more about human
nature and culture, for example, than modern people. Our intellectuals
are advocates of the blank slate, which is a few clicks more ridiculous
than the flat earth argument. Further still, some knowledge possessed by
the ancients has been lost to us. Damascus steel and Greek fire are two
examples.

There’s also something called The Sapien Paradox, which means, why did
humans become smart so late? We know that the human brain evolved to its
current state about 60,000 years ago. It took 50,000 years for humans to
figure out agriculture. Over the last 10,000 years, humans developed
symbolic concepts like notions of value, number and measure. Abstract
social concepts like status and power, along with the symbols associated
with them are, relatively speaking, very recent developments

Even in this recent run of progress, there were long periods where
humans not only stagnated, but regressed. Life in Rome at the time of
Julius Caesar was vastly better than life in Rome during the fifth
century or even the tenth century. Agricultural technology regressed for
much of the medieval period after the collapse of the Western Roman
Empire. If you departed earth from Europe in 1900 and returned to Europe
in 1950, you would have assumed society collapsed and fallen back into
barbarism.

The fact is, the store of human knowledge has leaks and is susceptible
to spoilage over successive generations. This is obvious in the current
state of space exploration. Two generations of men went from zero to
landing on the moon. Now we struggle to get payloads into space. Right
now we can’t return to the moon. It will take a generation to accomplish
what happened two generations ago. Imagine what would happen if some
great calamity strikes the world like an epidemic or nuclear war.

What does this have to do with space aliens?

Given that humans needed 10,000 years to go from domesticating animals
for the first time to making it to the moon, we have some idea of where
visiting space aliens would be on the evolutionary timeline. They would
be at least 10,000 years ahead of us, maybe more. The reason for that is
the technological jump, from where we are now to effectively
transporting anything to another solar system, is about the same as the
jump from riding a horse for the first time to riding a rocket to the
moon at back.

There’s also the fact that this alien race would have figured out the
problem of knowledge boiling off between generations and especially
between cataclysms. The most likely solution for former would be much
longer lives. If humans lived for 200 active, vibrant years, a
reasonably smart person could learn everything to be known in his field
and have time to add to it. The latter problem would require
accumulating enough knowledge to avoid the society destroying cataclysms
that have been a feature of human history.

Of course, being a very long lived species would have an added benefit
when it comes to space travel. Launching a human to Mars and back is a
one year mission. Landing on the planet probably makes it a two year
trip. That’s about ten percent of a man’s prime space travel years. If
we assume space aliens can reach something close to light speed, they
would still need 40 years to get anywhere interesting. If they had lives
roughly equivalent to a thousand earth years, then a trip to visit us
would be like us going to the moon.

There you have it. If space aliens are out there and able to reach
earth, they will most certainly be a very long lived species. This is
not just for the travel issue, but for the store of knowledge problem.
They will also have to be a several orders of magnitude smarter than
modern humans. To them, we will be a dumb version of our ancestors, who
first left Africa. It’s entirely possible the space aliens will find the
insects and fauna of our planet more interesting than the talking
monkeys.
