---
title: "The Plight Of The Edgytarian"
date: "2017-10-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11668"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11668"
---

One of the more popular ways for people, with modest talents, to gain
public attention is to be edgy. The best examples of this are the pop
stars who have modest musical ability, but are willing to degrade
themselves on stage, well beyond what is common. Comics used to play the
edgy card, by dropping the F-bomb in their act or making increasingly
bawdy sexual references. The game is to set yourself apart from the
other mediocrities by saying and doing outlandish things. That way, the
public pays attention to you instead of others.

You see something similar in the commentariat. There are millions of
people able to talk and write about public issues well enough to succeed
on stage. It is not that hard. Most TV presenters are remarkably stupid,
but they can learn to read from the teleprompter and look into the
correct camera. The Atlantic Magazine has shown how easy it is to create
a black intellectual with the [TN Coates
experiment](https://www.theatlantic.com/author/ta-nehisi-coates/).
Getting on TV or getting a perch at a big site, therefore, requires
something else, something to set you apart from the crowd.

That is where the edgytarian comes in. These are the folks who stake out
the turf just on the fringe of what the commentariat has deemed
acceptable. Bill Maher is a good example of a Left edgytarian. He says
the things that most Progs are thinking but avoid saying for fear it is
over the line. There are Right edgytarians too. These are the guys who
will make a joke about feminists or dissent from the orthodoxy on
trannies. They are not full blown heretics, just a bit reluctant in
their enthusiasm, which makes them bad boys.

Left edgytarians have always had it easy. They just needed to find the
limit Progressives had set to the Left. The edgy Prog put his right foot
on that line and his left foot outside the line. That way, he is outside
the acceptable, but not out there where people like Jill Stein live. His
only worry was the line would move faster than he could keep pace, as
the line always moves in that direction. Dave Letterman went from edgy
comic to creepy old man in a couple of decades, because he could not
keep pace with the changing line.

Right edgytarians have always had a more challenging problem. They
needed to find the line the Progs set on the right and place their right
foot on that line and their *left* foot inside the line. This means
living in fear of the line slipping inside of their left foot. That is
why they make a study of Prog fashion. To suddenly be outside the bounds
of acceptable is death. Inevitably, theirs is a life of defending the
line between themselves and those to their Right and keeping pace with
the ever changing line of what is acceptable to the Progs.

Even more troubling for the Right in general, but especially the Right
edgytarian, is that the Progs can willy-nilly declare someone a heretic
retroactively. That means the edgy guy can suddenly find himself being
hurled into the void because of past statements, which were just inside
the line back then, but are suddenly heretical. It is why conservative
commentators always have rabbit ears. They are always watching for
sudden changes in the zeitgeist so they can get ahead of it. It is why
they love the word “zeitgeist.”

The successful Right edgytarians figured out how to avoid this problem
by going into the safe zone as soon as they had anything resembling
success. Jonah Goldberg is a good example of this type. When he was a
blogger, he played the edgy card, but as soon as he had some success, he
raced to the safe zone and became Mr. Conventional Wisdom. In the 90’s
he was doing pop culture references and scatological humor. Today he so
boring and tedious, he manages to make John Fund sound like a wild man.

It is the smart move though. Look at Gavin McInnes. He burst onto the
scene as the hyper edgy nighttime guy on Red Eye. He was mocking the JQ,
race and sex, all the while being the middle-aged wild man. Then he got
named by the inquisition over heresy regarding homosexuals. Then he was
seen in public with known hate thinkers. No matter how many marital aids
he jammed up his rectum, he was suddenly off-limits. His choice was to
go to the dark side or find a new act. [He is now doing a grumpy dad act
on
CRTV](https://www.crtv.com/category/get-off-my-lawn-with-gavin-mcinnes).

What makes life suddenly perilous for edgytarians of both varieties is
the old paradigm is breaking down. Progs are rocketing into fads that
are essentially the habits of the functional mentally ill. You cannot be
more edgy than a guy in a bloody sundress, who just [castrated
himself](https://www.sasse.senate.gov/public/), while belting out Helen
Reddy tunes. On the Right, the people who would be the audience for guys
like McInnes are losing interest in chasing that shadow and are instead
wandering out into the new world of new politics.

The result of all this is our official discourse is suddenly becoming
very dull. Reading a modern political site feels like you are re-reading
articles from the 80’s or 90’s. It is the equivalent of listening to pop
songs from three decades ago, while everyone pretends it is new and
original. Of course, pop culture has become moribund, as well. Hollywood
does nothing but churn out remakes and sequels. Music has become so dull
that even the elevator people refuse to play it. Comedy is no longer
funny.

That is what distinguishes this counter-culture movement from the 1960’s
version. In the old days, the game was to get to the main stage and be
slightly outrageous. The hippies and radicals were all about freaking
out the squares. Comics like George Carlin were all about pushing the
envelope, *from their perch on the big stage*. Radical politics was
about being radical *within the established parties*. The edginess was
never authentic as it was simply a means to an end. The point was to
eventually be mainstream.

Today, a guy like PewDiePie has fifty-seven million subscribers to his
video channel and his videos average 2.5 million views. He has no
interest in going mainstream. A guy like Milo was better off avoiding
the official media entirely. His attempt to be an edgytarian has made
him into a sad joke. Of course, the new politics is completely off the
mainstream reservation. Today’s counter-culture is not a reaction to the
old culture so much as an abandonment of it. It is an ad hoc, chaotic
effort at something entirely new.

That is why being Mr. Edgy is a dead end street now. A guy like Gavin
McInnes is smart enough to figure it out, which is why he is putting on
the cardigan and scanning old shows like *Leave It To Beaver* for
material. You cannot be edgy in a world where the gap between what is
allowed and was taboo is impossible to span. You see this in comedy
where guys like Andrew Anglin and The Right Stuff can never possibly
“cross over” and do their thing in what is now the mainstream. They are
all in on this side of the divide.

There is an old gag where a chicken and a pig talk about opening a
restaurant. The chicken suggests they call it “ham and eggs.” The pig
declines, saying, “I’d be committed but you would only be involved.”
That is what is going in the culture. For years, the edgytarian could
just be involved in fringe culture and the dominant culture. Now,
everyone must be committed. you are either fully on one side of the
chasm or on the other side. To mix metaphors, those who try to be both
fall into the void.
