---
title: "AmRen Diary Part II"
date: "2017-07-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11039"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11039"
---

One of the things that is not appreciated, at least I have not full
appreciated it, is just how lonely it is to think about the stuff we
think about on this side of the intellectual universe. By that I mean,
much of what is discussed here, for example, is never discussed at your
office or your church or at social gatherings. When we can discuss this
stuff with fellow travelers, it is in hushed tones and care is taken to
make sure no one is listening in on the conversation. It’s the cost of
having so much of reality made off limits to discussion.

That’s probably the biggest value of events like AmRen and why our side
needs to start cultivating Jacobin clubs, so the like minded can do this
locally. It is refreshing to be able to sit at dinner with other people
interested in the same material, going back and forth on something like
black crime, without having to constantly look over your shoulder. At
lunch on Saturday, J’Onquarious pointed out that this is the only place
on earth where we could have the sort of conversations we were having
about social science data.

A good example of this is a conversation I had with a Jewish guy on
Friday night. That’s right, there was a Jewish guy at AmRen. In fact,
there were quite a few. Something almost no one knows or thinks about is
that smart Jews are having the same debates among themselves about the
roles of race and identity in Western society. My sense is that race is
the trigger point. Smart Jewish guys grow up in nice safe middle class
towns learning the egalitarian faith, only to get into the world and see
the reality of race.

Just to get this out of the way, in case it is not obvious, I’ve always
been on the side of Jared Taylor when it comes to who is white in
America. His line about Jews is “They sure look white to me.” That
becomes blazingly obvious when you talk to a conservative Jew about
religion or race. Long before I came into hate blogging I knew this,
having had this conversation with conservative Jews in the past. I’m
also fine with people who think otherwise and are into the JQ. So are
the Jews I met at AmRen.

It is at a thing like AmRen where you can appreciate just how oppressive
and stupid our intellectual life has become in the West. There are few
places on earth where a Jew and non-Jew can talk about something like
racial identity or the realities of black life. The guy I was chatting
with was like a lot of people I met at AmRen. He was bursting to talk
about this stuff because you can’t do this anywhere anymore, other than
in the comment sections of sites like this. We really are living in an
age of madness.

If one is looking for the little green shoots, a place like AmRen is a
good place to start. No where else in America can a guy like Richard
Spencer have a jovial and thoughtful conversation with a Jewish guy
about whether Jews fit into white identity. Spencer thinks Jews are a
separate identity group and he thinks Jews will figure that out on their
own and do their own thing. The Jewish guy in this case, is unsure, but
that’s why he was sounding out Spencer on the issue. Try having *that
conversation* on a college campus.

That’s where the optimism lies. In the fullness of time, the smart kids
get to be right. That’s the lesson of history. The people who rule over
us are trapped in a frenzy of
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/columnist-fired-for-mentioning-jews/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">purging anyone who notices
anything about the world</a>. They are systematically and aggressively
estupidizing themselves, by driving off anyone with the temerity to ask
a question. By herding all of the smart white guys into the Dissident
Right, they are not saving themselves. They are creating the army that
will destroy the prevailing order.

After attending something like this, it is easy to come back high on
your own fumes and there is some of that with me. I know someone into
lacrosse and every time he comes home from a tournament, he is sure
lacrosse is about to sweep the nation. That’s never happening, but
believing it keeps lacrosse from dying off. That’s the benefit of
networking and socializing to these sorts of things. Being a biological
realist is a lonely life at times. It helps to know that you are not
alone in the struggle.

Even so, I’ve sat around with grad students at places like Yale and I’ve
been around a lot of smart people in STEM settings. Often, the most
striking feature is the oppressive lack of curiosity and the fear of
saying the wrong thing. The core of Western civilization, dating to the
Greeks, is smart people openly discussing the hard subjects of the day,
trying to push the rock of humanity up the hill. That’s what’s happening
on our side. On their side, it is struggle sessions and the slow boiling
off their best assets. There’s the green shoot.
