---
title: "The Grifter"
date: "2017-02-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9541"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9541"
---

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uWb_W41KSYY" target="_blank">I
stumbled upon this video of Nick Pell</a> on an Irish chat show. I
follow Pell on twitter and read his stuff when I am made aware of it. He
is one of us so it feels like the right thing to do. I don’t know much
about Irish television, other than it is every bit as silly as American
television. The difference seems to be about awareness. American chat
shows know they are just entertainment, while the Irish still take this
nonsense seriously. But, Ireland is basically Puerto Rico with crappy
weather, so who knows.

Anyway, what got my attention was the gasbag on the panel named Colm
O’Gorman. It struck me that he was running a version of the Jesus con.
Sometimes called the Good Samaritan con, it is a classic hustle. The
very simple version is the con sets up a scenario where he can come to
the aid of the mark. A fake robbery attempt, for example. The con-man
thwarts the robbery and the grateful victim rewards the con-man for what
appears to be a selfless act of kindness. Old ladies are the typical
target of this one.

The main difference between the Jesus con and the Good Samaritan con is
that the former is relational, while the latter is transactional. You
can only save the old lady from muggers once. You can be sacrificing for
the starving children of East Dongo forever or until people figure out
there’s no such place as East Dongo. Most charities are this type of
confidence game. They pitch themselves as selflessly working in favor of
some group of victims, in order to guilt people into sending them cash.

What got me thinking about this while watching the video is the way Colm
O’Gorman put all of his efforts into making the issue personal. On the
one hand, he kept calling Pell and the red haired woman repulsive and
repugnant, then “excusing” them as well-intentioned but stupid. You can
see that he practiced his lines prior to coming on the show, as he was
clearly not making any effort to engage Pell or the woman. The point of
his efforts was to personalize and isolate the two of them with ridicule
to make them into bogeymen.

Then he wheeled around and spent a few minutes selling himself as the
great champion of the alleged victims of Pell and the red head. At about
the eight minute mark he does a little speech about how much he worries
for the alleged victims of these two monsters sitting across from him.
The list of victims is a bit comical, but that’s inevitable when the
victims are imaginary. The hard part about running the Jesus scam from
the Left is that they have run out of people who can plausibly be
presented as victims.

Anyway, having spotted the grift,
<a href="https://infogalactic.com/info/Colm_O%27Gorman"
target="_blank">I looked this guy up on the google machine</a>. His
claim to fame is as an alleged victim of a Catholic priest when he was a
teenager. He turned that into a lucrative grift, selling books and ,
wait for it, starting a charity that claims to defend victims of sexual
abuse. A teenage homosexual carrying on with an older homosexual is not
exactly new, but the Church has deep pockets and Colm is not the sort to
give a sucker an even break. Now that all the juice is out of that
lemon, Colm is into politics.

That last bit is not intended to dismiss the Church scandals. It’s just
that normal people move on with their lives after suffering from
something like this. The fragile cannot and the dishonest refuse to move
on until they are paid. Maybe grifters like Colm are the price that must
be paid to remedy these things, but that does not make him less of a
weasel. His bio says he netted €300,000 from his lawsuit, but my guess
is he netter ten times that by leveraging his victim status into book
and movie sales. The Jesus grift can be lucrative.

The reason this may matter is grifters are good at sniffing out
opportunity. Guys like Colm O’Gorman are not wasting their time fighting
against anarcho-syndicalists, because there’s no money in it. He can’t
shake them down and he can’t scare people with their specter. The
alt-right, on the other hand, must strike these Progressive carny acts
as a potential goldmine. That probably means the so-called alt-right has
the wind at its back, at least for
now. <span style="line-height: 1.625;">It will not be long
before O’Gorman is demanding to share a stage with Richard Spencer. The
Jesus grift works better when the Devil is on stage with you.</span>

 
