---
title: "End of the Gatekeepers"
date: "2017-10-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11765"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11765"
---

The manufactured outrage over Harvey Weinstein has been entertaining,
mostly because a lot of Hollywood blowhards have taken it in the shorts.
Watching guys like Ben Affleck and Jimmy Kimmel suffer is enjoyable
because they are horrible people fond of self-righteously lecturing the
rest of us. The schadenfreude is all good fun, but it misses a bigger
story. The reason Hollywood is imploding in scandals, over what has been
the norm for generations, is that the smart money has left the business.

[As Steve Sailer
noted](http://www.unz.com/isteve/why-was-movie-business-less-sexist-back-in-the-griffith-pickford-era/),
degenerates like Harvey Weinstein have always been a fixture in the
movie business. Smart Jewish men were drawn to the business, because
success meant they got to be gatekeepers in a high demand business. That
meant they could charge large tolls for the right to pass through the
gates. Anyone who wanted to be in movies had to make it in Hollywood.
Actresses and actors that wanted to be stars had to do what was required
to make it past the gatekeeper. Everyone paid the toll.

Unsurprisingly, Hollywood has always been the land of horny men and
slutty women, willing to trade sex for success. To some degree, that was
always the attraction. In what other business could a golem like
Weinstein have easy access to hot sleazy women, as a part of his daily
work? For that matter, in what other business could hot sleazy women get
rich and famous just for having the right look? Other than the smart
guys who ran the place, Hollywood was for carny folk hoping they would
find the golden ticket.

It all worked as long as Hollywood was the choke point of the
entertainment business in America. For the longest time, that was the
case. All movies were made in Hollywood and almost all TV shows. Some
television work was done in New York City, but even that was controlled
by the big studios. That meant smart men looking to make big money in
movies went to Hollywood to make their money. They had no choice. Even
if they wanted to go around the studios, the studio men controlled the
distribution networks too.

Most everyone gets that technology is changing how people consume
entertainments like movies and TV shows. Instead of a cable sub and
trips to the theater, it is the internet and viewing on a variety of
devices from anywhere with wireless access. That is why cord cutting is
gaining steam. There is no reason to have a cable deal when you can get
all the same stuff, on demand, from your internet provider. With gizmos
like Kodi, you can get any video in the world, free of charge, as long
as you have the technical savvy.

The other side of this coin is that technology has broken up the
bottleneck that is Hollywood. Services like Amazon are greedy for
content and they have the money to go around the gate keepers. Hollywood
is no match when facing off with the giant tech companies and their
control of the internet. Then there is the fact that making movies does
not require prohibitively expensive video equipment and facilities.
[This
guy](http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/real-hustle-trickster-paul-wilsons-6395652)
made a very slick drama in Scotland for £3000. It is as good as anything
Hollywood produces.

Then there is the fact that social media is making it easier for these
independent content creators to get attention. PewDiePie has over fifty
million subscribers to his YouTube channel. Mike Cernovich has proved
that you can gain national attention, despite having no obvious talent,
if you figure out how to work social media. Donald Trump is in the White
House, because he figured out that old media is no longer valuable. He
spent his time and money on other forms of marketing and won the
election as a result.

The days of Hollywood being a choke point for video entertainment is
over. The new players in the content business are the services like
Netflix, Amazon and Hulu. They are becoming the new choke points for TV
and movies so the smart guys are moving to those rackets. They do not
have to be in Los Angeles or even in America. These services are so
desperate for content, they will even go to
[Iceland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trapped_(Icelandic_TV_series))
for it. Like the big record labels of the prior age, Hollywood is on its
way to becoming a legacy business.

As an aside, the foreshadowing of this was the pornography business.
Twenty years ago, porn producers in the San Fernando Valley made big
money producing porno films for home video rental. Bus loads of girls
would come to Hollywood to become stars, only to end up in the valley
making porn. Then, the internet and inexpensive video gear made it
possible for anyone to put porn on-line. Before long, the internet was
awash in free porn of every imaginable variety. The porn industry
collapsed.

An axiom of modern, life is that the arrival of social justice warriors
is a sign that a business or industry has entered a death spiral. It may
not be dead, but its days of making big money have ended. The
smart-money men, interested only in making money, have left the scene,
leaving the people with other agendas to take over and impose those
agendas. That is when the gals start running off the guys for being male
and cook up schemes to help under-represented minorities realize their
potential.

That is what is happening with Hollywood. The girls are taking over,
which means they will be producing content that no one watches, as they
burn through the assets of the movies business infrastructure. Soon, the
oppressed people of color will be accusing the remaining studio men of
being [insufficiently remorseful about their ancestors owning
slaves](https://www.thedailybeast.com/larry-david-shocked-to-learn-his-ancestor-was-a-confederate-slave-owner).
Unlike colleges and corporations that go through this, the film business
has an ample supply of degenerates like Harvey Weinstein. This is just
getting started.
