---
title: "The Demise of Fox News"
date: "2017-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10080"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10080"
---

<a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/style/bill-oreilly-is-officially-out-at-fox-news/2017/04/19/74ebdc94-2476-11e7-a1b3-faff0034e2de_story.html?utm_term=.a06237e9b368"
target="_blank">News brings word that the SJW’s have bagged their
biggest trophy to date</a>. Bill O’Reilly is the most popular cable news
talker in the business and he was just fired for making the girls cry.
It is all part of what is looking like a well orchestrated effort to
break Fox News on the wheel of political correctness. The screeching
harpies knocked out Roger Ailes and now they have taken out the top
star, all via the same method – powerskirts claiming to have been done
wrong by the knuckle-dragging misogynists running the network.

The claim will be that the advertisers demanded Fox fire O’Reilly, but
that is complete nonsense. Cable channels, like Fox News, exist on
subscription revenues, not advertising dollars. FNC gets $1.50 from
every cable home each month. That’s roughly $1.8 billion a year whether
people watch or not. Their ad revenue is less than a third of that
number. In the case of ESPN, for example, ad revenue is around one
billion, and they have an audience about ten times the size of a cable
news operation, even Fox News.

An advertiser boycott could certainly harm the bottom line for Fox, but
there is another reality to the cable business. Those companies
demanding their ads be pulled from the O’Reilly show would still be
running ads on other Fox programs. The reason they choose to run ads on
Fox News is they believe there are people watching Fox News who will
also buy crap they see advertised. Bill O’Reilly could be strangling
kittens on his show. If he gets a valuable audience to watch,
advertisers will want to get their name on his show.

The reality is Fox could weather the storm and ride out this thing if
they wanted to do it, but they probably have another agenda. It’s
tempting to assume that Fox is stuffed to the rafters with right-wing
ideologues, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lhyr6wcjgyA"
target="_blank">but that’s not the case</a>. Fox is just as Prog
infested as every other media company.This could very well be part of an
effort to make the channel more Prog friendly. It could also be the
dream-child of someone in management, to remake the network to appeal to
younger, gayer viewers.

Logic says that languishing networks like CNN would jump at the chance
to land a huge fish like O’Reilly. Put the Big Mic on CNN in his old
time slot and CNN would soon pass Fox in the ratings. In fact, they
could put some other popular names around him and dominate the cable
news wars. People like tabloid news shows and guys like O’Reilly are
good at being just outrageous enough to get your attention, but not so
crazy as to make you feel bad for liking tabloid news.

That’s not going to happen, of course. CNN has the same economics as Fox
News. They can fully engage in whatever politics they choose, because
they get paid even if no one bothers watching. They are tax farmers,
relying on an oligopoly to enforce their right to skim a buck a month
from your cable bill. It’s why cable bills are over $100 per month and
it is also why cord cutting is the new thing. If people could pick the
channels they buy through their cable subscription, all of the cable
news guys would go away.

As an aside, it is one of the ironies of socialism. The economic
philosophy that claims to favor equality of outcomes always turns into a
vehicle for self-dealing by the advocates of socialism. American media
is universally liberal, and financed by the socialism of cable
television. Colleges and universities are madhouses of Progressive
jackassery, financed by the socialized student debt system.  American
health care is looking like a cynical bust-out because of socialist
economics championed by the Left.

As a further aside, the companies pulling their ads from O’Reilly were
not doing it for economic reasons. The ratings were through the roof and
few Americans care about who is playing grab ass with whom at the TV
station. These companies were pulling their ads in order to curry favor
with the Cult. In many cases, their management teams are infested with
Progs and powerskirts too. It’s like a virus for which there is no known
cure. It controls the host and will bring about its demise in order to
promote the cause.

Anyway, a good lesson to recall in all of this is the story of Time
Magazine. Henry Luce founded the magazine, as well as *Life*, *Sports
Illustrated* and other famous publications. He was also involved in
radio, newsreels and eventually television. His company was the
first multimedia corporation. In his heyday, he was considered the most
influential private citizen in the country. The reason for that is his
publications reached almost every American. He was an arbiter of
the news.

Luce was also rabidly anti-communist and regularly used his media
outlets to do battle with the Progs of his day. He opposed most of what
FDR tried to do in office. It was Luce who came to the rescue of
Whittaker Chambers, when the the Progs had him at the top of their
enemies list. Chambers worked for Luce, not only earning a paycheck, but
writing for his publications. Luce helped Bill Buckley get started, thus
helping the post-war conservative movement come to life. Henry Luce’s
media empire was anti-Left.

It was not, however, explicitly right-wing. After Luce died, his media
company was slowly infiltrated by lunatics. By the 60’s it was
unrecognizable. By the 70’s it was fully refashioned into a weapon of
the Left. Even though its over the top Progressive bias slowly killed
its circulation, the people running it did not care. What mattered was
promoting the one true faith, even if it destroyed the institution from
which it was broadcast. Time Magazine is gone now and the Luce company
exists in name only.

That’s the fate of Fox News. Rupert Murdoch was never a man of the
Right. He was just a guy who loved tabloid news and was a genius at
making money on modern media properties. <a
href="http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/michael-wolff-how-bill-oreillys-scandal-exposes-a-murdoch-family-divide-993110"
target="_blank">His kids are Kool-Aid drinking Prog loonies</a>, who
will piss away the family fortune trying to buy status within the Cult
of Modern Liberalism. As a result, Fox News will slowly be converted
into a megaphone for the one true faith. We’ll sooner see a trans
gender-fluid lesbian of color in prime time than another Bill O’Reilly
type.
