---
title: "Consensus and Crisis"
date: "2017-04-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10095"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10095"
---

In popular forms of government, politics tends to coalesce around a set
of issues that are debated in the public and in front of the public.
There’s a framework within which these topics are debated and the
political factions represent the positions on those topics. This
framework is the consensus. A range of answers has been deemed
acceptable and anything the lies outside that range is considered fringe
or heretical. This is the natural response to the challenges faced by
democratic political systems.

In the West, the political parties tended to coalesce around economic
schools, like communists, various flavors of socialism and flavors of
market socialism. These were in the range of the political consensus.
Libertarianism has always been fringe in Europe and in America,
communism was always a fringe position. The result is the main points of
contention in political fights were over economic policy. So much so
that social policy and foreign policy have often been framed in economic
terms.

Globalism, which the political elites have long saw as a way to sew up
political divides, not just within countries, but between countries, has
actually fractured the political consensus in the West. Once the
factions within the elite settled on an agreed upon economic policy,
they needed something else to decorate their respective flags in order
to distinguish one faction from the other. After all, if everyone in the
political class agrees on the main topics, there’s no need for parties.
Politics becomes a beauty pageant.

This reality appears to be something the political elites in the West
never bothered to contemplate. When the Cold War ended, the raison
d’être for the political fight over economics ended with it. Globalism,
with financialization, credit money, open borders and privatized trade
policy, became the narrow political consensus within the political
class. In Europe this meant post-national continental integration. In
the US, this quickly curdled into invade the world/invite the world. In
the West, it is rule by rootless cosmopolitan now.

The trouble is, the public has not signed off on that consensus and we
still maintain the customs of popular government. In order to
have elections, you need conflict and debate. That means issues to
distinguish one faction from the other. The first effort to keep the
plates spinning was lots of shouting and hair splitting. Politics has
turned nasty mostly because name calling is all they have. When two
candidates agree on all the big stuff and most of the small stuff, they
have to create drama out of the small differences.

This eventually transitions to a new phase, where the public, after a
few rounds of elections in which nothing changes, figures out they need
new issues. If there’s no longer going to be a debate over the economic
arrangements, then maybe we should talk about these Bantu spear-men who
suddenly appeared in town. Perhaps it is time to talk about the fact the
ringing of church bells has been replaced by the call to prayer. Of
course, there is the fact that swarthy sons of Allah keep exploding in
pizza parlors.

Outsider issues inevitably result in outsider parties getting traction
with the public. The good thinkers who refuse to discuss immigration or
the reality of Muslim culture get pushed aside by those coarse
barbarians from the fringe who are willing to talk about the taboo
subjects. The result is the legitimate parties begin to move closer
together in response to the threat from the fringe. We’re seeing that in
Europe as the main parties rally to thwart the challenge from the
patriotic right. This is the crisis phase.

As we saw with Greece, this is a transition phase. The Greek “middle”
collapsed and was replaced by a far left party. At some point, as the
crisis continues, an organized and effective far right party will emerge
as the challenger. The result will be increasing polarization in
politics and eventually society. If some resolution to the problems
plaguing Greece are not found, that political divide becomes
irreconcilable. That either results in civil war or it results in one
faction permanently sidelining the other faction.

A similar process may be unfolding in France. The political elite in
France has always been highly chauvinistic, but generally in favor of
the post-national, global socialism of Europe. They just blindly
accepted the sterilizing effects of globalization, without much thought
as to how that would play out in their domestic politics. They just
assumed that Europe was a done deal, so elections really did not matter
anymore. That’s not how things are unfolding and <a
href="https://www.yahoo.com/news/frontrunners-le-pen-macron-hold-rival-paris-rallies-112602033.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the French political consensus
is beginning to crack</a>.

There’s no much chance for Le Pen to win, but the recent attacks by
Muslims could churn that silent majority that exists in every western
country. The fact that the communists are wildly over performing is the
big news, as it suggests the disgust with the status quo is widespread.
Voting for Le Pen is a protest by outsiders. A vote for Melenchon is a
protest by insiders, the people who see themselves as part of the
elite. The middle of French politics is losing its purchase on the
voters.

Something similar is happening in America. Donald Trump is not an
ideologue. He is a reactionary who sees the political consensus in
Washington as an unworkable jumble of policies cooked up by academics.
His vote, however, was symbolically and tactically a rejection of the
prevailing consensus. Voters wanted to hear about migrants and trade,
not tax cuts and flag waving. He was the coarse, crude man from outside
willing to talk about the things the people want discussed.

The Left is experiencing something similar with Bernie Sanders, and to a
lesser degree Tulsi Gabbard. <a
href="http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/329049-democrats-welcome-bernie-takeover"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Democrats think inviting Team
Sanders in to put an outsider face on their ruling class politics</a>
will prevent a revolt from the fringe. Gabbard is getting attention from
the fringe because she talks about issues like the endless warmongering
and economic equality.  Hers is a decidedly non-white take on these
issues, but the fact that she is willing to forthrightly discuss these
taboo subjects is another crack in the consensus.

Those prone to unrealistic bouts of optimism should look at these
developments as a good sign that maybe the tide is turning. The whole
point of consensus is for the insiders to control the debate by pushing
uncomfortable truths into the void, making them off-limits in political
debates. As these issues seep back into the public debate, the debate
has to change. For the alt-right and economic populists, having an fight
over these topics is 90% of the battle. They cannot win the argument
unless there is an actual argument.

The West is heading for a very big argument.
