---
title: "The Past Is Always Uncertain"
date: "2017-11-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12103"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12103"
---

Progressives are often, and correctly, accused of re-writing the past in
order to endorse their current claims about the present. It is a
necessary habit that has been incorporated as a feature of the movement.
Since most of what they currently believe about humanity and human
organization is contrary to observable reality, they have to no choice
but to reinvent the past. Something similar seems to be happening with
the Buckleyites as they fall into obscurity. They are creating
alternative realities to explain the present.

[This piece by Henry
Olsen](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/453884/libertarian-conservatives-influence-republican-party-shrinking)
is a good example. He makes the point that what so-called conservatives
consider to be “conservative” has not been a winning formula for them in
Republican elections. He then picks some representative examples of
liberty-conservatives, presumably the sort championed by the
Buckleyites, who went nowhere in the GOP presidential primaries. The
main point Olsen is trying to make is that what he calls the
liberty-conservatives have not had a lot of success in elections.

The subtle normalization of Rand Paul is interesting, given that NR
types savaged Ron Paul when he was a real candidate. I will also note
that National Review was prone to calling the utterances of George W.
Bush “Reaganesque” and they praised “compassionate conservatism” as some
sort of advanced form of Buckley conservatism. It is what makes their
current fetish for timeless principles so comically bizarre. The
definition of timeless conservatism is a set of goal posts on wheels
that they push around to fit the moment.

That is the thing about re-imagining the past. You have to cherry pick
and time shift in order to make it work. Barry Goldwater, for example,
has not been salient in American politics for going on 40 years now. The
youngest person to have voted for him is now seventy-four. On the other
hand, the “liberty conservatives” were ebullient when George W. Bush won
in 2000 and the GOP controlled both houses of Congress. Of course, there
is no mention of Reagan, who was a Goldwater conservative, and the GOP’s
most successful President.

The general point that Olsen is making is that today, the constituency
for libertarian-conservatism is small, even within the Republican base.
This is probably true, but the question is why? All of the megaphones of
Conservative Inc. have been tuned to blast out the message of
libertarian-conservatism. Talk radio, websites, Fox News, the
commentariat, all of the organs of the so-called Right have been
preaching about shrinking size and scope government for as long as
anyone reading this has been alive.

So, why is that position a loser within Republican circles?

One obvious reason is no one believes it. When the GOP had opportunities
to shrink government, they grew government. When they had chances to
normalize our foreign policy, they went empire building. When they had
the chance to defend the domestic economy, they threw in with open
borders and globalist trade policies. The most egregious sin off all,
however, has been their liberal use of Progressive rhetoric to denounce
dissenters as racists, excluded from acceptable public discourse.

There is one exception and that is immigration. The one big win for
liberty-conservatives was the 1986 immigration reform act. This made it
possible for tens of millions of foreigners to flood into the country.
Ann Coulter the other day noted that one in eight Virginia residents is
foreign born. That means there are more foreigners in Virginia right now
than the liberty-conservatives said they needed to amnesty in 1986. The
one thing these guys were good at doing has been a disaster for their
alleged love of liberty.

You see that in a post from J’Onquarious. The sort of civic minded
libertarianism, which is popular with Conservative Inc., is really
unpopular with the sorts of people they are hellbent on importing by the
millions. The reason their favorite bugman was trounced in the Virginia
election is that the sort of people liberty conservatives are fond of
championing, [are not interested in supporting liberty
conservatives](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2017/11/meet-virginia.html).
It turns out that a policy of [wishing death on your
voters](https://www.nationalreview.com/nrd/articles/432569/father-f-hrer)
and their culture, is not a good way to win elections.

That is not a reality these so-called liberty-conservatives can face.
Olsen does not bother to address this, as there is no way to explain
away the mathematical and demographic realities. His only mention of
immigration is to be gobsmacked at a [Cato-backed
study](https://www.voterstudygroup.org/publications/2016-elections/the-five-types-trump-voters)
that shows Trump voters are not in favor of their wholesale demographic
replacement. The fact that their one success has been a disaster for
them, never registers. Instead, it is ignored. Olsen’s suggestion is
more of the same, just even more of it.

This is where you see that all forms of mainstream conservatism share
the same assumptions as Progressives about the nature of man and human
organization. It is also why they have developed the habit of rewriting
history, especially their own history, in order to explain the present.
When you start from the premise that biology is unimportant, that all
people everywhere are essentially the same, you are condemned to a life
of disappointment, unless you can endlessly redraft the narrative to
avoid facing reality.

The one major difference between the retconning of so-called
conservatives and what we see from Progressives, is that the latter
controls the institutions. Rewriting and replaying old fights is a
proven way to distract people from current failures. When you control
the levers of power, an unpredictable past becomes a useful tool in
maintaining control. When you are allegedly challenging the status quo,
an inability to clearly remember yesterday undermines your credibility.
No one believes these guys and they keep reminding us why.
