---
title: "The Glass Jaw"
date: "2017-06-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10492"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10492"
---

It used to be, and maybe it still is the case, that boys learned about
bullies on the playground. There was always some kid, who would push
around the other kids. The lesson kids learned was that merely standing
up to the bully was usually enough. In some cases, you might have to
duke it out, but no matter the result, the bully would leave you alone
after it. What makes the bully possible is moral authority. They present
themselves as the natural ruler of the rest. If everyone accepts it,
then the bully gets to run the yard.

In much the same way, the slave owner has to maintain a moral
authority in order to keep his slaves from revolting or running off. The
whole point of slavery is cheap labor. If the slave owner has to employ
an army to keep his slaves under control and on the plantation, there’s
no point in having slaves. He would be better served by hired men. In
order for slavery to work, the slaves must accept their natural
condition. Like the bully, the slave owner may be outnumbered, but he
has the force of moral authority.

One of the least remarked upon aspects of the collapse of Soviet
communism was just how peaceful and swift it was in the end. The Poles
standing up to their rulers broke the spell. In 1980, Lech Wałęsa scaled
the fence at the Lenin Shipyard in Gdańsk, leading a strike against the
government. Within a decade, the Soviet empire would collapse and Wałęsa
would be elected president of Poland. In other words, the commies were
morally and spiritually exhausted and they could not take a punch.

I thought about that when
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UDC6NtGEXTM"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the little guy with the goofy
haircut decked the Antifa girl</a> at that Berkeley riot. Everything
about her world made sense right up until she took a right cross to the
puss and fell to the ground. All she had to do was show up in the right
outfit and all the bad people would go away. Then, her bluff was called.
The bad man was not intimidated. She no longer had moral authority over
him. Her after action comments strongly suggest she had some sort of
epiphany on the way to the ground.

The thing is though, the whole Antifa movement seems to have fallen
apart after that event. Poor old Gavin McInness is begging them to show
up at his events, but all he’s getting is some cranky coeds and a few
old hippies. In one of life’s many ironies, the anti-fascists had to
manufacture fascists to fight and now the alleged fascists are forced to
invent anti-fascist that they can fight. Gavin is going to have to find
a new act. It turns out that the Prog street warriors have a glass jaw.
They can’t take a punch and they know it.

That may be what we are seeing with Conservative Inc. In the last week,
homosexual activist and managing editor of National Review, Jason Lee
Steorts, has penned over 10,000 words of criticism aimed at those to his
Right, which is pretty much everyone on the Right these days. The first
piece was <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/448230/problems-mencius-moldbug-neoreaction"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a dismissive critique of
neo-reactionary blogger Mencius Moldbug</a>. The second, a much longer
piece, is <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/448022/what-progressives-and-alt-right-misunderstand-about-american-identity"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a not entirely coherent rant
against what he calls the illiberal critics</a> of grade school “freedom
shrines.”

His post on Moldbug is revealing for a number of reasons. For starters,
Moldbug has not posted in years. His last serious philosophical posting
was half a dozen years ago. He and neo-reaction were a big deal on-line
a decade ago. It’s not quite disco, but addressing it now in a serious
way is a lot like demanding the record stores stop selling Bee Gee’s
albums. What his post reveals, more than anything, is that he and the
rest of the Buckley Mystery Cult have not been paying attention for a
long time.

The longer post is a more serious attempt to address the many boogeymen
and hobgoblins that haunt the minds of Buckley Conservatives. His essay
reads like it was written by a committee. He spends thousands of words
stroking various aspects of Conservative Inc, for no purpose other than
flattery. When he gets into specific topics popular on the Dissident
Right, he reveals a depth of ignorance that suggests stupidity has mass.
His bit on IQ reveals he is a man who does not know what he does not
know.

Whenever you are charged with defending the status quo against
criticism, your job is to re-argue the case for the establishment. The
rightness of the prevailing order creates its own moral authority, thus
reducing even legitimate criticisms to mere quibbles. What’s striking
about Steorts’ piece is he struggles to describe what it is he is
defending, much less defend it. After 7500 words, the reader is just
left with the image of a fussy prig, crinkling his nose up, as if he
just caught wind of a bad odor.

For as long as anyone reading this has been alive, Buckley Conservatives
have functioned as a palace guard. They defended the status quo by
acting as a buffer between critics and the Progressive elites. At the
same time, they served as a conduit for middle-class white grievances
and objections. Taxes are too high! Government is too big! Pop culture
is damaging to bourgeois values! That sort of thing. They were in the
passenger seat of Progressivism yelling “slow down!” as the car zoomed
forward.

For good or ill, their source of moral authority was as the voice of the
white middle-class and the civic virtues that made it possible. They no
longer talk about the actual people they used to represent, other than
in the occasional <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/432796/working-class-whites-have-moral-responsibilities-defense-kevin-williamson"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">genocidal rage</a>. Jason Lee
Steorts can’t even describe middle-class civic institutions. He has
reduced them to the ridiculous image of a “freedom shrine.” The
Buckleyites no longer have moral authority. They are simply another
blemish on the face of the Progressive orthodoxy.

How aware of this they are is hard to know. It’s a lucrative racket so
they are probably more concerned about keeping their spot on the Left
than these larger matters. Perhaps like the Polish authorities, they
will just stand aside as a new opposition movement, this
counter-culture, grows up to challenge the Left. Perhaps there will be
that moment of clarity that
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UDC6NtGEXTM"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Moldylocks</a> experienced as
she hit the pavement. Either way, they are morally and spiritually
exhausted. What comes next is inevitable.
