---
title: "Clarity and the Written Record"
date: "2017-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11528"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11528"
---

One thing that has stuck with me from the American Renaissance
conference is something Jared Taylor said in his speech to open the
show. He talked about how for the longest time, he was a lonely voice in
the wilderness. His events were lightly attended and ignored by the
media. He was sure that he was merely keeping a record. He said this
while pointing out how quickly things had changed. A few years ago, his
event got fifty attendees and now it had hundreds with hundreds turned
away.

It resonated with me because it brought to mind the life of
Cicero. Marcus Tullius Cicero was one of Rome’s greatest orators and
writers. No writer in the history of the West has had greater influence.
Well into the 19th century, European writers were influenced by his
style. He was also an immensely important politician. He was consul
during the [Catilinarian
conspiracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_Catilinarian_conspiracy),
having the conspirators executed. During the dictatorship of Julius
Caesar, he agitated for the return of traditional republican government.

Following Caesar’s death, Cicero became an enemy of Mark Antony,
attacking him in speeches. For his trouble, he was proscribed, as an
enemy of the state, by the Second Triumvirate and consequently executed
in 43 BC. His severed hands and head were displayed in the Roman Forum,
as a final revenge of Mark Antony. Petrarch’s rediscovery of Cicero’s
letters is often credited with initiating the Renaissance and inspiring
political theorists like John Locke to embrace the republican form of
government.

Cicero is relevant to our age for the simple reason that he kept a
record during the last days of the Roman Republic. Fifteen hundred years
later, educated men in the emerging West, would be inspired by and
cautioned by the writings of Cicero. There was a record of what was
happening in the late stages of the Roman Republic and a record of those
who tried to prevent it. Without that record, without the thoughts and
words of those ancients, who fought the coming darkness, there may have
never been the West.

This is why Rome was of great interest to the men of the Enlightenment.
The American Founders were all students of Greece and Rome. They
understood that when Rome fell, the West was plunged into an
intellectual, economic and cultural darkness. These were men aware of
the fact that they were coming out the other side of what happened at
the close of the Republic. They naturally looked to Rome for clues as to
how they could avoid the same fate, when producing new forms of
government.

As we enter the late stages of the American Republic and the last days
of what we have always known as the West, keeping a record may be the
best we can accomplish. The fight will be fought, but only a delusional
optimist can be blind to reality. Whether it is [citizens being hunted
down for
heresy](http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/09/15/nfls-detroit-lions-ban-ticket-holder-citing-racial-slur-in-snapchat-post.html)
or [weird looking foreigners demanding the disenfranchisement of
natives,](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2017/sep/18/ban-social-media-trolls-from-voting-election-watchdog-suggests?CMP=twt_gu)
for the crime of hate speech, the signs are all there. The ruling elites
of the West no longer have any faith in liberal democracy or the rule of
law.

That may seem overly pessimistic, but just look at the immigration
debate. Trump won the most improbable of victories on the promise to
reverse decades of insane immigration policies. His position is actually
the moderate one. A large percentage of Americans would shut down all
immigration. Trump has merely promised to crack down on illegals and do
something about the visa rackets. In the case of DACA, his position is
to enforce the law, rather than perpetuate Obama’s policy of flouting
the law.

Despite his moderation, the ruling elite is fighting him at every turn.
His own party in Congress is not just blocking him on immigration
reform. They are proudly attacking him over it. Politicians are cautious
by nature, which means they live in fear of being on the wrong side of
voters. Yet on this and other issues, they boast about giving their
voters the bird. It is tempting to say they are bought by moneyed
interests, but this looks more like insanity than corruption. Our
political class is suicidal.

That is just one example. The broad appeal of populist polices on trade,
taxes and social issues should have resulted in a wave of populist
politicians. Trump is a terrible politician and his many quirks make him
ill-suited for politics. Imagine a polished professional running on the
same issues as Trump. Yet, we do not see anyone noticing these issues.
It is as if the entire political class has been infected with a virus
that makes them act against their own interests, by alienating their own
voters.

Debating the causes of what is happening is part of keeping a record,
just as doing what can be done to arrest it. One has to have hope that
the fever will break, but if it does not and we continue on the current
path, documenting the insanity of our age is an important part of the
fight. We may lack a Cicero to shape the way in which we think of our
age, but Julius Caesar and Mark Antony are not showing up either. In an
age of mediocre tyrants, we will have mediocre chroniclers of our age.
Keeping a record is all that can be done.
