---
title: "The Age of the Two Laws"
date: "2017-06-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10548"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10548"
---

For as long as I have been alive, I’ve understood that the law does not
treat everyone equally. We have the theory, all men are equal before the
law, but in practice it is something different. This is the product of
growing up poor. A poor man, who gets jammed up on a small crime, is
going to get *processed*. That means he will get a public defender, who
will negotiate terms with the state. If he hires an attorney, that
lawyer will do the same thing, but maybe pulling in a favor from a buddy
to get a better deal.

On the other hand, a rich guy will hire a team of lawyers and put so
much pressure on the prosecutor, that the roles will be reversed. The
state will cry uncle and take the best deal they can just to be done
with the case. Joe Biden’s niece, for example, <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2017/06/10/joe-bidens-niece-avoids-jail-after-pleading-guilty-to-stealing-100000-with-borrowed-credit-card/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">avoided serious punishment</a> for a
crime that would put most people in jail. The thing is, this is not a
defect in the law. It is the way the world has always been. The rich and
powerful have access to all the resources they need to get the best deal
they can from the law.

That has always been tolerable as people have always accepted that human
societies are hierarchical. The people at the top are at the top for a
reason and being at the top comes with benefits, which is why people
want to be at the top. Lately though, a new thing is turning up in the
law. Slowly, we are seeing a second legal system, a shadow system,
evolve alongside, and in some cases displacing, the old legal system.
This new legal system is sort of like what anarcho-libertarians imagine.
It’s private and transactional.

Instead of relying on the old law, large social organizations, like
universities and corporations, are slowly creating a parallel legal
system to adjudicate problems that are unique to them. The college
campus is the most obvious example. The imaginary rape culture on campus
has spawned a new legal system for addressing it. You see it in <a
href="http://www.espn.com/college-football/story/_/id/19557569/arrest-warrants-signed-three-michigan-state-spartans-charged-sexual-assault"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story about Michigan State</a>. The
cops are in a secondary role, as the university addresses its more
pressing issues, while relying on its own legal mechanisms.

Here we have four players accused of sexually assaulting a woman.
Instead of the cops treating this like any other criminal complaint, the
school is in charge of the investigation and the cops are on the
sideline. The school brought in a law firm to do an investigation,
provide the cops with evidence and then conduct a wide ranging
evaluation of school policy and senior personnel. They have also tried
and judged the players, removing them from campus and kicking them off
the football team.

This is not an exception. Baylor University did the same thing when they
had a similar issue with the football team. To date, one guy has been
charged with an actual crime, but dozens of men have been cast into the
outer darkness as punishment, for violating secret rules. The school
president was forced into exile and the football coach as been banished.
He will never work again, despite having done nothing illegal nor
violating the terms of his contract. He was tried and convicted in the
private legal system.

What we are seeing develop is a separate legal system for the managerial
class. Unlike the criminal system, they are not going to have jails and
incarcerate offenders. Instead, the land of the Dirt People will be
their prison and you will be the tormentor of the condemned. For now,
people accused of real crimes, like those MSU players, will be marched
out of the kingdom and handed over to the “authorities” for prosecution,
but they have been found guilty by the school and cast back into the
land of the Dirt People.

The temptation is to say that the schools are responding to the threat
of litigation, but that’s a trivial matter. A sad coed can be bought off
for a few hundred grand, less than the cost of a low level
administrator. The real issue is culture. The people inside want to
enforce their values and will do so ruthlessly. The people sent into
exile are a warning to those who remain inside. There’s a code of
conduct and violations of those rules, as interpreted by those in
charge, can result in the ultimate punishment, exile from The Cloud.

This is what we’re seeing with social media. Our rulers like to pay lip
service to civil liberties, but they would much prefer it if they could
do away with all of them. To that end, crack downs on political
expression have been outsourced to media companies. When Theresa May
promised to throw more yobs in jail for being mean to the Muslims, she
was sending a signal to the big media companies that they need to crack
down on dissent and that means banning people who say unapproved things.

This is anarcho-tyranny refined into a social system. The state is
unable to perform its basic functions, but it is adept at working with
private business to push around the law abiding citizens. There will now
be a second legal system <a
href="https://www.thelocal.de/20170609/how-the-german-hate-speech-law-will-put-control-of-free-speech-in-private-hands"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">run by global corporations</a> to police
the speech of citizens. Instead of putting trouble makers in prison,
however, they will put them on mute, making it hard for them to
communicate their grievances. Users will not voice their complaints to
the law. They will appeal to someone is customer support.

That’s where you see the motivation behind the evolution of this
parallel legal system we are seeing with the Cloud People. Like so much
of neo-liberalism, it is cloaked in libertarian arguments about private
entities setting their own policies, but that’s only so it can avoid
defending itself in open court or the court of public opinion. In the
old law, the process determined your guilt and then your punishment. In
the new law, the process is the punishment and a weapon to enforce
conformity and submission.

Like so much of the managerial state, it is not clear if it is
sustainable in the medium run, much less the long run. Increasingly,
males on campus are using the old law as a weapon against the new law.
Falsely accused males are <a
href="http://www.charlotteobserver.com/news/local/crime/article155254404.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hiring attorneys</a> who will do what the
new law is too afraid to do and that’s examine these accusers. Most of
these claims by coeds are dubious and some are criminal, abetted by
college administrators. Eventually, one of these will become a vehicle
for a very big lawsuit and settlement.

On the other hand, the future is not written. Thirty years ago, it was
laughable to suggest homosexual marriage was a right. The willingness of
the old law to submit to the new law is what will be tested over time.
So far, the indications are the cops and prosecutors are OK with handing
over their authority to colleges and corporations. Maybe the courts,
staffed as they are with Cloud People, will happily go along with this
new shadow system and all of us will become serfs on one social media
platform or another.
