---
title: "On Atheism"
date: "2017-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10422"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10422"
---

A useful way to think about faith and belief is to imagine a scale where
at one end you have fanaticism and at the other end you have extreme
skepticism. The Muslim wearing a suicide vest is down at the fanatic
end, while H.L. Mencken was down at the other end with the extreme
skeptics. Disbelief is not the opposite of belief. Skepticism is the
opposite of belief. The believer is willing to accept, without evidence,
the truth of some statement, while the skeptic is unwilling to accept
statements without proof.

Atheists will argue that atheism is the opposite of religious belief,
but that’s what is called a gratuitous assertion. The atheist believes
there is no superior being. They have no proof of this as there can be
no proof. In that regard, atheism is illogical as it is something that
can never be proved. Christianity, in contrast, can be proved. Christ
could show up and confirm the tenets of the faith. The same is true of
Islam or Judaism. In other words, even though there is no proof now,
there could be proof. That’s not possible with atheism.

My general impression has always been that atheists are a) mugging for
attention, b) mostly opposed to Christianity in a subversive way and/or
c) not well versed in religion or the role of religion. Bill Maher is a
famous atheist because it makes him safely edgy. He gets to be
controversial without any risk of controversy. A Penn Jillette, on the
other hand, is just angry that his mother died and his prayers were not
answered the way he wanted them answered. He’s also arguing from
a position of ignorance. He’s just not that smart.

It’s why I don’t find atheists or atheism all that interesting. Most of
it is just a pose from people who demand the right to say controversial
things, but have nothing controversial to say. They are meta-rebels.
These are people who talk about being rebellious and subversive, but
never dare color outside the lines. Entertainers are fond of this style
of edginess as it safely allows them to flatter their audience’s own
egotistic need to see themselves as an avant-garde. Every modern TV
comic falls into this category.

The other day I saw on twitter that
<a href="https://twitter.com/RichardDawkins/status/868803994503831552"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Richard Dawkins went somewhere
to insult Christians</a> and was so proud of his efforts he was tweeting
about it. Dawkins is more famous for being a public douche bag now, than
he is for his book *The Selfish Gene*. I chalk this up mostly to the
madness that results from trying to square the prevailing orthodoxy with
the realities of biology. Dawkins wants to be a beloved public
intellectual and an honest man of science. Instead he is an obnoxious
provocateur and a public nuisance.

Dawkins claims to be a militant atheist, not just an anti-Christian
bigot, but it’s hard to find any evidence to support his claims. He’s
careful not to say bad things about Muslims, probably because he enjoys
having his head attached to his neck. Similarly, he has been very
careful not to upset the Jews. Christians, on the other hand, get no
breaks and he seems to go out of his way to offend them. This is true of
all atheists. Whether it is because Christians are a soft target or just
anti-Christian animus is debatable.

The other day, someone asked me about
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8OxgtPUFGys"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this clip from the Joe Rogan
Show</a> that <a
href="https://medium.com/@Cernovich/sam-harris-joe-rogan-podcast-mike-cernovich-debate-fd8bfdc95c75"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Cernovich was promoting</a>.
The point was to solicit an opinion from me on Cernovich. My reply was
“I will not be shocked if one day we learn that Sam Harris has been
strangling hookers and burying them in the desert.” I’ve never found
Harris very interesting, so I never bothered to watch him. In that ten
minute clip, I got the impression that Harris has a lot of demons. I was
also reminded that atheist are almost always joyless dickheads.

I was also reminded that <a
href="https://voxday.blogspot.com/2015/05/norm-chomsky-bitchslaps-sam-harris.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Vox Day used to give Sam
Harris the business</a>. I no longer remember the details, but I think a
few of the alt-right people have taken shots at Harris, who in addition
to being an atheist, is a hooting Progressive and an anti-Trumper.
That’s a feature of atheism that goes unremarked. Most are Progressives
and usually the hard thumping variety. They may not believe in God, but
they are bubbling over with belief in the One True Faith. This suggests
that maybe atheism is just another facet of Progressivism.

The Prog impulse to root around in the private lives of strangers,
imposing their values on everyone, comes from public Protestantism. This
is the general belief that societies are judged as a whole, so the
faithful have a duty to root out sin and lift up sinners. In the same
way, atheists seem to think that their sacred duty is to stamp out
Christianity, as if it is a sin preventing mankind from reaching the
singularity. It is excessive belief, manifesting as a hostility toward
the more conventional expressions of belief.

To be clear, I’m not a believer. I’m down on the end of the scale with
Mencken. I don’t know if the Christians are right about a God in heaven,
but I don’t know they are wrong either. I don’t know. I can’t know. For
all I know we could be a science experiment for some extra-dimensional
species. That said, if religious faith brings you happiness, I’m happy
for you and wish you the best with it, just as long as you don’t make a
nuisance of yourself. In other words, indifference is my preferred
position on your religiosity.

I do know I’d never want to live in a world ruled by atheists.
