---
title: "The Irrationality Of It All"
date: "2017-06-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10541"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10541"
---

A year ago, the life force of 49 carbon based life forms ceased
somewhere on planet earth. Memorial services were planned comewhere to
let Hate know that he or she, the sex and gender preference of Hate is
unknown, that it was not going to win, whatever winning means, in the
context of a war against an abstract concept. Media operations have
posted stories about the triggering incident along with images of the
faithful shaking their fist at Hate, which they appear to hate a lot,
but in the good way, not the hateful way.

The “incident” is the mass shooting by a Muslim fanatic at an Orlando
homosexual club that resulted in hundreds wounded and 49 dead. Reading
the Progressive media, you would not know that. <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2017/06/12/a-year-ago-49-people-died-at-pulse-nightclub-today-orlando-remembers/?tid=sm_tw&amp;utm_term=.5599ab56368b"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Washington Post</a> wrote that “49
people died” as if they just fell over from some strange illness. <a
href="http://www.orlandosentinel.com/news/pulse-orlando-nightclub-shooting/omar-mateen/os-pulse-omar-mateen-motive-20170512-story.html?utm_campaign=trueAnthem:+New+Content+(Feed)utm_content=5933f7ed6251c40007516fd4utm_medium=trueAnthemutm_source=twitter"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Orlando Sentinel</a> has the decency
to tell us how they died, but then insults everyone’s intelligence by
claiming the motive is a mystery. The motive is clear to everyone,
including the lunatics working at the Sentinel.

It’s a good reminder that the Progs relentlessly rewrite the past, even
the very recent past, in order to fit the current narrative. Right now,
they hilariously hold onto the idea of building an anti-white coalition
that somehow includes homicidal Muslims and homosexuals, who Muslims
hate almost as much as they hate Jews. To that end, they have set about
writing out the Muslim antagonists from the stories about Muslim
terrorism. Here we are a year after the event and they are blaming guns.
In another year, the killer will be a white guy.

<img
src="https://img.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp-content/uploads/sites/21/2017/06/Florida_Nightclub_Shooting_Anniversary_01307-7032c-226x300.jpg"
class="alignleft size-full" decoding="async" width="226" height="300" />This
is why it is a fool’s errand to assign logical motives to Progressives.
The goofy white woman holding the sign that reads “We Will Not Let Hate
Win” in the Post story has no idea why she is there or even what she is
saying with that sign. It is not even about a normal emotion like anger
or sadness. People attending public memorial services for strangers can
at least claim to feel bad for their community or humanity. That woman
is there hoping to gain attention from the media so she can gain status
among her coreligionists.

That’s the thing about this new religion. It is feminine. Their “war on
hate” is more like a popular new diet craze or a fashion trend. The gals
get into it because the popular gals are into it. Everyone gets into it
more and more, until everyone is doing it to the fullest and it suddenly
stops being popular. Some new thing is the new thing and the cool girls
are into that and not the old thing. Today’s war on extremism is just
the yoga pants craze, but for emotionally unstable single women. It
gives them a way to gain attention.

It’s natural for people outside the Cult of Modern Liberalism to think
that this weird religion has no future. No one wants to believe that
something so insanely irrational could be the winning formula that
organizes future societies. Everyone’s beliefs seem weird and delusional
until you start to believe them too. The pagans of Europe thought early
Christians were a bit nuts and then they converted, as that made more
sense than worshiping the old gods. Christianity suddenly was not so
crazy after all.

Given that this weird new religion defines the emerging global ruling
class, the safe bet is they have staying power beyond what logic would
dictate. It’s natural for people to look to their betters for status
signals. The entire self-help industry relies on this truth. Tony
Robbins presents himself as a wildly successful winner. He will help you
emulate him, so you can be a winner too. Mike Cernovich is following
this model and has gone far, despite never having actually done much of
anything, other than self-promotion.

The passionate embrace of egalitarianism and multiculturalism by our
betters is a powerful intoxicant. While it may be insane to think a
coalition that includes Jews, Muslims fanatics and homosexuals can last
very long, it may not really matter. It is the idea of it that matters
and that’s what the new religion is selling. For our betters, they
imagine a world that looks a lot like <a
href="https://virtualglobetrotting.com/map/chris-matthews-house/view/bing/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Chevy Chase Village in Maryland</a>,
where everyone is from all over, everyone is nice and the dining options
are the best. Who could be against that?

On the other hand, there was a time when communism seemed like an
inevitability. When I was a boy, most people assumed that in the
fullness of time, humanity would sink into the darkness of international
socialism. Instead, the cost of making it work exceeded the benefit and
eventually, the whole thing collapsed. Today you are more likely to run
into a lesbian druid than a communist. Maybe that’s where
multiculturalism is headed, like a wave, it will eventually crest and
then recede, leaving behind a lot of dead fish.

Still, it is hard to accept. How can people with the ability to manage
their own affairs convince themselves that the cause of the Orlando gay
club slaughter was evil spirits, rather than the Muslim, who actually
did it? How can sane people protest the march against sharia and march
in favor of the gay rights at the same event? It defies explanation,
other than it is some new form of mental illness that spreads like the
flu, causing people to lose their marbles. It really does seem like
collective madness.

When I was a boy, I would listen to my grandfather and his brothers tell
war stories. Most served in the Pacific theater, against the Japs. They
never got over the fanaticism they faced by the Japanese soldiers. They
laughed about it, as men of that age would, but looking back I suspect
they never could square what they saw with what they thought they knew
about the world. Some things just defy all rationality and our current
age may be one of those examples.

<img
src="https://img.rt.com/files/2017.06/thumbnail/593c2fdcc36188ce2f8b4589.jpg"
class="aligncenter size-full" decoding="async" width="460"
height="258" />
