---
title: "The Douche Bag Society"
date: "2017-06-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10595"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10595"
---

Inevitably, whenever
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10561" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I write about the new economy or new technology</a>, I
get responses like
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10561#comment-35771"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one from reader Fred Z</a>, taking
me to task for challenging his assumptions about the morality of the new
economy. Fred likes the fact he can grind his local vendors into
poverty, by ordering his stuff from a stranger in America on-line. No
one wants to be thought of as a bad guy, so he has bought into the
neo-libertarian moralizing about so-called free trade and globalism.
He’s not screwing his neighbor. He’s efficient!

Fred does not think of himself as a bad person for buying on-line,
rather than buying locally. No one does. Every day we are told by our
betters, through the mass media, that the only thing that matters is
that you get what you want, when you want it, at the price you want it.
The defining feature of the modern economy is that anything resembling
value-added is stripped away, in order to turn it into a commodity. Once
everything is just a commodity, then the only decision is price and when
you can have it.

This is a big part of the libertarian fantasy. Everyone is a deracinated
economic unit. The only engagement between humans is transactional. Fred
Z feels no obligation to buy from a local vendor or even buy from a
countryman. He’s just getting what he wants, when he wants it at the
price he wants. His only concern is himself. If the people he ends up
buying from are homicidal lunatics, that’s not his concern. If his
decision to buy from strangers means his neighbors fall into poverty, <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/nrd/articles/432569/father-f-hrer"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">then maybe his neighbors should just
die</a>.

The marketplace has always been a ruthless and unsentimental part of the
human condition. The ancient Persians looked at the Greek
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agora" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">agora</a> as a festival of liars, robbing from brothers
and neighbors. From the Persian perspective, haggling over price and
quality was just one person trying to swindle the other, by telling lies
to the other. The seller lied about the product and what he would take
for it. The buyer lied about his opinion of it and how much he was
willing to trade for it. They were right, the market is built on lies.

It is also why human societies have always put limits on what can happen
in the marketplace. Life is all about the trade-offs. The socialists
think they get better trade-offs with a highly regulated state economy
where the excesses of the marketplace are constrained. Free market types
think the trade-offs are better with much less control over market
activity. They are both right to a point. That point is determined by
how the people of a society want to live. What they want of themselves
determines what they permit.

In the 1980’s, it was often remarked by Progressives that the
Scandinavian countries made socialism work. They had high tax rates and
very low amounts of inequality. The liberals were careful not to talk
about it too much for fear people would notice that these countries were
all white. The culture of the white people that made up these countries
had a long tradition of egalitarianism and sharing so socialism worked
for them. The trade-offs they preferred reflected what they loved and
what they hated about the human condition.

That’s the debate we will have to have about neo-liberalism. Fred Z
loves that he can get cheap stuff on-line, but he is not thinking about
the trade-offs. The rich people who rule over us do think about the
trade-offs, which is why they ruthlessly support a system that
socializes costs and privatizes profits. The trouble for guys like Fred
Z and everyone reading this is that we’re on the other side of the
equation from those rich guys. We’re the ones on whom those socialized
costs fall. We are getting the bill for all this.

Think about it this way. Law enforcement requires society to employ bad
people to deal with the criminal element. It’s why even today, most cops
are horrible people and prison guards are sociopaths. Policing deviant
humans is an unpleasant task that is best done by unpleasant and cruel
people, who take some pleasure in the task. Few of us could work in a
prison and most of us would never want to do the things cops do every
day. It also means law enforcement people get to do things the rest of
us are prohibited from doing.

Even libertarians understand the necessity of having cops and jails, but
they will argue that we have gone too far in an effort to make society
safe. The cops have too much power and the state abuses the rights of
too many people. The trade-offs are not acceptable, so libertarians
argue for things like drug legalization. The costs of the police state
far outweigh the costs of additional addicts. Whether or not you accept
that, you have to accept the premise, that there are trade-offs and they
should be debated.

The douche bag is someone that is self-absorbed and has a high time
preference. He wants what he wants and he wants it now. At some level,
he knows this is at odds with the rest of humanity so he takes some
pleasure in annoying others. This feedback tells him he is serving
himself and thus living up to his douche bag code. It’s why the douche
bag laughs and mocks normal people when they point out that he is being
a douche. It’s validation that he is being all the douche he can be.
He’s the giant douche.

That’s what is at the heart of the global marketplace. Fred Z can be a
colossal douche nozzle to his friends and neighbors, but call it mere
consumerism. His friends and neighbors will eventually return the favor.
The marketplace, instead of being confined to one area of our life is
coming to define our lives and our common humanity. We live in an era
when the stepinfetchits of the billionaire class can gleefully talk
about killing poor people <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/16/opinion/only-mass-deportation-can-save-america.html?smid=tw-nytopinion&amp;smtyp=cur&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">or deporting them</a>. We are on the way
to being a douche bag culture.
