---
title: "Dissident Politics"
date: "2017-06-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10719"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10719"
---

To start the year, I made the rather obvious prediction that the
coalition of weirdos that willed Donald Trump into the White House
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9301" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">would succumb to infighting and begin to break apart</a>
and splinter. This was a no-brainer, as fringe politics tends to attract
weirdos and weirdos tend not to get along with other weirdos. Often,
people are attracted to these movements over one issue. They find out
that their new friends have a whole list of other issues that don’t
match up with everyone else. That breeds conflict.

There’s also a “giant among midgets” phenomenon, where someone can be a
star in a small group and outgrow their hat. In the mass media age, it’s
easy to start thinking you’re a big deal when you see your social media
profile grow and the calls from media people start coming.This was
obvious with Milo who started thinking he was bulletproof. He had gotten
away with so much that he thought he could say anything. It did not take
long before he pissed off the wrong people.

Then you have the fact that political coalitions are temporary. Many
people voted for Trump because they hated Clinton, so they were willing
to look past the cartoon frogs and Hitler memes. Now, not so much. Then
there is the fact that there is money to be made in politics. Lots of
money. A racket like the <a
href="https://www.oathkeepers.org/navyjack-scourge-white-nationalism/#"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Oath Keepers</a> is a business that used
to be able to peddle themselves as an edgy opposition group. The new
groups turning up and battling the Left make the geezers at Oath Keepers
look silly. That’s bad for business.

Of course, the Dissident Right is suddenly hip. If you look at the sites
and events catering to us, you see lots of young males, which is
resulting in lots of young females, because biology. Once young people
get into something, even a small thing, it attracts people hoping to
ride the wave to riches. That inevitably leads to the purists
complaining that their thing has gone commercial along with accusations
that the leaders are selling out. You see some of that with guys like
Mike Cernovich.

Anyway, things have reached a boiling point
with <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3APORC2fHTU" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Mike Cernovich and Richard Spencer</a> denouncing one
another
on-line. <a href="https://www.periscope.tv/voxday/1PlKQAaRVwvKE" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Vox Day got into this a little bit</a> the other day in
one of his periscope things. For those who don’t follow this stuff,
there was a free speech rally in DC last weekend. The organizer invited
Spencer and that led to Cerno and the alt-lite guys having a counter
rally. Cernovich then made a bunch of wild claims on-line about who did
what and a purse fight ensued. It’s all a bit silly, but these things
always are to outsiders.

The main problem for all of these guys is the leaders, wannabe leaders
and personalities are simply not very good at politics and public
relations. That’s common in outsider politics. The two big political
parties are good at grooming and selecting people so they can put on a
good show for the public. Outsider movements have no systems for doing
this so it means the first wave of leaders and personalities are often
just the first people to step up to the podium. Spencer registered the
domain, so he’s the leader of the alt-right.

All these guys squabbling with one another will inevitably be pushed
aside by people who are better at organizing and better at presenting
themselves and their arguments to the public.
<a href="https://twitter.com/notpaxdickinson?lang=en" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pax Dickinson</a>, the guy behind Counter.Fund, often
makes this point. Most of these people got into this stuff by accident
and events carried them to prominent roles. In time, new people will
come along who will know how to avoid the petty squabbling and figure
out how to impose discipline without alienating the people with big
egos.

The bigger issue, as Vox Day points out regularly, is that the alt-lite
faction has no future, because it has no logical reason to exist. Civic
nationalism sounds good to the younger people, who are fans of McInnes
and Cernovich, because they don’t remember the 1980’s when the Buckley
crowd were civic nationalists. The lesson of the Reagan years is that
civic nationalism has no way to defend itself against the Left. Once you
agree to the blank slate argument, you inevitably have to agree to the
rest of the Progressive moral order.

The alt-right is not without their problems. The vision Richard Spencer
has for a white ethno-state strikes most people, including me, as a bit
ridiculous. In fact, the idea of a world wide honky awakening is absurd.
Most people engage in culture debate in framework of politics and they
are just not going to sign off on a political agenda that strikes them
as fantasy. The Libertarian Party has proved this fact beyond any debate
and their fantasy land is more realistic than the honky paradise offered
by Spencer.

The thing the alt-right has working in their favor is reality. In a
multi-racial, multi-ethnic society, people vote their skin. That’s the
lesson of history. Humans are tribal and hierarchical. That’s the lesson
of biology. As whites in America come to realize their decreasing
numbers, relative to the rest of society, white solidarity will
naturally evolve and develop into a political order. The exact contours
of how this plays out are open for debate, but in the end, Charles
Murray was right. Racial politics is the future in the US.
