---
title: "Let A Thousand Honkies Bloom"
date: "2017-11-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11949"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11949"
---

When I was at the American Renaissance conference, the striking thing to
me was the number of smart and levelheaded people I met. Just about
everyone I met had some college, read books and was familiar with the
Western canon. Not everyone was a scholar, but everyone I met was
refreshingly open minded. Even the young guys were genuinely curious
about the world and our times. I mentioned to Jacquavius that it was
like an academic conference, except everyone was smart and a heretic.

The fact is though, most everyone there was from the same cultural and
philosophical place. If you are a fan of [American
Nations](http://emerald.tufts.edu/alumni/magazine/fall2013/images/features/upinarms-map-large.jpg),
the crowd was mostly Midlanders, but there were a good number of people
from Yankeedom. If I had to guess, the Tidewater was the third most
represented nation. My bet is the least represented region of the
country was the Appalachia. I did not quiz all four hundred people at
the event, but I have a good ear for American regional accents and I did
not hear too many hill people or Southerners.

When I cruise around social media, the one thing that strikes me about
the alt-right is its Yankee vibe. It is a very northern honky
phenomenon. It is also a very suburban phenomenon too. I have made the
point for years that libertarianism was a suburban white boy ideology.
Most of the guys calling themselves alt-right grew up in the suburbs and
started out in life as libertarians. It is why the alt-right has a
greater focus on the JQ than the race issue or even immigration. Jews
are simply more numerous in the North.

America is a big place though and there are lots of places where the
bourgeois burgher is the weirdo. You see that with the divide between
guys like Hunter Wallace and some of the alt-right people over optics.
Posts by Wallace
[here](http://www.occidentaldissent.com/2017/10/30/white-lives-matter-an-autopsy/)
and [here](http://www.occidentaldissent.com/2017/10/31/hard-right/), if
you are interested in the topic. The gist of it is the alt-right guys
think the Southern Nationalists are embarrassing, because they remind
people of the old school Southern racists. The Southern Nationalist
think many of the alt-right are LARP’ing poseurs or hypocrites.

The thing with whites in the South and Appalachia is that race and
heritage are the towering issues, which is not something people from
Yankeedom understand. They won the Civil War and got to impose their
culture on everyone else to their satisfaction. People outside of
Yankeedom care deeply about preserving their culture, which is a unique
subset of America. They are also far less concerned about the JQ stuff,
as the only Jews they see are on television. It is just not an issue for
them.

It is not just a North-South thing. People in the Midwest, the
hilariously named “cuck belt”, have their own issues. The effects of
globalism probably score higher with them than race or ethnicity.
Immigration, on the other hand, is the symbol of globalism and resonates
more with honkies in Ohio, than with alt-right guys in New York. It is
in the Midwest where the sense of alienation is strongest. Popular
culture, politics, and economics are controlled by people who no longer
look familiar to the average white Midwesterner.

Of course, the West and Southwest are ground zero for immigration. It is
not an accident that the three most important voices on the issue are
based in California. Steve Sailer, Victor David Hanson and Mickey Kaus
are Californians. If you have spent your life in Los Angeles, race is
not an issue that concerns you. Immigration, on the other hand, is all
consuming. It is the most important issue in California politics for
over three decades. The same is true to a lesser degree all over the
West and Southwest.

The reality is that the emerging identity politics will inevitably have
a regional character to it. It is also going to have a class character.
Richard Spencer gets some grief for being a snob, but he is just a guy
from the gentry class. Steve Sailer is white bread middle-class, because
he is from the white bread middle class. The Southern Nationalists are
going to be working class guys. America has never had a rigid class
system, but class still exists and every American is a product of their
social class to some degree.

The point of this is that we are on the cusp of a new era. We have had
identity politics for a long time, but whites have not been a part of
it. That is changing as the nation’s demographics change. Even as we
lurch into majority-minority status, America is a big country with lots
of regional differences. It is a land of nations, with unique local
cultures, which persist despite the efforts at homogenization. The white
identity that emerges will reflect the local culture. That is just going
to be another feature of the new America.

That means the people talking about this stuff will have to respect this
reality in order to understand it. More important, the guys into the
advocacy side of things are going to have respect the fact that what
works for them may not work everywhere. There is also the fact that
cultural movements are inevitably lots of trial and error. Like memes
that go viral on-line, for every good protest idea there are thousands
that fizzle. In the fullness of time, these regional white identity
groups will figure out what works for them or they go away.

We live in an age of firsts. We are the first country to be ruled over
by people desperately trying to commit cultural and demographic suicide.
We are the first people, with a significant element that celebrates the
extinction of our race. These are events so outside the norm of human
history, there are no examples in the past to rely upon for guidance and
solutions. No one knows what a majority-minority America will be like.
No one knows if it is sustainable. What is coming this century is
entirely new.

Let a thousand honkies bloom.
