---
title: "The Confluence"
date: "2017-02-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7086"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7086"
---

Everyone likes to think they live in interesting times, but it is really
hard to know as you can only really *know* your age. You can read about
the past, but you really can’t know what it was like to be alive in a
prior age. What we come to think of us great eras or important periods
are usually when one period ends and another begins. That means the
violent end of some portion of the established order and the noisy birth
of its replacement. The French Revolution is an obvious example.

A decade ago, no one would have thought the West was entering an
important moment. Most experts were still talking about the end of
history and how the whole world was headed for that central collection
point of democratic capitalism. No one talks like that now for obvious
reasons. What we call capitalism is just global feudalism and democracy
seems to be on the run, in one fashion or another, just about
everywhere. Maybe it is temporary and unimportant, but it does feel like
something important is happening.

In America, one thing that does appear to be true is the old ruling
order is beginning to crumble. After the Civil War, the established
order was that the nation would be ruled by the Yankee north or at least
by people who accepted that world view. This made sense as the South was
in ruins and the industrializing North was not only victorious, but
prosperous. At the founding, the South and Tidewater dominated the new
country. After the Civil War, it was the North that dominated the
nation.

This arrangement probably should have faded away by the early 20th
century, but the Industrial Revolution kept the South relatively
backward. Instead, the two great industrial wars and then the Cold War
locked things in place. The South slowly modernized, but the political
culture of the country remained as it had been for a century. It is not
an accident that the only Southerners to have success in national
politics have been liberals or people who embraced Progressive causes.

That appears to be changing. Progressivism, the civic religion of the
North, has degraded into a lunatic cult and marginalized itself. The
leaders still control the high ground, but they are under assault.
Buckley conservatism, which has served as the ideological enforcers for
the Left, is imploding. These people may not be packing their bags,
preparing for exile, but the 2016 election map makes clear that the old
Yankee hegemony is coming to an end. The sensibilities of the rest of
the country will have to be included in the political culture.

Now, it is possible that Progressivism is on its death bed. Unlike
Europe, the American Left has never been about economic equality. It was
always about spiritual equality. The radicals on the Continent were
always obsessed with busting up the class structure. The radicals in
American have always been focused on saving the immortal soul of the
nation. Economic equality was never anything more than a a political
tool for the reformers to use as a way to get control of the culture in
order to impose their moral vision on the nation.

In order for this to work, the Left has always needed victims and
oppressors, saints and sinners. In the 20th century, they could champion
black civil rights and women’s issues. Then it was onto gays and now
foreigners. The trouble is, they are running out of victims to champion.
Black guys getting pushed around by rednecks at the polling booth make
for sympathetic victims. Mentally unstable men in sundresses wanting
access to the girl’s toilet are not good victims. They are ridiculous
and championing them makes the champions look ridiculous.

There’s also a noticeable lack of villains. Donald Trump is supposed to
be the 12th invisible Hitler, returning to impose a dictatorship on
America. The trouble is, Trump sounds like a Jewish guy from Queens and
his kids converted to Judaism when they got married. So far, his most
enthusiastic supporter among world leaders is the Prime Minister of
Israel. They ain’t making Hitlers like they used to. This comes after
the nation twice elected a black guy president. The unhinged hatred of
white people that has carried the Left for generations has descended
into madness.

Something else that is working against the Yankee hegemony is the
collapse of the blank slate. Progressivism rests on the assertion that
people come into the world as an amorphous blob that can be shaped and
trained to be anything. That means a just society has virtuous people at
the top to make sure the citizens are properly shaped and trained. This
imperative has always been the source of authority for the American Left
and now it is unraveling as science unlocks the human genome.

It is impossible to overestimate the impact of genetics on moral
philosophy as everything about Western culture depends on free
will. Democracy assumes that all people are equally capable of
participating in the civic life of a people. While most people have
always sensed that this is not true, scientific proof that it is not
true changes everything. You cannot have egalitarianism and
multiculturalism without assuming humans come into the world as a blank
slate. If people are not endlessly malleable, there’s no point in trying
to mold them.

Long term trends like these do not change overnight so this great
confluence of events may play out over generations. It could turn out
that the natural order is for the North to dominate the political life
of the nation. Genetics could find the “free will” gene and validate
everything Progressives have claimed for generations. It is impossible
to know, but it is not the way things are heading. Right now it feels
like three great trends in American cultural life are coming to a
conclusion at roughly the same point.
