---
title: "Lessons From The Bear"
date: "2017-09-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11430"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11430"
---

For the last few years, the elites have been obsessed with Russia. The
Bear Scare in DC over Trump’s alleged ties to Putin is just one element
to the obsession. At some level, even the dullards in the media know it
is nonsense, but the Cloud People are convinced that the public shares
their hatred of the Russians. China and Israel are much more involved in
our elections, but they are not suitable bogeymen in the minds of our
betters. To them, the Russians are the scary monsters.

The Russia-Trump story is just a sideshow, of course. The neocon
insistence that we start World War 3 over Ukraine is much more
representative of the ruling elite’s hatred for the Russians. Steve
Sailer has done yeoman’s work documenting the neocon warmonger’s efforts
to stoke the fires of Russophobia. It is not just the neocons. The Left
has gone down a similar path, accusing Putin of being the new Hitler and
claiming he has plans to invade Europe.

Of course, this enmity toward Putin has had the strange effect of
endearing him to many nationalists in America, especially the younger
ones. Their minds are not tainted by memories of the Cold War or
communism. Putin just looks like a strong leader, who embodies many of
the qualities they admire. Then you have old paleocons like Pat Buchanan
defending Putin, mostly because of old scars from warring with the
neocons in the old days.

Guys like Steve Sailer try to pin the cause of this irrational hatred
for Putin and the Russians on ancient ethnic grudges. It is true that
all of the high profile Putin haters fit a certain ethnic profile. They
also look a lot like the crew that tumbles out of the anti-Trump clown
car whenever is screeches to a halt. It is fair to accuse these folks of
being haunted by the hoof beats of Tsar Alexander’s men. The neocons
were, after all, the ideological force behind the Right’s Cold War
strategy for a reason.

That makes for a fun narrative and good way to taunt some of the more
unhinged types like Bill Kristol and Max Boot, but it does not explain
why the political class is uniformly anti-Russian. John McCain is nuts,
but he is not looking under his bed for Cossacks every night. The same
goes for most of the war party in Washington. They would much prefer to
be killing Muslims, but they have found it necessary to spend a lot of
time going on about the threat of Putin and the Russian menace.

Another possibility is a much less mystical one. Instead of epigenetic
fear of a pogrom, perhaps the source of this great fear is much higher,
in the billionaire class that rules the nation through the political
parties. After the fall of the Soviet Empire, Western bankers rushed in
to loot Russia and her former client states. Eventually, the locals
rallied and a class of oligarchs rose up to seize control the assets and
build their own power bases outside the state. Then Putin came along.

If you are a Sergey Brin, for example, the one thing that keeps you up
at night is the thought of the state reasserting its authority over the
oligarchs. Not that Trump is going to throw Mark Zuckerberg into prison
or have Tim Cook sent to Siberia. The possibility of a modern Teddy
Roosevelt, riding a populist message, promising to bring the
billionaires to heel, is a realistic threat. Incentivizing the political
class to demonize such talk is one way to hedge against that
possibility.

It also makes Putin, and to a lesser degree the East, a dangerous
example. It is not just their nationalism that bugs our oligarchs. Its
that these countries cling to the outdated notion of state power being
supreme. Our oligarchs, as we see with Big Tech’s efforts to subvert
free speech, think the idea of the state is outdated. Instead, the new
managerial state is supranational and subordinate to the people who
finance it. The managerial state is to serve the oligarchs, not the
people over whom it rules.

It is probably why the political class made such a huge deal out of
Putin cracking down on homosexual agitators and feminist cranks. They
were looking for a way to undermine his moral authority. In a better
age, politicians would accuse enemies of preferring the company of men.
In this age, politicians accuse their enemies of being sexually normal.
Regardless, the point is to make the bad guys appear villainous and
outside the bounds of human decency. Our politicians are the model our
rulers prefer.

The least talked about aspect to all of this is that the West,
particularly America, is probable less internally stable than Russian.
You do not hear about widespread protests or dissident movements in
Russia. The people of the Visegrad are pretty happy with their
nationalistic politicians. They like having a patriotic ruling class. It
is the West where we see the increasing use of coercion and top-down
subversion, in the form of immigration, in order to keep the plates
spinning.

The trouble for our oligarchs is that people will be loyal to a man or a
cause. They will not be loyal to a committee. That is why there are no
monuments to committees. There are plenty of statues of great men and
shrines to the gods. That is the lesson the old eastern bloc countries
learned. To maintain order, it required men with guns and willingness to
use them. The people of the East learned that a man on horse is a better
choice than ten men behind desks.

That is a lesson we are about to learn in the West.
