---
title: "How To Sell Soap"
date: "2017-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11221"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11221"
---

No one is excited about scrubbing a stain from the carpet. If you own a
pet, you never look forward to their accidents on the rug or their
decision to put their dirty paws on your best trousers. Cleaning up
messes, figuring out how to get that stain off the couch cushion,
getting the carpets cleaned, these are chores we all do, but we do not
look forward to them. It is just a part of life, like cutting the grass
or cleaning the gutters. No one goes on lawn care vacations or stain
removal holidays.

If you are in the business of selling soap, you have to get over the
fact that the mere mention of your product makes people think about a
boring task or the dog leaving a pyramid on the rug. No matter how good
your product is at doing its thing, if it brings negative images to the
mind of the customer, they will associate you and your product with
unpleasant thoughts. It why portable toilet vendors pick cheeky names
for their companies. They want you laughing when you think of them.

The infomercial guys, who sell miracle cleaners, are good examples of
people who understands how this works. They are super upbeat and they do
small things to flatter the viewer. “You have frequent parties and one
of your guests spills red wine on your brand new carpet!” He is saying
you have good tastes and people like you, which is why everyone comes to
your house to be sophisticated and cool. It is cheesy, but flattery
works for a reason. The pitchman makes his audience feel good about the
sale.

These guys also know how to avoid negative associations. They love using
the red wine example, even though their typical customers drink beer
from a can. Red wine is a stand-in for blood. If they used a severed
hand to drip blood on the white cloth, people would be horrified and
associate the product with a negative image. No one fondly remembers
getting their hand caught in the snowblower. Instead, the pitchman uses
wine and talks about you being the cool kid on the block with lots of
parties.

Everyone has had a mishap. You are working around the house; something
goes wrong and you are running for the first aid kit. In the process you
made the hall carpet look like a crime scene. Or you are at work and you
do not notice the paper-cut and now you have blood on your favorite
shirt. That miracle product to get the red wine stain out is just what
you need, but you do not want to be is reminded of it by the happy
pitchman on television. It is why the good pitchman avoids creating
negative associations.

Even the high energy super-positive TV pitchmen run into a problem of
negative associations. That is because Americans associate the lone
pitchman with the grifter, the con artist and the guy who takes
advantage of the foolish. That is because we have a long tradition of
these guys. The snake oil salesman, the patent medicine salesman,
various door-to-door salesman, are all stock characters for the
disreputable sharpie who blows into town and sells you a
[monorail](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZDOI0cq6GZM).

You may be the most honest guy on earth, but as soon as you get out
there to sell your soap as the fast talking pitchman, most people are
going to think you are, at the minimum, a liar. It is unfair and unjust,
but you will never change that perception. You can be the most honest
and forthright soap salesman on earth, but that view of you and your
kind is etched into the culture. It is why those TV guys always rely on
objective authorities or unimpeachable demonstrations. They know you do
not trust them.

Life is unfair sometimes.

The point of all this is that if you want to sell a product, you have to
avoid associating it with negative images held by the public. That means
you are going to have to use red wine instead of a severed hand to
demonstrate stain removal. No, you will not be true to your faith, but
you will get customers. You also have to accept the fact that a lot of
stuff happened before you came along. If you associate yourself with
confidence men of the past, people are going to assume you are a con-man
too. That is reality.

Good salesmen never lose sight of reality. That is the problem with
outsider political movements. They allow themselves to be trapped in
narrow ideological ruts so any sales effort, which deviates in the
slightest from dogma, results in civil war. The only pitchmen the
ideologues accept are the guys waving around the severed hand, talking
about how their product is great at cleaning blood stains. Any
concession to public sensibilities is treated like heresy. The result is
a self-ghettoization of the movement.

This has always been the problem with the libertarians. You can get a
large audience in favor of limiting state regulation of commerce, but
you are never getting a critical mass around the idea of abandoning
paper money. You can talk people into loosening up marijuana laws, but
no one is signing up for legal meth sales. That is why the limit on
libertarians is to have some of their language appropriated by
Buckleyites. Otherwise, they are seen as a collection of eccentric
weirdos.

That is what is happening with the alt-right. The core believers refuse
to give in on basic tactics, like banning Nazi gear or minimizing the JQ
stuff. The result is anyone that tries to soften the image is attacked
as a traitor. That is what you see with the Stormies. Anglin can’t
accept even the token compromises at a site like Gab, so [he goes to war
with
it](https://dailystormer.is/andrew-anglins-statement-on-gab-censorship/).
This ensures that his followers never stray from the ghetto that he has
created for them. It also means potential recruits have a reason to
ignore him.

This does not mean the alt-right is condemned to having [fat guys in
their tighty-whities, dancing around at their
events](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/may/29/libertarian-party-chairman-candidate-strips-stage-/).
To avoid that fate, they need to produce leaders with the credibility to
swat down guys like Anglin, when he gets out of control, but also aware
of the fact that growing the movement means appealing to the general
public. That means softening the pitch and making some compromises. They
do not have anyone capable of doing that at the moment, but they better
find some.
