---
title: "Clown World"
date: "2017-11-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12057"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12057"
---

I was talking with someone the other day, who I know well enough to talk
about current events. I do not talk about my politics with anyone in
real life, but I will chat about current events in the cable chat show
sort of way, always careful not to take the wrong side. If I am around a
gang of Progs, for example, I make sure to sound like an NPR listener,
if I am forced to speak about current events. The person I was with is
what *you people* would call a Boomer normie. He watches Fox News and
voted for Trump, over Hillary.

I forget what we were discussing, but he said, “Do you ever get the
feeling that things are spiraling out of control?” He went on to point
out that his parents thought the world was going to hell when his
generation was going crazy, but he did not think they ever lost
confidence in the country. They were just sick of the kids and
communists. His last thought on it was “It just feels like no one is in
control anymore. All it is going to take is someone to pull on the right
thread and the whole thing comes unraveled.”

I did not have a response, as that is the sort of topic that leads to
saying banned things in public and you cannot be too careful. Even when
around people I am fairly sure think the bad thoughts, I have made a
habit of keeping my mouth shut. I figure it is good practice for when
they start coming door-to-door like [they are doing in
Europe](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/arrests-for-offensive-facebook-and-twitter-posts-soar-in-london-a7064246.html),
looking for people who post truthful things on social media. [It will
probably never happen in
America](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/may/18/facebook-comments-arrest-prosecution),
but you can never be sure, so I only speak freely around certified hate
thinkers at hate conferences.

All that said, there does seem to be a constant state of crisis about
things now. I do not remember that being true during the Obama years,
even though there was that constant sense of foreboding over economics.
The near death experience faced by the financial system in the Bush
years is the reason. My sense is most people, even Cloud People, think
we just got lucky. The mortgage meltdown was just one of the tremors
before [the credit volcano
explodes](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2017/11/12/time-investors-leave-party-latest-bond-market-wobbles/)
and covers the world in useless debt.

It does feel different now. Part of it is the Prog panic over Trump. You
cannot engage in mass media without seeing someone shrieking about the
latest Trump crisis. It is not the shrieking that is unsettling, it is
the ham-handedness of it. The [Never Trump loons like Bill Kristol and
Jonah Goldberg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MG9kh11zJ7k) are so
transparent and phony, it makes most people wonder if we are ruled over
by sociopaths. It is not the constant state of panic in the media that
is unnerving to be people. It is what the panic is revealing about our
ruling class.

That is just one aspect. The troll culture is another. Americans are
increasingly getting their news through social media. That means they
inevitably run across guys like Mike Cernovich. He is just one of many
professional trolls who are slowly casting themselves as legitimate news
reporters. It is not what they post, so much as how much they post that
gets them attention. They are a shotgun blast of bullshit, hyperbole and
self-promotion that fills the space. A million Geraldo Rivera’s have
taken over social media.

It is not just the fringe trolls. [Mainstream
soy-boys](https://twitter.com/dscharfGlobe) are now hired to
generate [click-bait for mainstream news
sites](http://www.bostonglobe.com/ideas/2017/11/10/hand-over-your-weapons/6IxJLanMKGak7RvCLipwbN/story.html).
Most people reading this remember when the Boston Globe was a readable
newspaper. No more. Idiots writing about gun confiscation are just
dull-witted attention whores. [He even brags about
it](https://twitter.com/dscharfGlobe/status/930130237811253248). The
thing is guys like him would not survive the first week of the civil war
that would ensure if the government tried a gun grab like he proposes.
Congress would be forced to hold session in Canada or Hawaii.

There is also the clown world aspect to it. Americans go on-line and
learn that the US Army has now lifted a ban on the mentally disturbed.
That’s right, [they are letting “people with a history of
“self-mutilation,” bipolar disorder, depression and drug and alcohol
abuse” join the
Army](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/11/12/army-lifts-ban-recruits-history-self-mutilation-other-mental-health-issues/853131001/).
Imagine yourself or your son in a unit with guys, who cut themselves or
struggle with thoughts of suicide. If you are a normie, you look at that
and think they have already let crazy people into the Army and now they
are in charge.

On the other hand, it is just another day in clown world. Not so long
ago, men who dressed as women – and the trans thing is always men
dressing as women – were expected to keep that stuff private. If they
could not control themselves, then they were shunned or even
institutionalized. It was just assumed that people who think they are
trees or space aliens or [Filipinos trapped in a white guy’s
body](http://www.wtsp.com/news/transracial-man-born-white-feels-like-he-is-filipino/491290902)
are suffering from a form of madness. Today, they are celebrated as
heroes of the culture, by the people in charge.

That may be why people think things are spiraling out of control. It is
not the lunacy; it is the pace of lunacy. It seems to be accelerating.
In one generation we went from “Maybe one day a black guy can be
president” to having an exotic weirdo with a Muslim name in the White
House and his supporters making war on the native stock. One day, comics
are making gay jokes as part of their act and in the blink of an eye,
[Canada is throwing comics in jail for upsetting
lesbians](https://jezebel.com/5794709/comedian-fined-15k-for-insulting-lesbian-couple).
The clown world spiral is accelerating.

In the 60’s and 70’s, the narrative had two sides. The Prog version was
that young whites wanted to open society up for the smattering of
non-whites, particularly blacks. The alternative narrative was that
white society came under assault by cosmopolitan communists who used the
youth movement to attack white society. Both sides relied on a civil war
framework to describe that age. Both sides assume some sort of
resolution where a middle ground is the result and everything gets back
to normal.

That is not the vibe of today. It feels like America is a fleet of ships
lashed together for so long that no one remembers why they are lashed
together. As the ropes begin to break, no one is trying to repair them.
Instead. people are severing them so everyone can drift apart and go
their own way. In the process, various madmen are setting fire to other
boats and cackling like lunatics. Those who want to keep things
together, just because that is the way it has always been, are starting
to think it is time to cut everyone loose.

Maybe that is the best result for clown world. Whatever America was a
generation ago or five generations ago, it is no longer that. It is
something different and something increasingly untenable. Too many
people want off the ride. To return to the previous metaphor, it used to
be the responsible thing was to restrain the crazies from cutting the
lashings. Now, the responsible thing may be to cut the cords that bind
clown world together, before something much worse happens.
