---
title: "Judicial Anarchism"
date: "2017-09-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11550"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11550"
---

Russell Kirk argued that there are three cardinal ideas in Western
civilization. There is the idea of justice, the idea of order, and the
idea of freedom. Justice is the process that protects a man’s life,
property, natural rights, status and his dignity. Order is the principle
and the process to ensure that a people will have just leaders, loyal
citizens, and public tranquility. Freedom is the principle that a man is
made master of his own life. These three great concepts are the cement
of American society.

Some nations have order without justice or freedom. China is a modern
example of a tyranny where order is maintained, but there is no justice
or freedom. Somalia is an example where there is freedom, but no order
or justice, the libertarian ideal. There can be no justice, of course,
without order and freedom, which is the point of the American
experiment. Our society is a regime of ordered liberty, designed to give
justice, order and freedom all their due recognition and respect.

Most everyone in the American chattering classes, takes order for
granted, in fact, they never think much about it. Instead, they spend
their energy fretting over liberty and justice. That has been the basis
of the political divide in our ruling class since the end of World War
II. The Left has largely been focused on justice, particularly the ideas
of status and dignity. The Right has focused on liberty, particularly
with regards to property. Both sides of the political class have always
assumed order was a given.

Of course, order is not a given. The Roman Republic is a good example of
what happens when order breaks down in the ruling class. The elites
slowly stopped enforcing its own rules on the ruling class. Whether out
of necessity or convenience, order slowly broke down. By the time Marius
and Sulla came along, playing by the rules was a sucker’s game, if you
were in the ruling class. That set the stage for a strong man willing
and able to ignore custom and seize control of the state.

The other way in which order breaks down is the example of Weimar
Germany. The political class lacked the means and the moral authority to
impose order. The chaos on the streets is commonly blamed for the rise
of you know who. The disorder following the collapse of the Soviet Union
is blamed for the rise of the oligarchs. History is full of examples
where the ruling class either lost control or lost the moral authority
to maintain control. Every revolution in history follows this model to
some degree.

What we are seeing in modern America is a strange combination of how
order breaks down in a society. The American ruling class is concluding
that the rules really do not work for them. They do not have the will or
ability to simply toss them aside and impose a new order, but they
refuse to allow the old rules to limit their power. That is what is
happening with the chaos we see in the courts. Judges, who are members
of the ruling class, are willy-nilly overthrowing the constitutional
order.

As Daniel Horowitz wrote last month, [the Federal judiciary is claiming
power for itself, that it has no constitutional
basis](https://www.conservativereview.com/articles/kings-on-the-bench-lawless-judge-declares-texas-sanctuary-state).
Judges are just making things up so they can overturn laws and thwart
the constitutional power of the President. The Founders contemplated
rogue judges, so there are provisions for removing a judge from the
bench. That is fine for one judge here or there, but no one has ever
thought about what happens when the whole judiciary goes rogue. The
remedy may be too dangerous to attempt.

Take a look at the list of suggestions in that article. Having states
ignore Federal courts is not a small thing. it is a click away from
secession. If a state legislature elected to go this route, they would
be placing themselves in legal jeopardy. A federal judge could order the
arrest of the speaker of the state house or the governor. Would the
governor respond by having the judge arrested? It is not hard to see how
this can get out of control, pitting the political class against itself,
but also against factions in the public.

In a rational, liberal society, there should be debate and division,
within the context of an agreed upon set of rules. What the court is
doing in America is questioning the very idea of rules. They are
claiming for themselves the right to make up whatever they feel like in
the moment, in whatever incoherent fashion they choose. This is not
judicial activism, so much as it is judicial anarchism. The founders
never contemplated such a thing and our political class assumes that
this is impossible.

A break down in civil order always ends the same way. Whether it is the
result of civil war in the ruling class or a war between the ruling
class and the people, there is a collapse in moral authority. Everyone
loses respect for the old rules, which kept the old order. What comes
next is also predictable. A man on a horse rides in and has the will and
the means to impose order. That is what comes next if the political
class does not suppress what looks like a revolt from the bench.
Otherwise, someone else will.
