---
title: "The Cycle of Life"
date: "2017-03-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9730"
---

The other day I was listening to
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OLUgV5lVymc"
target="_blank">this interesting podcast</a> from
<a href="http://2kevins.com/" target="_blank">Keven Grace and Kevin
Steele</a>, two hosers from some place called “Canada.” Both had careers
in the media and now they don’t, presumably due to the local blasphemy
laws. I’ve listened to a number of their interviews I found on YouTube.
For those interested in hate-think and the haters who founded
hate-thinkery, their interviews of
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2QuowudHgc"
target="_blank">Gottfried</a>,
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1I1lf3SNIaY"
target="_blank">Sailer</a>,
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pccmK3oOWOY"
target="_blank">Taylor</a> and others are a good introduction to the
hate. They ask good questions and get good answers.

The podcast on music is interesting if you enjoy thoughtful discussion
of the business side of popular culture. If you are under the age of 80,
you just assume that pop music is a feature of society. It’s hard to
think about a time when there was no such thing as pop stars or hit
songs played on the radio. The music business did not exist a hundred
years ago, at least not in the way we think about it today. It was after
the war that cheap radios, cheap record players and a prosperous
middle-class birthed modern pop music culture.

If you read a book like <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Wrecking-Crew-Inside-Best-Kept-Secret/dp/1250030463/"
target="_blank">The Wrecking Crew</a>, you see that much of what we
think of as rock and roll lifestyle was manufactured. The early years of
pop music were dominated by old experienced guys from the jazz and big
band scenes. They wrote the music, recorded the songs and made the hits.
The acts that turned up on TV and radio were often just front men, hired
to be the face of the act. From the very beginning, music was a business
designed to make money, not music, for the people who owned the music
business.

One of the things I found interesting from the podcast is that the music
industry, the people involved in the business end of things, is about
half the size it was at its peak. A couple of years ago
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4463" target="_blank">I did a
post on the state of music</a>. Per capita music sales have collapsed
from their peak 15 years ago. That peak was largely a bubble created by
the advent of the compact disc. Everyone went out and repurchased their
music collection in the new digital format. A lot of old stuff was
remastered for the new format and that boosted sales too.

We are now in a time when selling songs is no longer very profitable.
Often, bands will put their new releases on YouTube free of charge. The
song itself is a form of marketing for their live shows. In my youth,
the opposite was the case. Bands went on tour to promote their latest
album. The tickets to the show were often cheaper than the album. Now,
anything you want is on-line so trying to monetize the songs has become
a lost cause. As a result, the focus is on making money from the live
shows.

In many respects, pop music is back to where it was before the great
wars of the 20th century. In the 19th century, sheet music was the item
of value in the music business. Many of our intellectual property laws,
in fact, come from efforts to protect the owners of sheet music. The
main source of income for musicians, however, was the live act. They
went around performing for customers. It is where the expression “sing
for your supper” started. Often musicians were paid, in part, with a
meal.

There are some important lessons in the history of pop music. One is
that cultural phenomenon have a life cycle. They come into existence,
blossom and then die off. The music business is never going to go
completely away. There’s still money to be made marketing acts and
managing the production of recorded music, but the boom times are over.
It is, as they say in business, a mature sector now. It’s not a business
attracting wild men looking for adventure. Instead it attracts MBA’s
moving through the corporate system. “This is Josh, who came over from
the petro-chemical division.”

Pop music’s impact on the greater culture is also largely over. There
will never be another Beatles or Rolling Stones. That’s because
“American culture” is over. Prior to the two great industrial wars of
the 20th century, America did not have a unified national culture. It
was federation of regions. New England may as well have been a different
country from the Deep South or the Southwest. The South was very
different from Appalachia. There was no unified “American” culture to
which all the regional cultures submitted.

The great national project of conquering Europe and Asia opened the door
for the flowering of an American culture after the war. Into it was
drawn anything that could be sold as celebrating this new world power.
It is why what we think of as American pop culture blew up after the
war. In music, for example, producers scoured the land looking for
authentic American sounds to package up and sell, in order to meet the
demand of this new growing thing called Americana. It even went global,
in search of spice to ad to the mix.

Like the music business itself, the great unifying national culture that
blossomed in the 20th century has run its course. America is, to a great
degree, falling back to its natural, regional state. Just look at the
popularity of movies and TV shows by region and you see old weird
America emerging again. Live acts now setup their tours to reflect the
fact that they have greater appeal in some regions than in others. If
you are a country act, for example, there’s no point in booking a lot of
dates in the north, outside of the one-off festivals in the summer that
feature a variety of acts.

That’s another lesson from pop music. The past is the actualized, the
present is the actualizing and the future in the potential. Culture is
that middle part, standing on the past in an effort to realize the
potential that lies in the future. Once culture attains its natural end,
it dies. What’s left is what it created. The grand unified pop culture
of the Cold War era is now like an old factory building that has been
renovated to be lofts, shops and boutique restaurants. It’s influence on
what comes next is purely utilitarian.

 
