---
title: "We Need A Tom Doniphon"
date: "2017-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9594"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9594"
---

Recently, the nation’s cat ladies have been asking the rest of us,
“Aren’t you afraid that Trump is going to become a dictator and start
bullying journalists and judges just to get his way?” Of course we’re
all suppose to start from the premise that Trump is Hitler reborn and
just looking for a reason to impose martial law. The fact that Trump has
assiduously adhered to the rules of the game to this point is just proof
that he is Hitler. After all, Hitler won an election too and we all know
how that worked out.

My answer to that query is, “No, I’m not afraid Trump will do all those
things. I’m afraid he *won’t* do those things.” For the last three
decades, probably longer, the guys allegedly on the side of the rest of
us, have been obsessed with playing by the rules. The thing I don’t fear
is that Trump will “go too far” or fail to respect the rules of the
game. I don’t care about those rules anymore. Those rules are the bars
of the cage. What we don’t need now is a guy obsessed with procedure. We
need a guy willing to break the rules.

We have reached a point where it is heads they win, tails we lose. The
game has been rigged to make reforming the system within the rules an
impossibility. When a majority of the people favor a policy that the
managerial class opposes, the policy gets hamstrung by the rules of the
game. All of a sudden, the process is sacred. When the managerial class
wants something for their masters, they change the rules so it either
flies through or simply happens without anyone noticing. The process is
not all that important.

All the blather about America being a nation of laws is just cover for
the fact that ours is a lawless nation ruled by lawless men. An obvious
example is the Ninth Circuit judges, who have fabricated a legal
justification for throwing sand in the gears of a wildly popular
executive order issued by President Trump. These are not men enforcing
the law or respecting the laws. These are men who hold the law in
contempt. All that matters to them is obedience to the weird secular
cult we have come to call Progressivism.

If what it takes to break the stranglehold this cult has on society is a
dictator willing to toss a few judges from a helicopter, then sign me up
for dictatorship. I’d much prefer to live in a society where me and my
neighbors meet once a month to govern ourselves and our community, but
that’s not on offer. What is on offer now is the post-modern theocracy
that uses the corrupted and degraded tools of 18th century liberalism to
maintain its grip on society. Squads of government men rounding these
people up in the middle of the night sounds pretty good right now.

Totalitarians attempt to change the world and human nature, by
controlling all aspects of society, including the granular aspects of
the political system. It’s what makes reform impossible as we are
quickly seeing with the opposition to Trump’s policies. It’s not that
they object, on policy grounds, to the very mild reforms that are being
proposed. What is at issue is the very concept of the all encompassing
world state. To permit reform is to permit questioning and that can
never be tolerated.

The only way to break the totalitarian stranglehold may be with a an
authoritarian willing to bust down doors and crack some heads.
Authoritarianism is only concerned with political power and as long as
that is not contested it gives society a certain degree of liberty. You
can still have judges falling out of helicopters as we saw with
Pinochet, but the people can still go about their lives, free from the
hectoring of secular fanatics living off the tax payers. Trump ordering
the execution of the 9th Circuit is not ideal, but it beats the hell out
of being ruled by angry lunatics from San Francisco.

The main argument against personal rule is that the person eventually
dies. Then you have to hope the next guy is not crazy or dangerous.
That’s also an upside to authoritarianism. Trump is not going to live
forever. What follows is not likely to be another authoritarian.
Pinochet eventually gave way to a form of self-government. The reason
Chile did not suffer the same fate as Venezuela or Argentina is that
Pinochet had most of the secular fanatics shot and tossed into a pit. As
a result, Chile came out of the other end of the Pinochet years looking
pretty good.

America is headed for a bad end unless things change quickly and
radically. The suicide cult that has control of our society is not going
to stop until we’re all dead. At some point, you have to use every means
necessary to prevent a catastrophe. If that means Lindsay Graham winds
up in pit covered in lime, so be it. If Bill Kristol has to write his
tantrums from exile in Israel, I can live with that.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Man_Who_Shot_Liberty_Valance"
target="_blank">In order to have a world run by Senator Ranse Stoddard,
you first need a Tom Doniphon to do the dirty work of clearing out 
Liberty Valance</a>.
