---
title: "Like, Should and Will"
date: "2017-06-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10639"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10639"
---

People who enjoy quantitative analysis of current events and social
policy tend to get irritated by the fact that most people don’t know
what “average” means. In fact, most people don’t know the difference
between the words “some”, “all” and “many”, treating them as if they are
synonyms. The easiest way to activate the nearest outrage machine is to
say something like “Some women….” and you can be sure a local gal will
clutch her pearls and tell you she is nothing like whatever you
described. It’s madness.

Something similar happens to people when discussing social policy or
describing a cultural phenomenon. What is good for society, may not
always be good for each member of society. Similarly, what you like may
not scale up very well. Open borders fanatics fall into this trap. They
look at the quaint ethnic eateries around their college campus and
think, “This is how it should be everywhere!” They never stop to think
if it should be something we attempt and they never think about what
actually will happen.

It’s not just liberals and libertarians that get confused by this. Lots
of people say they want America to return to its constitutional
founding, never stopping to think if we should actually try to do it. If
we tried to roll back the 19th Amendment, there would be endless
protests, even if every state promised women the franchise. Rolling back
the Reconstruction Amendments would launch a civil war. You may *like*
the idea of going back to the original, but we *shouldn’t* attempt it,
which is why we *will* never try it.

This circles back to the topic of internet commerce. Lots of people like
the convenience of ordering on-line and having their goods delivered to
them. Some people like the fact they can buy on-line from cheaper
foreign sources, thus saving some money. That’s perfectly
understandable, but that does not mean we should, as a society, let
Amazon monopolize the retail marketplace. There may be ugly trade-offs.
Even if we can figure it out, that does not mean we will act
accordingly. Instead, we will plow ahead and learn the hard way.

The easy thing to get right is what you like. The old maxim about being
conservative about what you know best applies here. All the people
screaming at me for questioning the wisdom of letting Amazon own the
marketplace are doing so because they know how much they like shopping
on-line. They don’t want any discussion of changing it. They know their
tastes and habits better than anyone so they are the most conservative
about those things. As a result, they instinctively recoil at any
criticism of the internet economy.

To be clear, we all do this to some degree. I reject any and all efforts
to impose regulations on gun ownership. I know the gun laws better than
most and I know the gun statistics better than most. The only changes I
favor are repeals of existing laws, but any mention of “gun laws” or
“gun crimes” puts me in a defensive crouch. The most conservative
position is to resists any discussion of changing gun laws so that is my
default position. As a result, I probably have a few things wrong about
the gun debate.

Where things always get squirrely is when the topic moves into what we
should do as a society. Libertarians, of course, leave the room at this
point because they think “should” means “must” and they are against
coercion. This is one of the reasons I have so little patience with
libertarians. Politics is about what *will* be done and that results
from the debate over what *should* be done. The libertarian impulse to
retreat into proselytizing about their principles makes them worse than
useless in the war with the Left.

Liberals claim to hold the moral high ground so all of their
proclamations about what should be done are invested with moral
authority. It is why they frame every debate in moral terms. That way,
they avoid the granular analysis of what they are doing, so the focus
shifts to the morality of their intentions. It is often assumed that
this is a deliberate tactic, but it is instinctual. Progressivism is a
religion. The adherents naturally frame everything in terms of their
faith, in the same way Muslims rely on the Koran for their authority.

Buckley conservatives abandoned public morality long ago, so they are
reduced to turning everything into a math problem. This appeals to many
libertarian-ish people which is why you see so many of them hanging
around the Official Right™. It would be nice if public policy could be
decided, at least to some degree, by mathematics, but there’s no history
of that ever happening, which means it will most likely never happen.
It’s why the Buckley Right has lost every fight over the last 25 years.
You don’t beat morality with math.

Of course, no matter what your conception of what should happen is, the
odds that it will happen are fairly low. Even the most modest plans have
unintended consequences and most of us are easily deluded by our sense
of righteousness. It is why Progressivism has devolved into a madhouse
of lunacy. They stand on their soapboxes sermonizing about what should
happen, only to see the opposite happen. The recent string of elections
has them thinking the gods have abandoned them, which is why they are so
distraught.

This is not a post with some great important point to make so I’ll wrap
it up. The one take away here is that when I write about some public
phenomenon, I’m usually looking at it from the various angles of the
“should” position. Is this something we should embrace? Is this
something we should tolerate? That sort of thing. You may like midget
porn, for example, but we should not have it on television. On the other
hand, you may hate paying your taxes, but we should enforce tax laws,
even the terrible ones.
