---
title: "Tactics and Money"
date: "2017-06-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10480"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10480"
---

Social movements go through phases, depending upon their scale and
success at interrupting the prevailing order. If ten people become
convinced that devil worship is critical to the survival of mankind, no
one will notice until they start sacrificing goats in public. If ten
million people take up this idea, then it is different. The movement has
to learn to work within the prevailing order, then learn how to alter
the prevailing order by infiltration and coercion. Tactics become as
important as ideology.

The alt-right, Identitarianism, new right, or whatever you prefer to
call the growing dissenter movement that has grown up the last few
years, is reaching a point where the people in charge think something
must be done. The sacking by Breitbart of Katie McHugh at the behest of
a neocon mob looks like an orchestrated hit. There is a secret mailing
list for <a
href="https://twitter.com/jpodhoretz?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">neocon</a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/JonahNRO" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">pundits</a> in the media and all of their known members
were immediately on-line celebrating, so the scheme was probably hatched
by them.

The neocons are putting enormous pressure on their “friends” at
Breitbart to abandon Trump and purge their ranks of anyone outside the
orthodoxy. Back in the election, the odious carbuncle John Podhoretz
accused Brietbart editor Joel Pollack of not being authentically Jewish
due to his Trump support. Imagine members of your church threatening to
ex-communicate you over your voting habits. Then there are the threats
to staffers and advertisers. If they can’t kill the message, they will
kill the messengers.

The point of this is that tactics are important. Katie McHugh is a
nobody in the grand scheme of things, but her corpse on the sidewalk
sends the same message as
the <a href="http://www.fox5dc.com/news/211991353-story"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Seth Rich bike rack outside
DNC headquarters</a>. As the Chinese say, you kill some chickens to
scare the monkeys. You can be sure that people inside Breitbart are now
working on their resumes and ready to rat on their friends in order to
find a safe landing spot. It is the same tactic <a
href="http://nypost.com/2017/06/05/top-secret-nsa-doc-details-russian-election-hacking-effort-report/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the Feds are using to fix the
leak problem</a>. Jail a nobody and the somebodies notice.

As they say in the crime business, it is all fun and games until the
bodies start to drop on your side. That means the good guys better start
to learn how to use the rules to their advantage. They are entering into
the phase of the game where tactics matter as much, if not more than,
ideology. They’ve picked the fight and now it is time to fight. In the
context of this culture war, it means waking up every day thinking about
how to ruin someone on the other team. It means turning the weight of
the orthodoxy against itself.

For instance, when <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/georgetown-professor-confronts-white-nationalist-richard-spencer-at-the-gym--which-terminates-his-membership/2017/05/21/d3ff6512-3e51-11e7-8c25-44d09ff5a4a8_story.html?utm_term=.7e651d424335"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the mentally disturbed woman
harassed Richard Spencer at his gym</a>, he made the blunder of not
looking for a way to turn this into a weapon. His first move should have
been to call the cops on her. Then he should have insisted on filing a
report. Then he should have gone to court seeking a restraining order.
In other words, he should have used her enormous weight against her.
Even if the court declined to grant him the order, he would have had a
great chance to get it, the message would have been sent.

Similarly, the habit of Progs to use campaigns against people in order
to cause financial harm should be met with legal action. Tortious
interference is when one person intentionally damages someone else’s
contractual or business relationships with a third party causing
economic harm. A phony e-mall campaign, that is intended to intimidate a
hotel, for example, from hosting a VDare event, is precisely the sort of
thing that should be met with a lawsuit. Worst case is you get it out
into the open, where the rats can’t hide.

There’s also the use of public accommodation lawsuits. The Left used
Title II of the Civil Rights Act to gut free association. A clever
lawyer could use the same law that forces your restaurant to serve ISIS
sympathizers, to force Facebook into letting the alt-right have their
own page. It would be a tough case to make, but it could be made with
the right plaintiff. That’s how lawfare works. The point is to
de-legitimize the rules and laws, but also to force the other side to
live by their own moral code.

These efforts take money, of course, just as the efforts to build up
alternative media require funding. That’s where the dissidents are
making the most progress.
<a href="https://www.wesearchr.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">WeSearchr</a> is still trying to find its footing, but
it has worked well as a proof of concept for fund raising outside the
orthodoxy. The new site
<a href="https://counter.fund/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Counter.Fund</a> is a very creative idea that could turn
out to be a viable alternative to the establishment crowdfunding sites.
By being explicitly ideological and open about its business model, it
makes supporting it feel important.

Mass movements of any type have certain thresholds they must pass in
order to become credible threats to the prevailing orthodoxy. If you’re
building a religion, you better be provocative and you have to live off
the land, so to speak. If you are building a political party, it is
about working the election laws and getting your message out to a
broader audience. Put another way, you have to demonstrate tactical
savvy and the ability to finance your war against your opponents.
Otherwise, people are reluctant to join.

Whatever your preferred term is for the brewing rebellion among the Dirt
People, they have weathered the first punch from the Cloud People. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/419853/witless-ape-rides-escalator-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The dismissive name calling
that was a feature of Progressive commentary</a>, has given way
to attacks on the people on the front lines of the fight. The next step
is to start going on offense using the rules against the establishment.
That means coordination and that means money. There are some good signs
so far, but the Dirt People are still a long way from being a credible
threat.

Remember, support your local Dirt Person.
