---
title: "The River’s Edge"
date: "2017-12-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12282"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12282"
---

Reorganizing a bookshelf, the other day, I found a book that I was sure
I had read a few years ago, but I had no memory of it. Looking it over,
I realized I never did read it, so I put it in the queue. For some
reason, I read a lot more in the winter than the summer, so I can knock
out a book every few days. The book in question is [Why Nations
Fail](https://www.amazon.com/Why-Nations-Fail-Origins-Prosperity/dp/0307719227),
by economists Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson. It was a big seller
back in 2012 when it came out. That is probably why I bought it, but for
some reason I never read it.

The book starts out describing the city of Nogales, which straddles the
border between Mexico and the United States. The authors point out that
the part of the city on the US side is fairly safe, well organized and
reasonably prosperous, for that part of the country. The part of the
city on the Mexico side is riddled with corruption, rocket high crime
rates and grinding poverty. They quickly point out that the demographics
of both halves are about the same, so the only possible explanation for
the difference is the institutions.

What they do not mention is that the Mexican half of Nogales is attached
to Mexico, a land full of Mexicans. The American side is attached to a
country *not* full of Mexicans, at least not yet. Nogales is an hour
south of Tucson, which is more than 50% white. Arizona is now 60%
non-Hispanic white and only about 4% black. Further, the Hispanic
population is mostly the El Norte variety. In other words, it is good
demographics that results in those good institutions. They do not go
there. In fact, they never go there.

The book runs through a bunch of examples of how institutions can make
or break a society. They even travel back in time to examine how events
like revolutions or wars broke old bad institutions, allowing for good
institutions to flourish. The English Civil War comes up multiple times,
to explain how the Industrial Revolution started there first. They spend
a considerable amount of time talking about colonialism, to explain how
the bad institutions created by the West, forever crippled their former
colonies.

Again and again, the authors work backwards from present economics,
through politics and history to arrive at institutions as the first
cause. As a survey of world history, it is interesting. The authors even
accidentally make the point that serendipity has a huge role in history.
They call this “critical junctures” and use a bunch of examples where a
country’s elite chose poorly, but they can never ask the question, why
did they choose poorly? Instead, they just treat that as the river’s
edge, never bothering to go further.

In fact, that is the reason for the title of this post. The image that
kept coming to mind while reading this book is of a group of explorers
trying to find their way out of a valley. They keep ending up at the
edge of a river. Instead of wading over to the other side, they wander
around, sure that there must be some other way out. In this case, the
river is culture. The authors stop at culture, never wondering what is
beyond it, not because they fear what is on the other side, but because
they do not seem to think there is another side.

That is what is so weird about this book. Usually, there is at least one
section where the author goes to great pains to acknowledge the
arguments from biological realism, but vigorously dismiss them as
bad-think. That never happens here. Instead, it is as if the authors
have never considered the possibility that Africa is the way it is
because it is full of Africans. Instead, they just repeatedly make the
point that poor countries have corrupt institutions, while rich
countries have more open public institutions.

For instance, the authors write stuff like “World inequality exists
because during the 19th and 20th century some nations were able to take
advantage of the Industrial Revolution and the technologies and methods
of organization that it brought, while others were unable to do so.” The
implication of this is that the Industrial Revolution just happened by
magic in England, instead of Botswana. The best they can muster is to
point out that the English Civil War accelerated the end of feudalism in
England, compared to the Continent.

One of the more comical bits is how they try to explain why Western
nations did not fall back into despotism, like European colonies after
independence. The answer is what they describe as a virtuous cycle,
which is a special brand of magic that makes sure only white countries
maintain open institutions. The serendipitous magic creates the
inclusive institutions and then the magic of virtuous cycles keeps the
magic flowing. Of course, there are the vicious cycles that work the
opposite, but only on non-white countries.

It is tempting to think that the people on the blank slate side of the
river know the truth, but they just prefer to carry on with the blank
slate fantasy. In individual cases, which may be true, but a lot of
people honestly believe that all people are the same everywhere, despite
the mountain of evidence to contrary. Instead of reality causing doubts
in their beliefs, they do like Acemoglu and Robinson. They invest all of
their time and energy looking for the magic cause that explains reality,
without contradicting the blank slate.

The result is we have this great divide in the West. I use the image of
a river separating two groups of people. On the blank slate side of the
river, they will come to water’s edge, but they never look across it,
much less contemplate crossing it. On the other side, the biological
realism side, the people wait patiently for the others to cross over,
shouting words of encouragement to them. Every once in a while, a
ferryman reaches the blank slate side and then picks up some people and
brings them across the river.

We could use more ferrymen.
