---
title: "The Potemkin Society"
date: "2017-08-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11230"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11230"
---

A Potemkin village is a fake community built solely to deceive others
into thinking that a situation is better than it really is. The term
comes from stories that Grigory Potemkin erected phony portable
settlements along the banks of the Dnieper River in order to fool
Catherine II, the Russian Empress. After she passed, the village would
be disassembled and then reassembled further down so she could pass
another nice village. The story is probably exaggerated, but the concept
is a useful one so the term has stuck with us.

It is a useful term that came to mind in the run up to the
Charlottesville rally. It came to mind after the riots in Berkeley. In
both cases, you have fake cities that exist for no real reason, other
than there is a government run college in them. In both cases, the
people in charge are ridiculously unserious people, who should not be in
charge of a convenience store, much less a small city. That is because
the people who put them into office are just as ridiculously unserious.
They are adult children playing grownup on the public dime.

This is not just a small city issue. The general lack of seriousness
among the political class seems to be a byproduct of managerialism. Look
around Washington and it is a parade of naive, clueless airheads
produced by our finest colleges. It is not just an American phenomenon.
Europe’s leaders are ever bit as ridiculous. The Europeans are creating
a class of politicians that are close to fictional. Emmanuel Macron, the
new leader of France, may as well be a hired actor, which is why [he is
a
disaster](http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/840749/France-Emmanuel-Macron-president-popularity-En-Marche-party).

Now, Macron’s problems are not all his own making. France, like the rest
of Europe, is a financial knot that can never be untied. A lot of it has
to do with being vassal states for the last 70 years, but a lot of is
demographics resulting from socialism. When you make having babies
expensive, people stop having babies. Macron inherited a country that is
old, expensive and in debt. Still, he is proving to be incapable of
doing the serious business of building coalitions and getting his
program implemented.

That is the thing you see all over Europe. The political elites carry on
like administrators of a university, rather than serious political
leaders. Europe is facing an invasion from the south and instead of
addressing it, they engage in public pose downs. The few serious
countries, like Poland, find themselves on the receiving end of the
elite’s wrath, not because they are wrong, but because they are making
the barren spinsters running the EU look bad. The European Union is no
more serious than a faculty lounge.

Again, this is probably as much a result of managerialism as anything
else. The way Western politics is run is that some segments of the
political class are paid representatives of the financial elite. Another
segment relies on popular support for their position. Then there is a
group of professionals, who do the hard work of figuring out how to get
things done. Managerialism does not produce this class of leader.
Instead, it is pompous dilettantes and hired men, whose loyalty is
bought by the billionaire class.

Even the financial elite struggles with a lack of seriousness. Kevin
Plank is supposed to be an important businessman, yet he goes in for
[ridiculous
showboating](https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2017/08/14/under-armour-ceo-quit-trumps-job-council-over-charlottesville-rally-response/567319001/)
like this. Under Armor makes overpriced underwear that they primarily
sell to blacks and teenagers. In a just society, it would not exist,
because it preys on the worst instincts of the weakest minds in society.
But men are not angels and there will always be rich men who make money
off the poor and stupid. The least they can do is act like adults in
public.

But that is a rare thing in the financial elite these days. Google is
the most recent example of how unserious people are incapable of
managing simple difficulties. Instead of strutting around like a
retarded peacock, the Google CEO could have easily made the whole thing
disappear. A check and an NDA would have put a quick end to a trivial
issue. Instead, he let some old lesbians lead him around by the nose and
the result was a fiasco that promises to drag on into the court for
years.

The common thread in our public discourse is that our leaders are more
concerned with playing make believe than doing their duty. That is why
the word “duty” is never mentioned in public discourse. When was the
last time anyone heard a politician or a rich man talk publicly about
his duty to society? The closest you get is some halfwit sportsball
player talking about how he needs to give back to his community.
Otherwise, we are ruled by a class of people with the maturity and
fortitude of prep school teenagers.

That is what managerialism curdles into in time. What the giants of our
side, guys like Sam Francis and James Burnham could not see in their
time, is becoming clear in our time. The credentialism and parochialism
of the managerial state produces people barely capable of working on a
local school board committee. Their lack of exposure to the realities of
the human condition cripples them spiritually. They become ruthless,
overgrown adolescents playing dress up as they ascend into positions of
authority.

That brings us back to Berkeley and Charlottesville. If the political
class is unable and unwilling to manage the antics of Antifa and [Jason
Kessler](http://voxday.blogspot.com/2017/08/neocons-20.html), what are
they going to do when smart and resourceful antagonists come along? The
morons waving flags and throwing piss-bombs at each other are the easy
problem to manage. The hard problem are the well organized guys with
goals beyond getting themselves on TV. As I have said many times, Trump
was a warning shot. The political class better get serious in a hurry.
