---
title: "Crisis and Crackdown"
date: "2017-02-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9627"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9627"
---

Imagine yourself as the head of an organization facing some sort of
crisis. External pressures are revealing fissures and faults within the
organization, thus magnifying the external pressures. There’s a very
real concern that the organization could collapse or succumb to the
external threat unless something is done to calm the organization and
get it focused on the external threat. Maybe you were the boss as the
storm gathered. Maybe you were brought in after the organization
realized they had a problem.

A society at war is the most obvious example. For example, the Russians
were locked in a stalemate with the Germans in World War I and the
accumulated costs of war began to reveal the faults within Russian
society. Czarist Russia, in times of peace, could provide enough food
and enough authority to maintain order. The war sapped the strength of
the state such that it could no longer provide enough food and enough
authority. In the ensuing crisis, the state broke and eventually
collapsed.

The Bolshevik Revolution is a great example of how leadership failed to
respond to the crisis because their range of options was limited by
forces outside of their control. Liberalism, in the European
Enlightenment sense, had not taken root in Russia, because it was a land
of peasants and aristocrats. There was no middle class, at least not one
with power, with which the aristocrats could bargain. The Czar should
have struck a deal with the Kaiser early on, but he did not and the
result was disaster.

More pleasant examples are the English Civil War and the French
Revolution. The former is a good example of an intransigent ruler,
unwilling to adjust and accommodate to the social changes buffeting his
rule. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_I_of_England"
target="_blank">Charles</a> had plenty of chances to strike a deal with
Parliament and the growing merchant class that Parliament represented,
but he chose confrontation instead. His response to crises was to
crackdown, as much as possible, on any resistance to his authority.
Charles made his enemies.

In contrast, the example of
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_XVI_of_France"
target="_blank">Louis XVI</a> is a textbook case of how a weak leader
can be swallowed up by crisis. The financial crisis that consumed the
crown was avoidable, but Louis was unwilling to exercise his authority
over the aristocracy in order to resolve it. At the same time, when he
had chances to squash the revolution, he hesitated, allowing his
authority to be challenged without response. Just as Charles should have
been more flexible. Louis should have been less flexible. Like Charles,
he lost his head as a result.

Modern people in Western countries don’t think much about how their
rulers will respond to crisis. It is assumed that that the people in
charge will examined the data, consult with experts, hold an open debate
in the media and then settle upon a course of action to address the
crisis.That’s because for as long as anyone can remember, there has been
no crisis, at least not one that threatens the existing order. The only
thing to come close to a threat to our rulers was the communist menace
in the 40’s and 50’s.

That’s instructive because the response from the ruling class was the
classic iron fist in the velvet glove. The government relentlessly
hunted down communists, while the popular press relentlessly defended
those “wrongfully” accused of being communists. The
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venona_project"
target="_blank">Venona Project</a> allowed the government to root out
subversives, with a fair degree of precision, at least the ones that
posed a real threat. It was not until the 90’s that the public was made
aware of the extensive domestic espionage operation.

The lesson of the Venona Project is that when the people in charge feel
threatened, they will do whatever it takes to dispose of the threat.
We’re seeing that today with the coordinated attacks on the trouble
makers by the media companies. Twitter and Facebook are banning anyone
that they think is in in the resistance. Even <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/tech/2017/02/13/popular-polandball-meme-page-suspended-facebook/"
target="_blank">comedy posts</a> can be deemed blasphemous. Yesterday
some guy named <a
href="https://www.wired.com/2017/02/pewdiepies-anti-semitic-videos-trigger-business-nightmare-youtube/"
target="_blank">PewDiePie</a> was erased from the media for impure
thoughts. Here’s the google search:

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Capture.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-9631" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 671px) 100vw, 671px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Capture.png 671w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Capture-150x150.png 150w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Capture-300x300.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Capture-144x144.png 144w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Capture-299x300.png 299w"
width="671" height="673" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Capture.png)  
The level of coordination is astonishing. Google and Disney team up to
erase the guy and then the mainstream press is out reporting within
minutes that he was eliminated due to heresy. It could be a coincidence
that all of the big media players were on this at the same time, but it
could also suggest a high degree of cooperation. The people in charge
are pulling out all the stops to crack down on dissidents. They consider
the threat posed by errant comedians on YouTube so serious, any means
necessary will be used to end it.

What’s important here is not that some comedian lost his livelihood.
That’s part of the message being sent. The more important part is the
coordination. <a
href="http://observer.com/2016/08/tech-companies-apple-twitter-google-and-instagram-collude-to-defeat-trump/"
target="_blank">The tech giants made it clear</a> in the election that
they were working together to defeat Trump. <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-Tech_Employee_Antitrust_Litigation"
target="_blank">These are people who colluded to suppress wages</a> and
violate the nation’d labor laws so they have a history of this. Now we
are seeing social media coordinating with the legacy media to send a
clear signal that they are cracking down on dissidents.

Crackdowns on dissent are always in response to crisis. Whether it is
perceived or real is the big question. A heavy handed response can turn
a manageable situation into a full blown crisis. On the other hand,
passive responses to challenges can lead to rebellion. The people in
charge believe the lesson of the last election is to crack down hard,
using every means necessary, to quell any challenge to their authority.
That is the reason the intelligence agencies are now working with the
media to undermine the President.

How this will play out is unknown. Charles I and Parliament were willing
to fight a war over their disputes. The revolutionaries in France were
willing to commit regicide to impose their vision on society. People
today are not the fighting sort. The rulers struggle to imprison
criminals and the people passively acquiesce to encroachments on their
liberty. In other words, despite the big talk, there’s not a lot of
fight in the people or their rulers. For now, it is cat ladies from HR
harassing normies over their use of twitter, but that could change.
