---
title: "What’s The Point?"
date: "2017-05-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10403"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10403"
---

<a
href="http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/northkorea/2017/05/29/0401000000AEN20170529000653320.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The North Koreans launched
another missile from her east coast</a>. It is the ninth launch this
year. The news says it was a scud missile that went about 300 miles
before crashing into the ocean. This is supposed to mean something, so
the people who claim to know about these things are consulted to tell us
what they mean. In this case, it means that whatever it is the South
Koreans are doing is not working. Maybe it means whatever the US is
doing is not working. Whatever it is, everyone seems to think it is a
big deal

According to Google, North Korea is a little more than 4,000 miles from
Hawaii. The coast of the United States, San Francisco to be exact, is
5,500 miles from North Korea. If the Koreans are flying missiles 300
miles into the ocean, they have a long way to go before they are a
serious threat to launch nukes against the US. Even assuming these are
just tests as proof of concept, it is a huge step from what they are
doing now to being able to deliver a nuke from one continent to another.

There may be more to it, but no sane person could think the Koreans are
a serious threat to launch a nuke at the US now or in the near future.
In fact, they are probably a generation away from being able to deliver
a nuke with any degree of stealth and accuracy. Even if they could get
one off, the result would be certain death for them. The US would
respond with a nuke attack from the air and sea that would eliminate
North Korea as an ongoing concern for a few thousand years.

Maybe the North Koreans are suicidal, but there are quicker ways to
bring the roof down on themselves. The obvious answer is they are up to
something else, something more practical. What that could be is never
discussed. The US is willing to give them whatever they want to end
their nuke program. The South Koreans would kick in whatever is needed
and so would Japan. All the Kim family has to do is name their price and
the check is in the mail. Yet, this ridiculous missile dance continues
to no obvious purpose.

The other side of this is just as pointless. Trump made a big deal out
of cutting a deal with the Chinese to put pressure on the Koreans. He
then sent a carrier group to the South China Sea. The point was to let
the chubby little dictator know that we mean business. He launched his
missiles anyway and nothing happened. At last count, there are three
carrier groups in the region, along with some unknown number of
ballistic missile submarines, armed with nuclear missiles. That’s a lot
of firepower, but nothing changes.

The thing that everyone seems to know, except maybe Trump, is that there
is zero chance the US launches an attack on the North. The result of a
war on the peninsula would be <a
href="http://thehill.com/homenews/sunday-talk-shows/335483-pentagon-chief-war-with-north-korea-would-be-catastrophic"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">catastrophic for the South
Koreans</a>. There’s a pretty good chance the Japanese would take a lot
of damage. Then there is the chance of a conflict with China. No one,
including the North Koreans, wants a war. That brings us back to the
question, what is the point of all of this? What’s the end game all
sides are aiming for?

The answer may be that there is not point to all of it, just a way for
all sides to fill up their days, pretending to be leaders of a world
that no longer needs leaders. Would the average Japanese notice if his
rulers stopped showing up for work? Is the average South Korean
concerned in the least about what his rulers are doing? The only reason
to care is the prospect that they will do something stupid and set off a
pointless war with the North Koreans. Otherwise, the ruling class is a
burden, not an asset.

That may explain why the leadership in the West appears to be going mad.
Trump was in Europe to meet with the provincial governors and their
biggest concern was some new scheme to make Gaia happy.The Western media
gets upset at Trump for seeming to question the point of NATO, but when
the chief concern of Europe is the weather, a military alliance does
seem a bit pointless. Does anyone really think the Russians are going to
roll tanks into the heart of Europe? Not even Bill Kristol thinks that’s
possible.

Maybe that’s why the Europeans are inviting the Muslim world to invade
their cities and create havoc among the native populations. Everyone in
charge is bored. They wake up each morning wondering, what’s the point?
Being in charge of Germany is rather pointless if you can’t invade the
Sudetenland or defend the fatherland against a barbarian invasion from
the east. The nations of Europe hardly qualify as countries anymore. All
of the important stuff is done by the US or supranational organizations.

In *The End of History and the Last Man*, Francis Fukuyama argued that
the end of the Cold War meant that humanity was moving into the final
stage of social and political evolution. The great ideological struggles
were over and the world was moving toward a great social democratic
super-state. Stuff would still happen and conflicts would arise, but the
die was cast. The end point of mankind was a world governed by social
democracy and a global administrative state. The world would stop being
fun.

Maybe that’s what we’re seeing. The Asian powers are just displaying
muscle memory, from a time when being in charge mattered. They go
through the motions up to the point when they realize there is no
point. The European leaders are doing something similar with the Muslim
invasion. It’s Munchausen syndrome by proxy, but the victim is the
population of Europe. The ruling class is charged with taking care of
their people, but their people are fine, so they are poisoning their
people, so rulers have something to do.
