---
title: "The Credit Monster"
date: "2017-05-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10198"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10198"
---

King Offa of Mercia is credited with being the first British king to use
the mint as a political tool. He gained control of the mint and started
striking his own coins under tight regulations. This meant that each
coin had a fixed amount of metal and was clearly identified as having
come from his mint. Forgers and coin clippers were killed and raw gold,
silver and copper had to be sold to the mint in order to be used as a
means of exchange. Offa profited from this through something called
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seigniorage"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">seigniorage</a>.

It’s a good starting point when thinking about credit money. Imagine you
were a shylock in this age and you lent 100
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sceat" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">sceat</a> to a local farmer. He agreed to pay you 110
sceat after the harvest. Now, let’s assume he had 100 sceat of his own,
but needed your 100 to cover his costs until he could sell his crop. The
harvest comes in and he sells his crop at a profit so he can pay you the
original 100 plus the vig. Now, the two of you have 210 sceat. In
effect, your lending just created 10 sceat out of thin air.

That’s always a hard thing for people to accept, as the number of sceat
King Offa was minting did not change. The number of sceat in circulation
therefore did not change. Where did the extra money come from? In a hard
money world, the amount of currency is fixed or close to it. Credit
activities therefore can only work if someone is now short ten sceat in
order for you and your farmer client to have acquired the ten sceat in
your transaction.The only other option is they magically appeared
somewhere or were counterfeited.

This was and is the inherent problem of hard money. When the amount of
currency is fixed, the economy can only grow at the expense of someone
else. The boom town that is producing pottery is getting rich at the
expense of some other town. The money in the latter is moving to the
former. At some point, the flow of money into the boom town runs dry and
that town goes bust, its money then flowing out to some other boom town,
maybe even the bust towns that it had exploited in the boom times.

This may work fine if overall human productivity never changes. In the
feudal age, human productivity did not change much and growth was
glacial. When human ingenuity is high and we have a shift in technology,
then hard money becomes unworkable. There has to be a way to increase
the amount of money in circulation to reflect the increase in capital
stocks as a result of increased productivity. The solution was fiat
money backed by the full faith and credit of the issuing authority.

In theory, this solves a huge problem in human development. It removes
the penalty for innovation, by allowing the money supply to grow as
human ingenuity increases human productivity. It also discourages
hoarding and encourages investing. Hiding gold under the barn does no
one much good. Investing the gold in new ideas and projects increases
the stock of capital. A cheap way to make bricks means more public works
projects can be constructed, thus increasing overall wealth.

The problem, as the libertarians and gold bugs will tell you, is that
government always resorts to debasing the currency, by printing up more
of it when they over extend. The Romans debased their currency to the
point of worthlessness. Medieval monarchs did the same thing during
times of war. In the 30 Years War, Ferdinand II paid his armies with
debased currency and when it came time for them to pay their taxes, they
paid with the worthless currency, thus transferring the problem back to
its source.

Fast forward to our time and we are in a age of credit money. Cars are
bought on credit. Homes are bought on credit. Business relies on lines
of credit. Of course, global finance is all about credit, especially
complex credit like derivatives. It is so complex, in fact, that no one
really know how much credit is out in the world. Put another way, the
supply of money appears to grow itself as needed or at least as needed
by the people with the right to grow it. How did Puerto Rico rack up $50
Billion in debt? It’s a mystery, but it happened.

It is too bad that all of the economic historians were killed, as it
would be interesting to compare our current age with the <a
href="https://infogalactic.com/info/History_of_central_banking_in_the_United_States#1837.E2.80.931862:_.22Free_Banking.22_Era"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Free Banking Era</a>, which
lasted from 1837 to 1864 in the US. It was a period of panics and short
recessions. The Civil War brought with it the National Banking Act in
’63 and then the Long Depression, which lasted from 1873 to 1879. This
was a period somewhat analogous to our own in that national banks
functioned like the Federal Reserve, operating as the bank of last
resort.

It’s not a perfect analogy, but something worth considering when
thinking about where we are now and where we may be heading. Wildcat
lending and money creation eventually led to government intervention,
which ultimately led to a collapse now known as The Great Depression.
The outcome of the Great Depression was the national government once
again taking control of the money supply and the velocity of money
through bank and security regulations. Maybe that’s the end of this
cycle too.

A half dozen years ago, James Rickards wrote <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Currency-Wars-Making-Global-Crisis/dp/1591845564/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a highly readable book</a> on
the history of money and currency wars. In it he offered up one possible
outcome of the inevitable currency war that may have already started. He
suggested that a global currency based on a basket of energy products
could become the reserve currency of the world. That makes some sense as
the world runs on oil, gas and coal, but that sounds a lot like hard
money. Every country will be tempted to flood the markets with oil, gas
and coal.

Another possibility is a global central bank that functions like the
Fed, but with a mandate limited to maintaining a steady money supply and
regulating global banking. This idea has been kicking around for a while
and relies on the expanded use of
<a href="https://infogalactic.com/info/Special_drawing_rights"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">special drawing rights</a>.
This fits in neatly with the overall push for global governance,
independent of popularly elected governments. That’s a clever way of
saying it will be the financial hub of the post-democratic world.

It’s hard to know. People in the 19th century knew the system was
broken, but getting the political class to fix it was hopeless until the
world collapsed. Even then it took the leveling of Europe and Asia by
the US to get a new system in place. That suggests we are headed to some
sort of cataclysmic denouement to the credit money system. A global
collapse followed by a world war with nukes, drones and space weapons
probably puts us back to using colored beads in a barter economy, but
maybe it will be for the best.
