---
title: "Devil’s Dictionary"
date: "2017-06-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4914"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4914"
---

Maybe it has always been true, but it seems like we live in an age of
esoteric language or pseudo-language. Everyone is familiar with the gag
of using “undocumented worker” in place of “illegal alien.”  Janitors
became sanitation engineers and teachers are now educators. It is a part
of how the American Left makes war on our civilization. By destroying
the language, they destroy the truth. If words no longer have common and
concise meanings, then there is no truth, only force.

There is another aspect to this. The Progs create pleasant sounding
phrases and neologisms that are packed with danger. It is a natural
outgrowth of the passive-aggressive tactics popular with the Progs. The
new word or phrase is not intended to clarify or explain idea, but to
warn people that the official truth has been decided and any further
debate will be seen as a challenge. As everyone knows, the Left responds
to a challenge with violence so the new phrase means “shut up or else.”

With that in mind, a running list of words and phrases, which have a
more ominous meaning beyond the literal, seems like a good project. This
will be one of those posts that could be updated over time both for
entertainment purposes and to build out a comprehensive language guide
for the normie trying to navigate his way through the theocracy. Perhaps
one day some smart crime thinker will create a mobile app, like a
universal translator, for normal people to use when dealing with HR or
reading a mainstream news site.

**Have a conversation:** Whenever you hear someone say they want to have
a conversation about something, what they mean is they want to shut down
all debate and impose their will with regards to the subject. Having a
conversation about marriage led to the end of the homosexual marriage
debate in favor of the sodomites. Having a conversation about race means
Progs screaming at white people about racism and white privilege. Having
a conversation always means sitting through a lecture.

**Secure the border:** Whenever the topic of immigration comes up,
someone will start chanting about the need to secure the border. The
reason for this is so they can avoid talking about immigration, without
looking soft on immigration. What they really mean when they use this
phrase is they have no interest in the topic and you are a racist for
bringing it up, but they will throw you a bone just to shut you up.

**Here’s What You Need to Know:** This is a favorite of female
millennial writers, who imagine themselves as brilliant because they got
a gold star from their lefty teachers in school. It is a phrase that
sets themselves up as the arbiter of what is and what is not worth
knowing about a topic. Unsurprisingly, what never needs to be known is
anything that contradicts the one true faith. As soon as you see this in
a post, it means that what you need to know is they are right and shut
up.

**Conservative Principles:** Alternatively, “first principles” or
“principled conservative.” The Conservative Industrial Complex loves
throwing this around to benefit themselves and damage anyone questioning
their project. As soon as you hear Official Conservatives™ talking about
their principles, it means they are either about to throw in with the
Left against you or they are preparing to surrender on some cultural
issue.

**Fact Check:** The lefty scolds love this phrase. They fact check the
crap out of everything, except their own beliefs. Those are off limits
because you are a racist. As soon as you see this phrase, you should
assume that what comes next is some senseless nitpicking that let us
them dismiss anything they find unpleasant. For instance, when a normal
person says migrants suck off the welfare system, they will “fact check”
this and claim that “not that many” migrants go on welfare. So, you are
a bigot and shut up.

**Inclusive:** This means normal people need not apply. Something that
is inclusive is something that excludes the things normal people
consider to be normal. A club that is inclusive, for example, will be
full of homosexual males, blue haired lesbians and people with
fashionable mental disorders. Inclusive is code for fringe weirdos only.

**Disturbing:** Progs say this to let other Progs know that what is
being described or witnessed is taboo. It is a favor they do for one
another.

**Divisive:** Since uniformity and conformity are the highest virtues of
Progressivism, anything that contradicts the tenets of the faith are
labeled “divisive.” This lets coreligionists know that the person or
argument is a major hate crime. This is also a mortal sin. There is not
much worse than being divisive.

**Polarizing:** Like divisive, this word is used for people or ideas
that contradict the faith but have not yet become mortal sins. The
person or idea is causing conflict in the cult, but not so much that it
is a threat. This is a venial sin.

**It is Complicated:** This means it is not complicated, but we are
going to pretend it is so we can get a bunch of our friends jobs in the
bureaucracy. Health care is complicated, for example, so it means
thousands of jobs for liberal arts majors out of swank private colleges.

**Intellectual Case:** The abuse of modifiers in modern language is
rampant. What exactly is an intellectual case, versus a regular case or
perhaps an emotional case? When you see this phrase, just assume the
person using it is a chattering class mediocrity trying to convince
you that his preferences are canonical and everyone else is just stupid.

**Moral Narcissism:** Abracadabra words are so common; it is easy to
blow past them without noticing. Here is a popular example. This should
be read as “magic bad word” as it has no meaning beyond that.

**There is a lot more work to be done:** Politicians love saying this,
usually after they rattle off a long list of their alleged
accomplishments. Professional barnacles also love using this phrase when
promoting whatever cause it is they represent, a cause that is fully
funded by taxpayers. In both cases, it means nothing will ever be solved
and the racket will go on forever or until the treasury is empty.

**Get our fiscal house in order:** This is the politician or pundit
saying he would like to rob you and your posterity of their last nickel.

**Unity:** This always means “get whitey.” When the black street leader
calls for unity, he means to declare a war on the honky. When
homosexuals want unity, it means attacking straight white males. It is
why you never hear normal white males call for unity. Everyone would
interpret it as a call for mass suicide.

**Healing:** This means the people in charge have figured out how they
are going to sweep the disconfirmation down the memory hole and refocus
on the crime thinkers. For instance, after a Mohamed explodes or goes
stabby, the government officials declare it a random incident of
domestic violence and say it is now time for healing. It is always a cue
for their surrogates in the media to stop talking about the story.

**Come Together:** Shut up

**Diversity:** No white men.

**Slashed:** The tiniest of decreases, usually so small that no one will
notice. An agency’s budget is “slashed” when the managers do not get
their usual lavish raise but have to suffer with a small increase.
Government programs are slashed when they get all the money the need,
but not what they wanted. In a sense, “slashed” means the government
just took a chunk out of your paycheck.

**Woke:** This is the sound a white woman makes when she is about to say
something outlandishly stupid.

**Outspoken:** This is a compliment for someone, who is holding the
megaphone, bellowing at the crowd on behalf of the one true faith. A
normal person would assume it means “speaking against the current order”
but in our modern managerial age, it means the opposite. An outspoken
person is someone railing against the non-conformists and deviationists
for their gross hooliganism. Stalin was outspoken.
