---
title: "Women’s Sports"
date: "2017-02-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9715"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9715"
---

The other day, [Steve Sailer had a post about the
WNBA](http://www.unz.com/isteve/retired-wnba-player-reveals-she-was-bullied-for-being-straight/)
and various ways to make the sport more attractive to sports fans. I
pointed out that the main issue is spatial awareness, as men are more
abstract in modeling their environment, while women are more concrete.
Knowing where the herd is going to be when going on a hunt is different
than remembering where the berries are when going on a pick. The part of
the brain, which controls the perception of speed and the mental ability
to rotate 3-D objects, is larger in men as well.

Anyone who has tried to watch women’s basketball understands that it is
terrible in just about every way imaginable. Basketball is about speed,
jumping and obviously shooting. Fans go to NBA games to see freaks of
nature, who can leap from the top of the key and dunk the ball over some
other freak. The women’s game is described as low and slow, meaning the
style of play is pretty much the opposite of what fans of basketball
want to see. The girls look like they are nailed to the floor most of
the time.

Of course, in a sane world we would not demand that girls do all the
same things men do, but we no longer live in a sane world. Even with the
lunacy, there used to be popular TV sports for women that got good
ratings. Women’s figure skating used to be a big deal, often put on
against football and basketball. The logic was that men would watch
football and their wives would watch skating, which was usually the
case. Twenty years ago figure skating had better ratings than the NCAA
basketball tournament, head to head.

Skating used to be a ratings monster for TV, but that’s no longer true.
Today, not even the big events get on TV. Not only have ratings
collapsed, but interest in youth figure skating is at an all-time low.
Something similar has happened to gymnastics. It used to be that
everyone knew the name of the top female gymnasts. Every Olympiad there
was an American ready to take her place in the long line great female
gymnasts. Today, Simone Biles would have to rob a bank in order for
people to know her name.

You can even extend this decline in women’s sports to tennis and golf.
The former was huge into the 90’s, but it has fallen on hard times.
Women’s golf was never wildly popular, but golf junkies would watch the
big events. The big stars were known to casual fans. Tennis still has
the William’s sisters, but their popularity is based solely on their
value as props in the culture war. Golf has no stars that anyone can
name. The top US player is Lexi Thompson, whose name in a google search
generates less than a million hits. Sandy Leon, a backup catcher,
generates 17-times that number.

Now, all of these sports can point to various reasons for why they have
fallen off the map in our culture. Figure skating and gymnastics has
been plagued by weirdos and a culture that makes beauty pageants seem
mild mannered. Women’s basketball was never popular and sports like golf
and tennis have been in decline for a generation. There’s also a
demographic issue. Popular female sports tended to be popular with
boomers, who had kids. As the Boomers age off, their interest in these
things has declined.

Even so, there’s no getting around the fact the female sports are at
their lowest in terms of spectator interest. It could indicate a decline
in women participating in competitive sports. It is impossible to get
reliable numbers on this as the Title IX crazies are worse than the
climate change nuts when it comes to fake data. Youth participation in
sports has been in steady decline for decades so perhaps the declining
interest in sport among the young is showing up first in the least
popular spectator sports.

There’s also the possibility that biology is returning serve in the
multicultural war on reality we have witnessed the last few decades.
Women are wired to compete with one another in order to gain the
attention of men. Our competitive sports are designed by men for men. It
could simply be that the long war against femininity is coming to a bad
end for the culture warriors. The girls would rather watch other girls
be catty with one another in a TV drama than watch sweaty lesbians fight
over a ball.

That would not explain the the decline in things like figure skating and
gymnastics, but perhaps those were just early casualties in the feminist
war on reality and as the fever breaks, these sports will make a
comeback. These things also go in cycles so as <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3790614/They-don-t-like-drugs-gay-marriage-HATE-tattoos-Generation-Z-conservative-WW2.html"
target="_blank">the more reactionary Generation Z</a> reach adulthood
and start having families, perhaps sensible activities for girls will
make a comeback. This is something you notice when looking at the social
media of young alt-right types. They appear to be attracted to more
traditional sex roles, despite the howling from their parents.
