---
title: "The Original Sin"
date: "2018-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14886"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14886"
---

The original sin of modern conservatism is that it never came to terms
with the reality of the Left’s race delusions. Last century,
Progressives concluded that the obvious racial disparities in the world
were solely due to racism, specifically the racism of whites toward the
world’s non-whites. Everything that defines the American Left now is
based on this assumption. This a lie, not a sin. The sin was that the
American Right, or at least those who came to define the Right, never
honestly challenged this claim.

Instead, Buckley-style conservatives accepted this two-part assumption
about the world and tried to fit their ideas within it. This was mostly
expedience. By going along with the Left’s egalitarianism, they could
have a place at the table. With the Civil Rights Movement, the Left
claimed the moral high ground on the matter of race. Confronting them on
the reality of race would have required courage the conservatives did
not possess, so they chose to make an accommodation with the Left.
Cowardice became a feature of the Right.

This mistake has haunted Buckleyites for fifty years, because there is
no way to fit conservative ideas about society and culture with what
amounts to race delusion. The fact that race is real, ethnicity is real
and human diversity is immutable, means differences between the races
are eternal. Worse yet, by casting the issue in moral terms, opposition
to the Progressive race program was by definition *immoral*. After all,
if racial differences can only be due to white racism, any white
resistance to reform must be *racism*.

There was always another problem with Progressive race delusion.
Eventually, the Left would run out of ways to address the immutable
racial differences. That means they would run out of possible
explanations, leaving them with just one conclusion. That is, racism is
what defines white people, so the only way to achieve social equality is
to get rid of white people entirely. This is why the media is full of
over-the-top anti-white rhetoric. The Left is now entirely defined by a
visceral hatred of white people.

This leaves conventional conservatism with nowhere to run. When the Left
howls about white privilege, the white guys of Conservative Inc. have no
response, since they cannot get away from the fact that most of them are
white. Then they have the neocons, the shape-shifters of American
politics, who will be white and non-white depending upon how they want
to play an issue. The result is that any resistance of the Left is
automatically a white guy thing and therefore immoral. The prevailing
morality is now explicitly anti-white.

As their ranks dwindle, the Buckleyites seem to have some sense they are
now in a blind alley, but they are baffled as to why. [Super-cuck David
French](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/conversation-on-race-needs-more-constructive-conservative-voices/)
thinks conservatives should try to out-hustle the race hustlers. [Roger
Clegg](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/race-constructive-conservatism/)
would like to hide under his bed until the issue goes away. That is the
default position of conservatives on most things now. [The swarthy
cohort](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/constructive-conservatism-on-race-response/)
 of the Buckleyites thinks the way forward is to bore everyone to death
on the issue and [this
guy](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/constructive-conservatism-on-race-response/)
has decided to hold his breath or something.

The conservative position on the Left’s anti-white turn is a combination
of pleading, groveling and wishful thinking. The reason is they cannot
do anything else as long as they accept the Left’s egalitarianism and
blank slate assumptions. If all the problems of the world are due to
white racism, and all other efforts failed, it is only logical and moral
to get rid of white people, or at least make them sub-citizens. If the
problems persist, then killing off the whites is not just the right
thing to do, it is the only thing that can be done.

Buckley conservatives have written often about the original sin of race,
but the real original sin was their unwillingness to confront
Progressives on their racial delusions. Whatever American Progressivism
was in another age, in this age, for more than half a century, it has
been a cult based on the belief that whites are the root of all evil. It
is a toxic religion that makes Bolshevism look optimistic by comparison.
There was never any reason to accommodate it, other than expediency and
greed. Now it is the ruling ethos of our age.

The opposite of race delusion is not a different form of race delusion.
That is the problem with colorblind society argument. There can be no
such thing as a colorblind society as long as humans populate society.
Man is tribal and hierarchical. These are defining features of our
species. To think otherwise is at odds with biological reality. The
dream of the colorblind society we hear from civic nationalists is just
as nutty as the Left’s delusions about racial justice. Egalitarianism is
not simply wrong, but it is also toxic and perverse.

The foundation stone of western conservatism is the unblinking
acceptance of the human condition, without reservation. The point of
society was to mitigate those aspects of the human condition that
interfere with a peaceful and prosperous existence. The original sin of
the Buckleyites is they agreed to abandon that core understanding. The
result is a movement composed of hollow men, inexorably shuffling toward
their demise, as they plead for a second chance. Sin pays its wages in
death, but reality is eternal.
