---
title: "The Cancer of Fanaticism"
date: "2018-11-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15461"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15461"
---

In my school days, teachers would often say that historians remained
puzzled as to why so many good Germans stood silent as the Nazis took
over or how Russians just allowed the Bolsheviks to go on a murder
spree. The point was to have us think about these events as something
other than just a good guy versus bad guy thing. The lesson of history
was that the forces of good had to be active, not passive. Otherwise,
the people seeking to exploit and subvert society would not meet any
resistance.

Perhaps for school kids, it was a fine exercise, but it was the sort of
thinking that motivated the Nazis and Bolsheviks to murder. These were
not people who thought of themselves as evil or on the wrong side of
history. On the contrary, they saw themselves as the champions of light,
fighting the forces of darkness. As such, they were duty bound to use
any means necessary to win. Maybe the people at the top were more
cynical, as is usually the case, but the rank and file were the truest
of true believers.

The only person I have read, other than myself, who bothered to
contemplate the mindset of the typical Nazi, Bolshevik or Progressive
was Eric Hoffer. His classic book, [*The* *True Believer: Thoughts on
the Nature of Mass Movements*](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B003TO5838/),
is the field guide to understanding the mind of the political zealot.
Over the years I have referenced it many times, when posting about the
American Left. Hoffer’s book is not the definitive work, more of a
skeleton key to unlock a mode of analysis. It is a starting point in
thinking about the Left.

For example, the conventional way of framing politics is the old
Left-Right scale, where Hitler is on the Right and Stalin is on the
Left. This scale was useful during the Cold War as a rhetorical device,
but it never made any sense to describe the modern political universe.
It is why stupid people and the historically ignorant argue that the
Nazis were leftists or that fascism exists today. The demands of that
political scale require everyone to seek the undefined to middle, to
avoid being Hitler or Stalin.

A better scale, especially in the current age, is probably one that has
the true believer at one end and the non-ideological skeptic at the
other. Unlike the old Left-Right scale, there is no one at either end to
point to as the most extreme example. Instead, it is impossible to be
entirely free of belief, as humans are not robots. Therefore, there are
no pure skeptics. At the other end, there is always some way to be just
a bit more pious than the most pious, or at least appear to be, so it is
a line that extends out indefinitely.

Another way to think of it is the skeptical end is zero, the complete
lack of belief or faith, if you will, and the total acceptance of
observable reality. No human is built with a desire to reach zero. It is
like looking into a blast furnace. No matter how beautiful it is, the
closer you get the more intolerable. Just as no one can walk into and
experience the purifying flames of the furnace, no one can ever fully
embrace reality. As a result, the most cynical among us are clustered at
some safe distance from the point of absolute reality.

At the other end, the next point on the scale is like the next step on
the road to paradise and each step is more inviting than the next, at
least to those built to seek it.  Unlike the other end of the scale,
there is no intense resistance, so the only thing that can keep the
believer from seeking greater purity is a leash of sorts, either
internal or external, that limits their ability to seek the ultimate
goal. In the post-Christian West, we are learning that some men lack
that internal governor and will go as far as they can to reach paradise.

That is, of course, what lies beneath the great ideological struggles of
the Western world since the French Revolution. They may not be explicit,
but that is what lies beneath all of them. Communists of various stripes
thought they could create the worker’s paradise in the industrial age.
The radicalism of Robespierre became a secular religion, in which men
were gods. The fascists were a utopian reaction to the utopian radicals
of their age. They simply had a different vision of paradise, which is
why they embraced the same methods.

We see this today with the America Left, which has, in fits and starts,
become increasingly radical and increasingly untethered from reality.
Into the 20th century, it still carried with it the Christian restraint
of accepting that paradise, if it exists at all, is in the next life.
That is all gone now, and the believers are filled with the passion of
the zealot. All that matters to them is the next step on the path.
Whoever is the most pious, the furthest along on the journey, is the
standard until someone else can prove to be pious, further along the
path.

That explains the dogpiling we see from these fanatics, whenever they
discover a heretic or obstacle. They lack anything resembling human
compassion, so the heretic serves only one role for them. That is as a
point of comparison. The more outraged and exited one is about the
heretic, the more pious they are. The heretic becomes point zero on the
graph, so the further one is away from the heretic, emotionally and
spiritually, the further along they are on their journey to paradise.
Thus, the endless piety contests.

It’s why someone like Howard Dean feels righteous in [calling for the
imprisonment of Andrew
Torba](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/413622-howard-dean-gab-should-be-tried-as-accomplice-to-murder-in-synagogue),
for the crime of existing. Dean is not a bright man, but he is filled
with the passion of the true believer. For him and the rest of his cult,
the point of shrieking at Torba is not a practical one. It is spiritual
one. They are showing how far along the path they are away from the
sinner and toward the land of milk and honey. Dean probably would have
called for Torba’s murder, but he did not have to show he was the most
pious.

That is the great challenge of the post-Christian era. The limiting
principle of Christianity, that grace was for the next life, is gone.
That means all the lunatics are off the leash and society has no
intellectual framework for putting them back on the leash. As a result,
the West is afflicted with a metastasizing cancer in the form of
increasingly deranged true believers, determined to extend their quest
for self-abnegation to the whole of society to bring about the end
times. Either the cancer is removed, or the host will die.
