---
title: "No Easy Answers"
date: "2018-07-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14357"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14357"
---

It is natural for people to embrace simple answers to complicated
problems, even when it is obvious that those simple answers have no
chance for success. One reason is complicated solutions imply a lot of
hard work. Most people would prefer as little struggle as possible, so
the option that offers the least amount of effort is always going to
have the most appeal. Then there is the fact that hard solutions mean
hard problems, problems that change things. People do not like change,
so they avoid facing reality as much as they can.

This is the heart of the current crisis. White people in America are
faced with a set of facts that are immutable. Demographics is a
straightforward issue. As of 2011, about 60% of the population was
non-Hispanic white. The percentage of the minor population that is
non-Hispanic white fell below 50% for the first time. Given current
immigration and fertility numbers, America will be a majority-minority
country within a generation. The crisis of our age is not just how we
respond to this reality, but how we come to accept it.

The civic nationalists will move heaven and earth in order to avoid
facing demographic reality. In fact, they do everything they can to
avoid thinking about it. The results of the NY-14 election are a great
example. The civic nationalists latched onto the socialist angle, with
the desperation of a drowning man. The fact that the district is over
60% Hispanic was lost on them. Even when presented with the facts, they
preferred to prattle on about “muh socialism.” The simple answer asks
the least of them, so they go with that.

On the other hand, we have the recently red-pilled. Like ex-smokers,
they demand action now, believing all they have to do is explain what
they have just learned to everyone else, and public opinion will turn on
a dime. Paul Nehlen and Patrick Little are good examples of how this
works. They read Culture of Critique, had a revelation, and then found
the nearest street corner on which they could preach the gospel. All of
their efforts were based on the belief that the solution was simple.
Just red pill everyone and the problem is solved.

Of course, the very act of running for office is a denial of reality. It
assumes the system is fine, but the people are defective. This has been
the guiding star of conservatives for three generations. The simple
solution to the culture war is to get the “right people” in office and
they will solve the problem. The fact that this has proven impossible,
and that the system has led us to this point, is never considered. The
possibility that liberal democracy inevitably leads to cultural suicide
is unpleasant, so even the red-pilled look the other way.

It used to be a popular line on social media to comment about something
being the reddest of red pills. The JQ’ers loved using that line to pose
as the most “woke” people in the movement. The truth is, the reddest of
red pills is accepting that there is nothing to be done, with regards to
our demographic destiny. The die is cast. Barring genocide or some weird
plague, the land currently called America will be majority-minority. We
can seal the borders tomorrow and the facts will not change. There is no
answer to that problem.

Further, liberal democracy assumes things about the citizenry that
cannot be true in a majority-minority nation. The Founders saw this from
the start and worried about factionalism ripping their new creation
apart. Even in a completely white, English-speaking country like early
America, there was lots of diversity. People putting loyalty to their
tribe ahead of loyalty to their nation was a legitimate concern. The
American Civil War was not fought along regional and cultural lines by
accident. It was tribal warfare.

The fact is, another bit of that dreaded demographic reality is that
what comes next cannot include the current system of governance. In a
multicultural society, everyone’s primary loyalty is to their group.
Liberal democracy assumes people are loyal to their narrow economic
interests. The black guy will vote for what works for him, not for what
blacks ad a whole think is in their interest. In an all-white society,
this works as whites are the least tribal humans. In a majority-minority
society, this cannot possibly work.

What comes next for us is what we see in the Middle East. In every
country, one group dominates the rest, imposing their idea of order on
society. Saddam controlled Iraq for his people. The Persians run Iran.
The Muslims run Lebanon, where every hill and valley may as well be its
own country. The rule in multi-cultural, multi-tribal societies is that
one tribe rules the rest. That is our future. The question is which
groups will come to dominate the rest and what sort of system they will
impose in order to remain in charge.

 
