---
title: "The Energy Of Religion"
date: "2018-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14503"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14503"
---

The other day, I caught a little of [Jim
Goad](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0rTZGLPpNpw) on Luke Ford’s
podcast. I did not stick around long, as Goad went into a childish rant
about religion. It was a bit embarrassing to see a middle-aged man act
like a toddler demanding his binky. Then again, the sum total of atheism
is a childish rant, demanding someone else explain the mysteries of
religion to the satisfaction of an atheist. “Tell me how a loving God
would let bad things happen to good people” is the typical rant. It is a
question that can never be answered to their satisfaction.

Atheism is a good example of a negative identity. If Christianity did
not exist, atheists would have to invent it so they could rail against
it. You will never hear an atheist talk about the majesty or beauty of
atheism. In fact, they never talk about it at all. Instead, it is
endless complaining about religion, especially Christianity. The atheist
defines himself entirely by his opposition to religion. It is why they
almost always inform you they are an atheist within five minutes of
meeting them. They are like vegans in that way.

Atheism is nutty on two fronts. One is the core irrationality of it. The
existence of God, gods or some supernatural force that animates the
universe is unknowable. The big religions get that, which is why it is
at the core of those faiths. For that matter, what we understand to be
the universe could just be a kid’s science experiment in another
dimension. Our world exists in a terrarium on the desk of some kid in
the lizard people dimension. These are things we cannot know. That is
the nature of faith.

This is where a “bible believing Christian” tells me I am wrong. They
know God exists because of something they read somewhere in their bible.
Well, you do not know that and saying you do puts you outside
Christianity. The Catholic Church had a word for people who went around
saying they knew things about God. They called them heretics and burned
them at the stake. You can believe in God, and you can believe he plays
a hand in man’s affairs. You can believe anything, but you can only
*know* what is *knowable*.

Belief is one of modern man’s oldest traits. It is assumed it co-evolved
with language, for the simple reason both involve abstract thinking. The
future condition tense, for example is about something that might happen
in the future. This is not something that is real, that you see and
touch. it is something you imagine. To express that, to even think it,
you need language that can contain the idea. That is what language is,
after all. It is a container to hold ideas and concepts that you can
transmit to other humans, across time and place.

Belief works the same way, even simple beliefs that existed with
primitive early man. To imagine a spirit force that animates the wind,
or the tides requires the ability to imagine that which cannot be seen
or touched. Conjuring a spirit force as the explanation for the tides
requires the ability to infer things from observation. This belief
becomes a container to hold this idea. The stories that came to surround
the existence of the spirit force are also containers, to make it easy
to transmit this abstract idea to others over time and place.

As humans settled, their observations about nature mixed with their own
ability to alter nature. The first breeding of dogs, for example, surely
changed how people thought of animals and their fundamental nature.
Throw in the complexity of human relations that arises from settled life
and it is no surprise that belief has become more complex. Those
containers had to hold more complex abstract ideas, so simple beliefs
based in nature were replaced with complex religious systems that could
encompass complex ideas.

Put another way, just as our complex communications systems are part of
what defines us as modern humans, our complex belief structures define
us as modern humans. Belief, especially in the form of mature religious
systems like Catholicism and its offshoots, is an incredibly efficient
way of preserving and transmitting human experience and inferred
knowledge. The Christian Bible contains vast stores of knowledge about
human relations, just about everything one would ever need to know about
human society.

A good way to think of this is to consider the gas tank in your car. It
is for holding gasoline, which is the most amazing energy containing
system we possess. Vast amounts of energy are contained in small
quantities. That energy is so easily released, it requires only a small
spark, yet it is so stable and safe, we lug vast amounts of it around at
high speed on our highways. To top it off, it is relatively cheap. A
thousand generations of human technological advance resides in that gas
tank, powering your car down the road.

That is why it has proven impossible to replace. By now, the West has
probably invested close to a trillion dollars trying to produce a
replacement for gasoline and the equally amazing internal combustion
engine. International huckster Elon Musk has driven himself to madness
trying to build electric cars. Yet, we are no closer to replacing the
internal combustion engine than fifty years ago. Like solar power and
renewable energy, the world of electric cars remains an avatar that is
always over the next hill.

Religion, and for the West that means some iteration of Christianity, is
the gasoline and internal combustion engine of our culture. The long war
on religion is not much different than the war on oil. The one
difference is that unlike with cars, we did not wait for a replacement
before junking the old technology. Instead, the West abandoned what
worked for the fantasy of something better. We keep trying to make civic
religion the replacement, but like Elon Musk, we are being driven mad
trying to make it work.
