---
title: "A Report From The Field"
date: "2018-10-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15381"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15381"
---

One of the stranger things about this age is that even the fiercest
critics of the ruling class are finding it hard to keep pace with the
ruling class confirming their claims. Make some exaggerated statements
about Cloud People and before you have had a chance to defend it from
critics, Cloud People have taken to social media to prove your point. It
is a cliché to say that satire is dead, but it really does feel that
way. How can you satirize people who are everything you mock them for
being, plus some extra to make the point?

A popular theme here is that the people who rule over us act like a
foreign colonial elite, divorced from the reality of our daily life.
They are not just physically removed, but spiritually and intellectually
removed. As a result, they are entirely clueless about what animates our
lives and decisions. This critique is meant to be an exaggeration to
make a point about our elites. [This editorial in the Wall Street
Journal](https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-real-reason-they-hate-trump-1540148467)
by Yale professor David Gelernter, however, is an example of how hard it
is to exaggerate these things.

The difference between citizens who hate Mr. Trump and those who can
live with him—whether they love or merely tolerate him—comes down to
their views of the typical American: the farmer, factory hand, auto
mechanic, machinist, teamster, shop owner, clerk, software engineer,
infantryman, truck driver, housewife. The leftist intellectuals I know
say they dislike such people insofar as they tend to be conservative
Republicans.

Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama know their real sins. They know how
appalling such people are, with their stupid guns and loathsome
churches. They have no money or permanent grievances to make them
interesting and no Twitter followers to speak of. They skip Davos every
year and watch Fox News. Not even the very best has the dazzling
brilliance of a Chuck Schumer, not to mention a Michelle Obama. In truth
they are dumb as sheep.

Mr. Trump reminds us of who the average American really is. Not the
average male American, or the average white American. We know for sure
that, come 2020, intellectuals will be dumbfounded at the number of
women and blacks who will vote for Mr. Trump. He might be realigning the
political map: plain average Americans of every type vs. fancy ones.

Now, Gelernter is one of the few good neocons in that he is much more in
line with the original generation than with the successors. I had a
short correspondence with him a long time ago and he was very nice. No,
I am not the Unabomber. He had written an article about alternative file
structures that I found interesting, so I sent him an e-mail about it,
and we went back and forth on the topic. Unlike his neocon brethren, he
does not sneer at the rest of us or endlessly advocate for our
destruction.

The amusing part about this column is that it needed to be written.
Gelernter is a Yale professor, which means he spends his days around
Cloud People and future Cloud People. As a Trump supporter, he operates
a lot like Dian Fossey, spending every day in an alien environment
observing strange creatures. He no doubt has come to care for them and
appreciate them, but their weirdness remains the main fascination. Yet,
this is a place that is a training ground for the people who will one
day call themselves our leaders.

Now, spend enough time in a foreign place and you will start to take on
the attributes of the natives. You see that in the description of the
“typical American” as something closer to a character from Dickens than
modern reality. Whenever ruling class people talk about the rest of us
they never mention business owners, the self-employed or senior managers
in mid-sized companies. I deal with the latter on a regular basis, and I
rarely encounter a hard-core lefty. They range from right-of-center to
way over on our side of the divide.

That is the strangeness of the current age. It is not that the ruling
class is physically removed from the rest of us, as in the feudal age or
even at the peak of the industrial age. In those times, the people in
the castles and mansions generally believed the same things as the
regular people, at least spiritually. They also felt a duty to maintain
order, not just in their own interests but in the interests of the
populace. They may not have liked the peasants, but they did not hate
them. They certainly felt a duty to look out for them.

In this age, the ruling class believes things that no normal person
accepts. The tranny stuff is the obvious example. That will never be
accepted by normal people as anything other than an insult to their
decency. Cloud People can bellow about this until they are swinging from
a rope, and the people will never accept it. Yet, among the Cloud
People, [gender
fluidity](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/conservative-national-security-expert-reveals-gender-transition-in-new-documentary)
is as sensible as worshiping Gaia. Our ruling class now has an entirely
alien religion upon which is built their moral framework and world view.
They ain’t us.

That is another thing about this age. The Cloud People lack
self-awareness. Its why comedy is no longer funny. A sense of humor
relies on a sense of self and a willingness to make sport of your side.
That can only work on people when they are aware of their own foibles
and quirks. For our rulers, their greatest blind spot is in the mirror.
They imagine themselves as plucky underdogs fighting the man. They think
they are nobly sacrificing for the greater good. They are selfish
self-absorbed children throwing tantrums.

That is why it is hard to be optimistic about a good end to a course
correction. How do you reform a ruling class whose identity is based on
its hatred of the people over whom it rules? How do you fix a people who
are oblivious to the lives of the people they rule and oblivious to the
reality of their own lives? It is easy to understand why the Maoists
sent so many intellectuals to the rice paddies or gave them factory jobs
pushing a broom. It is hard to understand how anyone can be so clueless
and self-absorbed, but here we are.
