---
title: "The Cost Shifting Economy"
date: "2018-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14137"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14137"
---

When most people think of business, they think of people buying and
selling, making something, and selling it or maybe selling a service.
The old adage of buy low and sell high is still the basic idea of
business. Rich people, however, like the people who currently rule over
us, do not think about any of that stuff when they hatch a business
scheme. Instead, they think about how they can shift the cost of doing
business onto the public or some unsuspecting suckers, like the American
taxpayer. It is how rich people do business.

This is not a new idea. Cost shifting was an integral part of the
Industrial Revolution. The factory owner was not covering the full cost
of his labor, for example, because he did not have to cover the cost of
workplace health a safety. Building a bridge was a lot cheaper, because
the cost of worker deaths was not the responsibility of the builder. No
one thought about the costs of environmental degradation in the 19th
century, so companies were free to dump poison into rivers and pump
pollutants into the atmosphere.

It is reasonable to argue that the great fortunes made during the
Industrial Revolution, at least in America, were made in large part from
cost shifting. After all, it was not just the direct costs like labor,
which were shifted onto the public. Once a man got rich, he could afford
to buy politicians, who would pass laws giving the rich business owners
leverage over their smaller competitors. It is not an accident that
those great fortunes were created early in the industrial age, and none
were created in later stages.

The political class in the early 20th century was still strong enough to
push back against the industrial barons. It became politically popular
to push through trust busting to weaken the industrialist. Then it
became popular to push through reforms and allow unions to organize
labor. Conservative proselytizing against these policies over the
decades has obscured the fact that much of it was an effort to push
those private costs back into private hands. The end of the industrial
age corresponded with the end of cost shifting.

Today, cost shifting is everywhere in the economy. Tech companies have
exploited public utilities, like the internet, to provide media
services, without having to pay distribution costs. Amazon built its
business, in part, on not having to collect sales taxes like every other
retailer in America. Currently, their shipping costs are subsidized by
the US Postal Service which loses billions every year. Then there are
the many rackets that rely on government subsidies. Higher education is
just one big upper middle-class subsidy.

The biggest cost shifting racket today is the use of imported labor.
Recruiting, hiring, and training Americans is expensive because America
is a first world society. Citizens expect first world working
conditions. That makes it hard to shift labor costs onto the public, so
companies prefer foreign labor. That way, they can pay lower wages and
they avoid having to deal with employees who know their rights or have
ideas about forming a union. Plus, foreign workers do not sue for things
like discrimination or poor safety conditions.

There is a cost to this sort of predatory labor system, but those costs
are shifted to the public in the form of depressed wages and high social
costs. The migrants in every hospital emergency room are not having
their bills picked up by their employer. When Pablo decides to get drunk
and drive over an American, his employer is not paying the victim’s
family or covering the cost of Pablo’s incarceration. The fact is, there
is nothing more expensive to a society than cheap labor, it is just
hidden from public view.

The question though is whether it is possible to get rich in a mature
economy without massive cost shifting. No great fortunes were amassed
from the end of World War Two until the technological revolution. That
was a period when business costs were shifted back onto business. The
tech revolution made it possible to get around the regulations and laws,
because the government never anticipated a digital economy. That is
starting to change just as the technological revolution is winding down
and the public is pushing back.

Take a look at the newspaper business. Prior to the digital age
newspapers could be run profitably, but they had high labor and capital
costs. In theory, the digital age offered the chance to slash those
costs. The internet does not require printing presses and delivery
trucks. But the internet also slashed their revenue stream. All those ad
dollars are now on eBay, Monster and so forth. Newspapers, without
monopoly power and with no ability to shift their costs to the public,
are all losing money and headed for extinction.

That does not mean it is impossible to turn a profit without cost
shifting, but it does suggest it is impossible to get rich without it.
At least not billionaire rich. That would certainly explain the
fanatical commitment to migrant labor by American business. It also
explains the increasingly opaque financial system. It is not so much
about reducing costs as hiding them in the costs of other goods and
services, like taxes and health care. It is a lot easier and profitable
than trying to make a better product or become more efficient.
