---
title: "Killing Lincoln"
date: "2018-10-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15363"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15363"
---

One of the unmistakable features of modern conservatives is their
not-so-veiled hostility toward heritage America. Some attribute this to
ethnic hostility, given the infiltration of the right by
neoconservatives. Initially, these people made the journey from
communism to anti-communism and were never conservative in temperament.
Of course, the money has made them into unpleasant snobs. All of that is
true to one degree or another, but it obscures an important point about
modern conservatives.

The Official Right has a different interpretation of American history
than most normal white people. Blacks, of course, fixate on slavery and
segregation, so their view of American history is through hostile eyes.
If you ask a normal white American to tell the story of America, he will
start with something about how the Puritans came to America to escape
religious tyranny. Once the colonists got things going, the King tried
to tax the colonists, so there was a revolution.

The Official Right has a different view of American history. They look
at the founding as an imperfect result. First and foremost, they view
the tolerance of slavery, and the enshrining of it in the Constitution,
as a great sin. Rather than embrace the principle of liberty for all,
because all men are created equal, as expressed in the Declaration of
Independence, the Constitution created a compromise. While all citizens
were free and equal under the law, slavery created a class of people who
were not citizens.

In the view of the Straussians, the intellectual movement based on the
writing and teaching of Leo Strauss, the Constitution was not just a
flawed document, but an immoral one, because it violated that core
principle of equality. From this perspective, the Civil War was a
purification of the country, removing the original sin of slavery and
forming a new Union, based on equality and universal liberty. For the
Official Right, America was reborn in the Civil War and Lincoln was the
Moses.

This is why the Official Right has a Lincoln fetish. For example, Rich
Lowry [wrote a Lincoln
book](https://www.amazon.com/Lincoln-Unbound-Ambitious-Railsplitter-Dream/dp/0062123785).
[The
neocons](https://www.commentarymagazine.com/articles/theologian-american-idea/)
treat Lincoln as a prophet. [Jonah
Goldberg](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/04/martin-luther-king-jr-like-abraham-lincoln/)
regularly writes about Lincoln as if he is a god on Mt. Olympus. For
the Official Right, Lincoln is *the* Founding Father. Those guys who
wrote the Constitution are not entirely dismissed, but they are
secondary figures in the story. For the Official Right, the American
story starts with the [Gettysburg
Address](http://www.abrahamlincolnonline.org/lincoln/speeches/gettysburg.htm).

A big part of this is due to a guy named [Harry
Jaffa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_V._Jaffa), who became
something of a cult leader for the neoconservatives. His framing of the
Civil War as the second founding allowed the neocons to see themselves
as proof of the concept. The original founding excluded them from the
narrative, while the second founding not only included them in the story
of America, but it also made them proof of its righteousness. Lincoln’s
America was not just for the founding stock. It was for whoever could
get control of it.

Of course, the old WASP side of the Official Right was also willing to
embrace this notion of the second founding. Since northern conservatism
was mostly just a cleanup crew that followed Progressivism around, the
story of the second founding made their unwillingness to oppose the Left
seem noble. Since Reconstruction, the role of what passes for
conservatism has been to fill the void after every great spasm of
Progressive activism overturned the old order. The Official Right’s job
was to make it all work again.

The problem with this telling of history is it assumes a core immorality
of the founding stock and the institutions they created. It also locks
in the notion that it is the role of Northern reformers to be the
guardians of civic morality. The Left need only appeal to the notion of
universal equality and liberty and their opponents were disarmed. After
all, the party of Lincoln, if it stands for anything, stands for
universal equality and liberty. The conservatism of Harry Jaffa is
nothing but a complex apologia for Progressivism.

A fun gag is to talk to the grandees of the Official Right about
Lincoln’s actual views on race relations. The quickest way to get hurled
into the void by angry Buckleyites is to quote Lincoln on the issue. The
fact is, Lincoln was a man of his age, when it came to race, despite his
zealous opposition to slavery. Like all abolitionists, he did not care
about the slaves, he cared about the slave holder. That was the soul he
sought to save. The slaves themselves were just props on the stage of
the morality play that was abolitionism.

The Official Right can never accept this. One of the criticisms of Harry
Jaffa on this score was that he was not a scholar of Lincoln, so much as
the chief polemicist for the cult that formed around him. His telling of
history left out anything that contradicted his concept of the second
founding. This is true not only from an academic perspective, but also
from a human one. This telling of history leaves out most of the
country. For anyone outside the northern alliance, their ancestors are
either villains or non-entities in the narrative.

That is the source of the low-level hostility toward heritage America
that has been a feature of the Official Right and that is now its face
to the rest of us. Since Gettysburg, the story of America has been the
story of northern hegemony. On one side are the reformers and fanatics,
always looking for a reason to put the lash to the legacy population. On
the other side are the so-called conservatives, who hold most of the
same views, but see their role as making the latest fads work, so the
overall American project can move forward.

The Lincoln fetish that blossomed among so-called conservatives in the
middle of the last century was a form of Stockholm Syndrome. Unable to
conjure and sustain a moral opposition to the Left, they embraced
Lincoln as their Moses. Their acquiescence to the Left was the result of
deeply held principles with roots in the founding, the second founding.
They were champions of “a new birth of freedom — that government of the
people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”

This is the great challenge in attempting to overturn the Judeo-Puritan
orthodoxy that defines the America ruling class. It requires more than
just defeating present day arguments over public policy. It means
restoring large chunks of history that have been systematically erased
by our zealous overlords. Killing off the cult of Lincoln and the
political movement it animates, means telling a better story to the
people charged with tearing it down. That inevitably means killing
Lincoln as the founder of the nation.
