---
title: "The Moral War"
date: "2018-05-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13746"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13746"
---

One of the stranger bits of the current year is how people all over the
ideological map are claiming to be “woke”, “aware” and “red-pilled”
despite believing things that directly contradict things other “woke”,
“aware” and “red-pilled” people believe. The millennial Jewish girl is
woke about the patriarchy, while her last boyfriend is red-pilled on the
JQ, mostly from having dated her. Knowing “what’s really going on” used
to be exclusive to conspiracy theorists, but now it is common in
outsider politics.

The truth is, the truly woke understand that the current crisis is not a
dispute between tribes or a dispute about facts. It is a moral war where
one side controls the moral paradigm and imposes their will on the rest
of us The current fight is about control of public morality, not public
institutions. Facts and reason only play a supporting role in this
fight. Being right on the facts helps win respect, thus giving one moral
capital, but the point of the game to define public morality.

A useful way of seeing is this <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/conservative-universal-health-care-coverage/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post on National Review</a> about health
insurance policy, which is about a “conservative” way of providing
universal health insurance. It has all the usual stuff we have come to
expect from the pseudo-experts. What is not so obvious is the implied
embrace of moral orthodoxy on health care. That is, our collective moral
duty is to make sure everyone, even non-Americans, has health insurance
and presumably, free access to health services.

A few decades ago, no one thought it was our collective moral duty to
make sure everyone had health insurance and equal access to health care.
We understood that poor people had to rely on charity. In the 1970’s,
the free clinic, where young doctors volunteered as part of the
training, was a staple of poor neighborhoods, especially urban ghettos.
No one thought they were a failure as a citizen because the blacks in
the ghetto did not have access to world class health services.

Today, the political class starts with the assumption that only a
thoroughly immoral person does not dream of a world where everyone gets
health insurance and access to the finest medical care. Since this is
impossible, the default assumption is that the state must take control
of the health care system. That means the “far right” is debating “their
friends on the Left” about what color drapes to use in the health care
commissar’s offices, because the Left won the moral argument.

It is why the emerging resistance to the prevailing moral order has to
focus on the moral side of the fight, rather than appealing to facts and
reason. There are things that can be factually true, and morally
abhorrent. Ethic cleaning, for example, is an effective way for one
population to solve a problem of another population. Europeans are the
result of just such a process. While the efficacy of genocide, from the
perspective of nature, is undeniable, we consider it to be morally
repugnant.

With rare exceptions, like cannibalism in times of starvation, the moral
always triumphs over the factual. What we see as moral, and immoral, is
determined not just by what our rulers tell us, but also by what our
peers say. We naturally trust the people close to us first and then to
the people who seem to share our interests and then the people who look
and sound like us. We will embrace the morality of our kin over the
morality of strangers, even when those strangers rule over us.

Over the last several generations, the people who now rule over us have
used every weapon in their arsenal to break our natural trust The war on
families, communities, schools, the sexes, are all part of an
instinctive strategy to break the natural bonds of loyalty that form
public morality. It is why having the facts on our side has never meant
a damn in political debates. A deracinated public, untethered from its
traditions and alienated from its neighbors, inevitably accepts the
morality of the ruling elites.

This is the ultimate red pill. The sermons blasting from the megaphones
of the mass media may be offensive and insane, but they provide a moral
framework. The lack of a credible alternative means most people just
fall in line. This has the added benefit of providing social proof. It
is hard to be against what is being preached to you when no one else is
speaking out against it. People naturally want to be led, but they also
naturally want to be seen by their peers as moral people.

This is why the challenge to the prevailing orthodoxy has to be a
challenge on moral terms, not facts and reason. Appealing to people’s
sense of propriety will also be more effective than appealing to their
reason. This only works if the people making the appeal have standing
and can provide the sort of social proof people crave. It’s why Jared
Taylor has worked so hard to build an organization that offers an
alternative moral framework, but also an alternative community.

It is a fact of history that no revolution succeeded when the ruling
elite was unified and had moral authority. Social change, whether it is
a great wave of reform or an outright revolution, blossoms in times when
the elites are in conflict. The cracks arise when the people begin to
doubt the moral authority of their rulers. The challenge is to create
that alternative moral framework and communities that embrace it. Only
then will elements of the ruling class seek to be tribunes of the
people.
