---
title: "The Un-Americans"
date: "2018-02-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12704"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12704"
---

One of the things that has always been true about America is that you
never question someone’s patriotism unless you have strong evidence.
Part of this is due to the immigrant back story of most Americans, but a
bigger part is the fragmented nature of the country. Patriotism is the
glue that holds the [American
Nations](https://www.washingtonpost.com/pbox.php?url=http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/govbeat/files/2013/11/upinarms-map.jpg&w=1484&op=resize&opt=1&filter=antialias&t=20170517)
together. Different groups from different regions stick together because
of a common national creed. This also works across class lines. The
rich, the middle and the poor are equally patriotic.

One result of this has been a desire by leaders to not look like fops.
Politicians, businessmen, even generals, have always done the every-man
act in order to seem like one of the folks. We do not have a hereditary
class, but we do have rich people. Rather than a rigid class system, the
rich make sure to let the lower classes know they have the same duty to
the country as everyone else. This *soul and soil nationalism*, rather
than blood and soil, is what binds the social classes and the regional
cultures together. At least it used too.

That is certainly not the way things are now. Our cultural and political
leaders go out of their way to signal their hostility to the lower
classes. In fact, it has become so common for our betters to sneer at
us, they are competing with one another to prove just how much they hate
Americans. Of course, they mean white Americans. The swarthy recent
imports are the best, but the old stock, well, they are the worst,
according to the people claiming to represent us. It really is
remarkable just how much they detest us.

A commenter on [Steve Sailer’s
blog](http://www.unz.com/isteve/david-brooks-on-why-you-american-1-0s-are-outmoded-compared-to-american-2-0-immigrants)
asked, in response to [this David Brooks
column](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/29/opinion/east-germany-immigration-usa.html?rref=collection%2Fsectioncollection%2Fopinion-columnists), “Has
there ever been another time in American history when American elites
felt this comfortable expressing such open contempt and hatred for their
fellow citizens?” It is a good question. Certainly, elites from some
sections have hated the people of other sections. Virginia gentry, prior
to the Civil War, thought the goobers from West Virginia were worst than
Indians. New Englanders hate the South. Everyone hates Cleveland.

What we are seeing today is different. It is a public hatred directed at
the fundamental nature of America, and by extension, Americans. [Here is
an example from Bill
Kristol](https://twitter.com/BillKristol/status/954317793247318017) in
response to an immigration segment on Fox News. What Kristol is arguing
is that Americans, as in current citizens, have no right to discuss
immigration policy. It is immoral for us to say anything about it. On
the other hand, non-Americans, people not currently citizens, have a
moral duty to cross the border and settle in your neighborhood.

Kristol is hardly alone. It is not strictly a Jewish thing either.
Lyndsey Graham is not Jewish, as far as anyone knows. He no longer
thinks America should exist. [He denies that the current citizens have
any right to exist
whatsoever.](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2018/01/12/lindsey-graham-americans-country-belongs-to-the-world/) Granted,
he is a shrieking hysteric, prone to hyperbole, but there is only one
way to interpret what he is saying. Being an American is no longer
permissible. In fact, the underlying rationale of the open borders side
is that the current Americans are just no good and need to be replaced.

Now, this turn in elite opinion has been a long time coming. In the
Clinton years, suddenly comfortable Boomers started buying McMansions
and pretending they were too good for the hoi polloi in flyover country.
Progressive politics moved away from the bread and butter economic
issues and onto esoteric identity politics. This snootiness was most
apparent when the Left went to war on Walmart. Once Progressives stopped
pretending to like normal Americans, the [so-called Conservatives joined
them](https://www.nationalreview.com/nrd/articles/432569/father-f-hrer).

Elites have always had a disdain for the lower classes. This has been
true at all times and all places. Elites have also always had a duty to
look out for the interests of the lower classes. The ruling class may
not have liked the people over whom they ruled, but they were duty bound
to look out for them and keep their opinions to themselves. What is
happening in modern America is the ruling class is rejecting their duty
to their fellow citizen, because they have contempt for the very notion
that we are their fellow citizens.

There really is no example from history where the ruling class revolted
and declared war on its subjects. That is where we are today in America.
When Trump gave his State of the Union, most of the people in the
building hated him because he holds onto the old fashioned belief that
the American government should serve the American people. As far as they
are concerned, he’s not just a class traitor, [he is
insane](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/01/03/trump-25th-amendment-mental-health-322625).
After all, why would anyone think the people in charge have any
responsibility to the rabble?

It used to be that “un-American” meant counter to the American system
and the American creed. The people charged with policing that were the
people in charge. Today, being un-American is a badge of honor for the
people in charge. [A US Congressman actually fled the
building](http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/rep-luis-gutierrez-walks-out-of-trumps-state-of-the-union-as-progressives-write-off-bipartisanship-permanently/article/2647638)
when the crowd started in with a patriotic chant during Trump’s address
to Congress. You can be sure he was the toast of the city, a hero to his
coevals in the political class. Bizarre as it sounds, America is a
country now ruled by un-Americans.
