---
title: "Markets Are Not Gods"
date: "2018-05-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13836"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13836"
---

One of the many reason libertarians had no choice but to evolve into the
pep squad for the managerial state is they could never finish their own
sentences without sounding like loons. For example, their reification of
free markets, often has them sounding like primitive shaman. Their
deification of personal liberty would lead them to defending morally
abhorrent things like the poor selling their organs to the rich. In
order to avoid this, they developed the habit of not finishing the
thought.

One of the errors of libertarianism, as well as the various tribes of
the New Right, is the mistaken belief that markets are a Platonic good.
The free market is the end, rather than a means to some end. A popular
trope among those in the post-war New Right was the claim that an
undesirable end, arrived at through principled means, was superior to a
desirable end, arrived at through unprincipled means. It is has always
been a ridiculous idea as a basis for politics.

The marketplace is never perfect and it can often lead to undesirable
ends. This is why it has to be viewed as a tool, one of the many tools a
society has to better itself and insulate itself against its own
internal division. A fair and open marketplace for housing, for example,
will result in the maximum amount of affordable housing. Open borders
and unfettered trade will lead to the corruption of the people’s laws.
An unfettered recreational drug market will end up with <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2018/feb/13/meet-the-sacklers-the-family-feuding-over-blame-for-the-opioid-crisis"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this.</a>

A less emotional example of this is the market for concert tickets. It
used to be that states protected the primary market by suppressing the
secondary market. The internet and the unwillingness of the people in
charge to enforce the laws has changed that. The primary market has now
been captured by the secondary market. The bulk purchase of tickets by
brokers now makes them the primary player in the market. In fact, they
can <a
href="https://nypost.com/2018/05/07/with-ticket-sales-in-the-tank-taylor-swift-makes-unprecedented-move/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">control</a> the market, by manipulating
availability.

*With the curtain rising on her “Reputation” tour, Taylor Swift
blinked.*

*She buckled by having Ticketmaster turn off resale ticket listings on
its interactive venue charts for the first leg of her North American
tour, according to music-industry veterans.*

*The tour, which begins on Tuesday in Glendale, Ariz., shows plenty of
primary tickets still available for the first nine shows.*

*But the delisting of secondary, or resale, tickets — a move experts
called unusual if not unprecedented — makes the inventory of available
seats seem much smaller.*

*On July 20, for example, Swift is scheduled to appear at MetLife
Stadium as part of her tour’s third leg.*

*About half the seats still available for that show are represented by
red dots on Ticketmaster’s venue chart, meaning they are up for resale.*

*The other half, represented by blue dots, signify primary sales. Those
are the only dots currently visible to visitors trying to score tickets
for a show on the first leg of “Reputation.”*

*Ticketmaster’s shutting down ticket resales for Swift’s early shows
perplexed many in the industry because it handed secondary sales to
competing resellers like StubHub.*

*On blockbuster tours, Ticketmaster admittedly makes more revenue on
ticket resales than primary sales.*

*It also left some wondering if Ticketmaster was taking orders from its
parent company, Live Nation, which as the tour’s overseas promoter, has
much riding on “Reputation” being perceived as a success.*

Now, the libertarian argument is that the venue should simply auction
off the tickets for their show and not worry about the secondary market,
because the bidding process would no doubt undermine the secondary
market. The trouble is, there are no pure markets, so the sophisticated
players in the market will game the auction just as they game the direct
sales market now. In other words, there can never be a free market, as
long as there is informational asymmetry.

If we stop pretending that a free market is an end in itself, we can
think about the desirable ends would like to see in something like the
concert business. Obviously, one end is for the performer and the venue
owner to make a profit. Without them, there is no market for concert
tickets. Secondarily, you want the fans to have access to tickets at a
price that they see as reasonable. The libertarian idea of an initial
auction solves one problem, but it requires shutting down the secondary
market, *like we used to do*.

This is a trivial issue, as the world is not going to stop spinning if
Taylor Swift can no longer make a living doing concerts. In fact, if all
of our mass market entertainments dried up tomorrow, people would find
new ways to entertain themselves. The point I’m trying to make is the
market place, is a means to an end. When thinking about what’s happening
to us, the question is not how best to get people cheap stuff. It is
about the kind of society we want the type of people we want in it.
