---
title: "Learning From The Past"
date: "2018-11-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15486"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15486"
---

Over the weekend, something that kept popping into my mind was that the
paleocons have never spent much time thinking about what they did wrong
during their long struggle with the neoconservatives. They spend a lot
of time rehashing old fights and discussing the things they fought, like
the Civil Rights Act or the Reagan amnesty, but they always seem to stop
at the water’s edge. It is almost as if they agree with the left that
these policies were inevitable, due to the tides of history.

Part of it, of course, is the losing side never wants to spend a lot of
time dwelling on their own failures. Even the humbling experience of
being hurled into the void is not enough to overcome ego. We see that on
this side of the great divide, where some alt-right figures simply
cannot come to terms with the screw-ups. This reality does not prevent
others from being objective about these things. History may be written
by the winners, but the great lessons are always on the losing side.

One lesson that was more obvious in the past than in recent days, is
that the paleocons always assumed the other side would be bound by the
rules. They were plenty suspicious of the left, but they could never
bring themselves to think of them as outside the set of rules that
decent people applied to themselves. You see this in their willingness
to participate in politics. Read old paleoconservative writing and they
never question the basics rules of the game.

The one exception was Sam Francis. In *Beautiful Losers* he wrote about
the difference between what he called the Old Right and the New Right.
For him, the former was the conservatism of the 19th century, which was
legalistic and theoretical. The latter was the Buckley style
conservatism in the Reagan years. This was a conservatism willing to
engage in the nuts and bolts of politics. He predicted that their
embrace of the liberal rules would eventually lead them to embrace
liberal ends.

He was right about the Buckley crowd, but the paleos escaped that fate,
only to be hurled into the outer darkness, spending their time either
trying to maintain their orbit around the progressive sun or lamenting
their fate. The paleos were not good at building alternative
institutions and as a result they were always living like outlaws in a
kingdom run by the left, with [so-called
allies](https://www.nationalreview.com/) willing to act as sheriff. The
people hurling paleocons into the void were always their friends on the
Right.

That is one of the more obvious truths about past failures, but another
less obvious mistake remains unexamined. Some time ago I was sent a link
to [this post by Thomas
Fleming,](https://www.reckonin.com/thomas-fleming/what-is-to-be-done)
about how to begin the fight again with the Left. It is a well-written
post by a great writer, so it is worth reading simply on aesthetic
grounds. It has one flaw, however, and that is it repeats the same
mistake paleos and others always seem to make when plotting an
alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy. That is, the obsession with
principles.

A point I have become fond of making, particularly at secret handshake
societies, is that principles are the things winners create after they
win, to justify their winning. Winners always create an origin story for
themselves that suggests their dominance is the product of the moral
order. The fetishization of Lincoln, for example, happened after the
winners at Gettysburg were firmly in control of the conquered. The
spasmodic hooting about unity we hear from the modern Left, is an
aspiration they rejected when they were the rebels.

A mistake paleos and others often make is to assume that having a goal
requires a well-reasoned set of principles, by which they mean morals.
Some goals contain within them all the justification they need., For
example, Jews want their promised land to be an explicitly Jewish
country. Similarly, White Nationalists want a land of their own that is
the exclusive domain of whites. In both cases, the goal is the
principle, and the principle requires no further explanation. To do
otherwise suggests the goal is negotiable.

Similarly, paleos were prone to negotiating with themselves. The endless
debating over principles is just an excuse for not moving forward. It
may not be intentional, but that is the result. When the conqueror sets
out to sack a city, the one thing he never does is wait until he has a
detailed administrative plan for managing the city after the siege. The
winners of life never lose sight of this truth. Principles are the
things you create after the victory to lock in your gains and give the
people a reason to celebrate your dominance.

Another thing that all forms of conservatism in the democratic era have
struggled to understand is the role of the pseudo-intellectual trimmer.
These are the sorts of people who attach themselves to right-wing
movements and immediately begin working to turn them into useful losers.
A good recent example of this is [Ross
Douthat](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/13/opinion/sunday/the-different-ends-of-nevertrump.html),
who thinks the goal of his tribe is to infiltrate populist movements and
then purge them of anything useful, turning them into a uniform that
poseurs like himself can wear in the morality play.

This is exactly what happened with the Tea Party. What started out as an
authentic white middle-class revolt was quickly [hijacked by
charlatans](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14998). In fact, the
[grifters](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14998#comment-73544) arrived
so quickly it looked like the Normandy invasion. These types of people
operate in the same way English pirates operated in the age of sail.
That is, the people in charge give them a free pass, if they meddle in
the affairs of dissidents. The Right has never figured out how to defend
itself from this attack or even tried to understand it.

Finally, the thing that got many paleos in trouble is they could never
figure out how to keep the lunatics out of their thing. I’m talking
about the people who cannot control themselves and say nutty things in
public. The Buckelyites just purged anyone they saw as bad for their
racket. In fact, [it is what defines
them](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/11/conservatives-need-to-draw-the-line-at-steve-king/).
Paleos hated this about the Buckleyites and the neocons, but they never
found an alternative. As a result, they were often put in the position
of defending people who maybe should have been reprimanded instead.

The alt-right is a good recent example of this. What started as an edgy
internet movement was plagued by old school nutters from the white
nationalist subculture, as well as by loons who simply lack
self-control. As a result, they became defined by guys like Chris
Cantwell, instead of people like Mike Enoch. An outsider movement can
only be successful if it offers a respectable face to the skeptical
public. Policing the ranks for lunatics and subversives is a
requirement, but one past movements never mastered.
