---
title: "In Defense of Error"
date: "2018-12-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15968"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15968"
---

The other day, I saw an exchange on Twitter between two smart people and
one of them pointed out that the other had been wrong about the issue in
the past. The details are not important as nothing serious ever gets
discussed on Twitter, but what struck me is how even smart people can
resort to this sort of score keeping. In the context of an internet
exchange, it is about as sensible as claiming the other guy has cooties.
It is just a childish way of dismissing an argument or criticism without
examining it.

It is a form of the fallacy of the undistributed middle. Someone could
have a great record of being right about a topic, but those past
predictions have little or even no connection to the current prediction.
A gambler can get on a great roll at the craps table. It does not mean
he will keep winning. This also means that the legendary loser at craps
can win occasionally too. That is the way it is with intellectual
endeavors. You will get a lot wrong, but you can get a lot right too.
Intellectual advancement is the story of trial and error.

Anyway, it got me thinking about something that turns up a lot on the
dissident right. That is the quest to purify one’s past. It seems that a
lot of people feel they should be ashamed of having been a libertarian
or an unthinking conservative, who listened to Rush Limbaugh and voted
Republican. Often you hear people talk about their journey to this side
of the great divide as an awakening. It is not a terrible way to frame
it, as it certainly feels that way when you are going through it.

I know in my case, I still remember when it dawned on me that the Bush
people were serious about the spreading democracy stuff. From 2001 until
2005, I was quite confident that the democracy talk was mostly public
relations. It was a way to troll the Left, by using their language as a
justification for Afghanistan and Iraq. What was really going to happen
is the CIA would find a friendly strong man to take over as an
authoritarian. We would install our guy and that would be that.

Even during the election with the purple finger stuff, I was quite
confident it was just a show for domestic consumption. Then, it became
clear they really thought they could turn Iraq into a European style
democracy that would be an ally to Israel and help with the coming war
with Iran. The scales fell from my eyes, and I quickly moved from
thinking the neocons were wrong to thinking they were crazy. Bill
Kristol was just as deranged as the guys talking about the invisible
imam and the end times.

Now, I take solace in knowing that I was not the only one to make this
error. Tucker Carlson often talks about how he supported the war on
terror and then realized it was going to be a catastrophe. John
Derbyshire has written about his regret for having gone along with
something he always sensed was a bad idea. Lots of smart and skeptical
people were fooled by the Bush gang, so I do not lose sleep over it.
Neocons are very good at turning virtues into vices. It is their nature.

The thing is though, I have always thought the two best things to happen
to our side are the Bush years and the Obama years. For men of my
generation, the Bush year opened our eyes about the reality of the
Buckley Right. Whatever the Buckley project was at the start, by the
1990’s it became a vehicle to undermine heritage America, every bit as
toxic and dangerous as Progressivism. The Obama years created more race
realists that an army of Charles Murrays and Steve Sailers.

The point is, mistakes have consequences, but they are often a necessary
intermediate step in discovery. This is true of science and technology,
and it is true in the evolution of culture and society. The bungling of
guys like Richard Spencer, which set off the aggressive campaign of
censorship and de-platforming, has opened a lot of eyes, especially on
our side, to the realities facing us. If the alt-right had been more
prudent early on, the battle lines would not be so clear now.

A point I made on [RamZPaul’s Christmas
special](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6xzzUa7-VAw) was that the
aggressive censorship and the fallout from it will make us better in the
long run. James Edwards did not seem to like that point, but I am right
about this. This is not a game you win by mastering the other side’s
rules. There are no rules, just force. Our side will be better as we
learn how to navigate around the searchlights, armed patrols, and
ideological enforcers. The path to victory is not in the appeal to their
virtue, but the exploitation of their vices.

In a way, the dissident right is the result of error. Much of the
skepticism that defines this side of the great divide is the result of
having been wrong about a great many things, especially the integrity of
the people in charge. Just as science and technology are the story of
error, whatever comes next is going to be the result of many mistakes.
It is what an awakening is, when you think about it. It is that point
when you realize you have been wrong about important things and begin to
figure out the right answers.
