---
title: "The Haunting"
date: "2018-07-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14329"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14329"
---

A couple of years ago, John Derbyshire talked about the sexual aspect of
what ails the West. He referenced [this
comment](http://www.unz.com/isteve/forecasting-a-million-muslim-mob-sailer-on-tetlocks-superforecasting/#comment-1284375)
to Steve Sailer, in one of Sailer’s blog posts. No doubt others have
noted that women in the West seem to be the driving force behind things
like immigration. The angle is always that the women are ascendant
because the men have grown soft. As Derb talked about in that podcast,
the girls are inviting in the swarthy foreigners, because they are
dissatisfied with their men.

That is appealing to men, especially older men, as older men are always
sure that the younger generation is soft. When I was a boy, my
grandfather would say, “In my day it was iron men and wooden ships. Now,
it is iron ships and wooden men.” I am an old man, but not so old that
my grandfather lived in the age of sail. It was just his way of saying
that his generation was tough, while the younger generation was soft.
The thing is though, this assumes that only men have changed.

Maybe a better way of thinking about the sexual aspect of our cultural
crisis is that both men and women are haunted by different specters. For
instance, our women are increasingly deranged, not because men are
wimps, but because the traditional sex roles no longer exist. This
leaves them as free radicals, with the wacky fads out of feminism and
gender studies, orbiting them like unpaired electrons. Women are like
bees without a hive, so they become erratic.

[Here is a good
example](http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/393786-cynthia-nixon-publicly-announces-her-son-is-transgender-on-trans-day-of).
This woman is an angry lesbian. She has been a public nuisance for a
long time, ranting and raving about homosexual causes. Self-identified
lesbians are 1.3% of the population, [according to the
CDC](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhsr/nhsr077.pdf). That is a small
club, but not select enough, so she is now claiming her son is
transgender. Like so many of our women, this woman is in a race to the
most bizarre position imaginable. It is the need for attention, applied
to inappropriate things.

The male side of this coin features a nostalgia for a lost future. It is
[a form of romanticism](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12154), where
men imagine a past that led to a different present. All of those
decisions by prior generations, have led to a present where there is no
point to being man, because there is no role for men. The only place
where men are needed is the military, but even there, the multicultural
nags are ruining things. It is not a longing for the past, but a longing
for a different present.

If you look at the various sub-groups within the Dissident Right, they
are almost exclusively male. The alt-right certainly has a strong
romantic streak. Their embrace of the fascist aesthetic was always based
on an imaginary version of history. The PUA guys go the other way,
embracing a cynical and callous view of women as nothing more than a
game to be won. It is an absurd version of the alpha male. Weirdos like
Patriot Prayer are trying to create a space for men to be men.

The result of all this is men and women are rocketing off in different
directions, seeking something that fills the void left by traditional
sex roles. The trouble is the current culture views traditional sex
roles as toxic. That not only directs the search for biological
fulfillment toward the wrong answers, but it also makes the right answer
the polar opposite of what is acceptable. The result of this is
blue-haired feminists screaming into the void and the cartoonish primal
scream of the [Bronze Age
Mindset](https://www.amazon.com/Bronze-Age-Mindset-Pervert-ebook/dp/B07DJQ89TD).

It is why polling on so many issues divide sharply between males and
females, married people, and single people. That last part is probably
the most important, as people living the traditional married life may as
well be in a different country. The former have a point, while the
latter are searching for one. The former see politics as a necessary
burden, while the latter view it as the hunting ground for personal
fulfillment. It is why Antifa is run by girls and the alt-right is run
by boys.

Of course, the specter driving all of this was created in the bygone
era, the one where the West still had its traditional social
arrangements. The increasing animosity toward baby boomers has a lot to
do with the fact that the young blame their parents and grandparents for
screwing up the system. This is certainly true in America, where the
boomers inherited a world of order and then set about destroying it,
replacing it with a world of disorder and irrationality.

That really is the specter haunting all of us, regardless of our age. It
all seems so unnecessary and pointless. What was so monstrous in the
50’s and 60’s that it spawned a generation hell bent on self-abnegation?
That is the specter that haunts our age. It is as if the point of the
cultural revolution were to create a society of people infected with the
existential attitude. The result of the revolt was a people gripped by a
sense of disorientation, confusion, and dread.
