---
title: "The Rock Fight"
date: "2018-05-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13844"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13844"
---

The on-going investigation into FBI shenanigans trundles on and it is
easy to be a bit cynical about the whole thing. It’s clear that the [DOJ
and FBI are
stalling](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/doj-fbi-slow-walking-release-of-documents-hoping-for-a-blue-wave-in-midterms-darrell-issa),
hoping the Democrats take the House thus relieving them of their duties
to Congress. The modern habit of the Washington elite giving themselves
a pass for their bad behavior should lead sensible people to assume
nothing comes of this. After all, it involves some of the biggest
players in the semi-permanent Washington ruling class and they are above
the law.

On the other hand, the list of people who tangled with Trump and then
came to a bad end is long enough now to think it is not a coincidence.
The mass media and NeverTrump loons like to paint the guy as a buffoon,
but he is a very savvy political athlete. What makes it work for Trump
is that when guys like [Eric Schneiderman go up in
flames](https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/four-women-accuse-new-yorks-attorney-general-of-physical-abuse),
it looks like Trump was not involved, but [curiously
prescient](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/377751074628988929).
The fact is, Trump plays rough and the people in the FBI scandal have
every reason to fear retribution from him.

That is the thing with Trump. He is a genuine politician, who does not
have his head in the clouds or frets about getting a little dirty in a
street fight. This is something we have not seen on the Right in
national politics since forever. Reagan, on occasion, would throw some
sharp elbows, but all of his worshipers since then have either confined
themselves to the world of forms or found a reason their principles
prevented them from getting into the fight. The result has been a once
sided drubbing of the Right by the Left.

The great Sam Francis observed this about the America Right a long time
ago. The Old Right, as he called what think of as CivNats, lived in the
world of ideas. They operated under the assumption that their ideas
would take human form and do the practical work of politics without the
creators leaving their salons. You hear echoes of this with libertarians
and TruCons today. Every discussion ends up with them quoting some
theorist and waving around their Cato supplied pocket Constitution like
it is a magic talisman.

On the other hand, the New Right, as he labeled the neoconservatives and
Buckleyites, were willing to engage in practical politics, but
assiduously within the rules, as currently written. This meant they were
always captive to those rules. This gave the Left the whip hand, as they
could change the rules whenever the Right was getting the upper hand in
politics. The Buckleyites and neocons, instead of challenging the
managerial state, have been absorbed by it and have become its
champions. Sam Francis predicted this.

The fact that neocons and Buckleyites have been assimilated into the
Borg that is the managerial class is evidenced by the people
participating in the FBI scheme. You have neocons, their former critics
and hard thumping Progressives working together in this conspiracy.
Further, the extreme Left, which operates the mass media, is endlessly
promoting the narrative cooked up by the conspirators. Whatever minor
quibbles these people have with one another, defending the managerial
state comes first.

It is why, to some degree, the alt-right and its fellow travelers punch
so far above their weight and scare the people in charge. Outside of a
few basic ideas, the alt-right is non-ideological. Put three of these
guys in a room and they have ten different arguments, depending upon how
the alcohol is flowing. At the same time, this loose collection of the
like-minded is willing to engage in ad hoc guerrilla war against the
managerial class, mostly for the laughs. It is, in part, why the
managerial class has overreacted to them.

That brings us back to how Trump is managing the seditious plot,
currently being exposed by Congress and the Inspector General. The Right
side of the managerial class is puzzled and frustrated by Trump’s
unwillingness to put on his good government cap and yap about the
process. The ridiculous bleating from National Review types about his
boorishness or his recklessness reveals a central fact about Trump and
the emerging political movement he has set off. Trump is not of the Old
Right or New Right, and neither are his supporters.

For its part, the Left is unnerved by his success at undermining the
Mueller plot, while exposing the FBI treachery. They are grasping the
reality of Trump. He is not a guy committed to winning them over with
theory or looking for a way to join the club. Popular lore says he set
off on this journey because he was insulted by the snubs from the
political elite. The people peddling it hope it means he wants to join
their club and will do so on their terms. It turns out that Trump is
looking to bust up the club and make his own.

There is a lesson here. A culture war is a zero-sum game. The ground you
gain can only come at the expense of the people in charge and there can
never be peace. Complex political theories and carefully elucidated
principles have no place in a culture war, or even a political war. It
is a rock fight and that means you have to use whatever is handy to take
out the other guy. After you win and secure his turf, then you take a
break and maybe use the off time to think about theory. Principles are
for the victory party.
