---
title: "Peisistratos"
date: "2018-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14728"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14728"
---

In the late 7<sup>th</sup> and early 6<sup>th</sup> century BC, ancient
Athens fell into crisis. As is often the case with the classical period,
historians disagree about the causes. One issue upon which everyone
agrees is that economics played a part. The wealthy families had become
an oligarchy, owning most of the land. Debt-bondage was common. The
collateral for loans in that age was the person. This meant that if the
Athenian tenant farmers did not pay his rents, he and his children could
be seized as slaves.

The way it worked is the farmer would borrow to finance the operations
of the farm. If the farm did not produce enough to pay the debt, he
would fall into debt bondage. In theory, he literally worked off his
debt, so it was a temporary status. There was a special status in the
law for someone in bondage for a debt, versus the normal type of slave.
The reality was that debt bondage was becoming a permanent state for a
large fraction of the population. The result was increasing social
strife between the classes.

Rivalry between the leading families was also a problem. As is always
the case when there is social unrest, some factions tried to take
advantage of it and gain power for themselves at the expense of their
rivals. in 632 BC, an Athenian nobleman named Cylon made an unsuccessful
attempt to seize power. Many Greek city-states had seen opportunistic
noblemen take power on behalf of sectional interests. Factions sought to
gain control of the state, to gain an edge over rivals.

There were also regional rivalries that exacerbated the personal and
economic turmoil of the age. The rural population had different
interests than the urban population. Traders had different interests
than farmers. Since most Athenians lived in rural settlements, and debt
bondage was an increasing problem, Attika was increasingly resembling
Sparta, where a small elite ruled over a large population of helots.
This exacerbated the personal and economic rivalries convulsing Athens
at the time.

Regardless of the causes, Athens was at a crisis point and fear of a
tyrant rising to impose order, led the Athenians to turn to the wisest
man in Athens. That man was Solon, a statesman, lawmaker and poet. He
was of noble birth, but he was sometimes described as a self-made man,
suggesting his family was of modest means. In 595 BC Solon had led the
Athenian forces against the Megarians, resulting in a heroic victory.
Allegedly, it was the power of his poetry that inspired the Athenians to
carry the day.

By the time the Athenians turned to Solon, he was rich, a famous poet
and a famous military leader. Solon was awarded temporary autocratic
powers by Athenian citizens on the grounds that he had the wisdom to
sort out their differences in a peaceful and equitable manner. His task
was to find a way to resolve the factional rivalries. The result was a
series of economic, legal and moral reforms that are remembered to this
day as the Reforms of Solon. Once instituted, Solon gave up his position
and left Athens.

The Athenians agreed to abide by these reforms for a period of ten
years, but within a few years the old problems and rivalries were back.
In addition to the old problems, the defects in the reforms created new
problems. Some officials refused to perform their duties as described,
while other posts were left vacant. The reforms worked if Solon was
around to lend his name to them. Once Solon was gone, the result was
worse than before the reforms. As a result, the people blamed Solon for
the breakdown of order.

Eventually one of Solon’s relatives, Peisistratus, ended the
factionalism by force, becoming tyrant and confirming what everyone
feared would happen prior to Solon’s reforms. Solon was still alive, and
he mocked the Athenians for allowing Peisistratus to seize power, by
standing outside his home, wearing his uniform. Despite being driven
into exile twice, Peisistratus was eventually able to impose order on
Athens and he ruled as tyrant until his death. His sons succeeded him
and ruled until 510 BC.

Solon gets positive treatment from history for having tried to preserve
Athenian democracy and for having some success at curbing the power of
the aristocrats. Aristotle credited Peisistratus with laying the
foundation for the eventual rise of Athens. He changed the economy to be
based on trade and he reformed agriculture, away from grains to olives.
He did this by offering loans to farmers so they could make the
transition. He also built a water system capable of sustaining a large
population.

The lesson here is that reform is rarely successful, unless it is
imposed by force. The reason is the status quo will always be preferable
to those in power. Any reform through mutual consent must involve
trade-offs that do nothing to alter the fundamental power arrangements.
That was the defect of Solon’s reforms. While they temporarily
alleviated the results of the power arrangements in Athenian society,
they never attempted to alter them. The result of Solon’s reforms was
nothing more than a pause in the factionalism.

This is something to keep in mind in the current age. The problems we
see are not caused by errors in voting or mistakes in public policy.
There is an underlying systemic problem that cannot be voted away. At
the end of the Industrial Revolution, similar problems existed, but the
political class was strong enough to impose reforms on the industrial
barons and alter the power relationships in American society. That was
possible because politics was a power center with the monopoly on
violence.

Today, the political class is composed entirely of hired men, speaking
on behalf of the interests that back their political careers. In fact,
most are just actors, hired because they fit the right profile and look
good on television. They have no power. This is the problem Trump is
confronting as he tries to push through reforms. It’s not that Congress
opposes these reforms. It’s that their paymasters oppose the reforms.
He’s dealing with flunkies and errand boys. We don’t need a Solon right
now. We need a Peisistratus.
