---
title: "Black Nixon"
date: "2018-01-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12706"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12706"
---

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Black-Nixon.jpg"
class="wp-image-12723 size-full" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 600px) 100vw, 600px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Black-Nixon.jpg 600w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Black-Nixon-300x200.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Black-Nixon-450x300.jpg 450w"
width="600" height="400" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Black-Nixon.jpg)

If you read [the Articles of Impeachment against Richard
Nixon](http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/?pid=76082), what jumps out to
a modern reader is just how weak the case was against the President.
Impeachment is a political action, so the rules of evidence we see in a
courtroom don’t apply, but even so, the allegations seem weak in
comparison to [those against Bill
Clinton](https://www.congress.gov/bill/105th-congress/house-resolution/611).
The case against Nixon was what we would now call a corrupt enterprise,
like a mobster. Bill Clinton, in contrast, was accused of specific
crimes that he committed while in office.

In both cases, the key question to be decided by the political class was
what was best for the political system. The guilt or innocence of either
man was a secondary consideration, outside of the impact on the
political system. In the case of Nixon, his decision to resign, rather
than fight impeachment, was all about defending the political order.
Whether or not it was proper to run Nixon out of town or allow Clinton
to remain in office is debatable, but the calculus at the time was about
the best interests of the political order.

In fact, it was the political nature of both cases that led to vastly
different results. In the case of Nixon, the move to impeach him was the
denouement to a long war between Nixon and the Washington establishment.
They wanted him impeached because they hated him. On the other hand, the
impeachment of Clinton was unsuccessful because the ruling elite decided
to defend him. There was no doubt that he was guilty of perjury and he
brought dishonor to the office, but Washington insiders were willing to
give him a pass.

These two events are relevant to our age, especially the case of Nixon,
as evidence emerges of serious corruption at the end of the Obama years.
It has been clear for a while that the ridiculous Russian hacking stuff
and the special prosecutor were a smokescreen to conceal something else.
[Months ago,](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11660) I made the point
that the most likely thing being concealed was corruption within the
FBI. It was the most obvious answer, as Mueller, Rosenstein and Comey
were the guys leading the charge on it.

What we are learning now is the Department of Justice was most likely
compromised by the same people corrupting the FBI. [This story from The
Hill](http://thehill.com/opinion/campaign/370019-was-lynch-coordinating-with-comey-in-the-clinton-investigation)
reveals that former Attorney General Loretta Lynch was coordinating with
FBI Director Comey on the Clinton e-mail scandal. Given the relationship
between Lynch and the Clintons, it is safe to assume she was keeping
them up to speed on the process. It is also possible that Lynch never
stopped working for the Clintons and was steering the investigation.

The link between Peter Strzok, the Chief of the FBI’s *Counterespionage
Section*, and the Clinton operation is important, because of what is
being learned about what the FBI was doing during the election. [This
detailed write up from Conservative
Treehouse](https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2018/01/19/the-evidence-inside-the-house-intel-committee-four-page-fisa-memo/)
is impressive, but quite long. It pulls together all of the public
information related to the top-secret memo floating around Washington.
Serious people are talking about what is in that memo, characterizing it
as the worst scandal in American history. That’s not nothin’.

The narrative that explains all of this is that high ranking people in
the FBI, maybe even Director Comey, were working with the Justice
Department to help Hillary Clinton in the election. [That has seemed
clear for a while now](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12246). What is
becoming clear now is Fusion GPS, the political dirty tricks operation,
functioned as a cutout for the FBI and the Clinton campaign. The FBI
shared secret intel with Fusion, who then sold it to the Clinton
campaign or distributed to the media at the direction of the campaign.

There is a word for all of this and it is called treason. It is one
thing for a career intelligence officer to go bad and start selling
intelligence to a foreign government. That just a part of the life of a
nation state. It is an entirely different thing when senior members of
the political class are working to undermine the fundamentals of the
political system. It is the sort of thing that results in hangings or
civil wars. It’s why the infamous memo has not been released, [despite
the fact it could be leaked or declassified by the White
House](https://theintercept.com/2018/01/19/republicans-have-four-easy-ways-to-releasethememo-and-the-evidence-for-it-not-doing-so-will-prove-them-to-be-shameless-frauds/).

That is what brings us back to Dick Nixon. The mere hint of abuse of the
FBI and CIA by the political side of the White House was considered
enough of a threat to warrant impeachment. What we have here is worse
than anything Nixon was accused of doing, even by his fiercest critics.
Stuff that is orders of magnitude worse went on in the Obama White
House. Imagine senior FBI men, faced with federal prison, agreeing to
rat out major political actors. Imagine them pointing the finger at
Obama or his top aides.

Again, this is fundamentally a political problem, but it cannot be
ignored. That is probably why no one is in a hurry to release that memo.
It is not just about partisan politics. Imagine how blacks would react
if we had a full blown political crisis that paints Obama as worse than
Nixon. That is looking increasingly possible. People have forgotten
about the systematic abuse of the IRS, using it against conservative
activists in the run-up to the 2012 election. There is only so much that
can be swept under the rug to protect Obama.

This will not end well.
