---
title: "Fences Make Good Neighbors"
date: "2018-01-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Immigration
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12551"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12551"
---

During the election, when Trump was still just an annoyance, the obvious
way to cut him off at the pass was to co-opt his issues. This is a tried
and true way for establishments to neutralize outside challengers in
electoral politics. In the case of Republicans, they just needed their
guys to take immigration and trade seriously. A guy like Kasich was
perfect, as he had been fairly good on both issues in his career. He
could have been the reasonable guy and stolen both issues.

That did not happen, of course. Instead, all of the candidates went the
exact opposite direction, thinking that their ticket to the winner’s
circle was to be the most over-the-top anti-Trump loon on the ballot. It
was a crazy thing to watch. No matter the reason, the decision has
turned out to be a big one. In the fullness of time, it will be looked
upon as one of those small decisions that had world changing
consequences, and not just for Americans. [News brings word that Mexico
is looking for a Trump of their
own](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/01/07/mexico-trump-populism-209089).

*Andrés Manuel López Obrador’s campaign rhetoric can make him sound like
a Mexican Donald Trump.*

*The left-leaning front-runner in Mexico’s presidential race is overtly
nationalistic, pushes “Mexican people first” policies and peppers his
speeches with anti-establishment slogans that thrill the working-class
Mexicans who flock to his rallies.*

*But while his style might be distinctly Trumpian, his policy
prescriptions could not be more different. Indeed, the election of the
former mayor of Mexico City could be disastrous for Trump and his
administration, creating an even more charged relationship between the
two countries that could reduce cooperation on border security, trade
and immigration.*

*That worries U.S. politicians and business leaders, including House
Homeland Security Chairman Mike McCaul (R-Texas), who was not shy about
expressing his disdain for López Obrador at an event last fall hosted by
the U.S.-Mexico Chamber of Commerce.*

*“I do not want to see President \[López\] Obrador take office next
year,” McCaul said, adding he fears the Trump administration could
increase those chances if it mishandles talks on revamping the
24-year-old North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada.*

We live in a time when every event will be cast as bad news for Trump,
every Trump move will be bad news for us and all the good news will be
pitched as bad news in the long run. This was the pattern in the Reagan
years. The booming economy was always bracketed by stories about the
homeless and stories about middle-aged men working at fast food joints.
That is what we see here. Mexico electing a nationalist may or may not
be bad news for Mexico, but it is unquestionably good news for Trump and
America.

The one card the globalists have to play against the nationalists is
that globalism promotes peace and cooperation among national elites. The
rulers of European countries meet over cocktails and wildly expensive
appetizers, rather than on the battlefield. Cooperation, between Mexican
elites and American elites, means cordial relations between the two
countries on issues like trade, drugs and migration. If every country is
going for nationalists leaders all of a sudden, the globalists no longer
have that card to play.

In the case of Mexico, their elites are so corrupt they make our elites
look like good government idealists by comparison. As Steve Sailer is
fond of pointing out, [Mexico has been run by an organized crime
family](http://www.unz.com/isteve/jeb-bush-and-carlos-slim/) for
generations. The Bush family is monstrous, but they are nowhere near as
toxic as the Salinas family. That said, populism in that part of the
world tends to mean crazy Marxists and deranged academics, who also
happen to be Marxists. Making Mexico Venezuela is the most likely result
of populism.

Still, the right answer for Americans is for our rulers to put pressure
on Mexican elites to stem the flow of drugs and migrants into America.
The dirty little secret is that the migrants coming over the border are
not Mexicans. These are Central Americans given safe passage and aid by
the Mexican government. The same is true of the drug trade, which is a
key source of revenue for the Mexican ruling class. It is not an
accident that Mexican Donald Trump is promising to amnesty drug war
criminals.

The bigger issue though is a tough talking Mexican president would
crystallize support in America for a hard line with Mexico. Americans
may have doubts about Trump, but they will rally to his side in a
dispute with a foreign leader. With a booming economy, fear of economic
repercussions loses its bite. That and good times give American
presidents more room to maneuver on the world stage. The last thing the
Mexican ruling class needs right now is a head of state who is going to
be a foil to Donald Trump.

The truth is the Mexican ruling class needs to be on good terms with
America. If the cost of doing that is reining in their criminal element,
that is good for the people of both countries. Mexico does not have to
be Afghanistan, where warlords run the countryside, living off criminal
enterprises. If Trump’s rhetoric helps put pressure on the Mexican
political system, forcing a degree of responsible government on them,
that is good for Mexicans and Americans. if not, then we just need to
build a big wall on the border.

<img
src="https://abagond.files.wordpress.com/2015/12/nigelwallstory483.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="535" height="361" />
