---
title: "By What Authority?"
date: "2018-12-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15951"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15951"
---

When you start out in your life, you have no conception of right and
wrong, for the same reason you do not understand string theory. Babies
start out with the absolute minimum of knowledge to live. Just as you
had to learn to tie your shoes, you had to learn the difference between
right and wrong. There are things you should not do and things you
should not say. Similarly, there are things you should say or do.
Morality is the set of social rules you initially learn from your family
and then from your community.

Morality comes from authority. The reason why you accept the moral
instruction of your parents is they are your parents. It may be that you
are programmed to accept them as moral authorities or simply that they
are the default moral authorities in your life as you grow up.
Similarly, maybe you accept the morality of your community, because it
is what your parents accept. If there is a conflict between what you
learn at home versus what you learn outside, you must decide who is the
moral authority.

This is what experts and theologians call “the obvious.” Morality is the
code of conduct of your community. For most of human history, the moral
authority was the religion of the people. The holy men of the religion,
perhaps relying on an oral tradition or written texts, would shape and
enforce the moral code of the people. The check on the holy man was that
everyone knew the rules and the source of the rules, things like stories
and legends, so he could not just wing it. He had to live within the
code too.

Again, this is all obvious stuff, but it is worth remembering when
thinking about the de-platforming and censorship efforts. [Here is a
story](http://archive.is/kkgNm) about the battle going on with Patreon,
the fundraising site used by “content creators.” The site has been
purging even people mildly skeptical of the Progressive project and that
has resulted in some big names like Sam Harris leaving the platform. The
Times reporter spoke with the “head of trust and safety” for the company
and this is the important bit from the story.

“Jaqueline Hart, Patreon’s head of trust and safety, said her team
watches for and will investigate complaints about any content posted on
Patreon and on other sites like YouTube and Facebook that violates what
it defines as hate speech. That includes “serious attacks, or even
negative generalizations, of people based on their race \[and\] sexual
orientation,” she has said.”

Now, everyone with the slightest awareness knows that the rules with
regards to “negative generalizations” apply only to non-whites. The
people who rule over us want to make it illegal to notice any
differences between whites and non-whites, so noticing is strictly
prohibited. The exception is non-whites say what they want or even call
for harm against white males. It is why white males in TV ads and in
movies are always the bad guy or the bungler, while non-whites are brave
and wise.

That bit of hypocrisy has become so internalized that even the steam
whistles of cable chat shows do not bother mentioning it. The more
important question is upon what authority did it become immoral to make
“negative generalizations” about anyone? It is certainly not coming from
Christian authorities. In fact, the Abrahamic religions are chock full
of “negative generalizations” about all sorts of people. Up until fairly
recent, the basis of comedy was “negative generalizations of race and
sexual orientation.”

It is one of those things that just seems to happen in late empire
America. The usual pattern is a call for tolerance, which quickly
becomes intolerance of the lack of tolerance and then finally, the
enshrinement of the minority view or identity as a holy item. To
paraphrase Chris Caldwell, we quickly go from a situation where the new
anti-white identity is too weak to end special protections to a
situation where the new anti-white identity is too strong to challenge
the special protections.

Again, how does this happen? By what authority are these people deciding
that it is not permissible to question the moral superiority of people
based on “their race or sexual orientation?” This question is never
posed to people like Jaqueline Hart of Patreon, and she would never
expose herself to people who would dare question her authority on these
matters. In fact, our friends the Bible believing Christians never
question it either, despite that fact that Jesus was a guy fond of
asking these sorts of questions. ¹

That said, you get the sense that the people demanding the rest of us
abide by this new morality know they lack the moral authority. [This
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hv7hvZee-PQ), by a popular
YouTuber, where he recounts his conversation with Jacqueline Hart, is
instructive. At one point, she hints that Patreon is being forced by
their “partners” to purge people. The implication is that the banks are
really behind this effort. When pressed on it she changes the subject.
What she is doing is conjuring an authority to justify her actions.

This is instructive and something dissidents should train themselves to
press whenever dealing with the Left. In the work setting, for example,
diversity training should always be referred to as moral instruction. It
is a subtle thing that is effective at letting normal people know that
they are being preached to be people who see themselves as our moral
superiors. It nibbles away at the false consensus and plants a seed of
doubt about whose authority upon which these new moral codes rest.

That is the important aspect of all radicalism, especially American
Progressivism. It is just an appeal to mob rule when you dig into it.
They browbeat people into conforming to some new moral code and then
point to public acceptance of it as their source of moral authority when
called on it. It is why vinegar drinking scolds like Jacqueline Hart
decorate their sermons with the word “community” all the time. The
enforced conformity is the only moral authority they must support their
codes of conduct.

¹Mark 11:27
