---
title: "The Mighty Whitey"
date: "2018-01-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12492"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12492"
---

[This](https://www.architecturaldigest.com/gallery/best-small-towns-america)
post was making the rounds on social media over the holidays. What
caught my attention was a comment someone made along the lines of “Stowe
is the quintessential New England town.” I think the person meant it
looks like what people think of when they think of New England towns. It
is a picturesque little town and it is a wonderful place to live, not
just for the architecture. The von Trapp family thought so, which is why
[they settled there](https://www.trappfamily.com/von-trapp-story.htm).

Lifestyle sites love putting together lists like this. Cooking sites
will have an annual “50 Best Restaurants” or “10 Best Overlooked Dining
Towns.” I have an old copy of a cycling mag that lists the best rides in
each state. I keep it in case I find myself in an unfamiliar state with
some time for a ride. In the olden thymes, magazines would do special
issues on America’s best towns. These sorts of articles are popular,
because they mostly flatter the sensibilities of middle-class white
people.

Looking at the list from Architectural Digest, I recognized many of the
towns, but others were new to me. I have been to about half of them.
Reading over the list, the thing that struck me as that all of them are
very white. The first one on the list, Traverse City, Michigan, is 94.4%
white. Blacks are outnumbered by Native Americans. Doing a little math,
there are roughly 100 blacks in this town. This town probably has more
left-handed lesbians than black guys.

Jacksonville Oregon is the next town on the list and it has more people
describing themselves as “other” than calling themselves black. [Here is
a
pic](http://lesschwabinvitational.com/lsi07tms/timages/south_medford.jpg)
of the local high school basketball team. They do not win many games. It
is not a town full of middle-aged divorced woman. The census says that
the median age in the city is 54.9 years, with 65% of the population
over 45. It seems that Jacksonville is a quaint little town for retired
white people and some of their less ambitious kids.

Oregon is a state roughly as white as New England, so I looked at the
next town on the list, Dahlonega Georgia. The Peach State is the fourth
blackest state in the nation, with a black population of 40% and a
sizable Hispanic population. The most charming small town in the state
is 5% black. It is 90% white with a respectable number of Hispanics, but
they are most likely laborers and service workers, as Dahlonega is now
“the heart of the North Georgia Wine Country.”

Figuring that the good whites at Architectural Digest would be painfully
aware of their whiteness, I took a look at the towns on the list in
heavily Hispanic areas. One of the tricks Progressives use to get around
their aversion to black people is they point to the Hispanics or Asians
in their towns and claim the maximum diversity points. I have an
acquaintance who swears he moved to Arlington Mass for the diversity.
This is a town that is 2% black, but there are plenty of Asian
professors and Hispanic maids.

Taos New Mexico is one of those towns that Boomer women like visiting,
because they have warehouses full of turquoise dangle earrings and dream
catchers. The last census says it is 61% white, but only 40%
non-Hispanic white. Taos is less than one-percent black, which means
there are 30 black people in the whole town. [The high school basketball
team](http://cdn1.creativecirclemedia.com/taosnews/original/1485558545_e10e.jpg)
is probably not particularly good. This is a funny town though, as it is
more of a resort town that serves wealthy whites.

That is the common theme with all of the towns on the list with
relatively low white populations. Marfa Texas has become a funky little
arts town that is mostly Hispanic but has a small white population to
run the tourism business. Bisbee Arizona became a hippie attraction and
is now fully gentrified. You can be sure the readers of Architectural
Digest are not taking trips to see the run down neighborhoods where the
mostly Hispanic servant class lives. Still, the trend continues.

The blackest town on the list, interestingly enough, is Berlin Maryland.
It is 68.8% white and 23.3% black. The town started out as a trading
post for the Burley Plantation in the 18th century. This was tobacco
plantations until the Civil War. The interesting thing about the black
population, though, is it is declining quickly. In the 80’s the black
population was close to 50%. By the 2000 census it was down to 30%.
Gentrification follows the same pattern, even in small towns.

All of this is interesting for race realists, but it does speak to the
great divide in the American culture. The sort of people reading
Architectural Digest are the sort of people who enjoy lecturing the rest
of us about race. These are the people telling us that diversity is our
strength, but when it comes to where they live and where they visit,
diversity is the last thing they want to see. Baltimore has some
spectacular Federal architecture, but it is no one’s visit list.

The challenge before us in the Dissident Right is not to shake our fists
at the gross hypocrisy of the good whites. That has been done to death
by Steve Sailer. The good whites simply do not care. My acquaintance in
Arlington Mass will forever hate me for pointing out to him that his
town is as white as Reykjavik. The challenge is to convince the good
whites that the rest of us want the same things they want. We want our
towns to have the same complexion as their towns,

That would be mighty white of them.
