---
title: "Between Barbarians And Fanatics"
date: "2018-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15330"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15330"
---

For most of human existence, the great conflict was between ordered
civilization and chaotic barbarism. The Bronze Age societies had to
contend with barbarians from the north. The Greeks and Romans had to
deal with various barbarian tribes to their north and east. Medieval
Europe had to deal with the Viking raiders and the Mongol invaders from
the east. Then there were the Muslim invasions from the South that
threatened Christendom. The story of the West has been the story of
fighting barbarians.

By the time the West reached the Enlightenment, barbarian invasion was a
thing of the past. In fact, it was inconceivable. The Nordic people were
just as settled as the rest of Europe. Their days of raiding and
pillaging were over. The idea of Asian tribes crossing through Russian
into Europe was equally ridiculous. Of course, the Muslims had been
beaten back and were no longer a threat. In fact, it was the West that
was now heading south into the Middle East and Africa. The barbarians
were no longer an issue.

Instead of organizing to keep the barbarians from coming over the
horizon, it was the West sailing over the horizon to conquer the
barbarians. The thing is though, all those years of organizing to defend
civilization from barbarians, however one wants to define the terms,
meant a degree of internal vigilance. There could be no tolerance of
internal actors and actions that weakened the social and political
structures. Civilization was a near-run thing so anything that weakened
the West internally could not be tolerated.

The Catholic Church gets a bad rap for being intolerant of science
during the Middle Ages, but that’s mostly left-wing nonsense. In an age
when dissent could pull the support posts out from society, intolerance
of troublemakers made a lot of sense. Of course, from the perspective of
the secular rulers, a theological consistency, one that supported the
order atop which they presided, was seen as essential. Anything that
threatened the internal logic of the social order, even unintentionally,
had to be treated very seriously.

That meant an extreme intolerance of religious fanatics. [The post the
other day](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15307) about the Flagellants
is a good example. The Church and secular rulers suppressed the movement
because their fanaticism threatened order, by questioning the legitimacy
of the Church. After all, if God was punishing people with the plague,
that implied the Church was not on good terms with the Almighty. Throw
in the fact the Flagellants were preaching about a coming age of bliss,
and it is easy to see why the Church suppressed them.

The point is, the West was good at policing the ranks for fanatics,
because they had no choice. The very real threat from beyond the borders
coupled with the fragility of the feudal order meant anyone coloring
outside the lines was a mortal threat. As the alien threats receded, the
need to impose a uniform intellectual order receded with it. While it
resulted in a great intellectual flourishing in the West, it also let
all the fanatics off their leash. The result is the West has been
convulsed by fanaticism since the Enlightenment.

That is how you must look at radical ideologies like Marxism. These
theories defy observable reality and imagine something that has never
existed. There is simply no way for a sober-minded person to accept the
idea of the worker’s paradise. Only a true believer is willing to commit
their life to something that has never existed on earth. It is the same
cognitive tool set that allows someone to think they can appeal directly
to God or conjure miracles, simply because they believe. The fanatic is
the fuel of radicalism.

In [The Inequality of
Man](http://mugu.com/haldane/books/1932-Inequality-of-Man/), the great
natural scientist J. B. S. Haldane argued that fanaticism was a
Judaic-Christian invention. That is most certainly wrong, but he was not
wrong to think it had been a feature of mankind for a long time. It is
the fuel that drives people to build a great culture. As we saw in the
last century and now in our present age, it is also the fuel of great
raging destruction. Other than allowing the rage of the fanatics to run
its course, no one has yet to come up with a way to meet the challenge
of the true believer.

That really is the challenge of this age. Lacking anything resembling a
unified religion, our overabundance of fanatics are free to indulge in
whatever is handy. One minute they are threatening order if gays are not
allowed to marry. The next minute they are tearing down the borders,
inviting in the barbarians our ancestors pushed over the horizon. It’s
as if some strange mind virus is sweeping our societies, turning the
afflicted into berserkers, beyond the reach of reason. As a result, we
edge closer and closer to collapse.

What is happening in America, at least, is a replay of what happened in
the Pennsylvania colony at the founding. The eastern part of the state
was home to many fanatics, convinced they were part a project to
immanentize the eschaton. To the west were the borderland people, living
in the hills as pre-settled people. In between was where the civilized
people lived, just looking to live peaceful, orderly lives. Eventually
the middle aligned with the east to keep the hillbillies in the west
from overrunning the middle.

To a great degree, this was true for the country as a whole. The
emotional energy of the crazies, mostly located in the northeast, fueled
the expansion across the continent. The Indians never stood a chance,
not because of technology, but because the pale face was driven by a
sense of destiny. It powered the northern conquest of the South and the
expansion of America into a global power. It came with a price. Just as
Pennsylvania is still dominated by Philadelphia, America remains captive
to the Northern crazies.

That said, geography kept the crazies on their leash into the 20th
century, except for the Northern invasion of the South. As technology
made it possible for the fanatics to extend their reach into every
corner of the country, the threat of nuclear annihilation forced a
degree of discipline on the elites. With that gone, the fanatics were
free to run wild, pulling at every support beam and cable they can find.
That is where we find ourselves today. There are no barbarians at the
walls, just our own fanatics.

If the West in general and American in particular, is going to survive
this age, it will mean coming up with a way to control the fanatic.
Perhaps it will mean finding a DNA test to look for the lunacy gene or
simply changing the culture to fear fanaticism. We were once willing to
do what had to be done to ward off the barbarian.  Maybe we learn how to
cull our herd to remove the crazies, no matter how unpleasant.
Civilization lies between the barbarian and the fanatic. Both must be
tamed if we are to survive.
