---
title: "Ben Shapiro"
date: "2018-05-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13963"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13963"
---

A running debate on this side of the divide is over the utility of guys
like Ben Shapiro, Jordan Peterson, and other slightly edgy characters.
The claim is that these types of insider critics of the prevailing order
are a gateway to more radical thinkers on this side of the divide. A
normie starts reading Ben Shapiro or listening to Jordan Peterson, and
before long he finds his way to our team. There is not much in the way
of proof of this, just some anecdotes from people who swear that is how
they made their journey to the dark side.

The counter argument is that these edgy guys serve as palace guards,
maintaining the line between what is and what is not acceptable. Their
job is to make sure that none of the bad think from the outer dark creep
into the thought of the orthodoxy. As a result, they make a big deal out
of opposing racism, sexism, antisemitism, and homophobia. The Four Olds
figure prominently in their arguments, not as a way to inoculate
themselves from the Left, but to make sure no one to their Right is
allowed into the debate.

Both claims are right, depending upon the person in question. Take, for
example, the [Nick Nack](http://jamesbond.wikia.com/wiki/Nick_Nack) of
neoconservatism, Ben Shapiro. He is fond of posting the sort of unhinged
rants about the people to his Right, that we generally associate with
feminist cat ladies. This should not surprise anyone, as the spiritual
distance between a Ben Shapiro and a feminist campus harpy is not big.
He is just as haunted by the Four Olds as anyone on the Left. He just
finds it easier to make a living peddling old CivNat nostrums.

You see that in [this post at National
Review](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/04/sam-harris-jordan-peterson-intellectual-renegades-audiences-growing/),
where Shapiro appears to be defending bad think, but in reality he is
engaged in an act of deception. He does not bother to go into the issues
that get a Charles Murray or a Sam Harris in trouble. Instead, he shifts
the focus from that to pumping air into his own tires. A few days later,
his dear friend [Bari
Weiss](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/08/opinion/intellectual-dark-web.html)
is out promoting the so-called “intellectual dark web” which Ben Shapiro
just happens to be part of, along with Sam Harris and Jordan Peterson.
Funny coincidence, I am sure.

Unlike a guy like Peterson or Sam Harris, Shapiro is just another
grifter from Conservative Inc. He is the edgy band your parents said was
OK, hoping you would not start listening to the stuff they thought was
dangerous. That is his utility to the managerial class. Instead of
people noticing what happens to our guys when they try to engage in
public debate, their eye is focused on how poor Ben Shapiro had to wait
a whole hour while the campus police removed a few overwrought students
from the auditorium.

That’s why Shapiro will drone on endlessly about how unfair it is
that [he does not get lucrative speaking
gigs](https://www.dailywire.com/news/30914/major-donor-pulls-funding-university-minnesota-hank-berrien)
on state campuses, but remain stone silent on the endless harassment of
Richard Spencer by the Left. Like all of Conservative Inc., he is for
free speech that pays him well, but otherwise sides with Antifa against
his competition. He’ll never talk about the fact that corporate America
is willing to sponsor an [Antifa convention in
Chicago](https://socialismconference.org/), but coordinates their
efforts to prevent VDare from holding a private gathering.

Even though guys like Shapiro are explicitly opposed to us and are happy
to lock arms with the Left against us, some still insist that they serve
a purpose. This is true, but not for the reasons they claim. What a guy
like Shapiro demonstrates is that there is an unbridgeable gap between
the prevailing orthodoxy and the Dissident Right. There is no middle
ground between the blank slate and biological realism. Race is either an
invalid social construct or a useful model of biological reality. There
is no middle ground here.

Ultimately, what a guy like Ben Shapiro tries to do is distract people
from the real issues, by focusing their attention on the trivial. He
starts from the premise that there is a real battle between the Left and
some ideological alternative. That battle was over long before anyone
reading this was born. The Right in America, for more than half a
century, has simply been a modifier, a restraint, on the American Left.
Shapiro’s job is to make sure otherwise sensible people never notice
this. Otherwise, there will be a revolt.

Now, not all of these guys in the outer belt of the prevailing orthodoxy
are members of the palace guard. Jordan Peterson is just an eccentric
weirdo who suddenly got famous. He is probably harmless, and he may open
doors to our side. A Gavin McInnes, who is mostly an incoherent grab bag
of cosmopolitan fads and libertarian jabberwocky, is at least willing to
engage with our side. Most, however, are there as a barrier. Fundamental
to the Dissident Right project is the destruction of Conservative Inc.
and the palace guard.
