---
title: "Bad Seeds"
date: "2018-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13710"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13710"
---

In a few years, [the majority of children in the United States will be
non-white](https://www.childtrends.org/indicators/racial-and-ethnic-composition-of-the-child-population/).
That means in a generation, the majority of adults will be non-white.
Most white Americans do not understand this, but slowly they are
starting to wake up to this reality. Whether or not our rulers fully
grasp this or the implication of it is a mystery. It is entirely
possible that their hatred for bad whites is so all-consuming that they
have not thought it through. Or perhaps, as some people argue, the great
replacement is the point of the project.

Regardless, the darkening of America will have consequences. [This
story](https://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/terence-p-jeffrey/65-public-school-8th-graders-not-proficient-reading-67-not-proficient)
on the 2017 NAEP test scores is a good example. The results,
unsurprisingly, are not positive, but they are predictable. The race gap
that has allegedly haunted the ruling class for generations has not
changed a bit. Of course, that’s not in the press coverage, but you can
easily find it by going to [the
source](https://www.nationsreportcard.gov/math_2017/#?grade=4). The only
change in the race gap happened when they added a category for mixed
race, thus moving some blacks out of that group.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP1.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-13711" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 749px) 100vw, 749px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP1.png 749w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP1-300x222.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP1-406x300.png 406w"
width="749" height="554" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP1.png)

 

The comparison between whites and mixed race students is interesting.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP2.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-13712" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 688px) 100vw, 688px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP2.png 688w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP2-300x197.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP2-457x300.png 457w"
width="688" height="452" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP2.png)

 

Whenever these sorts of results are published, we get two predictable
reactions. One is the Progressive lament about the schools. Left-wing
Progressives will demand more money for the schools in order to fix all
these terrible gaps. Right-wing Progressives will claim it is the fault
of public schools and maybe unions. You can see some of that in the
comments to the news story. The other response will be from the
remaining stalwarts on our side of the divide, pointing out that biology
refuses to yield to wishful thinking.

The thing is though, no one thinks much about what is going to happen as
the the mix of students gets more swarthy. We are probably seeing that
in these numbers. The gaps did not change, but the mix of students is
changing. That means the results will continue to decline going forward.
Maybe our rulers will keep yelping about the schools, but at some point,
they will probably change the standards or start faking the data so the
obvious is less obvious. That’s the thing about diversity. It can only
work in a no-trust society.

Of course, it’s going to mean schools start competing with one another
for white and Asian students. Since the foolish decision to desegregate
schools, it has been a game of Old Maid, as school districts and
municipalities employ clever ways to dump their unwanted blacks onto
some other sucker. The future will have that plus
<a href="https://www.apnews.com/6e9683d05e00491db1877482693430c4"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">rules to keep the children of ice people
trapped in their schools</a>. In time, a Democrat administration will
create rules that prevent whites from moving away from blacks in order
to “balance the schools.”

The state and city break down tells a familiar story. The test results
track closely with demographics. A city like Detroit finishes at the
bottom, because it is a black city, while Austin finishes at the top,
because the black population is eight percent. The state breakdown is
also familiar. It reveals that not all whites are the same, but the
non-white population is very consistent. I took a look at the top-10 and
bottom-10, along with the white population for each state. West Virginia
is letting white people down.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP3-1.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-13714" decoding="async"
loading="lazy" sizes="auto, (max-width: 584px) 100vw, 584px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP3-1.png 584w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP3-1-300x128.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP3-1-500x214.png 500w"
width="584" height="250" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NAEP3-1.png)

The two outliers in the top-10 are states with high numbers of South
Asians, as well as more blacks from the talented ten percent. The
financial capital and the political capital of the world warp everything
around them. Even Maryland feels some of it. Otherwise, the results
track closely with the white population. That means if you want your
state’s test score to improve, you need to attract Asian migrants and
figure out how to encourage blacks to move to another state. You may
want to pass on Hispanics too.

This is just one example of what happens when you get more diversity,
but it is a good one. High quality public schools are largely an Anglo
thing. It spread to the Continent, along with other liberal ideas, but
is not a big deal in the rest of the world. East Asian societies are an
exception. As America moves to majority-minority status and becomes a
low-trust society, the very idea of public schools will probably
disappear. How long before the people in charge figure out that testing
is largely pointless and put an end to it?

Look around South America, that’s a pattern you see. The white
population simply does not care all that much about the non-white
population, beyond making sure they are not around them. A very similar
pattern has existed in the Levant for centuries. Every hill and village
is its own country. That’s the other thing about diversity. It breeds a
callousness between different tribes of citizens. In one of life’s
ironies, one of the first things that will die in the diversity paradise
is civic nationalism. Ben Shapiro should plan accordingly.
