---
title: "Travelogue – Boston"
date: "2018-02-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12826"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12826"
---

I spent many hears in Boston and I come back regularly. Even so, I am
always surprised to see some unexpected change. Even in a sclerotic
culture like New England, life does not stand still. New buildings are
built to replace old ones. Roads get redesigned. The general look and
feel of the place changes over time. To paraphrase Heraclitus, you never
visit the same city twice. Perhaps it is just a function of age, but
when I travel now, I am much more aware of what has changed, rather than
what is familiar.

The biggest thing that has changed since my last trip here is me. There
used to be a time when Boston was famous for the worst drivers in
America. Tourists would bring back their rental cars and take cabs,
because after a short dose of Boston drivers, they were too afraid to be
on the road here. Now, Boston drivers are nothing special. Having spent
the last decade driving the Imperial Capital, my standards have
adjusted. Nowhere has traffic like Washington. Los Angeles is a motoring
paradise by comparison….

At the airport in Lagos, I saw what I thought was the ugliest women I
had seen to this point in my life. I mean so hideous my instinct was to
look away. Then as it approached where I was sitting, I realized it was
a tranny. Everyone else had the same reaction. Of course, the tranny was
on my plane, but luckily, I boarded in the early group so it was sent to
the back of the plane. But as luck would have it, the tranny was on the
same shuttle to the rental car facility. The looks from the counter
agents were priceless.

Driving out of Logan, I could not help but think about what Theodore
Dalrymple said about communist societies. Perhaps these efforts to force
the rest of us to accept cross-dressing loonies as normal is a push to
turn us into emasculated liars. Maybe that’s part of it, but my sense
watching the tranny parade around the airport is that this is just
wanton decadence. You see this on campus with the vulgar displays of
every conceivable sexual prediction. I think we are ruled by a class of
Caligula’s now, for now…

I had an interesting conversation with friends at dinner on Thursday
night. One friend I would describe as between CivNat and Dissident
Right. A year ago, he was listening to Ben Shapiro, thinking he was
radical. Today, he listens to me. It is a trip the ferryman has seen
many times. His sister, the other person at dinner, is a lifelong
feminist Progressive, but having doubts as she reaches her middle years.
Over dinner, we talked about race, sex, ethnicity, quirks of
evolutionary biology. All the stuff popular on the Dissident Right.

I have gotten better at talking about these things with normies and
reality-curious Progressives. I have a library of pithy stories and
examples to make it easy for them to accept biological reality on their
terms. In the case of reality-curious Progressives, I frame things in
moral terms. It does not always work, but it keeps them from shrieking
“Witch! Witch!” and notifying the authorities. Her brother thinks I
red-pilled her, but we will see. It is a long road from there to the
water’s edge. Still, it is another green shoot…

Boston did not fare the previous Progressive Awakening very well. The
cultural upheavals of the 60’s and 70’s broke the working class
structure of most American cities and Boston was not an exception. As a
result, the city was in decline into the 80’s, but then it righted
itself in the late 80’s and 90’s. Like New York, rich people started
demanding better policing and better schools. The city started knocking
down slums and opening up the housing market to developers. By the
late-90’s, Boston was in a renaissance.

When the ululating started again in the late Clinton years, the city was
not destroyed by Progressive wreckers seeking to make a point, Instead,
it was filled with neo-liberal globalists, investing in the city. The
colleges exploded with money, as college kids poured in toting
government loans and financial aid packages. Boston became a technology
hub, with great tech firms ringing the city and biotech startups growing
like warts on the college campuses. Eastern Mass as a whole is nothing
like it was at [its nadir](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0070077/)…

Locals here are gearing up for another Super Bowl. I moved here the year
the Patriots made their first big game, where they were destroyed by the
Bears. I was here when they won their first one back in 2002. That would
have been the 2001 season. The difference in atmosphere between now and
then is stark. The Patriots have been great for close to two decades
now. Winning is not as fun for the fans. There is also the melancholy of
knowing that the great run is nearing an end. Both Belichick and Brady
are close to done…

Something I forget about until I get here is just how crappy the service
is in Boston. In Lagos, the retail shops are run by Koreans and South
Asians, so they are super polite to honkies. The businesses staffed with
blacks are a riot of inefficiency, but they are polite about it. Here,
lots of white people work retail and they act like they are doing you a
favor by waiting on you. At the Dunkin Donuts the other morning, the
pram-face who served me coffee had a look on her face like she was
thinking about sticking a shiv in my ribs…
