---
title: "The Dull Man’s Burden"
date: "2018-05-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13970"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13970"
---

One of the remarkable things in my time has been the precipitous decline
of the so-called conservative movement. Even if you were on the paleocon
side of the great fight, you could not help but admire some of the
writers and thinkers on the other side. Unlike the Left, which has
always tended for preachers, rather than thinkers, the people writing
for the Buckleyite, and neocon outlets were often quite bright and
original. They even permitted a sprinkling of heretics, which made their
publications worth reading.

Over the last decade, anyone with the least bit of originality has been
purged from their sites. Scan The Weekly Standard or National Review and
what is interesting is how dull it all feels now. It is like reading the
internal newsletter of the postal service. That is being kind, as these
sites often resemble a cargo cult. They hire guys like Ben Shapiro to
spin the oldies, hoping they will be magically transported back to 1994.
If you are engaged in this world from the Right, there is no reason to
read these publications. They offer nothing.

[This
post](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/05/conservatives-must-argue-about-ideas-not-trump/)
before the holiday by Jonah Goldberg is good example. Goldberg now plays
the role of “senior fellow” for Conservative Inc., so he gets the job of
doing the theoretical stuff for National Review. He is their man of
ideas now. Goldberg made his career as a snarky Gen-X jokester, making
conservatism sound fresh. Of course, the implication was that the Left
was correct about conservatives being humorless stuffed shirts. Shecky
Goldberg’s quest was to make conservatism fit for the Catskills. Now, he
is their big ideas man.

*I understand very well that conservatives often bristle at the idea
they need to change with the times. As the famous line from (the far
from famous) Lucius Cary, 2nd Viscount Falkland, goes, “where it is not
necessary to change, it is necessary not to change.”*

*But we forget that the conservative movement’s strength came from the
fact that it was armed with new arguments from diverse intellectual
sources. More important, its vigor stemmed from the fact that these
various strains of conservatives were eager to argue among themselves.
There are arguments aplenty on the right these days, but the vast
majority of them are arguments over a specific personality — Donald
Trump — not a body of ideas. And to the extent that there are arguments
about ideas, they tend to be subsumed into the larger imperative to
attack or defend Trump.* [This is from a
guy](https://youtu.be/1JKfXy1k2UE?t=24m16s) who repeatedly said that
large chunks of observable reality are “morally repugnant” and therefore
off-limits. It is a bit tough to have “new arguments from diverse
intellectual sources.” when the prevailing assumption is that those
ideas and sources are outside what is morally acceptable. Of course,
whatever it once was, mainstream conservatism is a no longer a vigorous
debate about moral and political philosophy. It is merely a shopping
list of talking points acceptable in the managerial elite.

 

Even in the mundane areas of public policy, the so-called conservatives
are startlingly obtuse in their observations. Trump’s diplomacy in Asia,
for example, is a genuine sea-change in American policy. He has craftily
linked North Korea’s behavior to US trade relations with China. He is
making the master responsible for the servant. This is actually
resulting in real progress on a half century problem. Yet, the experts
of Conservative Inc. remain baffled by what is happening. They still
think North Korea is a Soviet client.

The great Eric Hoffer observed that the difference between a movement
and a practical organization lies in the goals of the members. In a
political movement, the people joining do so to attain a political goal,
something that is bigger than themselves. In a practical organization,
people join out of self-interest. They act in order to advance up the
ranks of the organization. A rat like Dinesh D’Souza was willing to be a
neocon assassin, because he thought it was a good career move. The
organization man is not a man who dreams.

That has been the case with the conservatives for a long time now.
Ideological zeal may have motivated the pioneers, but they built
practical organizations. Buckley-style conservatism, by the 1980’s, had
become a lucrative career path for the man good with his letters and
careful to never color outside the lines. More important, the
organization was positioned within the managerial class, rather than
opposed to it. An obsequious writer could work for both National Review
and a liberal TV network.

Another product of this is the boiling off of anyone with any
creativity. If the in-house intellectual is a vapid airhead with a
fetish for 1980’s pop culture references, you are no longer an
intellectual movement. The result is a collection of dull and
uninteresting people left to figure out how to keep the racket going.
That is the point of Goldberg’s *cri de guerre*. The old act is no
longer pulling in the crowds, so they need a new act with new actors.
The trouble is the dullards left in charge are not up to carrying the
burden.
