---
title: "The Eternal Guru"
date: "2018-02-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12851"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12851"
---

The other day, someone asked me about Jordan Peterson, who is all the
rage now, especially after [his run-in with a local
lunatic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aMcjxSThD54) in London. I must
admit, it was a funny 30 minutes, but mostly because Cathy Newman is so
dumb. She tried using the active listening technique to paint Peterson
as some sort of monster, but she just came off sounding deranged. I have
run into a lot of women who use this technique. It is immensely popular
with women in sales for some reason. My guess is it is part of standard
sales training.

As far as Peterson, his angry [Evil Bert](https://www.bertisevil.tv/)
style of speaking is a bit annoying. I know he cannot help it, but his
voice conjures images of Kermit going Ike Turner on Miss Piggy. That and
I am just not into the civic nationalist stuff. I have heard all of it
and know everything they have to say. Ask Peterson why sub-Saharan
Africans had not discovered the wheel until Europeans arrived and he
runs out of the room. All the tough talk about sticking to facts and
clear thinking goes out the door as soon as a taboo topic is mentioned.

That said, Peterson seems to know his limitations. He stays away from
taboo subjects as much as possible, so he does not reveal those
limitations. That way he can stick to new age advice and religious
topics, which he does better than most. He does talk honestly about the
biological roots of sex differences and that is often the best way to
introduce people to biological realism. If someone can accept that
evolution made boys and girls different cognitively, as well as
physiologically, they can accept the diversity of man.

Anyway, I saw
[this](https://mic.com/articles/187776/jordan-peterson-is-the-rising-self-help-guru-of-young-conservatives-heres-what-hes-telling-them#.9vCoMIlpV)
on [Maggie’s
Farm](http://maggiesfarm.anotherdotcom.com/archives/31188-Why-do-they-hate-Jordan-Peterson.html)
yesterday. It appears that not everyone is a fan of Peterson. That Mic
piece makes a lot of nutty claims, like “cultural Marxism is an
anti-Semitic conspiracy theory cooked up by conservatives in the
1980’s.” He also says the alt-right are fans of Peterson. It is the
nature of the hive mind to see the world as those inside versus those
outside. The people outside are just an undifferentiated other. That
means “alt-right” is now another name for “the people outside the
Progressive walls.”

The remarkable thing about Peterson is that no one seems to remember the
previous versions of him. Self-help gurus have been a common phenomenon
in the English speaking world, going back to the 19th century, when a
guy named Samuel Hines published the book
[Self-Help](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-Help_(book)). The birth
of mass media after WW2 made it possible for the self-help guru to reach
a wide audience. The snake oil salesman put down his patent medicine and
picked up a pen. Same pitch, same promise, different vehicle.

Peterson is lot like Stephen Covey from a couple of decades ago.
Peterson uses religion and his credentials as an academic to add
authority to his work. Covey relied on rich, successful people to
provide the authority. His book [The 7 Habits of Highly Effective
People](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_7_Habits_of_Highly_Effective_People)
sold 25 million copies. Everyone wants to be successful, so they will
buy the secret if they can. Peterson’s new book, [12 Rules for Life: An
Antidote to
Chaos](https://www.amazon.com/12-Rules-Life-Antidote-Chaos/dp/0345816021/)
is already a best seller. It promises a lot for just a little, which is
the key to a good self-help book.

That is the thing with all self-help gurus and lifestyle guides is they
almost always rely on the appeal to authority. Their presentation can be
boiled down to “this is who I am, this is what I have for you and here
is why it is good for you.” That first part is critical. The self-help
guru must first convince you he is an authority or he has learned from
people who are an authority. Covey was fond of name-dropping the
successful people he had met, as a way to burnish his credentials.
Peterson relies on his credentials as an academic.

Unlike Covey, Peterson doles out his secrets in the form of
finger-wagging lectures. In his book, the first of his twelve items are
a reminder to stand up straight. He is recycling some quackery from a
few years ago called [Power
Posing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_posing). Peterson re-frames
it using animals, but it is the same quackery. Rule six is a fancy way
of saying “clean your room” and his eighth rule is “tell the truth.”
Maybe he is saving it for the next book, but there really should be a
rule about not picking your nose and making sure you clean your plate at
dinner.

There is another unique twist to Peterson. He has used his status as
victim of the Cult of Modern Liberalism to ingratiate himself with his
audience. Most self-help guys eschew the victim stuff. Instead, they
want you to see them as winners. Peterson is pitching himself as a noble
warrior fighting the last futile wars on the college campus. There is an
undercurrent of romanticism to his presentation. That is probably why
his stern granny routine is popular with younger people. It is how they
imagine adults used to act before Progressivism.

The interesting thing about the modern professional advice giver is they
are filling a role that used to be occupied by priests and ministers. As
America lost its religion in the last fifty years, the self-help guru
has filled the void. It is probably why Peterson’s use of religion in
his presentation works so well. Rather than invent a new religion, he
can just borrow the good stuff from the old ones. People may not believe
in God anymore, but they are going to believe in something. Humans are
built to be believing machines.

That is the trouble with the modern age. In the prior age, we had a way
to deal with proselytizing fanatics. We made them missionaries and sent
them off to convert the savages. If the savages ate them, there were
more missionaries ready to go. Those with a burning desire to dispense
advice to others were put into the priesthood, so they could help those
who needed it. The death of organized Christianity has removed these
options from us. As a result, we are plagued with fanatics, busybodies
and scolds.

\\
