---
title: "Death In The Afternoon"
date: "2018-10-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15322"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15322"
---

I had to put the cat down on Saturday afternoon. It was a sad thing, of
course, as it always is when you have to say goodbye to a pet. The cat
was diagnosed as a diabetic a few weeks back, which is not unusual with
dogs and cats these days. It is a treatable condition, that is easier to
manage in animals than humans. Your animal is not going to cheat on its
diet or forget to take its insulin. With a little discipline and the
willingness to master a few medical skills, you can manage a diabetic
pet with little trouble.

On Friday night, the cat took a turn for the worse, so I went into the
vet not entirely sure what to expect. They took blood and sent me home
with some instructions. I figured they were humoring me, so I spent the
night making my peace with what I expected was coming. The next day I
learned, after further examination, that the cat had a rare type of
cancer that was the real cause of the diabetes. They found tumors on his
pancreas, which is not treatable, so I made the decision to put the poor
thing out of his suffering.

While waiting to see the vet on Saturday, a woman I know came into the
office. She was there to say goodbye to her dog. Apparently, they called
her with the bad news, and she came into to complete the process. That
was my guess anyway. The girl at the desk seemed to know what to do,
despite the fact the woman was sobbing uncontrollably. She sat down on
the bench next to me. Out of instinct, I guess, I do not know, I slid
over and put my arm around her. She collapsed against me into a mess of
tears and wailing.

I do not know what it is, but the sound of a woman crying touches some
unexamined part of my being. It is crazy, I am sure, but that sound
reminds me why a man is willing to fight another man to the death or
leave his lands to sack the city of some bastard who insulted his
people. My grandfather always said that a man protects those who need
protection and defends those who need defending. Maybe that is all there
is to it and the sound of a woman crying just triggers those lessons I
heard a million times as a kid.

There was nothing I could do for her, obviously, other than to be a
shoulder to cry on, as she waited to say goodbye to her dog. Sitting
there, being kind to a neighbor, my burden felt a bit lighter. There are
always others worse off than you. That is something I always try to keep
in the front of my mind. My life is not a walk in the park, but it is
not an endless stream of misery either. Most people, it seems, carry
around a lot more baggage than me, or they are less able to carry the
load than me. Either way, I am a lucky guy.

Coming home, alone with my thoughts, I thought about how serendipity had
intervened to make a tough situation a bit less difficult. My first pet,
as an adult, was a cat. Growing up, we had dogs, so I had a bias against
cats. The women I was dating at the time thought I needed a pet, and she
suggested a cat. I was skeptical about the whole thing, but a man does
what he must at that age, so I got a cat. It turned out that cats are
just like dogs, in that they are what you make of them. Me and the cat
went on great adventures together.

At the end of his time, he got sick, and I did the back and forth with
the vet as you do with pets. It was new to me as an adult, so I got
caught up in the process, thinking that there was a potentially good
result. When it was time to put an end to it all, I struggled with the
decision. I just could not bring myself to say goodbye. Then one night
the cat staggered down the hall with his old toy in his mouth. He could
barely walk, but to the very end he was going to be all the cat he was
ever going to be. I was quite touching.

That night, I could not help but think that maybe I just learned a great
truth. That cat was just a cat, but he was never cheated. Who knows what
goes on in the head of a pet, but they are here to be our pets. It is
literally what they are made for, and they are that fully and
completely. We lose sight of that as people. Our point in life is to use
all our time completely. There are no do overs or restarts. You just
have the time you have, and you better use all of it being all the you
possible. Life is for living. Do not cheat yourself.

Perhaps that is why we keep pets. Long ago, domesticating dogs for work
or allowing cats to live among us to keep down the rodent population
made practical sense. Keeping animals solely as pets has no obvious
purpose, other than to make the time we have more enjoyable. Maybe
seeing these little critters come into the world and become their
purpose fully and completely makes understanding our own purpose easier.
It is a lot easier to grasp the purpose of a dog or cat than the purpose
of that crazy relative in the family.

I will say that this time was a bit more difficult than other last trips
to the vet. I have had a lot of animals over the years. Some were better
than others. This was a good one. Just about every post I have written
was done with him lying behind the keyboard. Every podcast was done with
him lying next to the microphone. For over a dozen years he was a
comforting fixture in my life. He was there at the door when I got home
and at the door when I went off to work every day. As pets go, he was a
good one and I will miss him.
