---
title: "A Pointless Ramble About YouTube Stars"
date: "2018-01-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12575"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12575"
---

Every week, I get e-mails from the social media platforms suggesting
ways to promote my podcast. Spreaker sends out something a few times a
week. Mostly these e-mails are tips about metadata, topic descriptions
and video features. They seem sensible, but I cannot help but wonder if
it matters all that much. A professionally done, cleverly described and
expertly distributed video on model train collecting is still going to
be a video of interest to people into model trains. Ultimately, content
is the determining factor in this stuff.

That said, it is useful to wonder why some YouTube people have huge
audiences and why others have small audiences. Until recent,
[PewDiePie](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-lHJZR3Gqxm24_Vd_AJ5Yw)
was unknown to me, despite his having fifty-nine million subscribers. He
is the \#1 YouTube personality. Having watched some of his videos, I
sort of get it. Young people are wired to imitate one another, which is
why pop culture is a young person thing. PewDiePie plays video games and
tells naughty jokes that very gently and subtly lampoon modern piety.
Kids like seeing that stuff.

On the other hand, someone like [June Nicole
Lapine](https://www.youtube.com/user/Shoe0nHead) has close to a million
YouTube subscribers. She pitches herself as a liberal anti-feminist and
her videos are intended to be satires of social justice warriors. Not
being an unmarried millennial woman, I am probably hard wired to not get
her appeal. I watched some of her videos and she is annoying and her act
is trite. The earnestly stupid female who really, really cares about
stuff has been done to death. At least I thought so, but apparently not.

While reviewing the above videos, [this
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCEjK33MAsRdSNlNfCRHARvQ) was
suggested to me by the gods of YouTube. The assumption is they recommend
channels based on prior viewing, which means some portion of June Nicole
Lapine’s audience is into husky lesbians. The star of that show appears
to be a carny, who bills herself as a lesbian comedian. She has half a
million subscribers and [seventy thousand Twitter
followers](https://twitter.com/ArielleScarcell). After watching some of
her videos, I am reminded of why the phrase “jolly lesbian” does not
exist.

Now, half a million subscribers is not big by YouTube standards. To
crack the top-100 you need twenty times that number, but most of the top
channels are professionally produced music channels, backed by global
corporations. Given that there are (maybe) four million adult lesbians
in America, it suggests that Arielle Scarcella has figured out how to
tap into this audience, so to speak, that is not easily understood by
watching her videos. The people watching and enjoying her work, are
vastly different people from anyone I know.

It is easy to be puzzled by the popularity of alien performers, but in
researching this post, I did learn that [Filipinos share the American
distaste for the
Speedo](https://www.youtube.com/user/MikeyBustosVideos). That aside, I
was made aware of a popular alt-right YouTuber named [Andy
Warski](https://www.youtube.com/user/Andywarski/featured?disable_polymer=1).
His channel has over 250 thousand subscribers. [He hosted a marathon
debate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hQrU92590dM) between Richard
Spencer, Sargon, Styx and some others, which is how I learned of him.
His live show set some sort of record for viewers, but I do not have
numbers on it. He mentioned it in his show.

Now, I follow the alt-right and listen to some of their bigger
personalities. I never heard of the Warski guy until last week. Watching
some of his videos, I am thinking he smokes a lot of weed and has a
drawer full of hacky sacks. I am not getting the popularity, but maybe I
am simply too old to appreciate bro talk anymore. There was a time in my
life when my peers used the words “dude” and “whatup”, but that was a
long time ago. As with PewDiePie, young bros probably like listening to
other young bros talk bro stuff.

I watched some of the Spencer – Sargon battle on that Warsky show and I
kept wondering how
[Sargon](https://www.youtube.com/user/SargonofAkkad100) got popular. In
fact, it was the genesis of this post. Every time he said something
stupid, which was pretty much every time he spoke, I thought, “why would
anyone like this guy?” He is just a portly British version of [Goth
Fonzi](http://www.sflrcs.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Nick-Gillespie-.jpg).
Yet, he has 750 thousand subscribers to his channel, most of whom are
probably Americans. According to [his Patreon
page](https://www.patreon.com/sargon), he makes $8,000 per month as a
YouTube star.

Like many of these popular YouTube stars, Sargon’s gimmick is assurance.
He soothingly repeats the platitudes his listeners desperately want to
be true. Americans always assume a British accent means intelligence, so
Sargon’s fans are being told they are right about the world, by a smart
British guy, who sounds confident and reasonable. It is why his clash
with Spencer was a disaster for him. He was revealed to be a petulant,
argumentative airhead. His act only works when he is unchallenged and
scripted.

It is a good reminder, though, that the audience for libertarian
self-flattery is much larger than realism. People like easy answers and
magical thinking. It is why the number one right-wing Progressive is Ben
Shapiro. His podcast is number one in terms of downloads, according to
those claiming to know these things. I am always suspicious when
rankings are used in lieu of hard numbers, but a search of YouTube
reveals his Daily Wire stuff gets about 250 thousand views. [His
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCaeO5vkdj5xOQHp4UmIN6dw) has
half a million subscribers.

All of that said, the people popular in their YouTube segment all have a
couple things in common. One is their presentation is calm. Internet
video is like television. It is a cool medium. Shouting and craziness on
video, come off like shouting and craziness in person. You can be a
crazy Mark Levin, screaming like a madman on radio, because radio is a
hot medium. The better YouTube people could just as easily be doing
their show from your bedroom. Most shoot their shows from *their*
bedrooms and living rooms.

The other thing they do well is they make no effort to imitate the
legacy media. YouTube is not public access TV or a poor version of
cable. The authenticity of the presentation seems to be what works.
People like hearing people like them confirm what they think about the
world. Watching a polished TV airhead repeat threadbare platitudes, even
soothing ones, is not as effective as hearing a friendly voice, which
sounds like you, saying the things you think in private. YouTube is a
collection of mirrors that clap.
