---
title: "Things Are Looking Up"
date: "2018-02-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13027"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13027"
---

A pretty good rule of politics is that your enemies will always give you
terrible advice. It is a lesson the so-called conservatives and
Republicans have never learned. The Left offers them advice and they
jump at the chance to take it. The corollary to this is you know you are
doing something right when your enemies try to steal your issues. The
Tories figured out that UKIP was getting traction on immigration, so
they moved right on the issue and offered a referendum on Europe. It
worked, even though it tanked Cameron’s career.

We have not seen much of that since the start of the populist revolt led
by Trump in the GOP primaries. In fact, the GOP went the other way. The
higher Trump’s polls rose, the more they rejected Trump’s issues. It was
a weird thing, but the Republicans are not called the stupid party by
accident. Even after he won, his own party is struggling to come to
terms with the new reality. The Left, in contrast, is good at politics,
so seeing <a
href="https://www.vox.com/the-big-idea/2018/2/8/16982036/nationalism-patriotism-left-right-trump-democrats-solidarity"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">some rumblings on the their side</a>
about adopting nationalist themes is interesting.

*Across the Western world, [center-left parties are in
trouble](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2017/09/25/like-germanys-social-democrats-left-wing-parties-are-losing-ground-across-europe/?utm_term=.2cae96c91d6b):
In Germany, Austria, France, and the Netherlands, social democrats have
suffered historic electoral defeats. Right-wing populists, meanwhile,
have scored a series of victories, including Trump’s election, the vote
for Brexit, and the continuing erosion of liberal democratic
institutions in Hungary and Poland.*

*But while many people take for granted an inherent contradiction
between nationalism and left-wing politics, there simply isn’t one,
either historically or philosophically. Throughout the 20th century,
progressives mobilized for social justice most successfully when they
spoke in the name of national solidarity rather than focusing
exclusively on class-based interests or on abstract notions of justice.
Left-wingers often cite the adage that patriotism is the last resort of
the scoundrel — and with good reason. But it is important to also
remember that a deep sense of national commitment underpins the
egalitarian institutions we hold dear.*

*The historian Michael Kazin put it mildly when he wrote that patriotism
[“is not a popular sentiment on the contemporary
left.”](https://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/a-patriotic-left) The
influential British left-wing commentator [George Monbiot has equated
patriotism with
racism](http://www.monbiot.com/2005/08/09/the-new-chauvinism/): To give
in to patriotism, he writes, is to deny the plain truth “that someone
living in Kinshasa is of no less worth than someone living in
Kensington.”*

*Yet in giving up on appeals to national solidarity, the left has
forgotten the basic political argument that served it so well in the
past: that out of the ties that bind together our national communities
emerges a deep commitment to the well-being, welfare, and social esteem
of our fellow citizens. This recognizes a [basic moral
intuition](https://books.google.com/books?id=kZMKxo_AqHAC&printsec=frontcover&dq=liberal+nationalism&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwih886k3vjYAhVJ5WMKHVoxDjcQ6AEIKTAA#v=onepage&q=liberal%20nationalism&f=false):
We have deep and encompassing obligations to those we consider our own,
based on a shared sense of membership in a community of fate — or more
simply, based on our shared national identity.*

American Progressives are pegged as fanatical ideologues, but that
misses an essential feature of the American Left. They can turn on a
dime and reverse course if it has practical value. In the Clinton years,
Bill Clinton scoffed at homosexual marriage. Even Obama seemed to be
revolted by the idea. Yet, they spun around on a dime and embraced the
whole rainbow collation of sexual deviants when it suited them. Hillary
Clinton ran her 2016 campaign on the not so subtle theme that she was an
old lesbian.

Bernie Sanders did a lot of damage in the 2016 primary because he had a
reputation for left-wing populism. You can be sure that he regrets
abandoning his closed borders position that he held for decades. There’s
a good bet he would have done much better if he had embraced a halt to
immigration as a way to help the working class. The alt-right guys will
tell you that some of guys came to their thing from the Bernie Sanders
wing of the Democrat coalition. You can bet Democrats have noticed this
as well.

None of this should suggest the Left is about to go alt-right, but when
<a
href="https://www.mercurynews.com/2018/02/25/california-democratic-party-declines-to-endorse-dianne-feinstein-in-re-election-bid/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">old liberal warhorses are on the
ropes</a>, because the “New Americans” are voting for their own, you can
be sure there is some soul searching going on now. The math says
the coalition of fringes only works if the fringe types are just a
supplement to the core white vote that has always voted Democrat. Once
the fringes decide they want to be in charge, and they have the numbers
to make it happen, there’s no room for whitey at the top of the party.

It’s hard to know where this will go. The Left is committed to identity
politics and to open borders, but that does not mean they cannot find a
way to adopt populist and even nationalist language. On the other hand,
the Left has pivoted on issues when practical politics demanded it.
Regardless, It really does not matter from the point of view of
populists and nationalists. If the other side is trying to figure out
how to steal these issues, it means these issues are working. It means
we’re doing something right.
