---
title: "Venezuela’s Future — and Ours"
date: "2018-06-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14216"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14216"
---

There are a lot of ways to describe the new political divide. We have
nationalists versus internationalists, globalists versus populists and
identitarians versus multiculturalists. All of those are true, but
another way of thinking about it is that the debate is now moving
upstream. For a long time, public debate was focused on economics or
maybe politics. Those are downstream from institutions, culture, and
biology. Now, the debate has moved upstream, to the stuff that really
matters.

Not everyone has figured out that the debate has changed. The Bernie
Bros, for example, are like the Japanese soldiers, who were cut off in
the war and lived in the jungle for years, still fighting the war. The
Bernie Bros still think the Democrats are the party of the working man,
as if anyone in Washington cares about the working man. The legacy
conservatives are similarly trapped in a bygone era. You see that in
[this
post,](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/06/venezuela-economic-collapse-socialism-always-fails/)
by our old friend Sloppy Williamson, on the ravages of socialism on
Venezuela.

*The United States has resigned in protest from the UN Human Rights
Council, which has a long and ignominious record of protecting the
world’s worst abusers of human rights. The proximate cause of the U.S.
resignation was the council’s unwillingness to act on the matter of
Venezuela, where the socialist government of Nicolas Maduro is engaged
in political massacres and the use of Soviet-style hunger-terror against
its political enemies. Venezuela remains, incredibly enough, not only
protected by the Human Rights Council but an active member of it, an
honor shared Vladimir Putin’s Russia and its political assassins, the
People’s Republic of China and its organ harvesters, and the Castro
dictatorship in Cuba with its torturers and al paredón justice.*

*Venezuela and North Korea could not be more dissimilar in terms of
their respective cultures, peoples, and histories. And yet they have
arrived in approximately the same place: at the terminus of F. A.
Hayek’s “Road to Serfdom.”*

For generations, it has been an article of faith among conservatives
that everything depends upon economics. Get the economics right, then
the miracle of the marketplace will usher in the the age of bliss.
Choose the wrong eco9nomic model and terrible things must follow. Bad
tax policy not only makes people poor, it makes them corrupt, violent
and cheat on their wives. Like Marxists, they think the system makes the
man, so there is a moral imperative to adopt the correct economics.

Well, what about Venezuela? What’s really going on? Here’s the per
capita GDP.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/GDP.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-14219" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 632px) 100vw, 632px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/GDP.png 632w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/GDP-300x184.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/GDP-489x300.png 489w"
width="632" height="388" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/GDP.png)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

That’s in constant dollars and it shows a remarkable thing. After the
turmoil that brought Hugo Chavez to power, the Venezuelan economy
started a nice run. Per capita GDP is a benchmark number that economists
love to use to measure the health of a country. Here’s what wages look
like in the country:

  
source:
[tradingeconomics.com](https://tradingeconomics.com/venezuela/wages)

Now, wages and economic growth don’t tell the whole story. Venezuela
suffers from the curse of natural resources, which in her case is oil.
What dumb people call socialism is just the way things operate in
countries with limited human capital. The elites monopolize the natural
resources and the profits that come from selling them on the
international market. They spread enough money around to prevent a
revolt, but keep the majority for themselves.

In other words, what ails Venezuela is not ideology. It is biology. It
is the way it is because of its people. What determines the nature and
character of a country is not the tax code or the regulatory regime.
Venezuela lacks the human capital to operate a modern economy. It has
and always will suffer from the smart fraction problem. That is, it
lacks a large enough smart population to carry the rest of the
population into a modern economy. It is stuck in a model suited for its
people.

Put another way, <a
href="http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/gnxp/2010/10/volkerwanderung-back-with-a-vengeance/#.WzN2v4ClyUk"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">it is people, not pots</a>. Replace the
Venezuelan population with Finns and they will figure out how to make a
mild form of Nordic socialism work. Fill the place up with Japanese and
the country will look like an Asian tiger. Fill up the United States
with Latin Americans and it is going to start to look like Latin
America. That’s why <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2018/06/26/politics/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-joe-crowley-new-york-14-primary/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">your newly imported replacements</a> are
running on platforms familiar to anyone getting ready to vote in the
upcoming Mexican elections.

Of course, the reason that raging cucks like Sloppy Williamson avoid the
obvious is that it is much safer to focus on trivialities. Lefty mobs
are not going to swarm his Rascal Scooter as long as he avoids taboo
subjects. That and these guys have been playing the role of useful idiot
for so long, it is second nature. They operate like a cargo cult,
convinced they can pretend it remains the 1980’s and it will magically
be so. National Review is like a weird living museum to the Reagan era.

The world has changed and the debate has shifted upstream. People are
noticing that when you elect a new people, you don’t actually end up
with a new people. You end up with a culture that reflects the biology
of the people you imported. Whites in America are now coming to terms
with the choices in front of them. Keep their head down and play make
believe while they are replaced, or risk moral condemnation for
defending their heritage and their culture. That’s the debate.
