---
title: "The Little White Book"
date: "2018-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15111"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15111"
---

*Edit: I was working from the draft copy that Greg was kind enough to
send me over the summer. He changed the chapter titled “Slow Cleanse” in
the final version and made clear that “ethnic cleaning” is used as a
leftist slur. The irony here is this was a recommendation I made after I
read the draft. My apologies to Greg and the readers for the error.*

What is “white nationalism”? If you ask a Progressive, you will get a
list of the other abracadabra phrases they use to label heretics. A
white person insufficiently enthusiastic for things like egalitarianism,
unlimited immigration or racial quotas is dismissed as a white
nationalist. They call President Trump a white nationalist, for example.
For normal people, the term conjures images of white separatists, maybe,
or perhaps nothing at all. Unlike black nationalism, the phrase white
nationalism lacks an agreed upon definition.

Greg Johnson, in his new book [The White Nationalist
Manifesto](https://www.counter-currents.com/product/the-white-nationalist-manifesto/),
sets out to define white nationalism and also make the case for it. The
book is a series of essays, grouped around three major themes. The first
section focuses on the state of white people, the forces operating
against whites and the need to restore white homelands. The second
section covers the basic concepts of white nationalism. The final
section addresses the cultural and political movement necessary to make
White Nationalism a reality.

The first thing that recommends the book is the structure. In this age
of short attention spans, breaking it into a series of essays is more
effective. Writers will have to come to terms with the fact that their
audience simply lacks the patience to read long complex arguments. In
the case of something like white nationalism, the format allows the
reader to quarrel with one or two points without having to reject the
overall argument. Even people comfortable with white identity politics
are going to have their disagreements.

There is also the fact that most white people remain allergic to
thinking sensibly about the issues facing white people. The adherents of
Frankfurt School arguments and tactics have been in control of public
discourse for generations. They have controlled the school curriculum
since the 60’s. As a result, few white people alive today have ever
existed outside the poaching liquid of multiculturalism. Short, easy to
digest arguments that explain the basics of white identity politics
provide a useful antidote to this conditioning.

Perhaps the most important argument in the book is at the beginning,
where Johnson lays out the facts of white demographics. To people
familiar with white identity politics, none of this will be new. Sadly
though, most white people simply have no idea they are members of an
endangered species. Even when the facts are presented to them, they will
find some way to deny reality. Again, generations of proselytizing by an
alien intellectual elite have conditioned whites to avoid facing the
reality of their own dispossession.

The other aspect of this is the cause. The public policies that are
putting whites in danger are not accidental. He makes the important
point that the elites pushing these polices must know the results of
those polices in advance. Otherwise, it means the cultural and political
elites are smart enough to craft and implement these policies, but too
ignorant of reality to understand the inevitable consequences. In other
words, the ads on your television that always feature a brown man, and a
white woman are *calculated*.

That removes the handy excuse whites have used for generations for not
revolting against their rulers. For as long as anyone reading this has
been alive, the claim has been that all the opposition needs to do is
craft the right argument. Once they do that, the ruling class will throw
down their weapons and embrace us as brothers. The responsibility is
shifted from the people implementing public policy to the victims. By
eliminating the excuse that they simply do not know, the burden shifts
back to the elites.

Another highly useful essay is titled *Homogeneity*, chapter eleven in
the book. For American readers this is going to be challenging because
the argument in favor of homogeneity contradicts everything they have
been taught about diversity. The challenge presented in this chapter is
that everything about observable reality makes clear that ethnically
homogeneous societies are healthier and happier. More important, up
until fifty years ago, everyone understood this, even in America. It is
a big red pill for normie.

Now, in fairness, the book could do a better job explaining white
demography. The empirically minded will hate the fact that Johnson makes
a lot of assumptions, without providing studies, graphs and so forth.
For American readers, an essay on the history and nature of white
American ethnicity would be helpful. For generations, whites have been
pitted against one another on ethnic and regional lines, so thinking
about white identity is very difficult. White Americans do not exist,
even to themselves.

I am also firmly in the camp that thinks we must be careful with the
choice of words, when it comes to discussing these topics. White
nationalism is going to conjure mostly negative images. The essay titled
*The Slow Cleanse* uses the phrase “ethnic cleansing”, which recalls
firing squads and death camps. The word “cleanse” reminds people of
Hollywood weirdos drinking prune juice for a week. Fair or foul, the bad
guys control the language, so using words and phrases that make that
hard for them is important.

That said, a big part of this project is the rejection of the prevailing
moral orthodoxy. This does not mean the puerile role playing that came
to define the alt-right. That is just juvenile rebellion that accepts
the moral supremacy of the Left. The proper way to reject the prevailing
orthodoxy is to not be bound by it and not react to it. One way to do
that is to return to the clear use of language. Nothing infuriates the
people in power more than the indifference of their subjects, so maybe
Johnson is on the right path with the language.

Finally, the target audience for the book is not your MAGA hat wearing
granny or the Ben Shapiro loving CivNat. The book is best aimed at the
type of person who generally knows the reality of race, but maybe thinks
“racism” is crude or low-class. What a book like this does is provide
language and arguments that the typical white person can use to
inoculate their own mind to the prevailing culture. It also supplies the
tools to help bring people over to this side of the great divide. It is
the Little Red Book for modern white people.
