---
title: "Learning From Present Reality"
date: "2018-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13640"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13640"
---

A regular topic of debate on the Dissident Right is whether or not
<span style="line-height: 1.625;">conservatives know they are just props
for the Left. Some argue that they know and have always known, but they
like the lifestyle that comes with it. There’s no getting around the
fact that guys like Jonah Goldberg live fabulous lives while being
nothing more than stooges. The sheer volume of losing by gentry
conservatives should be enough to wake up even the dumbest and most
naïve.</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.625;">Others are more generous, arguing that
conservatives are simply naïve or mistaken about the nature of the Left.
They come out of orderly upper middle-class suburbs where the rules
makes sense and everyone abides by those rules as a matter of courtesy.
That makes gentry conservatism and Reason magazine libertarianism
attractive to them. After all, their Progressive friends are great
people, the best people, so they can surely be persuaded. It just takes
the right argument.</span>

Reading <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/when-the-twitter-mob-came-for-me-1524234850?shareToken=st32cbefb50dc04d58b3fedbc0460ee372&amp;reflink=article_email_share"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kevin Williamson’s latest retelling of
his firing from the Atlantic</a>, those arguing in favor of gross
stupidity get a boost. At the start of his piece, he claims to have
predicted what would happen to him if he took the Atlantic job.

*In early March, I met up with Jeffrey Goldberg, the editor in chief of
the Atlantic, at an event sponsored by the magazine at the South by
Southwest conference in Austin. He had just hired me away from National
Review, the venerable conservative magazine where I’d been a writer and
editor for 10 years.*

*“You know, the campaign to have me fired will begin 11 seconds after
you announce that you’ve hired me,” I told him. He scoffed. “It won’t be
that bad,” he said. “The Atlantic isn’t the New York Times. It isn’t
high church for liberals.”*

*My first piece appeared in the Atlantic on April 2. I was fired on
April 5.*

Assuming this is true, he took the job knowing it would result in a mob
of angry liberals calling for his death. His decision to go through with
it could be seen as just part of the Progressive passion play, with
Williamson gladly playing his part. The trouble is he rather clearly
thought the very liberal Jeffrey Goldberg was some sort of honorable
guy, rather than a typical fanatic. More important, he thought Goldberg
would stand up to his coreligionists when they came to haul away the
heretic. That’s remarkably stupid.

Of course, for gentry conservatives, being remarkably stupid about the
nature of motivations of the Left has been a badge of honor for as long
as anyone reading this has been alive. The hallmark of gentry
conservatism for generations has been the insistence on playing by a set
of rules the other side refuses to respect, a set of rules that
guarantees failure by the so-called Right. Even the allegedly
hard-boiled realists of Buckley Conservatism, like Williamson, can’t
seem to grasp this obvious bit of reality.

Then there is this tidbit later in the column. Williamson writes “If you
want to know who actually has the power in our society and who is
actually marginalized, ask which ideas get you sponsorships from Google
and Pepsi and which get you fired.”  No doubt he was thinking of the <a
href="https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=images&amp;cd=&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=2ahUKEwiOi_2G3dXaAhWsnOAKHTIxAlgQjRx6BAgAEAU&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.mediaite.com%2Fonline%2Fto-learn-who-rules-over-you-viral-voltaire-quote-probably-originated-with-white-supremacist%2F&amp;psig=AOvVaw2wnAGNzmxeOfgcz6Sp1hR7&amp;ust=1524756044797542"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">internet meme</a>, probably thinking the
quote is from Voltaire. The line is actually from an old white
nationalist named
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kevin_Alfred_Strom"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kevin Alfred Strom</a>. Dumb people tend
to believe what they see on the internet, without making sure of the
source and accuracy.

At the end of his column, Williamson writes this.

*Where my writing appears is not a very important or interesting
question. What matters more is the issue of how the rage-fueled
tribalism of social media, especially Twitter, has infected the op-ed
pages and, to some extent, the rest of journalism. Twitter is about
offering markers of affiliation or markers of disaffiliation. The Left
shouts RACIST!, and the Right shouts FAKE NEWS! There isn’t much that
can be done about this other than treating social media with the low
regard it deserves.*

*But when it comes to what appears in our newspapers and magazines, some
of the old rules should still apply. By all means, let’s have advocacy
journalism, but let’s make sure about the journalism part of it: Do the
work, ask the questions, give readers a reason to assume that what’s
published adheres to some basic standards of intellectual honesty. To do
otherwise is to empower those who dismiss the media as a tangle of
hopeless partisan opportunism.*

*Without credible journalism, all we have is the Twitter mob, which is a
jealous god. Jealous and kind of stupid.*

Conservatism, at its root, is the acceptance of reality. The man of the
Right accepts the world as it is and acts accordingly. Williamson looks
out at a world overrun by Progressive mobs, egged on by our Progressive
rulers, and concludes that the only proper response is to pretend it is
otherwise. He’s nobly walking in front of the speeding train, because
trains should not speed. That’s not principled conservatism. That’s
suicidal stupidity. Williamson is the example for the side arguing that
these guys are morons.

In the end, it probably matters little if gentry conservatism is dying
from subversion or stupidity, other than as a cautionary tale. The
lesson that Williamson is unable to learn is not lost on the others
hoping to get on the big Progressive stage. They will be sure to scrub
their time lines and avoid saying or writing anything that could offend
their Progressive paymasters. The golden rule is immutable. The man with
the gold makes the rules, which is why the Dissident Right needs to <a
href="https://www.amren.com/commentary/2018/04/the-media-wasteland-bias-kevin-williamson-atlantic/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">build its own institutions</a>.
