---
title: "Thoughts On The Coming Events"
date: "2018-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13909"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13909"
---

Since it appears we are going to have lots of political news breaks over
the next few weeks, I thought it might be a good idea to do some more
political posting, which I have not been doing much of lately. The IG
report on how the FBI oversaw the Clinton e-mail crimes is due out this
week or next. Trump is laying the groundwork to fire Mueller and
possibly behead his own Justice Department. It is midterm season and
there will be a summer battle over the next round of government budgets.
Lots on tap this summer.

The first item is what we see happening with the FBI spying scandal. I
must admit that I initially followed it because I liked boasting about
having predicted it. Then I moved into cynical mode, assuming it would
be swept under the rug like all of the crimes perpetrated by our rulers.
I may have been wrong on that score. The people slowly unearthing the
details and revealing them to the public appear to be extremely savvy
political operators. I see now why the Democrats tried to assassinate
Devin Nunes. He is a dangerous man.

One of the rare things in American politics these days is the smart
politician who is not desperate to ham it up for the cameras. Nunes,
Grassley, Goodlatte and their staffers have conducted this probe in a
way we just never see. They took turns nibbling away at bits of the
story, working with IG Horowitz, while quietly confronting the FBI and
DOJ each step of the way. The level of coordination is what I find
intriguing. It feels like maybe there is an inside player making sure
everyone is on the same page and working their role.

On the other side of the ledger, the insane things coming from the
Brennan camp are jaw-dropping. For the former CIA head to not-so-subtly
threaten the Speaker of the House and the Senate Majority Leader on
social media is incredible. Either the guy is insane, or he really feels
he is bullet proof. That would be an incredibly ballsy move to make
behind closed doors with no witnesses. This guy is basically telling the
political class they better remove the sitting president or else. It is
not the sort of thing I ever expected to see in my lifetime.

What it could mean is that off-camera, there is a change in opinion.
This assault on Trump was led by a well-known group of people, the same
people who ran the phony-baloney NeverTrump campaign. Brennan’s nutty
public statements may reflect his sense that the tide is now running
against him and his cronies. He is not taking twitter because people are
taking his calls. You have to think that the leaders of both parties
would like to get away from this whole thing and the easy way to do that
is turn on the conspirators.

The other aspect to this is Trump has played his hand about as well as
possible. The press will focus on his handling of the Mueller stuff, but
what Trump has managed to do is much more strategic. Look at his
polling. Normally, even saints lose support after waves of bad press.
Trump has managed to bob along around 50%, slowly creating an image of
himself as David fighting Goliath. The Mueller problem, in light of the
spying scandal, now looks like part of an elaborate scheme to thwart the
will of the people by Washington.

That is going to give him enormous amounts of political capital in the
coming months. You do not want to be on the wrong side of a popular
president. The Ryan faction, which is bottling up all reform efforts in
the House, has to be wondering if they picked the wrong team at this
point. With their leader quitting to cash in as a lobbyist, we may see
that coalition within the GOP start to fracture this summer. The tell
will be if Ryan steps down early and we get a new Speaker. My guess is
that the is gone by Labor Day.

A long-forgotten element of the intrigue in Washington is the Clinton
e-mail scandal. That is supposedly the next item IG Horowitz will report
on, and it is the reason he has been digging around in all of this
stuff. Many of the characters involved in the spying scandal
participated in the cover-up of the Clinton e-mail scandal. The main
target is Andrew McCabe, so we probably learn just how much jeopardy he
is in over this. Whatever caused Mr. Magoo to fire him, despite not
wanting to do it, is in those reports.

Something Chuck Schumer said two years ago should be revisited. He
publicly warned Trump that “Intel officials ‘have six ways from Sunday
at getting back at you'” meaning Trump should not take on the FBI. Maybe
it was just Schumer flapping his gums, but maybe there is more to it. It
is safe to assume that guys like Brennan were abusing their power for a
long time. There may be another game afoot, behind the scenes, to rein
in an intel community that has been out of control for longer than the
public currently knows.

Finally, I used to compare Trump to the Asimov character “The Mule”
because I saw him as the destroyer of the current order. That is largely
true. The one thing common in all of these scandals is the participants
operated on the assumption that Trump can never win. It is not just that
he could not get elected. They have been playing the game assuming that
he had to fail eventually. The body of official Washington would expel
him like a foreign object. Instead, everything is falling to pieces and
Trump keeps winning.

It is going to be a fun summer.
