---
title: "The Lincoln Option"
date: "2018-12-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15705"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15705"
---

After two years in office, Donald Trump finds his presidency at a
crossroads. His style as president has been the same as his style as a
candidate. He says a lot of flippant things about the establishment,
many of which are true, and the response is mockery or possibly some
pearl clutching. Otherwise, from a policy perspective, the Trump era
looks like the Jeb Bush era. The donor class got tax cuts and regulatory
reform, while the voters have thus far gotten more of the same.

He can continue down the same path he has been on, reacting to the
machinations of his enemies, like a hyper-active version of Richard
Nixon, but that promises he will be a one-term president. While the
political class ignores him on policy, the Mueller investigation
operates as cancer on his administration. It is sucking the life out of
his agenda, by filling the media with salacious nonsense stories and
reactions to them, while scaring off serious people interested in
joining the administration.

A strange result thus far is that Trump is bad at the thing he was
elected to do. That is confront the political class. From the beginning,
he has allowed them to push him around and bluff him into bad policy.
For example, the Mueller fiasco could have easily been avoided by
refusing to appoint the guy. Was the GOP House really going to start
impeachment hearings? Would the media be worse on him for not signing
off on this ridiculous idea? Foolishly, Trump takes the advice of his
enemies.

The conspiratorially minded think the “deep state” has something on him
so he is being forced to go along with their agenda. That is an
entertaining theory, but the so-called deep state has shown itself to be
all thumbs. The real reason behind his failure thus far is that Trump
still believes in old America, a system of laws and rules where
eventually the truth rises to the surface. Trump’s “assault” on the
swamp is a defense of that old dead American ideal.

After two years of learning that the rule-based system of politics is a
myth and what happens in Washington makes New York City real state look
innocent, Trump needs to accept the reality of his situation. He can let
the Mueller investigation go on forever, as his opponents so desperately
desire, or he can end it. If he chooses the former, he is a one-term
president whose name will be forgotten. The victors may even have Trump
and his family imprisoned, as a warning to others.

The other option is to learn a lesson from Lincoln. When you scrape away
the slobbering praise, Lincoln faced a simple dilemma. He could try to
preserve the old order, fail and be remembered as a blood thirsty
tyrant, who tried to upend the Constitutional order created by the
Founders. Alternatively, he could be the tyrant and overthrow the
system, win the war, and create a new order. The reason Lincoln is not
remembered as Sulla is his side won.

That is the dilemma Trump now faces. He can keep trying to win within
the rules being imposed upon him by the establishment, or he can reject
those rules entirely. After all, he is in the White House because he did
exactly that in the campaign. His primary run was an example of an
outsider genius. His use of novel metrics to create new votes in the
general was mostly due to necessity. It is a great reminder that
necessity is the mother of invention – and revolutions.

Trump needs to accept that things have reached the breaking point. It is
no longer possible for him to strike a compromise with the
establishment. They must be brought to heel, and reform must be imposed
upon them. They know this, which is why they are endlessly bluffing on
what they are doing. Trump needs to call their bluff and fire Mueller,
end his investigation and begin the process of investigating the rampant
corruption in the intelligence services.

Imagine news breaks one Friday that the Secret Service has raided the
offices and homes of the Mueller team. Their computers, phones and
materials were seized and their access to those materials revoked. All
of them fired on the spot. Imagine the media hysteria over that move.
Now imagine Trump addressing the nation that night, telling the country
he has fired Team Mueller and is instructing his new AG to appoint a new
special counsel to get to the bottom of the FBI corruption.

That would turn Washington on its ear. When it is further learned that
all the material in the Mueller probe is under 24-hour armed guard and
off-limits to everyone until the second investigation is commenced, the
game is on. That means the new prosecutor can and will prosecute leaking
information in those files. Bob Mueller goes from being the grand
inquisitor to a person of interest. His flunkies suddenly become a
liability to him and the rest of the conspirators.

Would the House Democrats commence impeachment proceedings? Probably.
Even if they went forward, would the GOP senate convict? Maybe. There
are plenty duplicitous cowards in the Republican Party. Regardless of
how it goes, Trump suddenly becomes an inflection point in the nation’s
history. If they remove him from office, exactly no one will believe
American democracy is anything but a sham to protect a corrupt ruling
elite and the system will be discredited.

That is where Trump is right now. In a very different context, he is in
the same place Lincoln when he assumed office. Lincoln could only fail
by maintaining the old order, so he had to end the republic. Trump can
only fail if he tries to restore the old civic order he fondly remembers
from the 1980’s. His choice is to fail or overthrow the current order a
slow death or a revolutionary act. The latter does not guarantee
success, but it means the end of the old order, for which he will be
remembered.
