---
title: "A Rotten Elite"
date: "2018-09-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15150"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15150"
---

Long before Julius Caesar crossed the Rubicon, the Roman Republic
stopped being a serious political entity.  The system was still a well
thought out and conceived system of governance, but the people operating
could no longer be trusted to operate it. The Roman political class
could no longer trust itself, because the political class was no longer
dominated by serious men. The proof of that was not just its collapse,
but the fact that men like Marius and Sulla existed and needed to exist
for the system to stagger on.

The old line about people getting a government they deserve always comes
up whenever someone points out the defects of democracy. It is circular
reasoning but an effective way of not addressing the real issue. That
is, a people with a capable ruling elite can get along and be happy with
just about any form of political system. A people who need the restraint
of democracy or a strong constitution to tame their ruling classes is a
people with a ruling class incapable of operation a constitutional
government and abiding by its limits.

What this means is the people do not get the government they deserve, so
much as they get the government their ruling class deserves. Even that
does not explain why it is that the ruling elites of a society can go
rotten within a generation or two. The human capital of America in the
18th century was certainly different than that of today. The ruling
elite it produced was very different from today. But the population of
America a century ago was not that much different than today. We are a
little browner, but materially much better off.

As the circus of the Kavanaugh confirmation unfolds, it is important to
note that the people creating the circus are not the brown ones. Sure,
they were the opening acts, but the main stage is populated with geezers
produced by the ruling class of a half century ago. Diane Feinstein is
the representative of the generations that produced the cultural
revolution of the 1960’s, not someone from the current age. In other
words, the American ruling class started going sour a long time ago. We
are just getting to smell the rotting corpse of it.

You must wonder if events like this are what gives the remaining serious
men the idea of toppling over the system. In the Roman Republic, the one
place where merit counted was in the military. There were plenty of
politics, of course, but ultimately a man was what he showed on the
field of battle. Read accounts of Caesar in Gaul and the man was not
just a great general. He was a lion on the field. While there were
plenty of old men in the Roman senate who served their time in the
legions, none were the equal of Cesar.

No matter how sophisticated a society, men judge other men by the simple
calculation of whether they can take them in a fight. You must think
that the men running the military look over at their civilian leadership
and wonder why they are taking orders from clowns like they see in the
Senate. This must be especially true of the junior officers, most of
whom by this point have done tours in Afghanistan and the Middle East.
As patriots, they must be looking at the civilian leadership with
nothing but contempt.

That is not to say we are about to have a military coup. It is always
possible, but the one place where civic nationalism is strongest is
within the military. The one place where multicultural lunacy is
strongest is within the senior leadership ranks of the services. The
civilian leadership remains cautious enough to make sure the top brass
of the military is just as feckless and craven as the civilian side.
Even there though, the ingredients are in place for a young and
ambitious officer to start thinking about a short cut to the top.

Putting the military coup aside, watching the Kavanaugh circus should be
a reminder that America is one crisis away from collapse. The financial
crisis of 2008 was so terrifying to the elites, because they sense the
fragility of their position. The central bankers were able to contain it
and limit the damage to the public, by pushing the costs off into the
future. The US debt now stands at $21.4 trillion for a reason, but you
can only charge off the costs of a crisis so many times. At some point,
the elites must act.

The political elite of America is incapable of handling a genuine
crisis. They struggle to do the basics of government now. They still
have not written and passed a budget for next fiscal year. This is
ground floor stuff. If they cannot handle the simplest of tasks, how
will the “world’s greatest deliberative body” manage to debate a
response to a genuine crisis? The answer, of course, is they will not
because they cannot. Instead, they will look around for the strong man
to arrive and take over the task from them.

That is what we are seeing with the Kavanaugh hearings. Serious men
would never have allowed a handful of deranged matrons, suffering from
the typical middle aged female hysteria, to disrupt this process.
Generation after generation since Gettysburg, the political elite has
grown weaker as the quality of the ruling elite has declined. Maybe the
system is to blame. Maybe the breeding patterns of the elites are to
blame. Maybe it is just an example of reversion to the mean. Either way,
our elites are no longer elite.
