---
title: "Year In Review"
date: "2018-12-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15977"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15977"
---

This is the time of year when lazy writers post about the comings and
goings of the previous year, usually in the form of a listicle. “The
top-10 events of the past year” is a column that used to turn up in
every newspaper at least once. Then you have the predictions for the
coming year, which no one ever mentions as part of their year in review
posts. With technology being what it is, you would think a new genre of
year-end post would be the review of futures past type of post, but that
has not happened.

There is some utility in looking at these things. It is a lot like
reading old articles about the glorious future of the 1990’s. It is a
good reminder that most of the things we think are important turn out to
be not so important. You look at some of the predictions from last year
and wonder why anyone cared to mention it. Of course, you also wonder
why no one mentioned what happens to be important right now. How many
forecasters predicted a budget fight between Trump and his own party
over wall funding?

Looking at your own past predictions is a bit humbling, which is
probably why no one does it as a part of their year-end posting. [Here
is my post](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12480) from last year with
my crystal ball forecast for the upcoming year. I am not a fan of the
listicle, so it is written in the normal format. Looking back on it,
maybe a list is not such a terrible thing to do for these sorts of
posts. It does make it easier to read. That said, the very worst people
write listicles, so I just cannot bring myself to do it. One must keep
up appearances.

So, how’d I do?

Well, I got the DACA stuff mostly right. The part I got wrong is that
Trump would just drop the whole thing, rather than let the program
expire unnoticed. Instead, he and his new boy-toy, Lindsey Graham are
talking about trading 700,000 green cards to invaders in exchange for a
down payment on his wall. In fact, Trump has gotten nothing from
Congress with regards to immigration, so on that score I can only give
myself a solid “C+” for getting close, but over estimating Trump’s
political skill.

A similar thing is true with the Mueller probe. I got the easy part
right. The farcical nature of the thing is now plain to everyone. Even
the Democrats have stopped yapping about Russian collusion. The mask has
dropped, and they are clear about it being a way to hobble Trump. That
is not entirely true, as it is mostly a way to cover-up the Obama effort
to subvert the last presidential election. I got the midterms right too,
but that was so easy, so I am not sure it is worth grading.

I did nail the gene editing stuff. The Chinese may have used the new
technology to “fix” the DNA of an embryo. That is the claim, at least,
but none of it has been independently verified. The Chinese will lie
about anything, as it is a bandit culture. What has been released to the
public that can be verified looks legitimate. Even if it proves to be
false, it does reveal a willingness to do it by China, which has the
West thinking about how to get past the ethics of it so it can be done
here as well. Welcome to the future.

One thing I got very right is the continued growth of nationalist and
populist parties in Europe. It is easy to forget that the smart people
were all talking about the populist wave having crested last year, so
going the other way was a bold prediction. Not only have the populists
displayed staying power, but new movements from the Left are also
turning up. The Yellow Vest thing in France is much more of a leftist
cause, especially in Paris, than a right-wing phenomenon. That is
something to watch for next year.

Another thing I got very right is the IPO for Saudi Aramco. It is funny
to think that it was a big news item last year. It is a great example of
how something we think is important in the moment turns out to be easily
forgotten. Alternatively, it is a good example of something the mass
media is instructed to forget, once the news turns ugly. Notice how no
one talks about our second greatest ally in the world these days. A
shrewd analyst might be thinking of a way to bet against the Saudis
surviving next year.

What really mattered?

The dogs that were not barking last year, like the aggressive censorship
of dissidents and the absolute failure of the Trump administration, have
turned out to be the most important stories of 2018. This time last year
most people thought the Left was starting to run out of steam with their
Nazi hunting, but that turned out to be wrong. The move to a Chinese
style censorship regime took a big leap forward. Similarly, people
thought Trump was settling into the job, but it turned out he was
getting worse at it.

If one were to honestly characterize 2018, it would be as the year that
even cynical dissidents were shocked at the number of masks dropping.
This year we learned that Congress is so frightened of Silicon Valley,
that it is fair to say the real power base in the empire is in San
Francisco. Similarly, Congress is so frightened of the intelligence
agencies, they have become the Praetorian Guard of the empire. A shrewd
analyst may be thinking that 2019 is the year we dispense with democracy
altogether.
