---
title: "Radical Disorder"
date: "2018-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15599"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15599"
---

A mistake often made when analyzing the actions of the left is to assume
everything they do is driven by some master plan. For example, there is
a touch of conspiracy mongering in all the George Soros stuff. While he
is an evil person, much of what he finances is unknown to him.
 Left-wing activism is full of scammers attracted to the free flow of
cash. More important, it is a bug lamp for the mentally unstable, whose
activism is based on pure instinct. They do not think about what they
are doing.

The attack on Tucker Carlson’s house is a great example. That is the
sort of escalation that a subversive mastermind would not approve. The
reason is the left is far more vulnerable to this sort of thing than the
gentry conservatives. Progressive enclaves are made up to look like
1950’s America with a limited police presence and no surveillance
cameras. Then there is the fact that the ever-so-slightly to the right
talking heads all live in progressive enclaves. All their neighbors are
barking at the moon lefties.

Now, the people responsible for the “action” against Carlson were
certainly just acting on a whim. The people financing them are similarly
acting from emotion, rather than strategic thinking. They feel like they
are doing something, and they somewhat envy the people who get involved
in street activism. A major part of the Antifa performance is exactly
that, a performance. It is aimed at the bourgeois bohemians who write
checks to operations like the Antifa operation, [One People’s
Project](https://onepeoplesproject.com/).

This has always been a part of radical activism in the United States, at
least since the 1960’s with the rise of the New Left. Read the
biographies of people like David Horowitz or histories of groups like
the Weathermen, and two things always shine through. One is the
activists were often seeking attention from their parents. These were
kids raised in bourgeois opulence, but desperate for attention. That is
the thing that turns up over and over in 60’s radicalism. Most of it was
just an effort to scandalize their parents.

Then there is the fact that almost all of it was financed by middle and
upper middle-class people. Radicalism in America is a bourgeois
enterprise. People often get this confused, thinking that the left is
just a bunch of hypocrites. After all, the most liberal places on earth
are the wealthiest. Today, all the politically active billionaires are
throwing their money into causes that claim to oppose neoliberal
capitalism. George Soros is a billionaire, yet he pours money into
groups that swear they are going to murder the rich.

Even if you put aside the puerile emotionalism of what is going on with
the left, the general plunge into lawlessness is far worse for them than
it is for the dissidents. The rules, as currently written, are designed
to protect the left. Antifa gets police protection at riots, because the
cops know the dissidents would tear the spaghetti armed Antifa boys to
shreds, if given the chance. Everywhere you look the system is rigged to
protect the left and make it difficult for dissidents to mount a
challenge.

A big part of that is keeping middle-class whites thinking they must
follow the rules, because that is who they are. By convincing white
people that they must scrupulously follow the rules, the left maintains
an institutional advantage. If whites come to think the rules are for
suckers, because the game is rigged by their enemies, the left loses its
most important advantage. Put another way, if the cops decide they do
not have to follow orders to protect the left-wing rioters, we will see
our final left-wing riot.

If the left were really controlled by a super villain, as the talk radio
type of conservative insists, they would not be promoting lawlessness.
The people in charge always benefit the most from order. This is an iron
law of life. That was obvious in communist countries, where the
revolutionary leaders quickly turned into stone-faced defenders of order
once they assumed control. The radicalism of today is entirely
self-defeating, as it a top-down assault on that which keeps the
radicals in power. It is suicidal.

One possible reason is Continental radicalism was always material in
nature. The communists believed their system, if implemented, would
result in plenty. Once in power, they needed order so they could figure
out how to make their system work. Before long, order became an end in
itself, as it provided plenty for the ruling party and insulated them
from the masses. The Bolsheviks became an ugly, delusional version of
that which they replaced. Their materialism ultimately made them into
conservatives.

In America, radicalism has always been spiritual. The Puritan notions of
salvation, coupled with an outsider’s hatred of the majority population,
has made for a radicalism that can never be satisfied with control. The
point of the march through the institutions was not simply to replace
the WASP ruling class. It was to gain the high ground in a never-ending
war on the white majority. The war on whiteness is an all-consuming
reason to exist. If it takes destroying everything to get whitey, then
our radical rulers will blow up the world.
