---
title: "Techno-Socialism"
date: "2018-07-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14297"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14297"
---

Something I noticed when I started posting podcasts to YouTube, is that
copyright strikes come up automatically. Put in just a few seconds of
any song, no matter how obscure, and YouTube will say the copyright
owner made a claim. This is nonsense, of course, as no one could be
policing this stuff and filing claims. The software scans the uploads
for patterns matching something in their database. If the pattern is
close enough to anything, then YouTube issues a copyright strike and
puts the onus on you to dispute it.

I tested this by using some music I found on an old CD. It was from a
cover band a million years ago. I took some clips and uploaded them with
some talking by me. Sure enough, the clip got flagged for a copyright
claim. The ridiculous part was the alleged claimant was another cover
band. I tried a few more clips and no hits, but then a few more were
flagged, with different claimants. The last batch of hits were
completely wrong. It appears close enough is enough for them to make you
go through the hassle of disputing it.

The game that YouTube is playing is both defensive and underhanded. By
defaulting some copyright claim on everything, even vaguely similar to
what they have in their database, they avoid being sued by legitimate
copyright holders. That makes sense, given the nature of copyright laws.
Of course, they are also using this as an excuse to avoid paying
creators for their work. YouTube loses money, so anything they can do to
avoid paying creators drops right to their bottom line. They know most
people will not dispute the claims.

That came to mind when I saw <a
href="http://www.tmz.com/2018/06/28/ed-sheeran-sued-thinking-out-loud-lets-get-it-on-marvin-gaye/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this on Drudge the other day</a>.

*Ed Sheeran is on the receiving end of a monster $100 million lawsuit by
a company claiming the singer ripped off a Marvin Gaye classic.*

*A company called Structured Asset Sales filed the lawsuit, claiming
Ed’s song, “Thinking Out Loud,” is a carbon copy of Gaye’s “Let’s Get it
On.”*

*According to the lawsuit, Sheeran’s song has the same melody, rhythms,
harmonies, drums, bassline, backing chorus, tempo, syncopation and
looping as “Let’s Get it On.”*

*Gaye’s song was written by a guy named Edward Townsend and Gaye in
1973. Townsend died in 2003, and Structured Asset Sales bought one third
of the copyright. So, take that in … the claim is that just 1/3 of the
song is worth $100 MIL!.*

*Sheeran’s song was a huge hit … nominated for a Grammy for Best Record,
Best Performance and Song of the Year in 2016.*

*And, according to the docs, Ed’s single and the album it’s on — “X” —
sold more than 15 million copies and the song has been played on YouTube
more than a billion times.*

*Sheeran has already been sued by Townsend’s heirs. He called BS on that
suit. No word if the Gaye family might also sue.*

Now, I clicked on the story, because I was puzzled by why the estate of
a long dead singer would be suing some goofy looking white kid. It turns
out that the goofy looking white kid is a pop star of some note, and he
is accused of ripping off Marvin Gaye. It is another reminder that I am
now completely disconnected from modern pop culture. Not in a million
years would I have guessed that guy was a pop star. He looks like a dork
you would see working in a cubicle. I did not find his music enjoyable,
but what do I know?

Of course, the idea of making a copyright claim on something you give
away, by posting on the internet, is a mockery of the law. It is
perfectly reasonable for a performer to complain about people ripping
off their music and posting it on-line, but when the performer gives the
content away, they should have no complaint. Not only that, [a quick
search of
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=marvin+gaye) finds
every Marvin Gaye song ever recorded, is posted multiple times. There’s
even live stuff from the old days. Exactly no one is paying for Marvin
Gaye music.

Listen to the songs in question and it is hard to see the similarities,
at least not enough to support the claim. That is not going to be an
issue, because if it goes to court, both sides will have digital experts
claiming the songs are digitally the same or different, according to
each side. There are only so many possible song ditties, so by now every
conceivable riff has been used in a song. Using software to compare
songs, it is possible to claim everything is derivative, if not a
straight copy, of something else.

None of that matters. A battle of experts in front of a jury means a
coin toss, so the case will be settled. It does not cost a lot to file
the initial claim, but it does cost money to litigate these claims.
Plus, the goofy white guy has his reputation being tarnished, so both
sides have an incentive to settle. The estate of Marvin Gaye just wants
money, so they will be happy to take a quiet payoff off, without the
goofy white guy admitting to anything. That is the whole point of these
lawsuits. The whole thing is a form of greenmail.

Copyright abuse is becoming a racket. The Digital Millennium Copyright
Act (DMCA) was intended to protect owners of digital content, but
grifters have figured out how to game the system for all sorts of
reasons. Video game companies will file DCMA notices against YouTubers,
who post bad reviews. Hosting platforms slip language into their terms
of service, to claim ownership of your content. Restaurants are suing
reviewers for bad reviews. Of course, everyone can claim ownership of
just about any digital content.

It is a good example of another negative outcome from the technological
revolution. The ability to copy and distribute content digitally means
it is easy to steal. That means people steal it. The normal way an owner
protects his property is by locking it up, but in the case of digital
content, which is not possible, so the state has tried to create a
magical solution, which just encourages grifters and racketeers. My
guess is the legal fees for copyright issues are one of the biggest cost
of producing pop songs now.

The unexpected result of the technological revolution is that large
swaths of intellectual property have been inadvertently swept into the
public domain. In an effort to return the profits to the private owners
of the content, laws have been passed, but the result is all of the
costs have been swept into the public domain. The definition of the
technological revolution is the socializing of costs, with the
privatization of profit. Technology makes it possible to shift costs a
million small ways, onto an unsuspecting public.
