---
title: "Class War As Race War"
date: "2018-01-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12749"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12749"
---

<a
href="https://www.amren.com/features/2018/01/nowhere-to-run-working-class-trump/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">There is an interesting post up this week
over at the American Renaissance¹</a> website, that I have been puzzling
over a bit. What struck me initially about it is the opening line, “Why
we must unite across class lines.” That’s not a phrase you hear much
these days from politicians, activists or certainly polemicists. In
fact, class does not get much of a discussion at all in polite circles.
The closest we get to a class debate is snide remarks from cosmopolitans
about the people shopping at Walmart.

On the Right, discussion of class has long been forbidden. This was
mostly due to the fact that conventional conservatism in America is
really just right-wing Progressivism. The official Right and Left agree
on the big philosophical items. Their quarrels are mostly about tactics
and rhetoric. In the latter, the so-called Right carried the day, so
discussion of social class is mostly forbidden. We are an egalitarian
society where your status is determined by how well you serve the state.

The author of the AmRen piece then goes on to explore the gap between
official rhetoric on racial diversity and objective reality. Our ruling
elites systematically arrange their lives so they have the least amount
of diversity as possible. Whole sections of cities have been ethnically
cleansed so young white hipsters can have cool places to live.
Meanwhile, urban blacks, with the miracle of Section 8, are dumped into
lower class white suburbs, where they set about recreating their normal
chaos in otherwise stable white areas.

This compulsory diversity is not just destroying the white working
class, it is hollowing out the white middle-class. Urban female hipsters
are free to sing the glories of miscegenation, while they send their
super white kids to the private day school, and socialize with people
who look like them, think like them and live like them. As we
hate-thinkers would put it, we are seeing the systematic
Brazil-ification of America, where the white urban elite is turning
Middle-American is to caramel colored *favelas*.

This is familiar ground to readers here, but it is the proposed solution
that does not get much attention.

*So does our hope lie with the proles? The big difference between
Orwell’s 1984 and 2018 is that Orwell’s elites did not bother to
indoctrinate the masses, on the ground that the proles’ fidelity to Big
Brother was considered irrelevant. By contrast, in our diversity
dystopia the masses are at the core of the Left’s indoctrination
project. Our “proles” are the ones forced to suffer a bad education in
integrated schools. They are the ones subjected to violence, harassment,
and intimidation. And they are the ones told, again and again, that any
resistance to this makes them betrayers of who we are as Americans,
deplorable traitors in need of ever-more reformation.*

*Leadership may not come from the proles, but good sense and votes will.
Those who bear the burdens of diversity see its damage most clearly. It
is no accident that Donald Trump swept the white working-class vote.*

*Whatever our own particular economic station, we all have a role to
play in restoring working- and middle-class white America. We should be
hiring our own people, tutoring our own people, supporting scholarships
for our own people, and doing our best to build schools and cultural
institutions that can be healthy environments for our own people.*

Growing up in the underclass, my exposure to bourgeois sensibilities
about class came mostly through the movies. Movies and TV shows
featuring the white working class as protagonists, only did so as a
canvas onto which the writers could paint pictures of the multicultural
paradise. White union men learned they had to accept blacks into the
union in order to succeed. Archie Bunker had to see George Jefferson as
just a dark skinned version of himself, in order to rise above the
limitations of his class.

The Left’s class warfare was always a hoax played on the white working
and middle classes. The offer was better economic conditions, as long as
blacks were allowed to have some too. It was always a bait and switch.
Whites got high divorce rates, their daughters dating black guys, rocket
high inequality and the looming threat of minority status. By any
measure, the Left’s agenda for the white working classes has been a
disaster. It’s why the
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-white-death/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">great white die off</a> is the shadow hanging over all
of us.

We are  seeing a replay of this now with immigration. “Fellow white
people! You’re gonna get lots of cool restaurants and cultural
diversity, and a police state, well mostly a police state. Open
Borders!” All the promises of open borders and globalism are a
deliberate lie, using appeals to morality to overcome practical
objections and economic arguments to overcome cultural objections. Just
as accepting racial integration in exchange for economic prosperity was
a disaster for whites, open borders will be too. That’s the goal.

Our side embracing the rhetoric of 1960’s Progressive class warfare
seems a bit strange, but it is one entry point for introducing racial
consciousness to the discussion. Every time someone sees a politician
address the concerns of the white working class, the audience hears it
is OK to be white. Whenever white people, even hipster college
professors living in urban oases, engage in talk about the white working
class or the white opioid epidemic, being white gets re-legitimized and
re-normalized in the greater culture.

The second line of that AmRen post is a line from Orwell, “If there is
hope,” wrote Winston, “it lies in the proles.” Orwell wrote in a time
when it was assumed that Africa was for Africans, Asia for Asians and
the West was for white people. The olden thymes were an argument between
whites about how whites would deal with one another. Our age will be an
argument between whites about how we defend ourselves, our lands and our
posterity from the rest of the world. That starts with defending the
white working class.

¹I will be attending the American Renaissance conference this spring. if
you are interested in attending,
<a href="https://www.amren.com/2018-american-renaissance-conference/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">sign up is here</a>.
