---
title: "No Ideas"
date: "2018-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14458"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14458"
---

The other day, I was looking around for ideas and stumbled across [this
article](http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/where-the-right-went-wrong-on-criminal-justice/)
at the ironically named American Conservative. I mock the name because
there is not much about it that is conservative. Even their anti-war
positions are reflexive and not very well thought out. Rod Dreher has
been the main guy for a while and he has lurched from one fad to the
next, looking for a cult to give meaning to his life. The new editor
appears to be trying to make the site more like other legacy right
operations.

That article got my attention, because at the top was this note,
“Editor’s Note: This is the first in a collaborative series with the R
Street Institute exploring conservative approaches to criminal justice
reform.” Never having heard of the R Street Institute, I looked up their
<a
href="http://2o9ub0417chl2lg6m43em6psi2i.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/263477125_201512_990.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">financials</a> and saw that it was the
usual suspects. Any operation that includes David Frum must be working
against the interests of white America. He is a despicable person and a
subversive.

If you look at [their website](https://www.rstreet.org/about-r-street/),
they pitch themselves as libertarians. The word “free market” has become
an abracadabra word to the donor class that subsidizes these outfits. It
basically means these guys are fine with the cultural strip mining that
passes for capitalism these days. Just as over-class jargon about
“diversity” always signals a war on white people, the use of “free
market” means a war on the middle class by the globalists that see
America as nothing more than a pirate’s cove.

Ironically, these R Street guys have landed on prison reform as an issue
they will champion as conservative. Anyone over the age of forty-five
knows that “prison reform” is code for “throw open the prison doors so
the blacks can run wild.” There has never been a prison reform effort
with the goal of making the streets safe. Instead, it is either anarchy
and free weed or a Progressive assault on order. The effort to make this
a conservative principle is just another example of the death of
conservatism.

Now, the right was always just the dancing partner for the left. A great
way of putting it is from [Robert Louis
Dabney](https://www.counter-currents.com/2012/11/robert-lewis-dabney-on-conservatism/),
“American conservatism is merely the shadow that follows Radicalism as
it moves forward towards perdition.” You will note that he wrote that
over a century ago. What tends to lead people into dissident politics is
the realization that the so-called conservatives are just body men for
the people they claim to oppose. Their ideas are intended to enhance,
rather than reject, the morality of the Left.

The reason the modern Right seems like a barren field with tumbleweed
bouncing across it is that their dancing partner is now just a shuffling
zombie. The Left has not generated a serious insight into modern society
in over a generation. Their last big public policy idea was ObamaCare.
Otherwise, it has been a series of bizarre gestures toward increasingly
narrow fringe groups. They are the dog that caught the car. The Left has
a free hand to do what they please in America and they have no idea what
to do.

The result of this lack of ideas is that politics is now just a
combination of money grubbing and hysterical public tantrums. The
hilariously over-the-top reactions in the media to Trump’s meeting with
Putin is a good example. None of these people can tell us why Putin is
suddenly the devil. They do not even try. Instead, they carry on like
teenagers in a slasher film. They took turns trying to outdo the
previous loon’s contrived outrage. It is as if they are trying to scream
the devil into existence, so they can have a reason to scream.

Much gets written about the impact of cosmopolitan globalism on the
middle class and the cultural identity of western nations. It is assumed
that the people doing this to us have a purpose, but in reality, they
are working on inertia. They do not move forward toward a goal, rather,
they just move forward because that is what they do. The politicians are
feckless airheads, and their advisers are craven ninnies. Everything is
a bust-out now, not because they are crooks, but because they cannot
think of another reason to get up in the morning.

That is the other consequence of cosmopolitan globalism. It hollows out
the intellectual elite, just as it kills the middle-class. This was
evident a century ago, the last time the world was sure globalism was
the cure. The great powers staggered into the abyss because they lacked
the ability to question their own policies. A war that should never have
started went on for years, because both sides kept doing the same things
over and over, hoping for a different result. They murdered themselves
for lack of a new idea.

Of course, I could have the cause and effect backwards. Maybe the
cultural collapse of the West naturally makes one-world utopianism
appealing. The Left ran out of ideas fifty years ago and the Right has
been on fumes since the 1980’s. Europe has not had a new idea since
Marxism. Without a reason to argue and debate, maybe it is natural to
assume there is nothing left to debate. All the big problems have been
solved and it is time to step into the glorious future. The lack of
competition has made our ruling class dull.
