---
title: "Yesterday’s Election"
date: "2018-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13184"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13184"
---

There was a special election to fill the seat for Pennsylvanian’s 18th
congressional district  yesterday and it appears the Democrat has won.
The district had gone for Trump by 20-points in 2016, but the lackluster
baby boomer the  Republican Party put up could not be bothered to
campaign, much less notice the issues important to the voters. The
Democrat, on the other hand, sounded more like Trump on most issues,
than his own party. He was lying, of course, but people will vote for a
liar over someone who appears to hate them.

<a
href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-pennsylvania/in-warning-for-trump-democrat-claims-too-close-to-call-pennsylvania-vote-idUSKCN1GP0DG"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The yesterday men of the
Left</a> are pointing to this and claiming it is the sign of what’s to
comes next fall.

*The Democrat candidate claimed a congressional election in a Republican
heartland in Pennsylvania, as a vote seen as a referendum on Donald
Trump’s performance as president remained officially too close to call
early on Wednesday.*

*n an ominous sign for Republicans eight months before national midterm
elections, official results with all ballots from voting booths counted
showed moderate Democrat Conor Lamb leading conservative Republican Rick
Saccone by a fraction of a percentage point.*

*Trump won the Pennsylvania 18th Congressional District that they are
contesting by almost 20 points in the 2016 presidential election.*

*With TV networks, which often call U.S. elections, yet to predict a
winner, officials were continuing to count several hundred absentee
ballots to try to determine the result.*

*Democratic sources said that, once those ballots were included, they
expected Lamb to have won the election by more than 400 votes.*

*“It took a little longer than we thought but we did it. You did it,”
Lamb, a U.S. Marines veteran, told cheering supporters late on Tuesday.*

*Speaking before Lamb claimed victory, Saccone – who has described
himself as “Trump before Trump was Trump” – said the contest was not yet
over.*

The Democrats are looking to replay what they did in 2006 where they
rounded up a bunch of reasonable sounding people to run in Republican
districts. Voters, revolted by the GOP, were willing to give the
reasonable sounding Democrats a shot. It was a cynical ploy, but what
made it important was the shamelessness. Usually, political parties
scheme to fool the voters behind closed doors. In 2006, the party was
right out in the open about what they were up to and they laughed about
it afterward to their friends in the press.

It is why this coming midterm is probably going to follow a different
course. For starters, the Democrats that are winning are doing so in
opposition to their own party. Conor Lamb ran around saying nice things
about Trump, while the Republican sounded like every generic Republican
the voters have come to hate. The Left will want to pitch this as a
referendum on Trump, but really what is shaping up is a referendum on
the GOP establishment. They do nothing but foot drag and obstruct the
Trump agenda.

It is also a warning to the Democrat leadership. Their coalition of
fruitcakes is an unreliable voting block. You will note thus far that
they have won these special elections by appealing to white voters, not
left-handed bisexual trannies of color. Conor Lamb sounded like
Democrats used to sound in the 1950’s, talking about bread and butter
issues in a language normal people can understand. White people will
vote for a person who is pro-white, regardless of party. That is a
lesson the Washington elite has yet to learn.

The thing is though, the establishment of both parties is locked into a
model of politics that belongs in a museum, rather than a modern
campaign. The old Left-Right framework is no longer relevant. Within the
white vote, the issue is nationalism versus cosmopolitan globalism. The
establishment of both parties continues to operate as if the politics of
gesture is still salient. They still play the Fukuyama end of history
stuff, where all the big issues have been decided, so what’s left is
pointless gestures and meaningless symbols.

Phase change in politics is a slow moving thing as the people being
phased out never come to terms with their own fate until it is just
about sealed. The generation of politicians running both parties are
creatures of the previous era. They evolved to fit that era and, in many
respects, they are the perfection of that era. The best politicians of
any age usually reach perfection just as they are no longer needed. That
is America today. We have a political class perfectly designed for 1992,
but utterly useless for our current era.

What this means is a period of contentious and contradictory elections,
as the voters and politicians try to figure out what works. In the
demographic age, democracy can only evolve in one direction and that’s
people voting their skin. This is the lesson of history and the
inevitable result of biology. Baby boomers are, for the most part,
locked into the civic nationalist model. Younger generations are
adapting to the new reality.
