---
title: "Imagination Land"
date: "2018-02-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12993"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12993"
---

All of us live in a silo of our own making to some degree. We read news
sites we like and we like them because they tend to cover the stuff we
think is important, in a way we hope is accurate. We admire opinions
with which we agree. We spend time together with people who share our
interests. That is normal. It is also normal to know it and know others
have different opinions and interests. Most normie conservatives get
that Fox News is biased toward the Republicans, but they know all of the
other stations are heavily biased to the Democrats.

This self-awareness has never applied to the Left. Every normal person
has had a conversation with a Progressive friend where they claim the
news is biased against them or is too easy on some conservative they
currently hate. They will argue that Fox News is poisoning the minds of
the public. When you point out that 90% of the mass media is run by hard
left true believers, they scoff and say you are nuts. The hive mind of
Progressives has always allowed them to pretend they are surrounded by a
sea of their enemies.

One point made by some on the Dissident Right is that this blinkered
view of the world has infected the so-called conservatives. They are
blind to the intellectual revolution going on over here, because they
stare at Lefty all day. Like people looking directly into the sun, they
are blind to everything else. As a result, the legacy conservatives
carry on like it is 1984 and Dutch Reagan is riding high. Much of what
so-called conservatism is these days is just [a weird nostalgia
trip](http://nationalreviewinstitute.nonprofitsoapbox.com/houston),
celebrating a fictional past with no connection to the present.

There are many reasons why so-called conservatives are becoming
irrelevant, but the main reason is that their good friends on the Left
are racing off into a fantasy land of their own creation. Listen to a
modern Progressive talk and it is a weird combination of echolalic
babbling and paranoia about dark forces that are imaginary. Replace
“Russian hacking” with “work of the devil” and their howling makes more
sense. Things like “foreign meddling” and “institutional racism” are
just stand-ins for [Old
Scratch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Scratch).

This increasingly weird disconnect between the Left and this place we
call earth shows up in their main propaganda organs. Those old enough to
remember reading English versions of communist newspapers can recognize
the unintended humor on the front pages of the New York Times and
Washington Post. [This front page item from last
week](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/white-house-reels-as-fbi-director-contradicts-official-claims-about-alleged-abuser/2018/02/13/f010f256-10d9-11e8-9570-29c9830535e5_story.html?hpid=hp_rhp-top-table-main_kelly-740pm-winner%3Ahomepage%2Fstory&utm_term=.e966462f1384)
is a good example. Everything in that “news” story describes a world
that only exists in the fevered imaginations of the Left. It was a
fictional account of present reality written for believers.

[This Andrew Sullivan
piece](http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2018/02/we-all-live-on-campus-now.html)
bumps up against this reality a little bit, but from a different angle.
His argument is that the fantasy land of academia is casting a long
shadow over American society, so it is imperative that the college
campus be reformed to look something like reality. His framing of things
is mostly wrong because he is just a slightly less berserk member of the
hive he is trying to analyze. His description of the dynamic on campus,
though, is correct. It is a world untethered from reality.

The fact is the college campus is the apotheosis of Progressive
spiritualism. It has been dominated by the Left for as long as anyone
has been a live. The constant flow of credit money into American higher
education has removed all restraints on the people in charge. They are
free to indulge whatever fantasies they have at the moment, as no one
ever gets fired and the money spigot stays open. As a result, the
American college campus is the full flowering of the Progressive
imagination. It is Wakanda for cat ladies.

This lurch into madness is the result of plenty. Up until recent, the
threat of nuclear annihilation and the lack of universal prosperity has
reined in the excesses of the Left. In order to win elections,
Progressive politicians had to focus on better economics and expanding
opportunity. Of course, the Cold War kept everyone focused on practical
reality, as a mistake could have set off a nuclear exchange. That is no
longer the case as prosperity is near universal, in human terms, and
there are no looming threats.

Progressivism has always been a spiritual movement. It is the quest for
cosmic justice based on the notion that we are only as good as the
weakest among us. That is a fine and noble sentiment, as long as it
remains a sentiment. The reality of scarcity has always kept this
spiritualism in check. As we enter into what appears to be a
post-scarcity world, Progressives are free to explore the far reaches of
their mysticism. The result is a ruling class that is looking more like
eastern mystics, than pragmatic rulers.

It is why civic nationalism is a dead end street. You see it in the
Andrew Sullivan piece about the campus culture. What he is arguing in
favor of is the same things we hear from civic nationalists. They all
agree with Progressives that we need a unifying religion. They just want
a debate about the contours and end points of the religion. The fact
that no one has ever pulled this off without ushering in a bloodbath
never gets mentioned, Instead, all of these folks prefer to frolic in
imagination land, where all their dreams come true.
