---
title: "Manly Men"
date: "2018-01-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12676"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12676"
---

The first time I ever had a reason to think that maybe the next
generation of men coming along were a little light in the loafers, was
when I hired a summer intern a dozen years ago. He was a college student
hoping to become a lawyer or politician one day. He seemed like a bright
and engaging kid, so we hired him. He was just going to be doing basic
office stuff. Even if he was dumb as a dirt, it really did not matter.
Just as long as he was not annoying or crazy, I figured I could get some
use out of him.

Not long into his tenure, he came in late because he had a flat time and
had to wait for someone. He did not know how to change a tire and he
seemed somewhat amazed that people did know how to change tires. I began
to notice that he did not do little things like hold the door for women
or older people. He was unaware of things I just took for granted, like
how to use a screwdriver. We had a small maintenance task on a piece of
office gear and he watched me do it like I was conjuring spirits from
the other world.

I have never wanted to be one of those old guys who complained about the
younger generation. I think that is silly but talking with him and other
people his age that summer, I started to wonder if maybe there was
something to it. The main reason I started to change my opinion is *he*
thought it was true. This is something I have bumped into a few times.
It seems that many young men think previous generations of men were much
more manly in some way. Apparently, it is not just a US thing. [British
boys think they are
wimps](https://yougov.co.uk/news/2016/05/13/low-young-masculinity-britain/)
too.

In fairness, it may be the fact that Millennials were raised in a
culture that celebrated girls at the expense of boys. This stuff started
in Gen-X, but it was not horrible for us. By the time the Millennials
came along, schools and popular culture reeked of estrogen. It is
perfectly reasonable for these males to assume that they were never
trained to be proper men, even if they are proper men anyway. There’s
also the fact that the boys today are told they are girls trapped in a
man’s body and that [boys should be wearing
dresses](https://www.yahoo.com/news/pretty-dresses-no-longer-just-women-194645610.html).

Now, I certainly knew I had it soft compared to the old guys I remember
as a kid. My grandfather’s one brother was at Guadalcanal. Another died
in the [Bataan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bataan_Death_March). Just
listening to the old timers talk about their youth made it clear that
they were hard men produced in hard times. That is an extreme example.
My generation did not have it hard, at least not that much tougher than
the Millennials and now Gen-Z. It does not make a lot of sense for them
to think they are a generation of pansies or for them to actually be
pansies.

The flip side, assuming the young men today are wimps, is that this is
the result of the feminization of society. That happened because the
previous generations of men slowly ceded ground to the ladies. That
process started in the 19th century when Protestant pastors teamed up
with vinegar drinking lesbianism to get women the right to vote in
Federal elections. Even today’s wimps know that was a terrible idea. How
is it the tough guys of a century ago were so eager to hand the ballot
to women?

[The MGTOW¹/PUA² blogger
Heartiste](https://heartiste.wordpress.com/?s=soy) thinks it is soy in
diets. The reliance on soy protein in modern Western diets is causing a
drop in testosterone. I do not have low testosterone, even for a geezer,
but I never eat soy. I do not eat processed foods, just meat and green
vegetables. I have friends my age who do eat lots of prepared foods and
they have gone on testosterone replacement therapy. It sounds
implausible, but the European diet never included lots of soy, so maybe
there is something to it.

There is some data showing that [testosterone levels are falling in
men](https://www.healio.com/endocrinology/hormone-therapy/news/print/endocrine-today/%7Bac23497d-f1ed-4278-bbd2-92bb1e552e3a%7D/generational-decline-in-testosterone-levels-observed).
It is an age independent decline, which means levels are falling
relative to the same age groups of previous generations. [There is also
the observed drop in sperm
counts](https://academic.oup.com/humrep/article/28/2/462/599181). One
could be related to the other, but both could have some common root
cause. The odds of that cause being blue-haired feminists screaming
about their feelings is probably low, but culture cannot be ruled out
entirely. Still, environment is the more likely cause.

There is also the modern habit of loading up young boys with
psychoactive drugs so they do not act like young boys. This just started
coming around when I was a kid, but we largely missed it. Millennials
and Gen-Z boys were drugged as a matter of school policy. Giving young
people these kinds of drugs is madness, but about 20% of males grew up
munching on Ritalin and Adderall. It is reasonable to suspect that a
youth spent high on stimulants is going to have a hangover effect into
adulthood.

The diet and lifestyle explanation would cover the last few generations,
but it does not explain why men a century ago started ceding ground to
women. My grandfather’s generation had the very real fear of starvation.
Men were still routinely killed on work sites and personal violence was
a part of a normal man’s life. They never heard of soy or ADHD, but they
were willing to open the door for women to take over the culture. For
thousands of years men knew how to control their women. Then they did
not.

Maybe there is some multi-generational cycle at work and the pendulum is
about to swing the other way. It is hard to know as we struggle to
understand trends that transcend generations. Maybe it is an
evolutionary trigger built into humans. When times are good, the men get
stupid, eventually bringing an end to the good times. Regardless, the
fact is we have fewer manly men now. That is not a problem in a
post-scarcity society, but if that changes, we may find a shortage of
men to be a big problem.

¹ I am unreliably told that Heartiste may not be MGTOW. I am not all
that clear on the definition in the man-o-verse, so apologies to
Heartiste if I characterized him incorrectly.

² Hilariously, many men are upset at my calling Heartiste MGTOW, so I
have amended the post.
