---
title: "The Death Of The Cuck"
date: "2018-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15254"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15254"
---

A few years ago, I had a run-in with Tom Nichols on twitter. I no longer
recall the details, but he posted something that was obvious nonsense,
and I responded with a link to the facts. His instant response was to
call me stupid and then block me. That left me with a bad impression. It
is the sort of behavior you get from insecure drama queens, who worry
that one day people will discover that they are complete phonies. That
is, of course, the story with Tom Nichols, who has just posted
[this long hissy
fit](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/10/tom-nichols-why-im-leaving-republican-party/572419/).

*Unlike Senator Susan Collins, who took pages upon pages of text on
national television to tell us something we already knew, I will cut
right to the chase: I am out of the Republican Party.*

Imagine how hard it was for him to write that while wiping away the
tears. Prepubescent girls have hardier constitutions. Given his
hysterics over Trump the last three years, what took this guy so long to
figure out he was no longer wanted? George Will got out early, making it
clear he did not like the sorts of people who voted for Trump. Bill
Kristol and the other freaks in the neocon clown car became Democrats.
Self-professed genius Tom Nichols needed three years?

*Small things sometimes matter, and Collins is among the smallest of
things in the political world. And yet, she helped me finally accept
what I had been denying. Her speech on the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh
convinced me that the Republican Party now exists for one reason, and
one reason only: for the exercise of raw political power, and not for
ends I would otherwise applaud or even support.*

*I have written on social media and <a
href="http://www.nydailynews.com/opinion/ny-oped-a-new-cloud-over-kavanaugh-20180921-story.html"
data-omni-click="r&#39;article&#39;,r&#39;&#39;,d,r&#39;intext&#39;,r&#39;1&#39;,r&#39;None&#39;">elsewhere</a>
how I feel about Kavanaugh’s nomination. I initially viewed his
nomination positively, as a standard GOP judicial appointment; then grew
concerned about whether he should continue on as a nominee with the
accusations against him; and finally, was appalled by his behavior in
front of the Senate.*

What self-professed super genius Tom Nichols is telling us is that his
opinions are formed in the minds of others. When it looked like Trump
had selected a Kennedy clone that would pass muster with the
Democrats, self-professed super genius Tom Nichols was down with the
nominee. Then the Left went crazy and self-professed super genius Tom
Nichols realized Kavanaugh was a monster. When the Left attacked
Kavanaugh for defending himself, self-professed super genius Tom Nichols
agreed with them.

What a coincidence!

Self-professed super genius Tom Nichols is a fine example of the
right-wing edgytarian that I described in
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11668" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this post</a>. The short version is that he stakes out
his positions just inside the line of what Lefty finds acceptable. That
way he can pretend to be a conservative of some sort, but never get in
any real trouble with Lefty. This type of feckless weasel has been a
feature of Lefty chat shows for years. In order to maintain the
act, these guys operate like a shadow, following the Left around, always
aware of that line.

The remarkable thing about this tirade by self-professed super genius
Tom Nichols is that it reveals he is not much of a super-genius. He’s
shocked to learn that “the Republican Party now exists for one reason,
and one reason only: for the exercise of raw political power.” This is
guy who claims to be an expert on political science, but he is shocked
to learn that politics goes on in political parties? The funny thing is
there’s no reason to think this is a pose. He really is that dumb. He is
surprised to learn politics is about politics.

There is the possibility that these so-called principled conservative
have been smelling their own farts for so long they are delusional.
Their endless chanting the last dozen years about principles may have
created some strange form of Stockholm syndrome, where they have become
emotionally attached to the excuses they were making for the disaster
that was the Bush years. That’s something that does not get enough
mention. These guys all became principled conservatives when their
polices nearly destroyed the country.

*The Republicans, however, have now eclipsed the Democrats as a threat
to the rule of law and to the constitutional norms of American society.
They have become all about winning. Winning means not losing, and so
instead of acting like a co-equal branch of government responsible for
advice and consent, congressional Republicans now act like a
parliamentary party facing the constant threat of a vote of no
confidence.*

Self-professed super genius Tom Nichols is apparently unaware that the
GOP, in fact no political party, is a co-equal branch of anything.
That’s not their job. Only a complete ignoramus could think that a
political party has some special duty to undermine the interests of its
coalition. Democratic government is exactly the opposite of that. It is
factions and coalitions jostling to get their way at the expense of
others. That’s how it is supposed to work. That’s how it always works.
How does he not know this?

Of course, the real issue for fake tough guys, like self-professed super
genius Tom Nichols, is Trump is ripping the cover off their act. By
actually fighting and winning, Trump is exposing fakers like
self-professed super genius Tom Nichols. These guys were always a fraud.
More important, this Kavanaugh incident has revealed the Left to be
something other than wily opponents. They were outsmarted by the GOP and
by Trump, which self-professed super genius Tom Nichols said was
impossible.

The thing is, guys like Tom Nichols, who hilariously wrote a book
lamenting the decline of expertise, were always favored by the Left
because they were dumb. Sure, self-professed super genius Tom Nichols
has a head for trivia. Just ask him. He stops people on the street
everyday to tell them he is a five time jeopardy champ. Otherwise, he is
just another hired man tasked with guarding the border between us and
them. Maybe we get lucky and he and David French decide to go out like
Thelma and Louise.
