---
title: "Not My President"
date: "2018-03-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13049"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13049"
---

There is a debate in dissident circles about the political acumen and
the integrity of President Trump. One side looks at all the zigzagging
and flip-flopping on DACA and concludes that Trump is just a liar, who
has figured out how to con well-meaning white Boomers. The other side
looks at the same issue and sees a strategy intended to move the ball
forward on the immigration issue as a whole. His latest antics over the
gun issue, however, suggest that is he is just a stupid bullshitter who
got lucky.

The gun issue has always been the one thing in American politics where
you can reveal both the integrity and the intelligence of someone. Gun
grabbers are always very stupid or very dishonest. Sometimes they are
both. The 2A people are often just reflexively opposed to gun grabbing,
without having thought it through, but gun grabbers are never honest or
informed. It is the main reason that the NRA has been successful. They
have been blessed with an enemy incapable of honesty and unwilling to
learn the facts.

Now, [that enemy includes President
Trump](http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/376097-trump-take-the-guns-first-go-through-due-process-second).

Trump knows even less about the gun issue than he does about marital
fidelity, so no one on the 2A side figured he would be our champion. The
assumption was that he knew enough to avoid the topic and not get in bed
with the gun grabbers. On an issue like guns, doing nothing is usually
the best course. Most states are sensible on guns, so letting the states
handle it is good for us. Instead, it turns out that Trump is making the
classic Republican error of taking advice from his enemies.

It would be one thing if Trump did the rope-a-dope, promising to sign a
bill that everyone knows has no chance of becoming reality. Shining
people on like he is doing with DACA is standard politics. This gun
grabbing lunacy he is spouting is damaging to the cause of gun owners
and it reveals Trump to be a mendacious blockhead, with no idea why he
is in the White House. It is no longer possible to argue that his
maneuverings are super-clever 4-D chess. Trump is simply an unreliable
liar.

What is most offensive to the 2A community about what Trump is doing is
that he is legitimizing that which our side has worked for generations
to de-legitimize. One is using non-democratic methods to get around the
people on gun control. His plan to ban bump-stocks by fiat is dangerous
lunacy on its face. Worse yet, his endorsement of extra-judicial
confiscation of guns on mental health grounds, elevates a crackpot
scheme of the Left to something worthy of public debate.

Put another way, this jackass has undone generations of hard work by the
very people who put him in office. Not even that feckless nitwit George
Bush did something this egregiously stupid. Even Barak Obama was
unwilling to go this far. This idiocy is right up there with Poppy Bush
breaking his tax promise in order to get the Democrats in Washington to
like him. It worked. They loved him, which was why he was a one term
president. Trump is now setting himself up to follow Bush into the void
of stupidity.

Now, the counter argument you will hear is that Trump is just playing
more 4-D chess and this will amount to nothing. Well, a smart politician
would know enough to not do that with this issue. This is not a parlor
game. The pro-gun voter has no sense of humor on this stuff and they
have zero tolerance for limp-wristed politicians too afraid of the girls
to do the right thing. Speaking only for myself, I would vote for a gay
black Muslim over Trump right now. That is right. I would vote for Obama
over Trump.

I think everyone who voted for Trump understood they were getting a guy
who would be long on bullshit and short on tangible accomplishments. The
point of voting for him was to send a message, but also legitimize
populist issues. Trump was the guy who would flip over the tables and
discredit the status quo, opening the door for ambitious politicians to
run on patriotic issues like immigration reform. Trump would maybe do a
few things, but the real work would be up to those who come next.

So far, Trump is looking like he is not going to deliver anything other
than blowing his own horn every day. Worse yet, the trade-off for his
vanity will be the undermining of the one cause that truly defines what
is left of old stock America. By legitimizing gun-grabbing and executive
fiat, he has just made it possible for the next President Obama to DACA
the gun issue, by issuing new gun laws via executive order. Trump is
proving to be one step forward and ten steps backward.

The one lesson of the Trump era is to not put too much stock in what
Trump says. He is, after all, a bullshitter. He is also a guy who will
wheel on a dime if he senses he is on the wrong side. He is rather
shameless in that regard. Still, the damage he has done to the cause of
gun rights is incalculable and it will not be forgotten. Unless he
eventually signs off on some bold pro-gun laws, lots of his voters will
choose to spend next election day at the range, rather than cast a vote
for a duplicitous gun grabber.
