---
title: "Why Did Women Go Nuts?"
date: "2018-04-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13575"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13575"
---

About a dozen years ago, I heard a Brit remark that you can get charged
with rape in Sweden if you brush against a woman in an elevator. It did
not quite register with me at the time. I just thought it was an
exaggeration about Swedish prudishness. Then a few years later Assange
was charged with rape and it made sense. He was accused of having sex
with two women and then not calling them the next day. In Sweden, hurt
feelings and regret are enough to support a rape charge.

What no one knew at the time is that the estrogen fueled lunacy that was
raging in Sweden was headed our way. The \#metoo stuff is pretty much
what happened in Sweden, except it is playing out on social media. Of
course, it was the gals in Sweden who demanded the nation import
millions of swarthy males from over the horizon, so the Swedes could
have a real rape problem, rather than an imaginary one. That most likely
means the girls of the \#metoo movement will be demanding the same for
us.

A popular topic in our thing is the fact that our women have gone
insane. Some say the mistake was giving them the vote a century ago.
Others say it was multiculturalism and the resulting break down in
society. Both are probably true to some degree, but that does not
explain what happened in Sweden. It does not explain why mentally
unstable coeds are making up bizarre rape fantasies, like the one at
UVA. It does not explain why European women are trying create <a
href="https://www.cnbc.com/2018/04/13/finlands-supershe-island-resort-doesnt-allow-men.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a land of Amazons in the Baltic Sea</a>.

*We’ve all had those moments, whether you’re drowning in work in a
cramped cubicle or just tired of the daily grind. In those moments, a
thought might cross your mind, like “I wish I could escape to a private
island.”*

*Well, entrepreneur Kristina Roth actually made that happen. She’s not
just escaping to an island, she owns it. And she’s opening it up to
women worldwide. But men? They’re not allowed.*

*<a href="https://supersheisland.com/" class="inline_asset"
title="https://supersheisland.com/">SuperShe Island</a> is tucked away
in the Baltic Sea off the coast of Finland. The 8.4-acre (literal) no
man’s land features four newly renovated cabins and can accommodate 10
people. Its amenities give five-star resorts a run for their money, with
Finnish saunas, spa-like facilities and beautifully decorated rooms.
Daily wellness activities on the island include yoga, meditation,
farm-to-table dining, cooking classes, fitness classes, nature
activities and more.*

Now, women have always liked being with other women, which is why beauty
shops and day spas exist. The thing is though, these activities are not
about hating men or hating themselves. Women head off to the day spa so
they can get the some of the dents knocked out and look good for their
man. Hanging out with their female friends plays a role, but the point
of the activity fits in with the traditional male-female relationship.
This man-haters island is about man-hating and self-abnegation.

Of course, this is just one wacky example, but all over the West, women
have gone bonkers, making crazy demands and fighting against their
nature. The star of the linked story is a German women who came to New
York to make a nuisance of herself, then went to Finland to create
Sappho-by-the-sea. It’s tempting to think this stuff is local, but the
fact is the West has had a girl problem for a long time. It started in
the early 20th century and then took off in the post-WW2 years. The
girls have gone mad.

The question thought, is why has this suddenly happened. In the US,
women were mostly normal until the early 20th century. The war years
seem to have either accelerated their descent into lunacy or magnified
some trends causing it. Modernity is a good scapegoat here, but how much
of modernity is caused by the derangement of women? If the girls had
held up their end of the sexual relationship, how different would the
social mores of modernity be now?

It sounds like I’m blaming the women, but the last century in America is
often called the Jewish Century, but it could just as easily be called
the Female Century. We went from a world where Western societies were
run by men to one where many of them are run by women. Others have ceded
much of the high ground to the girls, suggesting it is a matter of time
before the girls run the West. A world run by the blue-haired rage heads
of gamergate is probably not a world that anyone wants to live in for
long.

Back in the financial crisis, I read some stories about how tiny Iceland
had turned itself into a massively leveraged hedge fund with a small
fishing society attached to it. One explanation was that the male
culture of Iceland had always been about pointless risk taking this led
to the financial mess. The result was a shift in the culture where women
were taking a prominent role and Icelandic women had always been known
for their prudence and caution. Iceland is now a tourist island as a
result.

Perhaps that’s a clue. The wars of the 19th and 20 century, particular
the industrial wars in Europe, discredited Western man generally and
particularly. As Spengler would put it, the culture died with the men
who died on the battlefields. The society was left, but the animating
spirit of it, the passion that built it, was gone. What has filled the
void is the raging anguish of Western women. Put another way, the rise
of feminism is the spread of women in mourning raging against their
loss. Maybe feminism is
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5pYA46dyKh4" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the long black veil</a>.
