---
title: "The War On Us"
date: "2018-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13462"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13462"
---

Whether you know it or not, you are at war. It’s not a shooting in the
street war, at least not yet, but it is a war. Specifically, the people
in charge have decided to wage war on segments of the American society.
To paraphrase the late historian [Christopher
Lasch](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiu4Mi8hKzaAhUwtlkKHUVsC-8QFggpMAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FRevolt-Elites-Betrayal-Democracy%2Fdp%2F0393313719&usg=AOvVaw3ehkRJ1Uj06J35ETCuhxGk),
the managerial elite has turned their back on average Americans and
opted instead for a ruthlessly cosmopolitan view of life, one that
values rootlessness, internationalism and transience. Increasingly,
their ends are in direct conflict with liberal democracy.

Another way of looking at this is that the managerial elite has reached
class consciousness in the Marxist sense. Who they are is defined by who
they are not and who they are not is *you*. Their class interests may or
may not overlap with the interests of society, but their identity, their
sense of who they are as a class, only exists in opposition to the white
middle class. That also puts them at odds with the institutions of
liberal democracy. That’s the point of [this article this article on the
new Civil
War](https://medium.com/s/state-of-the-future/the-great-lesson-of-california-in-americas-new-civil-war-e52e2861f30).

[Peter Leyden](http://www.peterleyden.com/) is a high end grifter who
makes his money telling the managerial elite what they want to hear. He
pitches himself as a technologist, despite having no math or science.
He’s a blend of [Alvin
Toeffler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alvin_Toffler) and Tony Robbins.
[Ruy Teixeira](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruy_Teixeira) is an old
Progressive hand, who has spent his life pushing various political
strategies to help the Democrat Party win elections, mostly by
undermining the white middle class through open borders and
multiculturalism. These are men who know the mind of the managerial
class.

Most of the article is complete nonsense, especially the part about blue
state energy versus red state energy. That’s almost as daffy as framing
the Republicans as the party of the elites and the Democrats as the
party of middle America. That is the thing though. They did not write
the article to clarify. It was written to flatter. These are people who
make their money telling the people in charge what they want to hear.
When Jack Dorsey, the head of Twitter, is retweeting the post, it means
it rocketed around the ruling class.

The other interesting thing about the piece is the naked hatred of white
people. If you read “Republican” to mean white middle-class, the
snarling is not hard to miss. Much has been written about the
motivations of the open borders people. There’s certainly a money angle,
with business wanting cheap labor. There’s also a political component,
as the Democrats cannot win without foreign voters. The core motivation,
 that co-evolved with class consciousness, is a visceral hatred of white
America. They really do want to replace us.

This is why they really hate Trump, despite the fact he is more than
willing to sign off on big slabs of the Democratic agenda. He’s not a
threat on social issues and he will spend like crazy on infrastructure
projects, that disproportionately help Democratic Party constituencies.
They hate what he represents. Trump is a reminder that white people will
not go quietly into the night. Again, the article reads like the authors
spend their nights dreaming of genocide. They do not want to win; they
want to win *permanently*.

Of course, the increasingly bold and sophisticated efforts to wall off
the public square from dissent is part of this larger project. The
social media platforms are now using sophisticated analytics to piece
together the network of people they see as the enemy of their class.
This lets them coordinate their efforts to purge dissent from their
platforms, without having to go to the trouble of finding violations.
They are using the tools they developed for the Chinese Communists,
against American dissidents.

The brashness of it is suggestive too. [They are now censuring harmless
black
ladies](http://www.theamericanmirror.com/facebook-penalizes-pro-trump-diamond-silk-deems-duo-unsafe-to-the-community/)
because they amusingly support Trump. After all, all is fair in war.
It’s one thing to censure some guy, claiming he is alt-right or a
racist. No one is going to believe two middle-aged black ladies are in
the alt-right or part of a racist group. This indicates they no longer
think they have to conceal their motivations. We’re a couple of clicks
away from people having their credit cards cancelled because they live
in an area that votes heavy Republican.

That last bit may sound ridiculous, but we have credit card companies
working to prevent you from using your Visa card to buy a gun. If that
is permissible, it is a short trip from there to shutting off your
internet access because you will not die fast enough. More important,
the fact that the captains of industry, the tech giants, are sitting
around scheming of ways to undermine the very notion of your
citizenship, suggests they see no limits to what they can do to solve
their problems with the white middle class of America.

Again, this is war and all’s fair in war. You may not think you are at
war with them, but they are at war with you. The longer you stay stupid
about it, the better. That’s why the morons at places like Reason
Magazine and Cato get a free pass. You can be sure they will be
celebrating “property rights” when every bank in America coincidentally
stops doing business with gun makers and gun retailers. What’ the
matter? Are you against free enterprise? Start your own bank and credit
card system if you don’t like freedom!

Over the last couple of decades, many reform minded writers have been
doing yeoman’s work, trying to convince the public, but also the ruling
class, that preserving the heritage of America is essential to
maintaining civil order and liberal democracy. Lots of people in the
civic nationalist camp agree with this approach. Just one more election,
one more reform movement. The trouble is the people in charge are at war
and the only things they want to hear are the time and place of your
death or the time and place of your surrender.
