---
title: "The Power Of Comfortable Beliefs"
date: "2018-07-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14582"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14582"
---

A frustration on our side are the people, who should be on our side, but
continue to believe things that are obviously untrue. For example, we
see new evidence against the alleged benefits of immigration, but most
Americans still worship immigrants like they are magic talismans. Show
some principled conservatives a video from a naturalization ceremony,
featuring bearded Muslims and those principles conservatives will burst
into celebratory tears of joy.

What makes this more frustrating is that you could sit down with these
people, explain the facts of immigration to them, and they will nod
along in agreement. Then, an hour later they will say something stupid
like “we need these workers to do the jobs Americans won’t do!”
Generations of propaganda about open borders play a role, but a bigger
part is that it is just easier to stick with the familiar opinions. Once
you arrive at an opinion on some subject, changing it is not easy.

This is not just something that happens with the hoi polloi. The
intelligentsia suffer from it more than normal people. Steve Sailer
often notes how supposedly smart people in the human sciences fall for
old fallacies about genetic group differences. [Here is an
example](http://www.unz.com/isteve/turkheimer-contra-cochran/) from a
while back. [Eric
Turkheimer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_Turkheimer) is a smart
enough guy to know he is wrong, but it is easy to be wrong. There is
also a social benefit to remaining wrong, so he stays in the easy chair
of egalitarian ignorance.

Greg Cochran puzzles over this stuff in the field of medical research,
about which he knows a great deal. His idea that pathogens may be the
root cause of things like Alzheimer’s is a revolutionary idea that is
universal rejected by science, despite some promising evidence in the
case of Alzheimer’s disease. [Cochran remains
puzzled](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2018/07/14/alzheimers-or-did-i-already-say-that/)
by this, but the answer is the same as with group genetic difference. It
is simply easier and safer to believe the old ideas.

There seems to be something baked into the human consciousness that
rejects empiricism, even for people in empirical fields. Mystery is more
interesting than certainty, superstition is more inspiring than
materialism. A famous example of this is how medicine initially
responded to the Spanish Flu. Despite germ theory being established
science, many doctors still thought the cause was miasmas that came from
burning human waste.

One obvious cause is that when everyone believes something, or people
assume everyone believes something, it is assumed to be correct. This is
human nature, which is why propaganda is such a big part of our lives.
Our rulers flood the zone with one set of opinions, in an effort to
drive out all others, so that people will assume everyone accepts the
official dogma. It’s why every TV ad features race mixers. There can be
but one opinion, the approved opinion.

There are practical considerations, as well. If you are in politics,
there is no upside to pointing out to your liberal colleagues that open
borders are suicide. Bernie Sanders is not a bright man, but even he
understands the laws of supply and demand apply to labor markets. He
will enthusiastically support the Puerto Rican bimbo running on a mix of
open borders and universal free stuff. There’s no obvious benefit to
pointing out that this woman is as [dumb as a gold
fish](http://www.cc.com/video-clips/jzbxb9/the-daily-show-with-trevor-noah-alexandria-ocasio-cortez---bringing-moral-courage-to-american-politics---extended-interview),
so they nod along with her.

When even people in difficult STEM fields [virtue signal on nonsense
like
racism](https://twitter.com/kph3k/status/858802991100551168?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E858802991100551168&ref_url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.unz.com%2Fisteve%2Fpaige-hardens-upcoming-book-the-genetic-lottery%2F),
there is more than practical necessity at play. Paige Harden is a smart
women working in a field compiling mountains of evidence contradicting
the progressive narrative, but she will stick with the narrative,
because everyone she knows believes it. If she gets her way, brown
people will be squatting in the burned-out husk of her lab, as society
will have reverted to their natural state.

It is an important thing for outsider movements to keep in mind when
thinking about how to approach the other side. The normie in the tricorn
hat hooting about the constitution is not amenable to facts and reason.
He is in a comfortable place that lets him feel morally superior to
lefty, while embracing progressive morality. You turn him to the dark
side by making that place uncomfortable for him. It is why mockery and
humor are powerful weapons of outsider movements.

It is also why various forms of socialism persist, despite the monstrous
failures at implementing them and the mountain of evidence contrary to
the theory. The appeal of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is that going along
with her is easy and fun. The media and all of the beautiful people are
celebrating her. She is like a viral video that everyone feels they need
to see. Socialism has always that desire to feel that something better
must lie ahead..

Barak Obama was the definition of an empty suit. He managed to make John
Kerry seem complex. Yet, millions of white people showed up to vote,
crying as they pulled the lever, believing they were about to experience
the rapture. Obama was obviously a feckless ninny, but it was easier to
believe he was the messiah, so most people went along with supporting
him. It turns out that the most effective movements are the ones that
make it easiest for people to accept things that are obviously untrue.
