---
title: "Who’s In Charge"
date: "2018-01-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12786"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12786"
---

The alt-right boys are fond of talking about the various red pills and
how their issue is the “ultimate red pill.” They are not entirely wrong.
People are willing to accept some things more than others. All of us bob
around in an ocean of agit-prop, pumped out by the people that rule over
us. That is, though, the ultimate red pill. All the stuff we believe
about democracy, our political order and the intentions of the people
who rule over us, is mostly nonsense. Our ruling class is no different
than any other in human history.

Steve Sailer is fond of talking about [the Deep
State](http://takimag.com/article/immigration_and_the_deep_state_steve_sailer#axzz55WeYgUH2),
mostly as a way to explain how the people in the ruling class collude
with one another against the interests of the voters and their elected
officials. It is not a conspiracy, with Ernst Blofeld controlling the
world from his secret lair. It is more like a community of like minded
people, who exist within the high ground of the society. They hire one
another, they socialize, their kids marry each other and they try to
keep elected officials from screwing up their grand designs.

A good recent example is Alexei Navalny. He is the latest Russian
opposition leader to cause trouble for Putin. [He was recently
arrested](http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/latest-russian-opposition-leader-navalny-arrested-52662632)
for trying to stage a protest of Putin’s run for another term in
office. Navalny was just another guy until he spent time at Yale in
the World Fellows Program. Then all of a sudden, out of the blue, he
became a crusader against financial corruption in Russia. It is not like
any important people in America have connections to Yale. It is probably
just a massive coincidence.

Putin, of course, is enemy number one for the Washington political
elite. That means Mr. Navalny will be celebrated in the American media,
while reliable politicians are sent out to tell us how Putin is the next
Hitler. No one voted for this and no one in the elected class gives a
damn about Alexei Navalny, but the people who were there before the
politicians showed up, and will be there after they are gone, do care so
everyone cares. It all sounds conspiratorial, but it is just the way
countries run, even America.

Another example of this is [this
story](http://www.jpost.com/Arab-Israeli-Conflict/Kerry-to-Abbas-confidante-Stay-strong-and-do-not-give-in-to-Trump-539643)
about John Forbes Kerry causing trouble in the Middle East. He is
telling the Palestinians to not cooperate with Trump as he expects a new
president within a year. It’s totally a coincidence that Robert Mueller,
the special prosecutor, [was in the same prep school as John Forbes
Kerry](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4611302/Trump-probe-Mueller-s-elite-prep-school-revealed.html).
In fact, they were on the lacrosse team together. Now, only a conspiracy
nut would think there is any connection here. What are the odds that
these two classmates talk about politics?

Again, it is not some wide ranging, multi-generational conspiracy. Every
society has its elites and those elites control the state. For
example, twenty-two families have controlled Guatemala since 1531.
Another twenty-six families have married into this core group of elite
families. The result is one percent of the population, the descendants
of the Conquistadors, has controlled the country for over 450 years. It
is why their political elites tend to look like Old World Spaniards,
rather than the indigenous Indian tribes.

In the case of America, year after year our elite colleges turn out a
new crop of boys and girls from the best families. Many go into
government, some go into media, others go into finance. Most go onto
live self-actualizing lives in the top floors of American society. Their
parents and friend’s parents help them along wherever they land. If it
is government, they bounce from assignment to assignment, eventually
landing in one of the Senior Executive Service positions. Or even
better, a presidential appointment.

What does this all mean?

It means elections do not matter all that much. Sure, getting Trump
rather than Clinton is important, but that is just an exception to the
rule. Clinton, Bush and Obama were pretty much the same guy. Their
administrations were stocked with the same cronies that stocked the
other administrations. Maybe they had slightly different ideas on how to
sacrifice white Americans in the service of Israel, but otherwise they
were on the same page on the big stuff. The people voted and then the
people in charge ignored them.

Of course, this means those super-Progressive women are crazier than you
think. These women, walking around thinking they are revolting against
the patriarchy, are actually the vanguard of its defense. The proof that
liberalism is a cult is that the members are sure they are a
revolutionary vanguard, defending the status quo against the general
public. That is a degree of madness that exists only in mental hospitals
and revivals. It is why there is no reasoning with a Progressive. They
have descended into madness.

It also means changing the current trajectory of the nation is not
happening at the ballot box. [As Steve Sailer noted
today](http://www.unz.com/isteve/more-blue-checkmark-reaction-to-douthats-tepid-suggestion-that-stephen-miller-not-be-banned-from-oval-office/),
the people in charge have gone insane. The orgy of anti-Americanism,
particularity the hatred for whites, is a group psychosis. Fixing this
is not going to happen with elections. It changes when the ruling class
changes and that probably means the swankier parts of Cloud Country will
experience car bombs, IED’s and assassinations. One [Arthur
Bremmer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Bremer) is worth an
election full of ballots.
