---
title: "Thoughts On Sportsball"
date: "2018-10-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15398"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15398"
---

The Federal government [won convictions on three of its
cases](http://www.espn.com/mens-college-basketball/story/_/id/25072946/james-gatto-merl-code-christian-dawkins-found-guilty-college-basketball-pay-play-trial)
against the sneaker pimps working behalf of the apparel company Adidas.
The case is a strange one in that the FBI invested a lot of time into
surveying and wiretapping some famous basketball coaches, as well as
some senior company executives. Yet, they have narrowed their focus to
some small fish and two executives. It is one of those cases that
probably reveals things about our age for what is not happening, than
for what is actually happening in the courtroom.

For those unfamiliar with American college basketball, here is some
background.

Men’s college basketball is probably the most corrupt sport in America.
It used to be that boxing was the dirtiest sport, but interest in it
collapsed to the point where it is probably no longer worth the trouble
for the criminally inclined. Basketball, on the other hand, is a big
money sport with lots of public interest. Like boxing, the talent tends
to be unsophisticated and dull-witted, so they are easy to corrupt.
There’s also a culture in the sport that tolerates hustlers and conmen.
In fact, they are often celebrated.

Strangely, corruption is not driven by the money coming in the front
door, from ticket sales and player contracts. The corruption is driven
by the money that comes through the back door, in the form of sneaker
agents, apparel companies and the youth development leagues. The
business model for sneaker companies is simple. They want black kids
buying their sneakers. Since Americans worship black people and youth
culture, whatever black kids like, gets bought by Americans and then the
people of the [provinces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Europe).

To that end, the sneaker companies are always looking to sign young
basketball stars to represent their brand. They also want college
programs, where many of the stars start to become famous, wearing their
shoes. The result is the sneaker companies operate complex webs of
street agents who bribe kids and their families to sign off-the-books
contracts, so they can be guided to the college programs on the payroll
of the sneaker company paying the street agent. It is institutional
bribery that has been normalized.

With that as background, it is a mystery as to why the Feds decided to
go after these guys, when they have been turning a blind eye to it for
decades. The corruption in college basketball is so well known that some
of the notorious street agents, who bribe players on behalf of sneaker
companies have become institutions. T[he agent for LeBron
James](https://www.businessinsider.com/lebron-james-rich-paul-2014-8)
has become very rich just because he got lucky and signed the biggest
star in the sport when he was in high school. There are lots of guys
hoping to win that lottery.

In other words, the Feds could have been arresting people for decades,
but they did not and then suddenly, they went after Adidas. Now, maybe
that is just bureaucratic inertia, but what makes this strange is the
limited scope thus far. The company executives involved were handing out
hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes. Given the nature of the
sport, that means they probably had a budget of millions to use to bribe
players and coaches. That money did not fall from the sky. It came from
the company.

Everyone familiar with corporate accounting knows there is no account
for bribery in the G&A lines. Adidas is a publicly traded company, which
means they must follow strict accounting standards. That means there are
people in their finance department who have been involved in fraud for a
long time. It certainly means C-level managers were aware of the
activities and approved of it. The FBI could easily take down the whole
company if they started to dig around in the books. They certainly have
probable cause.

Then there is the strange fact that there have been no plea discussions.
The people have not been offered a plea deal, and no one has offered to
talk. Again, the Adidas executives were not operating alone. They have
bigger fish to trade for their freedom. The assistant coaches that have
been charged can easily hand over their bosses, who are all famous
people. The Feds love putting famous people in jail, because it gets
them on TV, but in this case the Feds are strangely uninterested in
leveraging what they must get big fish.

Now, like most people reading this, I have limited interest in
basketball. What’s intrigued me about this case is the dogs not barking.
I can accept that the Feds just ignored the issue for years, because
their political bosses put things like terrorism and the drug war as top
priorities. Still, the Feds have time to hassle citizens for all sorts
of stupid and petty things. It is not like they are actually doing
anything about drug crime and terrorism, other than putting on a show
for the public. They could have been on this years ago.

Putting that aside, the real mystery is why they have not bothered to
expand this case to the most obvious places. If we are going to assume
that the Feds are lazy, so they go after low hanging fruit, then why are
they not picking these big juicy plumbs that are right in front of them?
Similarly, if sloth is the reason behind their lack of action for
decades, why did they bother going to trial, when they could have
offered these guys a deal? It is one of those times where the answer to
one question contradicts the answer to something else.

The reason this intrigues me is I think it reveals something about the
entire system that most people just suspect. That is, the level of
incompetence is much worse that even the harshest critics assert. We
have seen glimpses of this in the FBI scandal. These people are supposed
to be the elite, yet they bungled the simplest of tasks. That means down
the line, the quality of personnel is even lower. The reason this
sneaker case does not make a lot of sense is because the people running
it just time-serving hacks.

Another angle to this is that this case reveals the cultural rot of the
American empire. The appeal of professional sport is to see men compete
in mock battles on a level playing field, abiding by transparent rules.
The governing bodies are supposed to make sure the field remains level
and the rules transparent. That is sportsmanship. The state is supposed
to step in, clean up the business if the governing body is corrupt or
simply needs help policing their sport. Its why casinos have a strong
relationship with law enforcement.

Yet, we have a sport that is flagrantly and openly corrupt and no one
says anything about it or tries to do anything about it. As we see with
this Adidas case, it would be very easy to pop dozens of coaches and
even more sneaker company executives. A handful of high-profile people
going to prison is the sort of thing that reminds everyone else of the
need to maintain high standards. As the Chinese say, sometimes you kill
some chickens to scare the monkeys. Imprison a few sneaker executives to
keep the rest of them motivated.

One final thought, as I have gone on too long about this. The political
class is now moaning about the fact that the public has lost faith in
institutions. They never think that maybe their unwillingness to enforce
the people’s laws could be the reason. They never mention the flagrant
disregard for the spirit of the law throughout the elite. Most Americans
are sports fans and every day they are reminded that the Cloud People
have no respect for the rules. Eventually, the message does sink in, and
the Dirt People follow suit.
