---
title: "Particles And Waves"
date: "2018-05-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13773"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13773"
---

There is a concept in physics called the wave–particle duality. The
current scientific theory holds that all particles also have a wave
nature. A simple way to think of it is light can be the flashing you see
from a signal lantern, but also a range of colors depending upon the
wavelength. Similarly, history can be described as the great forces
sweeping men along like corks bobbing around the sea, the wave nature,
but it also can be described as events, set in motion by great men, the
particle nature.

The fact that both are most likely true, is probably at the root of our
inability to learn from the past. People in the present will naturally
look for figures in history to emulate, thinking if they act like them,
they will get the same results. The trouble is the forces that acted on
men in the past were different from those of the present. Similarly,
people often assume they are riding historical forces that have an
inevitable end. They foolishly ignore serendipity and the actions of
important figures.

Consider what has been going on with the FBI scandal that appears to be
heading to some sort of denouement this summer. On the one hand, the
managerial inertia of an agency that has come to see itself as the
policemen of the ruling class, drove all of these people into something
close to treason. There are simply too many people involved for it to be
viewed as just a conspiracy. James Comey is too dull to have followed
along with a conspiracy. He was dragged along by events.

On the other hand, this crisis has come to a head due to the actions of
men. If Trump were a slightly different guy or had better advisers, this
crisis would be at a different stage at this point. Similarly, if the
oleaginous Rod Rosenstein had fallen down a flight of stairs on election
night, the events he set in motion after the election, most likely would
not have occurred. While all of these men are being pushed along by
social forces much larger than them, they are not without agency.

Interestingly, this crisis has a lot of similarities to what happened
with Soviet espionage in the last century. In the early 20th century,
being a communist or some sort of boutique socialist was a fashionable
thing for ruling class types. That is what it was though, fashion. At
least that is what people in the ruling classes assumed. The problematic
communists were the trade union organizers. During the war, the main
concern was with those sympathetic to the fascists.

The people who decided to become spies for Russia in the last century,
were largely drawn from the elites of America and Britain. These were
not people drawn from the lower classes, bitter at their condition.
Alger Hiss had a great life. What for him and many others like him
started as an immature fascination with communism developed into a group
identity. These people were pushed along by a sense of communal identity
that took on a life of its own. Spying was affirmation.

The same thing is on display with this burgeoning FBI scandal. The
intelligence community still selects from the best and brightest of the
American elite. This sense of elite status seems to have metastasized
into a belief, in many of these people, that they are a class of
priestly warriors. Like the people who spied for the Soviets almost a
century ago, the people in this present conspiracy truly believed they
were acting honorably. Comey called his book “Higher Loyalty” for this
reason.

Where the comparison with Soviet espionage breaks down is that the spies
did not represent a threat to the intellectual underpinnings of the
system. Granted, the people in charge could no longer trust people from
their own ranks to be loyal to the state, but that was manageable within
the system. This FBI scandal is a direct threat to the very structure of
the managerial state. Replacing the people is not going to fix the flaw
in the system. The managerial state is devouring popular government.

History is not simply the playing out of a great narrative, even though
it fun to frame it that way. The people involved have agency. They will
do things that shape the forces acting on them. Sometimes serendipity
changes the course of events. [Ögedei
Khan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%96gedei_Khan) got drunk and died
unexpectedly, thus forcing the withdraw of the Mongol army from
Hungarian plain, rather than sweeping into the heart of Europe. The
course of Europe was forever changed because the Mongol ruler had a
drinking problem.

That may be what we are witnessing with this FBI scandal. The great
paleoconservative thinkers saw the managerial state forming up half a
century ago. They could imagine it slowly swallowing up the institutions
of American society, including the state itself. They could not see the
unexpected. Trump’s election and the popular revolt going on may be
revealing things to the political class that truly frightens them. This
FBI scandal could be that bit of serendipity that changes the natural
course of events.
