---
title: "Protest Cults"
date: "2018-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13677"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13677"
---

Over the years, I’ve seen a lot of left-wing protests. The first I
recall was on the Mall in Washington in the 80’s. I no longer recall
what they were protesting, but I recall a stubby old women with a
bullhorn hanging off her hip. She was screaming something rhythmic, but
the audio was unintelligible. The whole scene was just a freak show for
no other purpose than for the freaks to be seen. Tourists took pictures
and everyone else just ignored it. It was just a part of the rich
pageantry of American democracy.

With some exceptions, that’s the model for all lefty protests. At
American Renaissance last year, Antifa and a local women’s group put on
an all day freak show for the conference attendees. Some were there to
“protests the Nazis”, but most were there for reasons that ran from the
obscure to the mysterious. Some appeared to be having some sort of
hallucinatory break with reality, rhythmically screaming and twirling
around or just making crazy faces at people. Again, the point was to put
on a show for onlookers.

<img
src="https://www.gannett-cdn.com/media/2018/04/28/TennGroup/Nashville/636605191098423635-NAS-montgomery-bell-protest-082.jpg?quality=10"
class="aligncenter" decoding="async" width="553" height="340" />

This year, the authorities penned them up so passersby could not see
them. The only way to get a clean look at the protesters was from the
top floor of the conference center and you needed binoculars. I counted
maybe 40 people in the protest pen at the peak and at least ten were
“media.”  The rules against masks and weapons scared off many of the
Antifa, but the rest stayed away knowing they would not be able to put
on a show. If a protests happens in the woods and no one sees it, did it
really happen?

The general consensus on these groups is that outside of the ones
financed by Soros and the Democrats, they are just fringe loonies
looking for a reason to protest. The guy with the boot on his head shows
up at all sorts of events. There’s an enormously obese black guy, who
gets wheeled into protests around the country. He usually just sits in a
beach chair so people can take pics of him. Then there are the anarchist
that just want to smash things and rumble in the streets. Again, it is
just a performance that means nothing.

For the last month or so I have been monitoring a bunch of social media
accounts of prominent protesters. Mostly it was in preparation for
AmRen, but when you scan a lot of them you can’t help but notice the
patterns. These people define themselves within their movement by their
association with specific events. There’s no normal human back and
forth, just trading links and pics from the events they attended. The
other type of post is sympathy for some fringe action, as if they get
credit by proxy, for the action.

An example of what I mean is <a
href="https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/american-renaissance-white-supremacist-conference-tennessee-state-park_us_5ae5d552e4b02baed1bb2050"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this HuffPo piece</a>. Christopher
Mathias is actually just an Antifa member they pay to submit field
reports for them. Like everyone in these protest movements, he struggles
with his sanity. His “report” is actually just a testament to the fact
he was there. The protest was a flop as hardly anyone showed up and they
were sequestered in a holding pen away from everyone. That left little
social credit to be gained from the action, other than tweets and
selfies from those who bothered to attend.

I recently had some interaction with a local group affiliated with
Antifa, at least that’s what they said. They may have been boasting, but
they were definitely into the protest life. That was the thing. All they
talked about was where they had been and the “actions” they had done. It
was what got me thinking about these protest groups functioning like a
cult, where the events are social credits within the subculture. If all
you talk about and all you focus on in your life is the events you
attended, the attendance has a lot of value to you.

What it brought to mind is people who get into narrow hobbies like model
trains or some sort of collecting. They get together not to trade
information about their hobby, but to display what they have or what
they know. Their events are peacocking festivals so they can display
their social capital. Oddly, prisons work on a similar dynamic. Prison
ink is about advertising your history in the system and your violence
capital. That suggests the protest culture is entirely inward looking
and not really about getting our attention.

This would explain why they have started to fight with one another. The
alt-right has retreated from the real world and has stopped fighting
with Antifa on-line. The affiliated actors like TWP have evaporated. If
your thing is to protest other fringe groups and those fringe groups
have left the field, you end up protesting yourself. Or in the case of
some, like <a href="https://twitter.com/lacymacauley" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Lacy MacAuley</a>, they start jump from one momentary
issue to the next. It’s the old gag. Question: *What are you rebelling
against?* Answer: *What have you got?*

None of this may seem all that interesting, but it raises questions
about modernity. This phenomenon did not exist in the 19th century or
the 15th century. These subcultures rooted in vague and shifting causes
did not exist in our grandparents age. A major reason is the splintering
of society on the rocks of diversity. There’s also the collapse of
mainstream Christianity and the related collapse of traditional social
arrangements. These sorts of subcultures were denied oxygen in a
thriving and dominant mainstream culture.
