---
title: "The Eternal Hive"
date: "2018-03-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13122"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13122"
---

The late Joe Sobran produced [the metaphor of the insect
hive](http://www.sobran.com/hive/hive.shtml) to describe the group
behavior of the Left. It was a useful way of describing the spontaneous
cooperation that has always been a feature of the Left. It is the
dominant feature. Progressives will suddenly flock to an issue, all
chanting the same lines and howling the same protests, as if they are a
trained army of lunatics unleashed on the rest of society. It is a
behavior that looks coordinated, but it is spontaneous and instinctive.

The most recent example of this was the reaction to the Dylann Roof
shooting at the black church. All of sudden, as if commanded by a super
villain from a secret lair, the Left began chanting in unison about the
Confederate battle flag. Even the sober minded had to wonder if this was
not a planned effort. Within a few hours we went from indifference to
Confederate symbols to roving bands of lunatics toppling over statues
and digging of Confederate graves.

Imagine the sort of person, who, upon hearing about a shooting,
immediately thinks it is time to topple over a statue in their local
park. What sort of person sees their coreligionists howling and then
begins howling uncontrollably? Imagine what it is like to have no
agency, in terms of how you react to public events. Presumably, there is
something stimulating these people. Perhaps the swarm behavior releases
endorphins, freeing the adherent from the torment of reality for a
while.

It is an important question. A generation ago, progressives were
programmed to swarm over economic issues. Socialism still provided the
general framework of their imagined utopia, so they regularly launched
into assaults on business, claiming to defend the interests of the
working class. Yet, when socialism collapsed, progressives quickly
shifted from socialist utopianism to sexual and racial utopianism. The
same people who used to put Darwin fish on their Subaru, now howl about
racism.

Sobran was correct to point out that progressives have the same reaction
to perceived threats as bees when they fear a threat. The resulting
attacks are not indiscriminate, but they are excessive. The progressive
has a binary view of the world, where those inside are allies and those
outside are enemies. In this regard, progressivism functions like cult,
where the focus of the adherents is always on a devil. The difference is
their devil is a shapeshifter, taking on new forms to fit every
occasion.

It is tempting to assume that a pattern must have some causal agent,
some intelligent force behind it. It is the nature of man to confuse
cause and purpose. In fact, this is why efforts to oppose the war on the
culture have always failed. The defenders assumed an intelligible
purpose behind the actions of the Left so they invested their time in
defeating those arguments. In reality, the cause of progressive rage was
always a biological response to what the group has determined to be a
threat to the hive.

Another way the Left functions like a hive is how individual members
react to being cut off, even temporarily, from the hive. A lefty in a
room full of people it perceives as hostile will become very passive.
Reverse the roles and put a normal person in a room full of progressives
and they will attack him relentlessly. It is why far left TV shows have
a narrow, but loyal following. It is how the isolated Progressive can
connect with the other members of the hive. These TV shows are the
televangelists of the Left

This is probably why the Left has become obsessed with purging dissent.
Social media now supplements the pheromones used to synchronize
behavior. Twitter and Facebook are becoming neural pathways for the
hive, so that far flung members can pick up cues from other members.
“Trending on Twitter” is becoming a way for progressives to know what
they are supposed to like and, more important, what they are supposed to
hate. Right wingers on social media scramble the signal.

Even though observed patterns may not have a central control mechanism,
they must have a cause. In the case of progressives, it is clearly
something biological. Even those who manage to leave the cult, never
really lose the hive mindedness. Like reformed smokers, they usually
direct this instinct to criticizing their former hive mates. You never
see a former progressive activist, living a quiet life alone somewhere.
When Lefty leaves the hive, it is to serve another queen.

Most likely, this behavior traces back to the dawn of man. A deep,
emotional commitment to the group would have evolutionary advantages.
Status within the group would be higher for those who were most
ferocious in defending the group. Well into the agricultural age, the
leader of a people was often the best warrior. Perhaps this small group
instinct manifests in an organized society, as social fanaticism. In all
times and all places, the reformer imagines himself protecting the weak
from the strong.

Fanaticism has its utility. The Greeks figured this out when observing
that warriors were most ferocious when fighting on their own land. When
advancing into foreign lands, they became more conservative. A focused,
controllable fanatic is useful in war. Similarly, organized religions
can never have a shortage of those willing to risk it all to spread the
good word. More than a few zealots ended up in the cannibal’s pot, but
there were always more zealots ready to convert the cannibal.

This innate hive-like behavior of some elements of society has obviously
not been a detriment to progress. The thing is though, there has always
been a transcendent set of limiting principles, operating like a leash
on the fanatic. Christianity, for all its faults, puts hard limits on
what people can do to one another. When that is removed, the zealots are
free to attack perceived enemies without restraint. Like Africanized
honeybees, utopian socialists have slaughtered millions they saw as
threats.

The key insight of Sobran was that the hive-like behavior of the
American Left was not caused by socialism or radical ideology. The
relationship reversed. The hive-like behavior was a constant, a part of
the American biology. When the socialist paradise collapsed, the Left
switched to sexual and racial utopianism. That means when the current
rage heads burn what is left of society, only to not arrive at the
promised land, they will find some new fantasy to embrace. The Hive is
eternal.
