---
title: "The Immorality Of Immigration"
date: "2018-06-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14158"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14158"
---

Every ruling elite has certain primary duties. These are obligations
that come before anything else. Regardless of the form of government,
the rulers  have to maintain things like public order. Being the tribal
chief is useless if your people are in chaos. For that matter, having a
tribal chief is useless if it means living in chaos. Therefore, one of
the primary duties of all rulers in all times and all places is to
maintain public order by enforcing laws and local customs.

There are other primary duties of the ruler, like organizing the common
defense, that are universal to all forms of government. Then there are
primary duties that are peculiar to a people or to a form of government.
If the ruler is understood to be a god, then the ruler and his retainers
have to maintain that myth.  In modern western countries, protecting
property rights and enforcing contracts is counted as a primary duty of
the state in order to maintain its legitimacy

One of the more destructive things to happen to America over the last
half century is the sacralizing of immigration by the elites. The
endless repetition of the nonsense phrase “nation of immigrants” has
turned a temporary expedient a century ago into an essential element of
the nation’s founding mythology. The fact that immigration is a
violation of the state’s primary duty to the people is excused because
the immigrant now has a superior place in the moral order.

In a country like America, one that allegedly is built on consensual
government, citizenship has great value. In fact, the most valuable
thing to a citizen of a representative democracy is his citizenship. The
reason for this is that citizenship is an ownership stake in the
country. In theory, the American government was voluntarily founded as
an agreement among individuals, invested with the power to secure mutual
protection and regulate the relations among its members.

If you had the option of selling your citizenship, let us say at some
sort of auction, there would be no shortage of bidders. For example,
there is no shortage of buyers for the EB-5 visa, which costs $500,000.
That is right, you can buy citizenship from the US government. Your
citizenship is something of value and therefore, the state has a duty to
protect it, just as they have a duty to protect your property rights.
This is a primary duty of government.

When the American government hands out citizenship to millions of
foreigners every year, it is stealing the value of your citizenship and
giving it to someone else. This is no different than a company diluting
the value of its shares by selling additional shares. It is why open
borders fanatics swear that immigration makes us all richer, despite the
mountain of evidence to the contrary. They know it is essential that
people believe this as even the sacred immigrant is not enough to
justify theft.

The argument from open borders people is that immigration is not just
holy and beneficial. It is perfectly legitimate. The trouble is, when
50% plus one vote to rob the 50% minus one, it is still theft, even if
it comes after an election. This is why America is not a democracy and
it is also why democracy was famously called two wolves and a sheep
voting on lunch. The very nature of democracy makes it an immoral form
of rule because of the theft problem.

Additionally, a primary duty of the modern state is the maintenance of
equality before the law. In fact, this is what makes the law legitimate.
Not only do all citizens have a say in what laws are passed, but those
laws apply to all citizens equally. The very nature of immigration
violates this principle. Immigration steals from some citizens for the
benefit of foreigners and the connected. This is true for
quasi-immigration schemes like guest workers, as well as for permanent
settlement.

If the primary duty of the state is to safeguard the citizens, including
the value of their citizenship and maintain equality before the law,
then immigration by its very nature is a direct violation of the social
compact. It makes a mockery of the very idea of consensual government
and sows distrust among the people. It is why all mass immigration
quickly leads to a breakdown of order, because it erodes the legitimacy
of the ruling authority, as the people see they are no longer willing to
fulfill their basic duties.

That does not preclude all immigration. It is just that the bar is
extremely high. In order to justify that which is naturally and always
immoral, the offset must exceed the cost of the deed. Since this is
impossible in the modern age, the open borders people have been forced
to turn morality on its head, claiming the first duty of the state is to
foreigners at the expense of its own citizens. It has turned America
into a bust out where the value of your citizenship is stolen.
