---
title: "Bright"
date: "2018-01-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12615"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12615"
---

The other day, I watched the movie
[Bright](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt5519340/), staring Will Smith. It
is a remake of [Alien
Nation](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094631/?ref_=nv_sr_1), except with
Orcs and Elves, rather than space aliens. The Elves are the Jews of this
imaginary world, as they are smart and run everything. The humans are
the whites, keeping society running, while the Orcs are the blacks,
occupying the underclass and subjected to discrimination. As you would
expect, the Orcs are the victims of human bigotry and they are kept out
of jobs, for no reason other than their phenotype.

While it is primarily an action movie, the not so subtle subtext is that
normal prejudice is a bad thing. Will Smith is the bigoted human cop,
who is forced to work with an Orc partner. He finally learns to trust
and treat Orcs as an equal. They do not over do it, but that is one of
the subplots in the movie. The movie is three parts action flick, one
part buddy-cop movie and one part sermon on the joys of diversity. There
is also the requisite race-mixing, as they give Will Smith a white wife.
The future is Orcs, Elves and Mulattoes!

Again, it is mostly a really good action movie with some novel twists
and turns that make it fun, despite the moralizing. I must admit, I
winced when the humans were mean to the Orcs and I was happy when Smith
overcame his Orcism. The people making movies get that white audiences
want to feel bad at racism and feel good at inclusiveness. They know
what sells and they are good at pushing the right buttons. Our rulers
have been preaching civic nationalism for generations and it has
infected all of us to some degree.

That is probably one reason why [audiences really liked the
movie](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/bright/), while critics mostly
thought it was stupid. It is not unusual for the opposite to be true,
where critics love a movie, but audiences hate it. The movie review
business is riddled with payola and pompous poseurs. Usually though, the
critics will be right about a bad movie. I suspect the happy talk on
overcoming prejudice works particularly well on whites, who are sick and
tired of the endless griping about race. That and Will Smith is the
model black guy.

The interesting thing about this movie, though, is they do not present
the multicultural future as a paradise of diversity. Instead, it is more
like Brazil where the underclass is huge and the middle class is small
and fragile. In this context, the Elves live in beautiful, gated
communities, away from everyone else. The humans and Orcs are mixed up
in the squalor, with the humans having a marginally better existence. It
is a future where diversity is tolerated out of necessity, but everyone
dreams of their own ethnostate.

The other strangely realistic aspect is the gross inequality. The Elves
live like royalty, as they are at the top of the social order. They are
clean, white, and orderly. Everyone else is dirty, dark and disorderly.
The implication is that the Elves pit Orcs and humans against one
another, in order to exploit them. The result is the world extreme
diversity is a world of poverty, for all but the elite. Imagine if the
whole country was like New York City, where the elite live in penthouses
and everyone else in tiny apartments.

That is the reality of multiculturalism. The hidden cost of maintaining
order inevitably bankrupts the middle-class. The people at the top are
always getting their beak wet first and they will do what they must to
protect themselves and their position. That means the cost of
maintaining order falls on the middle, which quickly disappears.
University towns exist in idyllic diversity, because billions are
hoovered out of the surrounding economies to support the paradise. The
university town scales up to be Brazil.

The movie does not spend much time contemplating the Elf class. All we
learn is they live apart, but control society, with the help of human
assistants. They do give us a surprisingly frank portrayal of the Orcs.
They are physically superior to humans and they have an affinity for
hip-hop culture, but most are too dumb to do anything other than menial
jobs. The Orcs are so obviously a deliberate analog to modern blacks
that I am shocked they get away with it. I guess having Will Smith as
the star is the antidote.

The strange thing about Hollywood is the future they imagine is usually
rather unimaginative. It is either a hellish apocalyptic world, where
order has broken down, or it is a soulless nirvana of glass and
stainless steel. While the later may lack the grit and chaos of the
former, it always has some malevolent force at its core. I cannot think
of an example of a movie where Hollywood creates a future that is nicer
than the present. The stuff might be nicer, but the people are always
less happy. Hollywood is not a town of optimists.

I am as intolerant as any normal man when it comes to Hollywood
proselytizing, but I had no trouble looking past it and enjoying the
movie. The basic concept is clever by the standards of modern movie
making and it will surely turn into a franchise, given how well it has
done with audiences. I do not have Netflix, but it is available on Kodi.
I am using Genesis Reborn, which is a great implementation. If you are
looking for a cheap couple hours of video entertainment, Bright is a
good action movie.
