---
title: "The Globalist Cries Out…"
date: "2018-07-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14349"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14349"
---

One of the favorite tactics of *the usual suspects* is to attack the
good guys in order to provoke a response. Then they use that response as
an excuse to wage war against the good guys, claiming it is in
self-defense. The game is to find a Fort Sumter and if one is not
available, they manufacture one. That’s why the Left is attacking Trump
people in public places. They hope someone will lose their temper. Then
they can claim they are the victim and their crazy demands are
justified.

A corollary to this strategy, one popular with so-called conservatives,
is to undermine the efforts of their supporters, then claim they were
justified in their reticence, because it was doomed all along. It’s a
weird game of “I told you so.” The Tea Party movement is a great
example. The Republicans were dead in the water after 2008, until white
voters revolted and resuscitated the party on populist issues. The GOP
repaid them by systematically undermining their efforts, then said “I
told you so!”

It’s tempting to think this is unique to America, where our two party
system forces everyone to choose between the turd sandwich and the giant
douche. It means the two parties can collude with one another, without
fear of a third party. As we see with the Brits, a multi-party system
does not prevent the so-called conservatives from selling out their
voters. After two years of foot-dragging, the Tories have figured out
how to <a
href="https://www.ft.com/content/aeb53c82-82ac-11e8-96dd-fa565ec55929"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">comply with the Brexit referendum,
without actually doing it</a>.

*The UK position crucially “evolves” in two ways that would allow for a
Norway-style Brexit deal covering at least part of the EU single market.
The first is Britain’s proposal for a “free trade area for goods”
involving the UK and the EU that in effect continues existing regulatory
and customs arrangements for manufacturing and agricultural products
after Brexit. This is achieved by the UK becoming a rule-taker, with a
treaty-based commitment to “ongoing harmonisation with EU rules on
goods”. Just as important is Britain’s concession on enforcement. UK
courts would pay “due regard” to European rulings in cases relating to
EU-set rules. In other words, while Britain is a separate legal
jurisdiction after Brexit, the European Court of Justice would be
supreme in interpreting the UK-EU goods rule book. There are caveats —
for example the British parliament could veto changes to the rule book
if it accepts the “consequences for market access”. But taken together,
the safeguards offer no more freedom than Norway enjoys as a member of
the European Economic Area. In his resignation letter Mr Davis dismissed
the sense of parliamentary control as “illusory rather than real”.*

The short version of this ploy by the Tories is that Britain will
technically leave the EU, but continue to abide by all of the rules of
the EU. It is an elaborate game of make believe, where everyone is
supposed to pretend the government is complying with the will of the
people, but nothing really changes. Of course, the Brexiters in
government have no choice but to resign. Brexit Secretary David Davis
resigned, followed by Boris Johnson a day later.

Of course, the *usual suspects* are out in force saying, “We told you
so! Britain can’t leave Europe.” In the Atlantic, we have all the
examples of the typical tactics from these guys. <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/07/boris-johnson-david-davis-resign-theresa-may-brexit/564680/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">There’s blaming the victim</a>, claiming
the Brexiters are responsible for the failure. Then there is <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2018/07/boris-johnson-resigns/564659/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the claim the Brexiters are getting what
they deserve</a>. Then, of course, <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2018/07/the-end-of-the-brexit-illusion/564725/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the claim that Brexit could never
work</a>. Since *the usual suspects* have had no luck with Trump, they
are keeping in shape by plying their trade on British topics.

This is just another reminder that the first enemy of the populists must
be the legacy conservatives, who work as bodyguards for the ruling
class. The whole point of the Brexit referendum was to undermine the
populists. When that failed, the Tories shifted to a policy of killing
the initiative with an endless process. If the result of this is new
elections, they will try to frighten the voters, by claiming Jeremy
Corbyn will scuttle the whole deal, which he probably would do, if given
the chance.

What needs to happen in Britain, as well as the United States, is for
the conventional conservatives to collapse. What must replace it is an
authentic Right that offers a reasoned and practical alternative to the
neoliberal order. In Britain, it means the Tories become UKIP without
the eccentrics and trouble makers. In the US, it means the GOP becomes
the party of Trump. That can only happen with a populist intellectual
movement to provide energy and ideas to the New Right.
