---
title: "The Snowglobe"
date: "2018-05-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13901"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13901"
---

Before the 2016 election got started, I saw National Review’s David
French learn on Twitter what the word “cuckservative” meant. It was an
amusing thing to watch as he went back and forth with some alt-right
types. I could tell he was feeling like a cool kid picking up slang from
the in-crowd on the playground. Then he realized that the “cuck” they
were referring to was him. He then set off blocking half the internet.
It was an amusing example of his isolation from the rest of us.

The chattering classes are supposed to be the interface between the
Cloud People and the Dirt People. Before the explosion of mass media,
the chattering skulls would go on the Sunday chat shows to tell us what
to think, while pretending to tell us what our rulers were thinking.
Usually, these people had a column in one of the big city broadsheets or
they were “reporters” in Washington. This worked as the Dirt People had
no way to check their accuracy.

Mass media has had some unexpected consequences. For example, we get to
learn much more about the commentariat. A cuck like David French has put
his whole life out on the internet, so he is not fooling anyone. We just
know more about these people than in the analog days. That and their
lies are much more easily exposed. When some popinjay goes on a rant
about something, we can easily find where he said the opposite and post
up on his timeline.

Another result is the strange isolation of the media. Read biographies
of old newspaper guys and one of the things that stands out is their
working-class lives. It was not just that they were the sons of toil,
they remained in that world. In 1934, it was not weird for a big city
newspaper reporter to live in the same building as a bus driver. Carl
Bernstein never went to college. He worked his way up from the copy boy.
Today, no newspaper in America would hire a guy like him.

This isolation has another facet to it. The volume of media means the
number of people thinking of themselves in that world is massive as
well. Then there is the overlap between the academy, government, and the
media. When Obama took office, over one hundred media members quit and
went to work for the new administration. As the managerial state has
grown and matured, it has absorbed the mass media. The media is now a
tentacle of the managerial state.

These blurred lines mean the sense of community has grown. The people
covering the Imperial Capital no longer see themselves as natural
adversaries of the people they cover unless those people are seen as a
threat. The fawning over Obama by the press corps even embarrassed
Obama. Contrast that with Trump. The conspiracy to rig the last election
by the CIA/FBI/DOJ has largely been ignored by the media, because they
see the players as their neighbors, allies, and friends.

A more amusing reminder of this great divide between them and us was the
heavy breathing last week about the so-called “intellectual dark web.”
Someone from alt-right central casting, name Bari Weiss, [wrote a
piece](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/08/opinion/intellectual-dark-web.html)
declaring a group of squares the new radicals of the internet. Like all
women writers of her age, Mx. Weis employs the autoethnographic style\\
It is mostly a feeble attempt to cast herself as edgy because she knows
people who think they are edgy.

That was the point though. This was not written for the broader
audience. It was written for people in the media. It was the sort of
self-adulation you see on award shows. From the perspective of someone
like Mx. Weis, Ben Shapiro is super-edgy. Anyone inside the managerial
class, offering the slightest resistance to the prevailing orthodoxy, is
a rebel. It is not a lot different from the guys at prep school who cut
class to smoke weed. To their peers, they are bad boys.

The old paleos were able to see the managerial state forming up. They
were surprisingly prescient about what would happen to the politics of
both liberalism and conservatism, as practiced thirty years ago. What
they did not anticipate was the merging of corporate culture,
multiculturalism, and the mass media. They cannot be faulted for it, as
no one could really anticipate how new technology would accelerate the
growth and evolution of the American ruling class. In the 90’s, the
smart people predicted the opposite.

The managerial class has achieved class consciousness. If you are
working at the New York Times, the American Enterprise Institute, or a
government agency, you see the people in these roles as your colleagues.
They are the people with whom you socialize and gossip. Their kids go to
school with your kids. You live in the same exclusive neighborhoods. Not
only are the people outside that world strangers, but they also vaguely
feel like a threat.

Unlike ruling classes of prior ages, this one is not entirely endogamous
or closed off to outsiders. Like the Chinese imperial exam system, Dirt
People with something on the ball can test into this world. But also
like the exam system, the American managerial class is becoming immune
from new ideas and innovation. What passes for creativity is simply
neologism filled recitations of the one true faith. If Jordan Peterson
is your idea of a radical thinker, you are living in an intellectual
waste land.
