---
title: "Denmark Diary III"
date: "2018-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15044"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15044"
---

I left the hotel in the morning for a walk and maybe some coffee. On the
way out I spotted the taxi driver from the previous episode, and he
spotted me. After some small talk, he agreed to take me to see the Grand
Mosque of Copenhagen. The actual name of the place is the Hamad Bin
Khalifa Civilization Center, but I doubt anyone calls it that. My new
Afghan friend was thrilled that I was interested in seeing the mosque.
Muslims really do think they will conquer the world, so any little sign
of advance is exciting to them.

The mosque is in Outer Nørrebro, which is what Americans would call a
suburb, but it is more densely populated. European cities tend to put
their undesirable populations in apartment blocks outside the city
center. In America we have tended in the other direction, building urban
reservations for blacks. My guess is Outer Nørrebro used to be a
working-class Danish area, so the rulers dumped the Muslims there. That
seems to be the popular thing for rulers everywhere. They dump their
problems in the poor areas.

I have been through the Muslim areas of Detroit so Outer Nørrebro had a
similar vibe, more white faces than I expected, but the same feel. You
get the sense that there are many more eyes on you than there are people
on the street. [The
mosque](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8e/Hamad_Bin_Khalifa_Civilisation_Center_02.JPG)
itself is not much to look at, to be fair. Maybe they should not have
used the word “grand” this time. Perhaps in a generation, when they can
build something like the [Islamic Center of
America,](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/3c/Islamic_Center_of_America.jpg/1200px-Islamic_Center_of_America.jpg)
they can then use the word “grand” to describe it. Right now, the mosque
is quite modest…

After what proved to be a boring adventure into a notorious Muslim
stronghold, I took to the streets for a walk. I was hungry so I found a
place selling pizza and burgers. I had to laugh. The menu looked like
every pizza shop menu you see in America. The proprietor spoke only
Danish and Arabic, so ordering was more of an adventure that my trip to
the mosque, but in the end, I had what looked like pizza. It looked like
the stuff I recall as a kid getting at the summer fair. It had that
weird orange oil slick on it.

Copenhagen is considered one of the most livable cities in the world and
it does not take long to see why this is the case. For starters, it is
extremely white. It is also very middle class. It is the ideal that
American Progressives imagine for their enclaves, even though they never
put it that way. A city full of smart, middle-class white people, with
just the smallest dash of diversity, is a great place to live. It’s
certainly why Copenhagen is always high on the list of the happiest
places on earth, along with [other white
cities](http://wowtravel.me/top-10-happiest-cities-in-the-world/).

Walking around the city, the peacefulness of the place is striking. In
ghettos, of course, the noise and the throbbing tension of vibrancy
makes it impossible to relax. But even in tourist areas of nice America
cities like Boston and New York, there is an energy to the place.
Copenhagen is like a dark version of San Diego. It is strangely quiet
for a city, other than those damned bicycle bells. The city is ruled by
cyclists, which is fine, but the ringing of bicycle bells does start to
grate on your nerves after a while…

I decided to make the walk over to [Christiania
Freetown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freetown_Christiania), which is
a bohemian village of sorts, founded by drug addicts and bums in the
1970’s. They squatted on government property that had been a military
base. Over time it became a sort of
[Hamsterdam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamsterdam) for the Danish
drug culture. For reasons I cannot quite fathom, the Danes seem a bit
scandalized by the place. I walked over the bridge and followed the line
of people. It is a beautiful walk, and the surrounding area is very
quaint. I recommend the walk along the canal.

Freetown is pretty much a dud. One of the things that has always been
true about weed culture is its falseness. They have spent decades trying
to conjure a culture around smoking weed. It is all fake and stupid,
ripped off from various bohemian cultures, by people all but yelling,
“Look at me! I smoke weed as a lifestyle choice!” How barren is the soul
when the point of life is getting high, eating salty snacks, and
watching cartoons all day? Freetown is a Potemkin village for Potemkin
bohemians….

Walking around the city, I could not help but notice that the Danes
apparently cannot regulate their body temperature. It was in the
mid-60’s today with a gentle breeze. I was in jeans and a long sleeve
t-shirt. The locals were in winter coats and scarves. I saw a girl
wearing gloves. I suspect they simply like their ‘hygge’- mode more than
they let on. The first signs of fall mean the party will be moving
indoors. It is the reverse of what we see in the early spring, when
everyone is quick to tear off their clothes as soon as it hits 50…

I noticed a curious thing while hiking around the city. I wanted to buy
some things to bring home and maybe a cap or sweatshirt as a reminder of
the trip. Nowhere did I see the sorts of shops you tend to see in
tourist areas. This is a difference between Europeans and Americans. We
go on vacation so we can feed our faces and buy stuff to take back to
our overstuffed houses. Europeans go on vacation to see things and enjoy
themselves with friends in strange places. For them it is about the
living, rather than the acquiring.

This is something I did not appreciate well into adulthood. Having fun
stories to tell about your adventures is the best part of travel. It is
the best part of living. I lived an unusual young life, so I took it for
granted, perhaps, but it was only into my thirties when I figured out
that life is for living, not ticking boxes. I guess that is why I find
the minimalist style of Scandinavia, so appealing. There is an
uncluttered quality to life here that makes it easier, at least for me,
to enjoy the experience. Bring on the [Law of
Jante](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_Jante)…

Having been somewhat disappointed by the lack of vibrancy in Copenhagen,
I took a trip to the official mall, figuring I would get a look at the
dark underbelly of Denmark. For some reason, shopping malls are the
canary in the coal mine. As soon as diversity appears in a community,
the nearest mall becomes a no-go zone. It is not just an issue of
imported diversity, as in the over the horizon type. If an apartment
complex goes Section 8, within a year the local mall is thumping with
ghetto tunes and young vibrants.

From the outside, the mall looks a lot like every US mall. Inside, it
looks like the closet of a goth girl exploded and they built a mall
around it. It is a series of clothing stores selling black pants, black
shirts, and black coats. The radical store sells gray. The sports shops
sell the same official team crap you see in America. I looked everywhere
but I was unable to find caps, shorts of jerseys for the local teams. It
was all American sports teams and American sports apparel brands. That
and hip-hop music. Every store, hip-hop music.

That is the thing. Inside the mall is wigger culture from top to bottom.
Every store is playing some sort of American black music. I walked the
entire mall, all floors, and as I toured the place, I was increasingly
aware of my American identity. I kept thinking that the locals would
figure out that I was American and then decide to string me up for my
country’s rulers imposing the poz on them. This is one of those things
that only an American can truly appreciate. The reddest red pill is
seeing Danes listening to rap music at the mall…

Finally, the Danes seem to have developed an obsession for the
cheeseburger. It seems like every restaurant has their version of the
perfect burger. I take a back seat to no man in my appreciation of the
cheeseburger. I had some fantastic examples in Copenhagen. I also
enjoyed some great fries. They put a vinegar sauce on their fries, and
they serve them with mayonnaise. These people clearly live in the favor
of Odin. Even putting aside, the other wonderfulness of the city, the
burgers and fries will bring me back soon…
