---
title: "Fascism And Bolshevism"
date: "2018-10-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15198"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15198"
---

Everyone reading this has been indoctrinated in the cult of
anti-fascism, where Hitler is a mysterious super-villain, with magical
powers. The Nazis are a hyper-efficient military machine designed to
kill all that is good in the world. It borders on the ridiculous, but it
has been effective in establishing fascism as the worst evil
imaginable. There is not much worse than being called a Nazi, other than
having been an actual Nazi. Outside of prison, Nazis are considered the
worst thing possible, even worse than child molesters.

On the other hand, Bolshevism has never been given the same treatment,
despite the body count. The Nazis killed a lot of people, but the
Bolsheviks were every bit as murderous. In fact, Stalin was vastly more
efficient at killing the inconvenient. His policy of starving the
Ukrainians killed more people than Hitler’s death camps and it did so
much more efficiently. Not only that, but the Bolsheviks also exported
their murderous ideology all over the world, causing tens of millions of
deaths. Maybe more than 100 million.

Yet, you can be an open Bolshevik and there is no punishment for it. On
every college campus in the 1980’s, for example, you could find clubs
for Marxism, various forms of third world communism and even pro-Soviet
organizations. Of course, hipsters have been sporting Che Guevara gear
for decades. Guevara was not just a murderer and a communist; he was an
over-the-top racist. He really hated blacks. Read his
[diary](https://www.amazon.com/Che-Diaries-Ernesto-Guevara/dp/1920888934)
and even David Duke would squirm over some of the things Guevara said
about blacks.

Anti-fascism evolved from an academic fetish among Frankfurt School
members into a cult of sorts in the 60’s and 70’s. The Antifa loons of
today are well within the tradition of prior anti-fascist loons. The
puzzle is why no similar movement ever started in response to the Soviet
atrocities. Even if you think the Nazis were worse than the commies, in
terms of intensity, the Bolsheviks were around a lot longer. They also
managed to kill, or cause to be killed, millions around the world. The
commies were a global killing machine.

Why is the former the symbol of evil, while the latter is still popular?

The anti-Semites argue that the reason the Bolsheviks get a pass is that
Jews invented communism and Jews now run the world. It is certainly true
that Jews are, as a group, politically radical and opposed to Western
traditions. It is also true that Jews were wildly overrepresented in
Marxist movements, including Bolshevism. Having won the ideological war
with fascism, it made a lot of sense for Jews in America to use the
Nazis as a lever to pry open the doors of the ruling class.
Self-interest made fascism the great villain.

The fatal flaw in this theory though is that while it explains why
anti-fascism remains a powerful force in the West, it does not explain
why Bolshevism gets a pass. Stalin turned on the Jews in 1948, when he
saw how his [Jewish subjects responded to Golda
Meir](https://www.haaretz.com/jewish/this-day-stalin-welcomes-golda-meir-1.5175741)
and the establishment of Israel. When 50,000 Jews showed up in Moscow to
cheer their new ambassador Stalin decided he had a Jewish problem. From
that point until the end of the Cold War, Jews in the communist bloc
were subjects of official repression.

There is another problem and that is the assertion Jews have the power
to bewitch and beguile the masses. Even accounting for their
exceptionalism, Jews are still 2% of the American population. Unless
they are a race of super smart aliens with the ability to control minds,
like the John Carpenter film [The
Live](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJC4R1uXDaE), it’s unlikely that
they have controlled the debate for 60 years. If they are a race of
super intelligent aliens from beyond the stars, we will never know it,
so there is no point in contemplating that option.

Paleocons, like Paul Gottfried, have suggested that communism may have
an appeal to Christians that fascism lacks. That is, communism in the
abstract is inclusive, universal, and egalitarian. These are concepts
that you find in Christianity, at least in the general sense. Anyone can
become a Christian and everyone is equal before God. [The Social
Gospel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Gospel) sounds a lot like
neo-Marxism and post-colonial socialism. [Liberation
Theology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberation_theology) in South
America is explicitly Marxist. The current Pope is out of this movement.

The problem here, of course, is that, in Europe, the Latin countries
were explicitly Catholic and fascist. In fact, some scholars argue that
fascism is an outgrowth of Catholic ideas like corporatism and localism.
Spain under Franco was both Catholic and fascist. Portugal under Salazar
was also Catholic and fascist. Of course, Mussolini’s Italy was very
popular with American Progressives until the outbreak of the war. The
best you can argue is that fascism seems to have had less appeal to
Protestant academics that Bolshevism.

The elephant in the room is that this argument connecting communism with
Christianity is made almost exclusively by Jewish anti-communists. This
could simply be an example of the strange lack of self-awareness among
Jews. That is, they are instinctively trying to shift the focus from
their coreligionists, who are wildly overrepresented in Bolshevism, by
laying the blame on Christians. All the best Christmas songs are written
by Jews, so maybe they know something about how to sell this to
Christians. Who knows.

The fact is, the anti-Semitic and philo-Semitic arguments explaining the
popularity of Bolshevism versus the demonization of fascism, do not hold
up under scrutiny. Both answers have some truth to them, but they do not
provide a complete answer. A big reason is that no one, especially
anti-fascists, can provide a workable definition of fascism. In the
book [Fascism: The Career of a
Concept](https://www.amazon.com/Fascism-Career-Concept-Paul-Gottfried/dp/0875804934),
the aforementioned Paul Gottfried does an excellent job explaining the
various and contradictory definitions of historical fascism.

This is why conservatives fall for the “liberals are the real Nazis”
stuff peddled by grifters like Dinesh D’Souza and Jonah Goldberg.
Fascism is a poorly defined political movement that can mean just about
anything at this point. Even in the interwar period, the various fascist
movements had some things in common, but they also had things in common
with the Bolsheviks. After decades of anti-fascist proselytizing,
fascism is simply a catch-all term for that which the Left currently
finds upsetting or threatening.

As is often the case, the reason for the relative cultural positions of
Bolshevism and fascism is due as much to serendipity as anything else.
For example, Frankfurt School anti-fascism came packaged with the claim
that America was a proto-fascist state, which made it attractive to
European academics looking for a reason to oppose their new conquerors.
Before long, the provincial clodhoppers from the American academy were
getting in on the trend. Anti-fascism became a fashionable pose for the
bourgeois radicals.

It was also a useful dodge for leftists who could shift the focus from
their own unreliability in the Cold War onto their critics, by calling
them fascists. It is a good example of how immediacy can have a far
greater impact on societal evolution that design. The Frankfurt School
types never seemed to contemplate the role of the pseudo-intellectual
poser, but their critiques set off a chain of events leading to
anti-fascism becoming a handy weapon for feckless airheads and preening
popinjays to gainsay their opponents.

Another interesting twist is that the current fad of anti-fascism is
probably the primary driver of the new anti-Semitism. Younger people
have no emotional attachment to the events in Europe a century ago. The
leftist street bullies and campus enforcers have managed to make
anti-anti-fascism attractive. This has opened the door to old fascist
writers and thinker that have been memory-holed for generations. [Julius
Evola](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julius_Evola) has probably sold
more books in the last ten years than in the previous fifty.

Even more critically, modern anti-fascism has made the corresponding
generation of Jews reckless and stupid. The social media meme “fellow
white people” is the sort of thing that never would have been noticed
without the anti-fascist hysteria. Previous generations of Jews were
more circumspect, careful to avoid publicly living the stereotype.
Younger Jews, caught up in anti-fascism as hipster cause, have managed
to define themselves as an absimiliated alien tribe, with a chip on
their shoulder about white people.

Given that the West is well into a post-industrial age where
intellectual capital is the means of production, it is long past time
for these industrial age ideologies to disappear, but we are also in the
post-Christian age. People must believe in something, even if it is
opposition to something that has not existed for three generations.
Similarly, opposition to the hauntology of anti-fascism, is providing a
breeding ground for a new politics and a new metaphysics that exists
outside the strictures of prevailing orthodoxy.
