---
title: "Lessons of the Fields Trial"
date: "2018-12-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15776"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15776"
---

James Fields, the person who drove his car into a crowd of left-wing
rioters in Charlottesville, during the Unite the Right rally two summers
ago, was convicted of all counts last week. The top count was first
degree murder, which means the jury agreed with the state that he drove
into the crowd intending to harm people. Technically, he could get the
death penalty, but the guidelines recommend life without parole. [The
jury will make a recommendation this
week](https://www.roanoke.com/news/virginia/expert-fields-diagnosed-as-bipolar-at-hospitalized-twice-by/article_1b33dd06-5752-5b95-a27f-78f5fa2ff2f5.html)
and the judge will formally sentence him in the next month.

Everyone with an interest in the case has made their position clear. The
Left, of course, loves the sight of blood, so they are thrilled with the
result. The alt-right people, who followed the case, are obviously
disgusted at the show trial and result. They are correct that this whole
thing was a mockery of justice. While reasonable people can disagree
about his culpability, sending him away for life is a vulgar act of
vengeance. Regardless, it is an event that should provide some very
clear lessons for the dissident right.

For starters, right-wing movements in America have always made the
mistake of assuming the Left is amenable to humanitarian appeals. This
case makes clear that to be on the Left is to have abandoned any shred
of mercy or compassion. The kid should not have been there, and he
certainly got mixed up with some bad people. Order requires he pay some
penalty for what he did, but sending this young man to jail for life is
vicious and cruel. There is no mercy on the Left. There never will be.

Another lesson is that we no longer live in a land of laws. What has
gone on in Virginia since that rally is an abomination. This is just the
most recent act of lawlessness. Over the last year or so, other men have
been sent away for hard time over trivial things, simply because they
are white and hold the wrong opinions. Meanwhile, the blacks involved
were handed checks and allowed to promote themselves off their crimes.
For white people, there is no justice in the court system, so make sure
you stay out of it.

Of course, this rally did not spring from nothing. The organizers who
put it together and promoted it have some culpability here. The thing
that leaders must always accept is they are responsible for their
people. That is part of leadership. When you lead your men into a fight,
they expect that you are not leading them into a trap or into certain
death. Leadership requires a sense of duty to those you are leading. The
people who put this together failed in that regard and they should be
judged accordingly.

That said, most involved were new to activism and can be forgiven for
getting caught up in the spirit of the times. Mike Enoch, who has done
everything he can to support the men being persecuted, has clearly
learned a hard lesson from this. He is a guy who deserves credit for not
only learning from the event but accepting some responsibility for
blundering into a trap. Not everyone involved has covered themselves in
glory, though, and that is a good lesson moving forward. Leadership is
not just about being cheeky on YouTube.

That last point is salient, because that is another lesson of this
affair. In fact, the best way to think about Charlottesville now is in
the fuller context of the pogrom launched against dissidents this past
year. The normal way of resolving disputes in a civil society is no
longer available. The people in charge are slowly swinging the
authoritarian door closed on us. They are corrupting every aspect of
civil life to prevent any challenge to their authority. These show
trials are just one aspect of their greater war on us.

There is no civil way forward and that means thinking different. The
people who rule over us, whether you wish to use archaic terms like
Marxist or socialist, or you like neologisms like cosmopolitan
globalists, they do not see themselves as bound by the letter of the
law, because they see themselves as the spirit of the law. Tim Cook is
not ready to declare himself a god, but he has declared himself the high
priest of the new faith of the ruling class. There is no mercy in the
righteous and no reasoning with a fanatic.

Finally, the deafening silence of the people claiming to be in
opposition to this growing tyranny, people like Ben Shapiro, is
important. A lot of people on the dissident right think these
anachronisms from a bygone age will wake up and begin to agitate on our
behalf, but that will never happen. As has been explained many times,
their real role is as defenders of the system. It is why they hate
Tucker Carlson so much. He talks about some of these things, thus
exposing the perfidy of the Ben Shapiros of the world.

Whatever comes next is not going to happen within the old system. It is
too corrupt and too compromised. That is the great lesson of the last
year. In a lawless age, one must let go of the law to avoid the law. A
great Chinese curse is “May the authorities become aware of you.” For
our age, the opposite is true. Never let the authorities become aware of
you. If the current slide into darkness is to be arrested, it will
happen because what comes out of the shadows is strong enough to stop
it.
