---
title: "The Time For Choosing"
date: "2018-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12860"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12860"
---

In 1964 Ronald Reagan gave what used to be a famous speech on behalf of
Barry Goldwater. It came to be called [A Time for
Choosing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qXBswFfh6AY). If you watch it
today, it is quite jarring for a couple of reasons. One is the
aggressive, almost angry style Reagan used while delivering it. The
other is the clarity of it. There was no dancing around the topic or
soft selling the arguments. Reagan was making the point that the nation
was at a crossroads and the decision would determine the future of
America.

Whatever you might think of Reagan, he was right about many things. At
the time he was giving that speech, the nation truly was at a
crossroads. It is reasonable to argue that the decisions made in that
period sent America careening down the path that led us to the current
crisis. It is remarkable just how horrible the 1960’s were for America
and the West. The Baby Boomer era in America started awful and got worse
every decade, but the general direction was set in the late 1960’s.

An interesting aspect is that there have been chances to retrace our
steps and fix the mistakes of the past. Reagan is the obvious example.
If in 1964 the presidential election had been a narrow run thing for the
Democrats, that may have been enough for Republicans to fight them in
the kulturkampf that followed. Maybe it would have made little
difference, but a major reason the Buckley Right has been so cowardly
and pathetic over the last fifty years is they lost the moral argument.

A dozen years later, the Right had a chance to make up for it and
nominate Reagan in 1976, but those old cucks from the previous decade
prevented it. Still, they were overwhelmed in 1980 and Reagan went on to
beat Carter. The GOP and conservatives had a great opportunity to
rollback much of the damage done to the nation in the 1960’s, but they
chose to fight the Cold War instead. Maybe that was the right thing but
imagine if Reagan had rolled back the welfare state.

The end of the Cold War set off a set of reactions by the political
class that have shaped and defined the current crisis. Imagine if
Reagan’s populism was more like Trump’s and instead of an amnesty and
open borders policy, with a generous welfare state, we got a closed
borders policy and greatly reduced welfare state. If the Soviets had
staggered on for another generation unchallenged, the West would
probably be poorer now, but it would be immensely whiter and more
chauvinistic.

In fairness to the men making these decisions in the 1980’s, they did
not know what we know today. Reagan certainly had a sense of it with
regards to immigration. He later called the immigration deal the biggest
mistake of his presidency. Still, with regards to prioritizing the Cold
War over all else, no one could know that the neocons were curdling into
an ethnocentric suicide cult and the end of the Cold War would free them
to indulge in all of their fantasies, at the expense of the nation.

The point of all this is every age faces a series of crossroads that
have something in common. That is what defines the age. Our current age
is a series of decisions about demographics. It is why so many of us on
the Dissident Right no longer have patience with civic nationalists.
That is a debate of the past. Demographics, race, ethnicity and identity
are the debates of the now. Today’s decisions will define this era and
define the choices for the next era.

You can see the little choices forming up. The loathing of bad whites by
Yankeedom has now curdled into a bizarre hatred of whites in general.
Nancy Pelosi spent eight hours speaking on the House floor, about how
the future belongs to the swarthy others over the horizon. One of the
stunning developments in my lifetime has been the lurch into naked,
gleeful hatred of white people by the Left. It turns out that Obama was
a warning about what comes next.

On the other side of this are those sensible white people who are now
waking up to the demographic reality facing them. Some voted for Trump
based on economics. Some voted for him because of habit. They just vote
Republican. Still others voted for him because they oppose evil and that
meant voting against Clinton. There are a million reasons Trump won, but
the result was a re-framing of the choices facing white Americans. It is
no longer about liberal and conservative.

A lot of us see the choices shaping up and lament that it has come to
this. “If only the Republicans had blocked immigration reform in the
80’s!” John Derbyshire once said that future generations will dig up the
bones of the people who opened the borders and smash them to bits. There
is some temporary solace in pondering what if and cursing the mistakes
of the past, but that does not change the present. We are headed to the
majority-minority world faster than our acceptance of it can keep pace.

The choice now is accepting this reality or continue to live in the
past.
