---
title: "Prison Reform"
date: "2018-06-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14125"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14125"
---

One of the under discussed topics floating around Washington is prison
reform, which has the support of President Trump. His son-in-law has
been quietly [whipping support for a
bill](https://www.axios.com/kushner-whipping-support-for-prison-reform-in-the-senate--ac7542ef-c5c8-4523-9b25-fb69434885e4.html)
backed by the White House. Trump’s photo-op with Kim Kardashian was part
of the effort to get Democrat support for the bill. The point of the
reform plan is to put more money into training and counseling for
inmates, in an effort to reduce recidivism and decrease the prison
population. America has 2.2 million prisoners.

Prison reform in America is a loser of an issue, mostly because all
previous prison reform efforts have been nothing more than opening up
the jails. Even if you are not old enough to remember the crime wave of
the 1970’s, the “soft on crime, bleeding heart liberal” is a stock
figure in pop culture. As a result, whites are solidly against anything
with the name “prison reform” in it. That is why you never see blacks on
TV making demands for prison reform. Their handlers have no interest in
it.

Republicans in the House and Senate are in no hurry to pass anything.
Even the open borders fanatics, who want to fill your neighborhood with
criminal aliens and MS-13 gang-bangers, are not in a hurry to pass
anything. Instead, they are doing the “comprehensive reform” dance,
which is how politicians manage to do nothing, while endlessly talking
about the need to do something. That means the odds of something getting
done in the near term is not good.

That does not mean the status quo is workable. We have roughly 2.2
million people in jail at any moment. There are roughly 4.7 million
people on parole, house arrest and court supervision. In a country of
three hundred million, that is not a huge number, but seven million
people is more than the population of Paraguay. It is close to twice the
population of Ireland. One reason we have so many people in jail is it
is a lot easier to manage criminals in jail than when they are on
parole.

Of course, the prison population is about 40% black. That means about
2.5% of black people are in jail at any one time. Another 5% are under
court supervision. As has been pointed out for decades, eliminate black
crime and America is suddenly as docile as any other Western nation.
That brings us back to the politics of prison reform, as everyone knows
the stats on black crime. Since addressing the realities of the black
population in America is forbidden, we maintain a massive human
warehousing system.

The looming problem is demographics. In the 1990’s, getting tough on
crime mostly meant longer sentences for smaller crimes. The “broken
windows” approach to policing is mostly mythology, but getting crime
under control does have a real impact. It works the same way [the death
penalty worked to pacify
Europe](http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/147470491501300114).
By handing out long jail sentences, cities like New York culled the
herd. Eventually, the people sent away for 20 years get out of jail.
What happens to them at that point?

A useful example, although not representative, is Joseph Konopka, who
went by the name Dr. Chaos in his criminal career. He recruited a group
of young people he called The Realm of Chaos, who committed acts of
terrorism and vandalism in Wisconsin and Illinois. Konopka was arrested
plotting a mass cyanide attack on the Chicago transit system. He is
serving a 20-year sentence at ADX Florence and will be released in
August of next year. How is that going to work out?

For those unfamiliar, ADX Florence is a prison for the worst of the
worst. It is called a “supermax” prison, but the inmates call it the
Alcatraz of the Rockies. It holds people like [Larry
Hoover](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Hoover) of the [Gangster
Disciples](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gangster_Disciples), [Barry
Mills](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barry_Mills_(Aryan_Brotherhood))
and [Tyler Bingham](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tyler_Bingham) of the
[Aryan Brotherhood](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aryan_Brotherhood).
They also have [Zacarias
Moussaoui](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zacarias_Moussaoui), [Faisal
Shahzad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faisal_Shahzad), [Ramzi
Yousef](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramzi_Yousef), [Ted
Kaczynski](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ted_Kaczynski) and [Eric
Rudolph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_Rudolph). In other words,
when Konopka comes out, he will have spent 20 years living with some of
the most dangerous men on earth.

This is an extreme example, but illustrative. The solution to crime was
to lock people up, which made sense at the time, but no one thought much
about what those prisons would produce in 20-30 years. Granted, many men
coming out of the system are going to be old, but they will still be
useless, as the prison did nothing to ready them for life after jail.
There is zero chance the social justice warriors running Facebook or
Starbucks will be hiring Joseph Konopka upon his release.

The right answer, of course, is to start accepting reality about the
last 70 years of social reform that started after WW2. Crime spiraled
upward when the constraints on non-whites were removed, and diversity
was imposed on whites. Steve Sailer famously used Katrina to illustrate
[this biological
reality](https://www.vdare.com/articles/racial-reality-and-the-new-orleans-nightmare).
Black crime would be half of what it is today, most of which is against
other blacks, if whites were willing to reimpose the sorts of cultural
restraints common before Civil Rights.

That said, the diversity horse has left the barn. By turning America
into a majority-minority nation, the ruling class of the last half
century has condemned future generations to endemic crime problems like
you see in Brazil. One solution to this is the return of penal colonies
and criminal reservations. The people serving life terms should be
housed on remote islands where they can live out their lives, without
causing harm to other prisoners and prison guards.

Penal colonies would also mean a shift in sentencing. A guy like Joseph
Konopka would not get 20 years. Instead, he would get life in the
colony. In fact, a fair chunk of the 2.2 million currently in jail would
get sent to the penal colonies. There is simply no point in pretending
that a man can come out after 30 years in a gladiator academy and be a
normal person in society. There is no point in pretending the rest of us
wish to invest in the effort, even assuming it is possible.
