---
title: "The College Collapse"
date: "2018-09-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15064"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15064"
---

Back when National Review allowed comments, they would post all sorts of
things in their group blog, so readers could respond. For example, when
they were looking for a receptionist, they posted the job on the blog.
Hilariously, one of the requirements was a four-year degree. Why anyone
with a college degree would take a receptionist job was a mystery, but
an even bigger mystery was why they would require it. The comments on it
were the best things posted that week.

Of course, Rich Lowry was not really thinking about the requirements of
the job when he posted it. What he wanted was someone from his world,
the world where everyone goes off to college and sends their kids off to
college. In other words, he was signaling to potential applicants that
he did not want Rosie from the neighborhood, who likes to file her nails
while on the phone. Instead, he wanted a young white girl fresh out of
college, who just needed a job while she sorted out her life.

That is what a college degree has become since the 60’s. It tells
potential employers things about yourself that they could never ask
directly. For example, if you went to a private college, it means you
most likely were raised upper middle-class. If you went to the satellite
campus of the state university, it probably means you came from the
lower ranks and you were not a great student. These are the sort of
subtle clues that are reflected in the education section.

Attending an elite university is the big flashing neon sign on a
person’s resume, which is why entrance is super-competitive. It is also
why it is not difficult to graduate from one of these colleges. The
graduation rates are near 100%, even for athletes. Compare that to
[Ranger
School](http://www.benning.army.mil/infantry/ARTB/content/pdf/FY%2017%20Ranger%20School%20Performance.pdf),
where 60% fail the first time. Yet, if you have the former on your CV,
it counts for more than if you have the latter. The people hiring for
elite positions care much more about what the former says about the
applicant.

This is why a few years ago [the elites started to panic over the influx
of foreign students into elite
colleges](https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/education/surge-in-foreign-students-might-be-crowding-americans-out-of-elite-colleges/2016/12/21/78d4b65c-b59d-11e6-a677-b608fbb3aaf6_story.html).
The competition for these slots was already tough. Having to compete
with the children of foreign ruling classes would make the process even
more difficult for the children of Cloud People. This is why Harvard,
and most likely the other elite colleges, discriminate against Asians.
The elite is for whites and Jews, with a sprinkling of diversity to
spice it up.

This “problem” with the elite colleges has been an excuse for the
conservatives to shriek “hypocrite” at their progressive masters, but it
is a good thing that the people in charge are fine with racial
discrimination. At the minimum, it suggests they still have the will to
survive. It also reminds us that they are not bound by their own rules
when defending their privileges. No ruling class in human history has
peacefully agreed to step aside based on the logic of their own rules.

At the other end of the spectrum, colleges that serve the hoi polloi
have been struggling with a different set of problems. A diploma from
State U is about practical things like getting a job and bargaining for
a salary. In fact, it only matters for the first decade after
graduation. After that, the work history is what counts. The great
bust-out that is the American public college system has reached a
terminus and enrollments are now [starting to
drop](https://hechingerreport.org/universities-colleges-struggle-stem-big-drops-enrollment/),
as people figure out the scam.

As a result, the public universities in America are beginning to change.
One remedy has been to import foreign students, who will pay full rate.
This started with small private colleges like Boston University in the
1980’s. Japanese kids would come to Boston, pay tuition in cash, if they
were not required to study too hard. For state colleges, there is the
added benefit of being able to charge full rate, rather than the
discounted rate for in-state students. That and it counts for diversity
points.

Of course, like every business, cost cutting is on the table. In
America, much of college is just an extension of high school. Look at
the requirements of college fifty years ago and compare them to now.
Then there are the frivolous things like gender studies or communication
arts. Pretty much everything in the core curriculum of a modern college
should be tackled in high school. The rest should be discarded. That’s
why we see colleges [dropping large chunks of their current
offerings](https://www.breitbart.com/tech/2018/08/21/u-of-akron-to-kills-80-degree-programs-adds-esports/).

There is something else going on that speaks to the larger issues
looming over the North American Economic Zone. The Cloud People are
[starting to drop the college requirement for new
hires](https://www.simplemost.com/no-college-degree-15-great-companies-want-you/).
What this tells us is the elite are beginning to set fire to the bridges
over the river that separates them from us. The positions in the Cloud
will require passing through one of the monasteries. In the future, the
Dirt People will have to sort out their status system within their
favelas.

It also opens the door to [further polluting the
standards](http://fortune.com/2018/09/17/hiring-college-degree-labor-market/).
By dropping the college requirement, the companies are free to hire the
black over the white, the female over the male. After all, without
anything close to an objective standard, the latest moral fads handed
down from on high are the default filter. It also makes it explicit.
Companies will be expected to hit their vibrancy quotas, because they
will not have the excuse that they cannot find qualified non-white
candidates.
