---
title: "The Corporatist Enterprise"
date: "2018-07-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14600"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14600"
---

Fascism is word that no longer has meaning, mostly because the left has
made it the catchall term for anything they currently oppose. Even
adjusting for that, no two academics can agree on a usable definition of
fascism. Paul Gottfried, who has studied the subject more than anyone
alive today, makes the point that fascism was a lot of different things,
even to its advocates. It was an anti-movement, a reaction to and
rejection of things like modernity, radicalism, and liberalism.

That is not a fair rendering of Gottfried’s thoughts on the subject, but
it is a useful starting point when thinking about historical fascism.
The book [Fascism: The Career of a
Concept](https://www.amazon.com/Fascism-Career-Concept-Paul-Gottfried/dp/0875804934)
is an excellent entry point into a topic for those interested in a sober
minded history of fascism. An aspect of fascism that rarely gets
discussed in the current age is its corporatism. Fascists, particularly
Italian fascists, were
[corporatist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporatism). Mussolini saw
the state as something like an organism that transcended all
institutions.

The most famous expression of this is the line from Mussolini’s
[Doctrine of
Fascism](https://www.amazon.com/Doctrine-Fascism-Benito-Mussolini/dp/1682040054),
“everything in the state, nothing against the State, nothing outside the
state.” The state not only provides the services expected of the
government, but it also provides the spiritual purpose for those in the
state. The individual exists only in so far as his interests as an
individual correspond with the interests of the state. The state is an
organism that defines the citizen.

This is often used as the description of totalitarianism, but that is
not an exactly accurate comparison. Bolshevism, for example, was
indifferent to the spiritual life of the citizen, only focusing on the
political and material life. That is the striking thing about Italian
fascism versus Marxist movements. It attempted to give purpose to the
life of the citizen, beyond his material utility. Instead of viewing the
citizen as an economic unit, fascism saw the citizen as a heroic part of
the great struggle.

This spiritual appeal can be seen in the modern managerial state.
Politics is becoming all consuming. You cannot watch a movie or sporting
event without being barraged with messages about “who we are.” Trump
sounds like an anachronism, because he talks about bread-and-butter
issues, while the rest of the managerial elite focuses on esoteric
topics like “who we are” and “our democracy.” By democracy, they mean
the managerial system and culture.

It also shows up in the modern conception of the business enterprise. It
is not enough to have a job. It must give purpose to your life. It must
be part of the great struggle that helps you reach your potential in
service to the great cause. You see that in [this
story](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/20/business/wework-vegetarian.html)
about a firm that forces its employees to embrace vegetarianism. [Read
about the
company](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/17/business/the-wework-manifesto-first-office-space-next-the-world.html)
and it sounds like a religious mission. It used to be that businessmen
only wanted to make money. Now they are priests.

It’s why rank and file employees of new style companies like Constant
Contact feel the need to [moralize from their
cubicle](https://vdare.com/posts/lydia-brimelow-constant-contact-cancels-vdare-com-now-more-than-ever-we-need-your-support).
The young woman doing this is not merely a bonehead functionary. She
sees herself as committed to the cause of the company, which is a holy
cause. It is not a place where she performs tasks for money. It is what
defines her life as a person. Led by tech, the managerial enterprise is
not just an employer to its hired help. It is the defining feature of
their lives.

The historian Ernst Nolte described one aspect of fascism as
“theoretical transcendence” which he called a metapolitical force.
Fascism sought to go beyond what exists in this world, toward a new
future that was free of the restraints on the human mind. It imagined a
world that was free of class, poverty, ignorance, and material
restraint. That is what the modern managerial enterprise preaches. They
are not just selling a service. They are changing the world.

The bizarre nature of the modern enterprise, where it describes itself
as a mission to change the world, is one result of democracy. It
obliterates local institutions, leaving the citizen as a stranger to
himself and his fellow citizens. The corporation fills this void by
providing a structured environment where the employees share an identity
and see one another as on the same team. The managerial enterprise
becomes both the local community and the church for its people.

The trouble is that a business is primarily about making a profit.
Social activism keeps running up against the profit motive. Short of
state sanctioned monopoly power, the corporate enterprise must
compromise its values in order to make a profit. This is why democracy
must favor monopoly. You see this with media companies, where the
government encourages collusion and combination. Amazon enjoys massive
subsidies, as it obliterates all other forms of retail.

This dynamic between the growing cultural power of the corporation, and
its greater dependence on the state for protection, results in a merging
of the two. Walk around a government campus and you see the modern
corporations. College presidents now call themselves CEO’s, not because
the college has become a business, but because both are now part of the
great mission. The line between the state and the private sphere no
longer exists because it cannot exist for both sides to thrive.

This is why gun grabbers, for example, have turned to corporations to
advance their gun grabbing agenda. The state failed to ban guns, so now
banks, media companies and retail monopolists are stepping in to “solve”
the problem. In the not-so-distant future, you will have the unfettered
political right to carry a gun, but no one will sell guns because it is
practically impossible. No “private” enterprise will do business with a
gun maker or a gun retailer. Individual rights are worthless without
individuals.
