---
title: "A Million Petty Tyrants"
date: "2018-04-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13414"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13414"
---

When news broke that someone was shooting up YouTube, the usual suspects
geared up to profit from it. You can be sure that the ridiculous little
twerp David Hogg was looking for cheap airfare to California, so he
could mug for the cameras. Then it turned out to be a Persian woman, who
was pissed about being censured. She was a nut, but what sent her over
the edge was the way she was treated by the petty tyrants of YouTube.
She was the multicultural version of [Falling
Down](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0106856/).

The funny thing is, none of the respectable people have bothered to
notice what has been happening with social media until now. [This story
on PJ
Media](https://pjmedia.com/trending/sadistic-youtube-deletes-channels-demonetizes-censors-content-refuses-respond-press/#comments)
takes the girl angle and [this post on National
Review](https://www.nationalreview.com/news/vegan-shooter-was-angry-at-youtubes-demonetization-policy/)
takes the CivNat approach. If the shooter had been Baked Alaska or Sam
Hyde, they would be saying the usual things about extreme right wing
extremist hate speakers. Instead it was a neurotic foreign vegan,
tormented into a homicidal rage by the semi-official thought police now
running the public square.

Of course, when bullets start flying, people tend to get serious. Up
until now, the people running the social media companies have paid no
price for their behavior. In fact, they have been publicly praised by
the left side of the ruling class, and quietly praised by the right
side. All of a sudden, the folks in charge have to consider the
possibility of a lunatic with a gun showing up in their offices, when
one of their moderators willy-nilly decides to nuke a user account. That
changes the math of being the morality police.

Even through this has been ignored by the media, there are now two types
of meetings going on in companies like YouTube. The people in charge are
huddling in their executive suites, talking about security and how best
to make sure the next lunatic does not get beyond the first floor. The
soulless shrew running YouTube will no doubt make sure security around
her is beefed up in response to this incident. She will probably issue a
memo demanding greater vigilance by the YouTube morality police.

There is a second form of meeting going on today. That’s the one in the
lunchrooms and chat rooms for employees of these social media companies.
These are the people who take the bullet when the next pistol packing
Persian shows up with a beef about the arbitrarily enforced terms of
service. At least for a little while, some of them will think twice
before pushing the button to delete a video or take down an account.
After all, that vegan yoga instructor with quirky politics, could be a
really good marksman.

A smart man once said that the post-modern age is a period where the
best people painfully relearn all the things everyone used to know. For
example, the whole point of liberal democracy was not to give the people
a say in how things are run, but to give them a non-violent veto.
Instead of the angry rabble stringing up their local rulers and burning
down their mansion, the angry rabble gets to vote out some candidates or
perhaps pass a referendum that will be ignored. Political liberty is the
pressure release.

The guy on street corner, waving around a manifesto, proselytizing to
his fellow citizens, is only a threat to the public order, if the people
in charge don’t have better answers or a way to steal his ideas.
Otherwise, he is just a crank who can be ignored. Today, the street
corner is a user account on social media and the manifesto is a series
of videos detailing some political or social cause. All of which is
entirely harmless, just as long as the people in charge have better
answers. Within this lifetime, people used to know this.

Something else people used to know is that the guy with a tiny bit of
power, is often the most dictatorial. Meter maids, building inspectors,
zoning office clerks, these are people with very narrow authority, but
hey wield it with the zeal of a bloodthirsty tyrant. That is because the
sort of people attracted to the work, are the sort of people looking for
any chance to have authority over another person. The way American
cities solved their sadist problem is they installed parking meters and
made the sadists into meter maids.

Today, it is the social media companies hiring the petty tyrants,
sadists and mentally disturbed spinsters, giving them a job of reading
your tweets. These are the people who scan the internet, looking for
“hate speech” they can put on a list, so that other petty tyrants can
use it to torment the hate speaker or anyone interested in him. These
are people who relish the task, because it is the only time anyone
notices them. Our public space is turning into a daycare center run by
[sadistic
schoolmarms](https://www.google.com/imgres?imgurl=https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/538756409278472192/CyY45O5O.jpeg&imgrefurl=https://twitter.com/susanwojcicki&h=1728&w=1728&tbnid=fYG6neIrWqx-mM:&tbnh=160&tbnw=160&usg=__VpjS0fIlbD9jARK5BxODo5rK4Z0%3D&vet=10ahUKEwip4uqyhKPaAhWLwFMKHVBrBcIQ_B0IMjAB..i&docid=tprjIOKlqFoeRM&itg=1&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwip4uqyhKPaAhWLwFMKHVBrBcIQ_B0IMjAB).

The people in charge of social media firms spend so much time smelling
their own farts, they truly think they can regulate what the world has
to say about things. Again, people used to know better. Reality is that
thing that does not go away when you stop believing in it and reality
is, there is no controlling public opinion. There is no way to stifle
dissent. The only thing that comes from efforts to do so is a violent
response. But, the petty tyrants will only learn that lesson when the
next Persian vegan shows up at their door.
