---
title: "The White Not"
date: "2018-06-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14147"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14147"
---

When one people conquer another people, there are a number of ways they
can cement their dominance. One is for the ruler of the winning side to
make himself the ruler of the losers, maybe marrying a high-ranking
female of the losers. If the ethnic differences between the winners and
losers are small enough, this can work out well. In this case, it is not
really one people defeating another, so much as one set of rulers
besting their relations, who happen to be rulers of another wing of the
family. It is a family squabble.

Of course, the other end of the spectrum is when a different people
defeat another people. The most likely outcome is some form of genocide.
The winners kill off the males or maybe sell them into bondage, while
distributing the women as wives to their men. The alternative to this is
to simply kill off the losers. Genocide is a lot easier when the
vanquished are alien to the victors. Most likely, the point of the
conflict was to take the land the losers had been occupying, so killing
them off makes perfect sense.

A third way of cementing your dominance over a conquered people is to
erase their language and culture. Instead of killing off the men or
committing full scale genocide, you take away their religion, ban their
customs and force them to use your language for any official business.
The first generation is going to resist, but the second generation is
going to see the opportunity and adopt the new ways. The benefit of this
approach is it turns some portion of the vanquished into an asset that
works to support the victors.

The British tried a form of this with the Welsh in the 19th century. For
centuries, the Welsh had been a thorn in the side of the English.
Despite their numerical advantage, the English were never able to drive
them off. King Offa of Mercia built a [giant earth
works](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Offa%27s_Dyke) to wall off the
Welsh from the English in the 8th century. That was not because the
Welsh were a trouble-free population. In the 15th century, [Owain
Glyndŵr](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Owain_Glynd%C5%B5r) led his
people in revolt against the English. For Shakespeare fans, he is Owen
Glendower in the play Henry IV.

The English solution in the 19th century was something called the [Welsh
Not](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welsh_Not). The British used it in
Welsh schools to discourage the use of the Welsh language. A kid caught
speaking his native tongue was given the “Not” which was usually a piece
of wood on a string he hung around his neck. If he heard another boy
speaking Welsh, he could rat him out and the “Not” would pass to him. At
the end of the day, the boy with the “Not” got a beating. Alternatively,
children were caned whenever they were caught speaking Welsh.

Something similar is happening in English speaking countries today,
except the people in charge are attempting to rub out the native culture
by un-personing anyone who says or does normal things. People are
routinely punished for noticing the obvious or speaking truths about
reality. The point of the punishment is to discourage normal behavior,
just as the British wanted to discourage speaking Welsh. Every day, we
get examples like [this
one](http://www.breitbart.com/london/2018/06/13/lionel-shriver-mocks-penguin-random-house-fired-prize-judge/),
where the bizarre and deranged are elevated over the normal culture.

The systematic effort to turn bathhouse doggerel into art, at the
expense of respectable Western literature, is not so much about
elevating the depraved, as it is an assault on the culture. The people
doing this are not motivated by a desire to help the degenerates. The
point of the exercise is to discredit literature that comports with the
norms of Western society. It is the same motivation behind larding up
movies and television with vulgarity, even though the audience finds it
revolting. Contempt for the audience is the motivation.

It is tempting to assign rational motivations to the PC idiocy, but that
is always a mistake when talking about the clash of cultures. The
motivations are purely emotional. When the Left flips out over [someone
noticing a logical flaw in their education
policy](http://www.unz.com/isteve/gop-governor-demand-gop-legislator-resign-for-pointing-out-arent-enough-white-kids-to-go-around/),
it is not the flaw the angers them. It is who is pointing it out. It is
why pointing out the endless contradictions and hypocrisies of the Left
is a waste of time. In a world of “who? whom?”, the only logic at play
is determining who is attacking whom. The point of the attack is
manifest.

Like the banning of bagpipes and tartan in Scotland, the Welsh Not
probably did more to build Welsh nationalism than break it. It provided
motivation for the Welsh to preserve their language. The rallying point
was the Welsh-language bible, which was used in Welsh churches. Instead
of the language and customs being erased as intended, the British ended
up inculcating a deeper sense of identity in the Welsh people. The
long-term result has been a modern revival of Welsh and a drive toward
greater autonomy for Wales.

It remains to be seen if the current assault on normalcy has the same
effect on the normal white people in English speaking countries. Tommy
Robinson may be a flawed player in the great battle over immigration in
Britain, but [he has become a rallying
point](http://dailycaller.com/2018/06/10/free-tommy-robinson-rally/).
The alt-right in America may be a dumpster fire, but the outlandish
treatment of them by global corporations has opened a lot of eyes to
what’s happening in America. Perhaps the war on whiteness has reached a
tipping point and white people are becoming race aware.
