---
title: "An Ethnocentric Death Cult"
date: "2018-04-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13506"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13506"
---

Is neoconservatism just ethnocentric millenarianism? The neocons tend
toward the apocalyptic in their language and they always wear the mask
of the righteous when discussing the issues they view as central to
their narrative. You never hear a neocon say that “well, good people can
disagree.” Instead, they <a
href="https://www.commentarymagazine.com/foreign-policy/europe/russia/tucker-carlson-russian-line-syria-trump/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">describe</a> those with whom they
disagree as the epitome of evil, usually the new Hitler. Their lust for
war suggests a strong desire to immanentize the eschaton.

We tend to think of suicide cults as groups of lonely losers, preyed on
by a charismatic sociopath, who convinces them of the coming end times.
They either come to the movement convinced that only a cataclysm can set
things right or they become convinced by the teachings of the cult that
the great reckoning is at hand. It’s fairly typical, according to the
experts, for the people in these movements to see themselves as a
minority, operating as a sanctuary for the righteous.

Millenarianism tends to operate on the fringes of society, but not
always. The prophets of the Jewish Bible are basically outsiders
interpreting events in the context of an apocalyptic timetable. Judaism
itself is defined by such a timetable. Judaism is the belief in a
Messiah, who will deliver Jews from their enemies and rule over a Jewish
kingdom.¹ Christianity is founded on the idea of a second coming, when
Christ will return to reign as king with the just, both living and
dead.²

The point here is that a belief in the end times or a foreboding sense
of a coming cataclysm is not necessarily fringe or crazy. In fact, it is
common in human societies, suggesting it is a common tendency in people.
Therefore it is not outside the realm of possibility that
neoconservatism is a form of millenarianism. It certainly has a strong
Levantine edge to it and the adherents clearly view themselves as an
oppressed minority in the Biblical sense, despite their status.

In fact, it is a curious feature of neoconservatism. When anyone notices
that it was explicitly Jewish at its founding and is almost exclusively
Jewish today, the neocon cries out, demanding the person noticing be
punished. It’s as if noticing what is a defining feature, something the
founders of the cult advertised, causes the adherents physical pain.
What is often interpreted as subversive obfuscation, could very well be
typical cult behavior. People in cults seek to disappear, which is why
they joined the cult.

Just watch the body language in
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kfq7Twh6J44" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this interview of Noah Rothman done by Tucker
Carlson</a> the other night. What looks like a sociopath’s gambit, the
lying by omission and half truths, can also be interpreted as a fear
response. Rothman is promoting World War III, calling anyone not down
with nuclear winter an agent of Putin. When Carlson focuses on what
Rothman has written, putting the focus on him as an individual, Rothman
physically recoils, like he is being assaulted.

Whether or not neoconservatism is a cult is debatable, but what is not
debatable is the lust for the final great confrontation. For obvious
reasons, neocons oscillate with rapturous enthusiasm whenever war in the
Levant is mentioned, but they are obsessed with the great final conflict
between good an evil. Their ancestral hatred for Russia is one element,
but neocons were weened on the belief that a nuclear war with Russian
was inevitable. It is entirely possible that the belief has come to
define them.

They also seem to think Trump is a sign of the coming end times, when
the great battle between the righteous and the wicked will reach its
denouement. So much so that guys like Noah Rothman argue <a
href="https://www.commentarymagazine.com/politics-ideas/an-unpopular-approach-trade-populism-problem/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">it is time usher in that final battle</a>.
This from a guy who would soil himself in a physical confrontation. As
Tucker Carlson has recently started to mention, hatred of Donald Trump
is now bringing the neocons back to the Left, by turning the Left into
vocal advocates for violence against Trump.

It is tempting to write-off the neocons as lounge chair imperialists
with divided loyalties, but the central theme to their warmongering is
always Russia. Their general lack of interest in confronting China,
which a real threat to the US, or Mexico, which is a collapsing
narco-state on our border, suggests violence is not the core issue. We
launch drone attacks all over the Middle East, we could certainly drone
Mexican drug cartels. If the neocon just wanted blood, that would be a
much more promising target.

Their singular focus is Russia. Even their opposition to Trump is based
on his unwillingness to talk about Putin as Hitler. If you list all of
the neocon wars and desired wars, Russia is the common theme. The
defining characteristic of the neocon is a hatred for Russia, viewing it
as the Mordor in the great battle between the righteous and the wicked.
Their reason to exist is to bring about the final confrontation.
Whatever it was, neoconservatism now functions as a death cult.

¹I know.

²I know.
