---
title: "Are We Happy?"
date: "2018-02-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12865"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12865"
---

Generally speaking, it is easy for you to know if you are happy. While
happiness is not a binary condition, you know if you are not happy. You
may not be able to describe why it is you are happy, but the lack of
complaints is usually a good answer. For the most part, you can tell if
your wife and family is happy too. It is once you get past your close
circle of friends, that it gets hard to know. [Richard
Cory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Cory), whenever he was in
town, seemed like he was living a happy life, but you never can know for
sure.

When it comes to society, social scientists have produced an array of
measures to figure out if people are happy. These efforts have been
financed by government for a long time, because rulers always assume
that happy people are docile people. That is not a bad assumption. You
never see depictions of rioting peasants, where they are grinning and
laughing. Revolts are always associated with angry mobs. Therefore, keep
the people happy and you do not have revolts.

For as long as anyone can remember, these measures of societal happiness
have been focused on economics. Do people have enough food, housing and
medicine? Is the economy growing? Can young people replicate the
lifestyle of their parents? Is the gap between rich and poor creating
tension? Pretty much all of the measures used to assess how things are
going are focused on the bread side of the “bread and circuses” way of
framing this issue. History says that is a good way to do it.

I recall walking down Commonwealth Avenue in Boston, in the late 80’s,
seeing every business with huge “help wanted” signs. It was like they
were competing with one another for the biggest sign. Everyone seemed
happy about the boom times. I know I was happy, but I was a young man
with nothing but green grass in front of me. Still, it was good times
and the long winter of the 1970’s was still in the back of people’s
minds. It was a great time to be a young man in America.

It is in part why people old enough to have lived through those times,
are so sentimental about the Reagan years. Overall societal happiness
was also evident in the political realm. Reagan won a massive landslide
in the 1984 election and his proxy followed it up with a landslide win
in the 1988 election. It is almost impossible to imagine it, but Reagan
won states like Massachusetts and New York. Imagine that. There was a
brief time when the Roundheads stopped hating everyone else long enough
to cast a sensible vote.

This brings me back to the question of this post. The economy was
supposedly doing well in the Bush years, yet no one seemed happy about
the direction of the country. The neocons were the one exception, but
they are only happy when Americans are suffering and dying. The Obama
years were equally terrible, in terms of our collective psyche. The
economy under Obama was not great, but it was not a depression. It was a
long, slow recovery from the damage done by the cosmopolitan bankers in
the Bush years.

Now? The economy is booming. Economists are talking about 5% annual
growth, which has not happened since the 1980’s. The stock market,
despite recent turbulence, has seen massive growth over the last year.
If you believe the economists, America is nearing full employment. If
you do not believe them, you know that demand is now drawing people back
into the workplace for the first time in decades. Wages are even
starting to tick up in STEM fields, which has not been true in a
generation. We are in incredibly good times.

Yet, no one seems happy. Even a levelheaded and sensible person like me
struggles to be optimistic. Everyone I know is glum about the cultural
trajectory of the nation. If the fans of Jordan Peterson are correct
about his fan base, it means millions of younger Americans are unhappy
with the current state of affairs. If the critics of the Dissident Right
are correct, it means tens of millions of white people think their
country is heading for a bad place. The Left, of course, is trying to
burn it all down in a frenzy of rage.

Maybe all of these things really do not matter. Maybe the culture wars
and political wars are just the result of a bored people enjoying
unprecedented, good times. We are in a post scarcity age, where even the
poorest person has more than enough food, shelter and leisure
activities. In many respects, we are amusing ourselves to death. It
could simply be that humans are built for struggle. When times are good,
we look for reasons to create a crisis to against. Maybe we are too
happy.

On the other hand, it may be that the reading of history, with regards
to social unrest, is incomplete about the causes. The American
revolution was not triggered by severe economic troubles. The Civil War
was not preceded by a depression. The English Civil War had nothing to
do with economic difficulties. Even the French and Russian revolutions
were about long cultural trends. The food riots that touched off the
revolts were just the final straw. The fabric of those nations was in
tatters long before they ran out of food.

It is something to ponder as Trump tries to recreate the 1980’s. That
was when he began his steep climb to national prominence as a real
estate magnate and public personality. He is a man of the 80’s, a child
in the 50’s. Reagan wanted to restore the America of the 1950’s, his
salad days, and now Trump wishes do the same. Maybe it will work or
maybe it is just the remnant of a dying culture getting together for one
last festival. Maybe the ennui is the knowledge that the old America
Trump is trying to revive is gone forever.

Maybe we are Richard Cory.
