---
title: "President Coach"
date: "2018-01-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12751"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12751"
---

When I was a kid, I played a lot of sports. The one coach I hated was my
freshman football coach, whose name I no longer remember. He was the
classic Type-A personality, at least what popular culture has come to
think of it. The guy was always on edge, ready to explode into a purple
faced rage, which meant everyone around him was always on edge too. The
guy found a way to get under everyone’s skin. He had some way to needle
every player on the roster, often with some sort of nickname.

The thing is though, the guy managed to squeeze out more from the roster
than logic said was possible. In my case, I was always just at the point
of wanting to bash his skull in with my helmet, but I channeled those
pleasant thoughts into execution. I was not giving that prick the
satisfaction of making a mistake. Even though I hated the guy, he did
make me and my teammates better players. I still recall the joy of
winning with my teammates, but I don’t remember the coach’s name.

My guess is everyone who played sports growing up had at least one of
these types of coaches. Bill Parcels was famous for playing head games
with his players. He was big on keeping every player on edge, even his
stars. At the NFL level, the psychological aspects of coaching are more
complex, but the underlying strategy is the same. You make the players
doubt themselves in a way that results in their natural
hyper-competitiveness kicking in, so they push themselves to the edge of
their potential.

I’ve been thinking about this watching Trump torment Congress,
especially the Democrats, over immigration. He’s not just making the
open borders people nervous with his rhetoric. He is getting under the
skin of his allies and his own staff. The blockheads in the gentry media
are calling it <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/negotiating-with-jell-o-how-trumps-shifting-positions-fueled-the-rush-to-a-shutdown/2018/01/20/81215b90-fd71-11e7-a46b-a3614530bd87_story.html?utm_term=.7cfd553c6228"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Jell-O strategy</a>, but it is a safe
bet that none of them ever went outside as kids, much less played
competitive contact sports. In the world of high-pay, low-work
professions, the hard driving boss does not exist.

What Trump is doing with his comments about DACA, in particular, but
immigration in general, is keeping the issue boiling. That is Trump’s
natural style of negotiating, but it has the benefit of keeping
immigration patriots slightly ticked off and highly engaged in every
aspect of the process. Congress has seen their e-mail flooded with
messages opposing amnesty. Their voicemail boxes are constantly full.
This puts pressure on Congress to do a deal and get the issue off the
agenda for the midterms in ten months.

Steve Sailer compares Trump to George Steinbrenner. It is a good
comparison as they both have a similar style. Both men understood that
pressure reveals character. The great players, the great deal makers,
rise to the occasion when under pressure. On the other hand, the fakers
and losers crack under pressure. If you read Trump’s book or listen to
people with whom he has done deals, you see that he is always looking to
bring things to a boiling point, where everyone is under the gun to get
something done.

That’s what Trump is doing with DACA. He’s cleverly made this the goal
of the Democrats, thinking they will push themselves to the breaking
point to get it. At the same time, the laundry list of immigration
reforms has become the all or nothing end game for immigration patriots.
Trump’s public statements are keeping the good guys fired up and willing
to hammer Congress on the finer points of immigration. Every time Trump
says something positive about DACA, the phone lines melt in Washington.

There is no question that this style of managing people does get the
most from those willing to give their all. It also boils off the people
who like to talk about maximizing their opportunities, but unwilling to
do what it takes to accomplish it. In the realm of sports, this result
in better teams. Bill Parcells was a wildly successful coach because his
style gets the maximum from the roster. Trump’s success as a businessman
and media personality is largely built on getting the most from top
people in their respective fields.

Whether this will translate to politics is hard to know. One constant
that comes through from people who have done business with Trump is that
he is exhausting. The never ending competition and wrangling over
details wears people down. In business, you can always get new people
when the old ones wear out. In politics, you can’t easily get new
supporters. His style could end up exhausting his base. How many times
can someone call their Congressman, enraged about immigration or trade
policy?

That’s a question often asked of sportsball coaches. How long before
they wear out their players? How long before the team stops responding?
The great ones seem to get that and they make sure to reward their
players so they keep wanting more. Trump’s zingers on twitter or when
speaking in front of a crowd may serve that function. He has an uncanny
way to saying the obvious in a way that outrages the enemy and amuses
his supporters. Perhaps that’s enough for President Coach to get us over
the goal line.
