---
title: "Who We Aren’t"
date: "2018-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13653"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13653"
---

For the last few years, whenever someone says “it’s not who we are” it
means the conversation has veered into the heretical or that some line
of argument is viewed as a challenge to official orthodoxy. Amusingly,
the people most prone to blurt this out are so-called conservatives. It
is how they police the boundary to their right. The funny thing though,
is no one ever tries to define “who we are” in concrete terms. Instead,
we get a long list of things, ruled outside the set of things that
constitute “who we are.”

This is something that becomes clear in the debate about David Reich’s
book, [*Who We Are and How We Got
Here*](https://www.amazon.com/Whats-Wrong-China-Paul-Midler/dp/1119213711/ref=sr_1_1).
As [John Derbyshire noted in his review of the
book](http://www.unz.com/jderbyshire/ideology-beats-reality-in-reichs-who-we-are-and-who-we-got-here/),
Reich is reporting real facts about who we are as humans, but he puts
almost as much effort into re-asserting all the cliches about who we are
not, even when those cliches contradict his own research. Everyone gets
how this works and why he felt the need to do it. To the people in
charge, defining the “not who we are” stuff is who they are as morality
police.

As is often the case, that constant push by our masters to enforce their
moral framework tends to turn us into thoughtless reactionaries. The
Bush years were a great example of this phenomenon. If the Left had
remained silent on Bush, he would have been a one term President and few
people would have supported the Iraq war. Instead, crazy liberals turned
all of us into warmongers, simply in reaction to the unhinged opposition
to the Bush administration. The opposite of what the Left says is not
necessarily the truth.

As a result, [the
temptation](https://www.amren.com/news/2018/04/genetics-is-undercutting-the-case-for-racial-quotas/)
on our side is to focus exclusively on what the revolution in the human
sciences is telling us about ourselves, particularly those bits that
confirm what we have always believed about the human animal. It may be
just as useful to look at what science says about who we are not. After
all, the people in charge are acting on those assumptions about who we
are, namely the blank slate. Many on the right are also operating from a
set of assumptions about who we are as a species.

The first thing that bears scrutiny is the demolition of the
post-Boasian conventional wisdom. As Peter Frost explained years ago,
[Boas may have started out trying to strike a balance between nurture
and nature](http://www.unz.com/pfrost/the-franz-boas-you-never-knew/),
but his followers went on a berserk rampage against the nature side of
the balance. This really cannot be underestimated. The last half
century, being a smart person meant a war against observable reality,
under the color of science. Now, no smart person can deny the supremacy
of nature over nurture.

That is an easy one. Another thing that bears scrutiny is the collapse
of the [pots not
people](http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/gnxp/2010/10/volkerwanderung-back-with-a-vengeance/#.WuesYmGgqM8)
narrative to explain the archaeological record. It has been extremely
important for the people in charge that we believe the natural state of
man is cooperative. The assumption being that people naturally wish to
get along with one another, despite the trivial physical differences. An
essential part of the prevailing orthodoxy, from the Right and the Left,
is that all human beings seek order so they can go about making and
trading stuff.

The data is now confirming that this is not reality. Humans have been
raiding and sacking one another since the dawn of man. More important,
humans with a genetic edge, some small advantage, like lactose
tolerance, were able to conquer the people around them and that meant
killing the men and raping the women. They did not just take over an
area and incorporate the people within it. The story of man is the
*replacement* of one people by a better people, better because they had
some edge rooted in their DNA.

There is another side to this. The demolition of “pots not people” as
the official narrative means the demolition of *homo economicus* too.
Humans are much more complex than the libertarians and so-called
conservatives would have us believe. It means defining man as “a
creature who seeks the greatest amount of wealth, with the least amount
of effort” was only, at best, a superficial observation in the moment.
Man is motivated by much deeper forces within his nature. One is his
biological desire to conquer those not like him.

Another one of those forces is a desire to understand his place in the
universe. It is increasingly clear that belief, which often manifests as
religion, is one of the earliest traits of modern humans. The research
at [Gobekli
Tepe](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/gobekli-tepe-the-worlds-first-temple-83613665/)
reveals that this complex set of structure pre-dates agriculture. In
fact, the archaeological record shows that settlement was the result of
a long evolutionary process, driven by shared interest and communal
identity, not rational self-interest. Selfish transactionalism is not
who we are.

The fact is who we are is who we believe we are. We define ourselves
within the bounds of biological reality. Much of what we have believed
about ourselves over the last century is turning out to be at odds with
that reality. Modern science may not be telling us who we are, but it is
surely telling us who we are not. We are not amorphous blobs that can be
shaped into anything, regardless of race. We are not transactional
economic units that exist merely to buy more stuff. We are not that. We
are not what modernity has said we are.

We are something else.
