---
title: "Hakuna Wakanda"
date: "2018-02-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12929"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12929"
---

If you were trying to reduce the main points of the Dissident Right with
a few bullet points, it would be:

-   The people in charge have dangerous fantasies about the future of
    society and the nature of man
-   The mass media is just propaganda for those fantasies and can never
    be taken at face value
-   Race is real, ethnicity is real and evolution is real. In the main,
    humans prefer to live with their own kind. Diversity leads to
    conflict.

There is a more to it, but those are the three main items that come up
over and over among writers in the Dissident Right. The people in
charge, of course, dispute these and consider them to be ignorant,
paranoid and immoral. Question the browning of America and you are a
dumb racist. Notice that mass media often looks like a coordinated
public relations campaign and you are branded as a paranoid. Of course,
anyone mentioning the realities of race and sex is the branded a Nazi or
white supremacist.

That’s what makes the run-up to the [most important movie
release](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/12/magazine/why-black-panther-is-a-defining-moment-for-black-america.html),
since Birth of a Nation, a bit comical from the perspective of someone
on our side of the river. All you have to do is look at the coverage on
TV and the internet and point two above is made manifest. The movie is
getting a near perfect score from reviewers and anyone not slobbering
over it is getting bullied by the media. The TV networks are carrying on
like Obama is going to come back for a third term. They were more
subdued in 2008 when Obama first won.

Most people get that our mass media is run by Progressive pitchmen for
the managerial state. For as long as anyone can remember, “liberal
media” has been a common phrase in America. What the Dissident Right has
introduced is the idea that the media is not just biased, it is a
coordinated effort to deceive. Thanks to the internet, it is much harder
to wave this off as paranoia. Black Panther has moved the level of
coordination from the shadows to center stage. [Movie reviews are now
regulated](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2305952/rotten-tomatoes-will-take-action-at-any-fake-black-panther-reviews)
to sell this black movie.

Of course, what the mass media is selling is the crackpot fantasy our
rulers have about a non-white future. It used to be they would finesse
this by arguing that race and ethnicity did not matter. With the right
policies, the swarthy hordes they were importing would be transformed
into middle-class burghers. They do not do that anymore. Instead, they
are frankly talking about the browning of America, by which they mean
the elimination of white people. The Black Panther movie is part of the
celebration of the end of whitey.

The black utopia that is Wakanda, the mythical state in the movie and
comic books, could never exist. If the white world suddenly stopped
[sending food aid to
Africa](http://www.fao.org/docrep/015/i2497e/i2497e00.pdf), famine would
set in within a month. The West sends about $50 Billion in aid to Africa
every year. That is the official amounts from governments. The billions
that flow in from charitable organizations is on top of that. A world
without white people means Africa experiences a mass starvation event,
followed by a mass die off. Africa could end up depopulated.

The underlying argument from our rulers is that Africa is a mess,
because of racism. The book [Why Nations
Fail](https://www.amazon.com/Why-Nations-Fail-Origins-Prosperity/dp/0307719227)
is the model for this argument. Whites destroyed the native African
institutions and left behind extractive ones. That is why Africa is a
mess. The reality is sub-Saharan Africans have an average IQ in the
low-80’s. [Eritrea](https://iq-research.info/en/page/average-iq-by-country/er-eritrea)
is the “smartest” country with an average IQ of 85. What that means is
most Africans are [borderline to mildly
retarded](http://paulcooijmans.com/intelligence/iq_ranges.html). The
reason Africa is not and never will be Wakanda is it is full of
Africans.

Now, you cannot fault blacks for celebrating this fictionalized black
homeland where they are at the top of the heap. The promotion of this
fantasy, however, makes the essential point of the Dissident Right.
Humans naturally want to reign supreme in their own domains, surrounded
by people that are like them. Wakanda would not resonate with black
people if the ruler were a guy named Maury Greenblatt and his minions
were all East Asians or Mexicans. Like everyone, blacks dream of a world
without diversity.

The over the top promotion of this black supremacist movie makes all the
main cultural arguments you hear on the Dissident Right. If it is OK for
blacks to dream of their own homeland, why cannot whites do the same? If
blacks would be better off without whites around, doesn’t the same hold
true for whites? If the natural order is for the races to be separate,
then why in the hell is diversity a good thing? If you were hoping
whites would become racially aware, the movie Black Panther is manna
from heaven,

A long time ago in another country, conservatives would blithely say
that the facts of life are conservative. It was a shorthand way of
pointing out that reality does not yield to wishful thinking. Just as
socialism and Marxism eventually buckled under the weight of the human
condition, the racial fantasies of our rulers will also crack under the
weight of biological reality. Like the last batch of utopian nutters,
the current group is fully capable of killing millions of people in an
effort to immanentize the eschaton.

Black Panther and the Progressive celebration of it is a good thing for
our side. It makes many of the big points our side rarely gets a chance
to make on the big stage. More important, it rips the mask off the Left.
What they think of you is now clear. Oddly, the future of white people
lies in Afrofuturism. The more the other side tells us what they dream
of when they sleep, the more white people wake up to the demographic
reality that is facing them. Black Panther is the ultimate Dissident
Right movie.
