---
title: "The Book Of Spite"
date: "2018-05-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13797"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13797"
---

I think the main reason for the popularity of Jonah Goldberg’s book
*Liberal Fascism* was the claim that the liberals were the real
fascists. The book itself was a bit of a slog and as <a
href="https://mises.org/library/liberal-fascism-secret-history-american-left-jonah-goldberg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">David Gordon noted</a>, it was riddled
with factual errors. I’m not an expert on historical fascism, so I did
not take the fast and loose treatment of the facts personally, but the
people who know the subject treated the book as an insult. Paul
Gottfried has never forgiven Jonah Goldberg.

When I saw that Jonah Goldberg’s [next
book](https://www.amazon.com/Suicide-West-Tribalism-Nationalism-Destroying-ebook/dp/B06WV9JQBT)
was titled *Suicide of the West* I was reminded of that reaction by the
old paleocons. The title is, of course, a deliberate reference to James
Burnham’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Suicide-West-Meaning-Destiny-Liberalism/dp/1594037833"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">classic</a> text. Then there is Patrick
Buchanan’s classic <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Suicide-Superpower-Will-America-Survive/dp/0312579977"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a>, *Suicide of a Superpower*. Of
course, it is also hints at Oswald Spengler’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Decline-West-Oxford-Paperbacks/dp/0195066340"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">classic</a> *The Decline of the West*.
For a neocon lightweight to pick such a title and topic, well, it
suggests it is another deliberate swipe at an old enemy.

To make matters worse, the entire tribe of neocon grifters have tumbled
out of their clown car to promote the book. David Brooks calls it “Epic
and debate-shifting.” Yuval Levin says, “More than any book published so
far in this century, it deserves to be called a conservative classic.”
The Weekly Standard treats it like a newly discovered part of the Torah.
I get how the commentary rackets work, but this degree of rumpswabbery
is unseemly.

That said, I decided to give the book a read and write a review, fully
expecting to use it as a segue into some points about Burnham, Buchanan,
and others. The rest of the book’s title sums up the neocon argument
against Trump. The rather mild pushback against cosmopolitan globalism
we have seen in the last two years has been treated like the end of the
world. My assumption going in was that it was going to be the long play
version of every Weekly Standard editorial since 2016.

I was wrong. This book is terrible in ways that I did not expect. The
terribleness starts in the introduction, which is written in the jocular
style you would expect from a short blog post about a television show or
a movie. In fact, he relies on quotes from movies to make his points.
When you pick up a book with the pretentious title *Suicide of the
West*, it better read like a serious book. Instead, Goldberg becomes
Shecky Goldberg doing a vaudeville routine based on Western philosophy.

The first clue that he is in over his head is the superficiality. The
introduction is a rambling and shallow discussion of religion and human
nature, which somehow veers into a discussion of the movie *The
Godfather*. When he gets into his discussion of human nature, it’s
obvious that he is way out of his depth, and he knows it. Frankly, it
reads like something submitted by a freshman coed. If he had dotted his
*i’s* with little hearts, it would have been more authentic.

The book is really three books. The first part is just rambling nonsense
about human nature that would embarrass anyone on our side of the great
divide. The second part is a grammar school social studies book. The
third part feels like it was written by a committee of people not on
speaking terms with one another. Big chunks of it undermine his main
thesis. Even accounting for my own deep skepticism about his motives, it
is a surprisingly weak argument.

Goldberg is a good example of the defects of the American commentariat.
There is an army of mediocrities, hired to sing the praises of the
managerial state, perched on media platforms in New York and Washington.
They are close to being an inherited class, a chattering aristocracy.
Many of them are handed titles like “senior fellow” or “scholar” by
think tanks, so they start thinking they are academics. Instead of
relying on people who know the material and reporting their arguments,
modern pundit pick up a few things and start thinking they are the
experts.

The other odd thing about the book is he tries to frame current events
as a war between populism and capitalism, nationalism, and democracy. He
makes no effort to explain how un-elected supranational organizations
are democratic or how global oligopolies are capitalistic. What it
reveals is the neocon ideology, whatever it was, is now just a defense
of soulless transactionalism and materialistic score keeping. American
society is just a deracinated collection of economic units.

In all candor, I found myself skimming about midway through it. I kept
wondering why he picked the title, given that his product falls far
short of his ambitions. Then I remembered the old paleocons and how they
responded to his first book. My hunch is he picked the title out of
spite and then started writing the book. At some point, he either got
lazy or realized he was in way over his head, so he reverted to goofy
pop culture references and superficial banter.

The result is a dull book by an equally dull writer.
