---
title: "The High Cost Of Cheap Labor"
date: "2018-07-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14539"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14539"
---

From time to time, the claim is made that we need to import indentured
servants from Asia, because the STEM fields are short of labor. This is
a variation of the old line about crops rotting in the fields for the
lack of stoop labor. The fact that no human living in America has ever
experienced a food shortage due to crops rotting in the fields
underscores the fact that these claims are nonsense. Indentured servants
from Asia are cheap and more important, the threat of them depresses
wages for American workers in the STEM jobs.

That is the cost of cheap labor that is easy to see. There are other
costs that are not so obvious. In the case of the tech fields,
indentured servants from Asia have had the perverse effect of
discouraging young Americans from going into these fields. When tech
firms started filling entry level jobs with foreign labor, they made the
field unattractive to young people, who correctly saw that jobs were
scarce and the ones available paid low wages. Young Americans were
advised to not go into technology, as a result.

Put another way, cheap foreign labor drove out domestic labor from these
entry level jobs, thus institutionalizing the use of indentured servants
in the low-level tech jobs. Slavery had the same effect where it was
practiced. In the case of tech, there is a social element involved. You
go to college in order to get a good job. That is a social definition
that goes beyond earnings. If your field requires you to work with
smelly South Asians for five years until you can be the supervisor of
smelly South Asians, that is viewed as a low-status field.

There has been another consequence of the use of indentured servants.
People think of tech as coding shops in Silicon Valley, but the vast
majority of American business relies on small local firms that bring a
combination of technical and business skills to their role as technology
consultants. The usual pattern is someone works as a programmer for a
developer and then goes out on his own as a consultant, supporting
clients that use the software that he worked on as a developer. He
becomes their part-time CTO.

The result of flooding the entry level jobs with  Asians on H1-B visas
has been a shortage of people in these higher end consulting and
development jobs. In many parts of the country, the shortage of people
with a mix of business and technology skills that can be used to solve
real world problems is acute. You can find plenty of pajeets, who can
write code but are useless at solving problems. Locating someone with
business and programming skills that can solve real problems is becoming
close to impossible.

At the other end of the labor market, the hidden cost of cheap labor has
created another problem. The landscaper hiring Mam-speaking tribesman
from Guatemala is no longer hiring teenagers on summer break. Retail
operators in vacation areas game the system and import Eastern Europeans
for service jobs. The availability of cheap foreign labor has made the
summer job a thing of the past. It used to be a part of growing up in
America, but now it is a rarity. Instead, foreigners do seasonal work.

In general, the part-time job and summer job was when a young person
started to learn how to be an adult. They had to show up on time and
learn how to get along with strangers. They had to learn how to put up
with a crappy boss and perform tasks that seemed stupid and pointless,
in order to get paid. They also learned the value of money and its
connection to labor. That first check, less taxes, was the great eye
opener for every young American. Today, they do not experience that
until adulthood.

There is another aspect to this. The summer job for boys was often
manual labor, like operating a rake or lawnmower for a landscaper. Maybe
it was as a laborer on a job site for a roofer or painter. It was there
that a young man got his first taste of being a man, because he was
around adult males in their natural habitat. A young man learned that
men are not as forgiving as mom and that you had to be earn respect.
Young males today do not experience this. Instead, they live like girls.

This is probably why millennials have such a terrible reputation. The
girls are spoiled brats, making crazy demands, while the boys are
hysterical sissies. One of the things employers will tell you on the
side is that they are careful about hiring millennials. They would
prefer to overpay for a semi-retired boomer than hire a petulant
man-child from the millennial generation. When a millennial takes over a
family business from a retiring parent, it is a good bet the company
will go through a rough transition.

Public policy is about trade-offs. The cost of cheap labor is not
limited to the direct cost to labor markets. There are hidden, long-term
social costs. The generations of young people warped by the consequences
of not working will show up in the culture long after Sanjay is back in
Bombay. What foreign labor does is monetize future social capital and
pull it forward. It is a form of debt creation, not a lot different than
eating the seed corn. Future social harmony is consumed today, with no
way to replace it.

 
