---
title: "Blade Runner 2.0"
date: "2018-02-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12922"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12922"
---

Often, how a movie is reviewed says more about the reviewers than the
movie itself. For example, the usual suspects are raving about
[Chocolate Charlie and the Wakanda
Factory](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/black_panther_2018/) for all
the obvious reasons. Rotten Tomatoes is literally enforcing a zero
tolerance rule for reviews. Love it or else. You can be sure every
reviewer will praise the movie as the next Star Wars, for fear of
reprisal. Everything around the movie appears to be designed to confirm
everything said about the modern age by the Dissident Right.

The new Blade Runner is not a social statement, but the reception does
say something about the people who love it. I am specifically talking
about the alt-right, [which has embraced the
movie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2ppA30jzOY). The film critics
generally liked it, because it is an extremely well done science fiction
movie that is made for adults. Most of what passes for sci-fi these days
is either made for kids, like Star Wars, or it is just not well done.
The new Blade Runner is an exception, so the reviewers seemed to like it
on artistic grounds.

Knowing that the alt-right embraced the movie, I watched it the other
night expecting to see some pro-white subliminal messaging, but it is
just a good movie. In fact, it is better than I expected, in terms of
the video presentation. Like everyone, I am conditioned to expect
whiz-bang special effects in everything now. The cool thing about this
movie is the special effects do not impress you so much as convince you.
The look and feel of the movie goers a long way toward transporting you
to this alternative reality.

Remakes, of course, are usually terrible. The filming is updated, the
story and characters are downgraded for stupid people. This is an
exception. It is a movie for people who like thinking about the meaning
of certain aspects of the story and discussing the overall significance
of the tale. The original Blade Runner was like that too. It was a plot
driven action story, but in the end, you thought about what Harrison
Ford’s character had gone through and what it meant. It was a movie
about what it meant to be human.

The remake is similarly a contemplation of what it is that makes us
human. Unlike the first one, this version operates under the assumption
that the audience is aware of the robot revolution going on just out of
sight. In the first movie, Harrison Ford was a human charged with
hunting replicants that had gone bad. In this one, Ryan Gosling is a
replicant, a new model, who is designed to hunt down defective
replicants. Like the first movie, this movie starts with our hero being
set off on journey that will reveal himself to himself.

The thing about this movie, something you only ever notice these days
when it is missing, is it is devoid of the sort of casual degeneracy we
always see in pop culture. There are no 20-minute, soft-core porn sex
scenes. There is no grand chase where half the world explodes. That is
the thing about modern movies. They rarely treat the audience like an
adult. It is assumed that everything has to be explained, the ending
must be positive and, like horny teenagers, the audience demands
extended sex scenes set to bad music.

That does not mean it is not a modern film. The original Blade Runner
would not hold a modern audience, because of the slow pace and lack of
plot spoilers. This film makes sure to keep the story moving. That is to
be expected. In this age, all of us have lower attention spans, mostly
due to being bombarded by mass media. No one these days has the patience
to let a story unfold. The new Blade Runner does just enough to keep an
adult audience, with a three-digit IQ, interested in what is happening
on screen.

Now, the reason the movie is popular with the alt-right. It is entirely
possible, if you are a young person seeing this film, that it is the
first movie you have seen that is not overtly anti-white. Older people
remember when movies were made to be good and would avoid celebrating
multiculturalism. This movie does exactly that. It has white men acting
like white men, not foils for the magic negro or as sidekick to the
female star. In fact, the only black guy in the movie is a minor
character who has a small role in the story.

The other big reason the movie is popular with the alt-right is the
central message of the movie. If you hate spoilers, then look away at
this point. The thing our hero in the movie learns is that being human
is about making copies of yourself with another human. It is not what
you do or how you feel. It is that ability to make more people who look
like you that makes you human. Not even God can do that, or at least the
character who imagines himself as God in the film. It also means you are
who made you. That is your identity.

That is also what makes it work as a great sci-fi movie. This central
question that gets resolved in the film is not in your face. Most movies
with a message beat the audience over the head. That is bad film making.
Blade Runner lets you enjoy the story arc of the characters and when you
get to that final denouement, it all makes sense. It is not perfect and
I think the ending could have been much better, but you do not come away
feeling like you just spent two hours in diversity training either. It
is a well told story.

One final thought on the alt-right angle. I have written before that
[the alt-right are romantics](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12154),
but updated for the current age. Theirs is not a nostalgia for a
forgotten era or just a rejection of the sterile, materialistic present.
There is some of that, but it is more of a nostalgia for a future that
will never come. There is a temporal disjunction in the way the
alt-right frames the world. They talk about the 1950’s, for example, not
as an ideal, but as the start of a descent down the wrong path that has
led to this bad current.

In Blade Runner, that aesthetic is on display. The movie picks up where
the old one left off and imagines how that world evolved. You get the
sense that everyone in the movie wished the past had never happened,
which is why the replicants are implanted with fake memories of a past
that never happened. The movie seems to say that what happened was
terrible and what comes next is not good either, but the green shoot,
the bit of hope, is that fact that our people can make more copies of
ourselves and make a different future.
