---
title: "The Coming Crisis"
date: "2018-12-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15841"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15841"
---

In a crisis, people either turn to their institutions or they turn to
their leaders to provide a path forward through the emergency. This is
especially true when the path forward is waiting out the emergency.
People respect action, so they must have faith in their leaders if the
right course is patience.Â Alternatively, if the leaders and institutions
are not up to the task, then the people turn on each other. The French
Revolution is the perfect example of what happens when leaders and
institutions fail in a crisis.

It has been a long time since American faced a real crisis. The closest
we came to anything major was the financial crisis a decade ago. For
people foolish enough to take on the crazy mortgages, it was a very real
emergency, but for most people it was more of an abstraction than a real
crisis. Unemployment ticked up and the stock market took a header, but
it was not the Great Depression. There was a concern, for sure, that the
wheels were about to come off the cart, but it never materialized.

Of course, one could say that the leaders and institutions stepped in
and guided the country through the crisis. People tend not to think of
the Federal Reserve as an essential institution, but it is probably the
most important part of government now. The head of the central bank is
every bit as important as the President. In fact, he may be more
important, as we saw with Greenspan and George Bush. An overly tight
monetary policy led to a slight downturn in the economy at just the
right time to sink the Bush election bid.

In 2008, the world was lucky to have a Fed chairman, who had prepared
his whole life for such an event, and a very weak political class. Bush
was near the end of his reign, and no one thought much of him anyway.
Congress has not had much credibility in decades, so they could not
cause too much trouble. Bernake was given the room to do what had to be
done to stabilize the financial system. People can argue about the
solution and various alternatives, but the Fed did provide a peaceful
path forward.

The world was lucky in another way. The public was still confident in
the system, even though they may not have liked many of the people in
it. George Bush was down in the polls, because of the Iraq war, but
people still trusted he was a good guy. The restoration of public trust
during the Reagan years still cast a shadow over the Bush years. Even
though Clinton had been a degenerate and Bush was an incompetent, people
still thought the system was fine. They could trust the system.

That brings us to the present. Half the country voted for Trump and
increasingly blames the system for blocking his efforts. The other half
voted against him and increasingly suspects [he is
punishment](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-6505781/Alec-Baldwin-tweets-Trump-punishment-slavery.html)
for a broken system. The political class is at war with itself, as it
grapples with the fact it no longer commands respect. Then there is the
hidden war between the semi-permanent administrative state and the
reformers in the White House and Congress. Right now, the people and
institutions are not very stable.

That is what makes the rumblings from the financial system ominous. Wall
Street is not Main Street, so a yearlong bear market should not be
overstated. The old line about the markets being predictive is nonsense.
If people could see the future, there would be no stock market. The US
markets went on a crazy upward run and may simply be going through a
correction. Still, [the housing market is heading into a
recession](https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2018-12-16/residents-should-not-panic-thousands-las-vegas-homes-get-zero-offers-november)
and the economy is showing signs of a slowdown, if not a recession.

None of this is cause for alarm, but what if the long-prophesied
collapse of the credit system is a lot closer than we know? A lot of
smart people said that 2008 was one of those tremors that precedes a
major earthquake. Maybe what we have been experiencing is something like
the [Long Depression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long_Depression),
which ran in fits and starts for two decades. The last few years have
simply been a respite, and we are about to have another serious downturn
or even a panic. Will the leaders and institutions hold up?

In other words, the economic pendulum swings back and forth. That is the
lesson of economic history. The salient question is whether the
political institutions and the leaders can hold up as the pendulum
swings. In the 19th century, Europe was convulsed with civil unrest and
war as the Industrial revolution blasted through traditional
institutions. In the US, the post-Civil War period was relatively calm,
even though the same forces were at work. The institutions and leaders
held up.

Again, we really do not know if the current system and the people in it
could hold up under a real crisis. Maybe the 2008 crisis can be read as
proof that the system is better than the people in it. Maybe the lessons
learned from it have made the system even stronger. On the other hand,
maybe the system held up because of residual stability that has now
dissipated. That is increasingly obvious with regards to public trust.
It is much lower today than it was a decade ago. Maybe the same is true
of the internal stability.

The thing is though, there are a lot of signs that the people at the
very top of the global system are [slowly rearranging the
board](https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2018-12-17/foreigners-dump-us-treasuries-they-liquidate-record-amount-us-stocks).
For a long time, America could count on the dollar as the world reserve
currency and, more important, a hungry market for US Treasuries. The
system built by the American empire relies on credit to operate and the
reserve credit of the world is US debt. If there is even a hint of that
changing, the great crisis will be upon us. Will those institutions and
people hold up?
