---
title: "Compassionate Racism"
date: "2018-03-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13182"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13182"
---

Imagine if science stumbled upon a set of genes that are almost always
present in the criminal population. After testing thousands of
prisoners, they find a set of genes in more than 90% of them. In the
rest of the population, the genes appear almost only in those who have a
criminal record. In other words, the correlation between the presence of
these genes and criminality is so high, there has to be a relationship.
That would be an enormous breakthrough and lead to a rethinking of
criminal justice in the West.

Now, we know the racial makeup of the prison population. We know blacks
commit an enormous amount of crime relative to other races. The likely
result of that genetic breakthrough would be the end of [nonsense like
this](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/bill-quigley/40-reasons-why-our-jails-are-full-of-black-and-poor-people_b_7492902.html).
The debate over black crime would quickly move from magic spells and
evil spirits to biology. Crime would be a biological thing, not a moral
thing. The question facing public policy makers would be how to use this
information to reduce crime.

Now, this is unlikely to happen, but it is a useful way to think about
how reality can be useful in forming public policy. In the fanciful
example above, the result would be changes in how we view crime. Just as
people have to accept the fact homosexuals cannot help themselves, that
they are driven by biology, people would come to accept that some people
are born bad. The difference would be that efforts to address this
genetic “defect” would seem completely moral.

Compassion does not have a universal and timeless definition. A century
ago, the compassionate response to poverty was discipline from the upper
classes, along with highly conditional charity. Even New Dealers thought
paying people to loaf around was monstrously immoral. Today, asking a
man to work for his gourmet coffee and Xbox subscription is considered
heartless. Public morality changes and it usually changes in response to
new generations.

The reason America has urban reservations full of black people is the
rich people ran out of ways to fix things like black crime and poverty.
They simply got tired of shoveling the sand of egalitarianism, against
the tide of biological reality. The great cultural revolution that
started in the middle of the last century was not the liberation of
blacks and women, as is always claimed. It was the liberation of rich
people from their duties to the lower classes and society as a whole.

Slowly but surely, reality is creeping back into view. There’s a reason
that [columns like this
one](https://www.theguardian.com/news/2018/mar/02/the-unwelcome-revival-of-race-science?CMP=share_btn_tw)
are written by people with no math or science. Gavin Evans is an aging
cleric for a church with empty pews. No serious person embraces the
blank slate, even though it remains taboo to discuss in public the
realities of biology. In fact, the shrillness of the vinegar drinking
scolds is entirely due to the fact they are on the wane. They have to
shriek in order to get attention.

[Stories like
this](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/2018/03/12/dna-tests-can-predict-intelligence-scientists-show-first-time/)
are becoming more common and as such people are increasingly comfortable
with biological explanations to social phenomenon. Progressives still
recoil in horror at the mention of science. The actuarial tables are not
on the side of biology deniers. The younger generations are increasingly
comfortable with genetic and statistical reality and that means the
ruling class will become increasingly comfortable talking about public
policy based on reality.

This does not mean that the ruling class is going to suddenly swing in
the direction of race realism. That is not how culture changes. Instead,
morality moves like an infectious disease. A new challenge to an old
moral code spreads slowly at first and then reaches critical mass.
Similarly, the antibodies react in a defensive effort to ward off the
new challenge. Right now, science is viewed as a mortal threat by the
Progressive host, so their reaction is extreme. That means ruining
careers as a way to scare dissenters.

In time though, the new generation takes up their positions and they
have adapted to the new morality. All the boys are girls following
sportsball through statistics and figuring out how to sell more stuff to
left-handed cross-dressers on-line will have no problem thinking about
crime as a biology problem. Using mouth swabs to determine that little
Jamaal has less than 2% chance of going to college will sound smart.
Designing an education system for little Jamaal so he can be a warehouse
worker will be compassionate.

Ultimately, it will be compassionate, relative to the benign neglect we
see today. Take a ghetto tour through a place like Baltimore and you see
a world that should never exist in a Western country. Less than a long
lifetime ago, it did not exist. It was not allowed to exist by the
people in charge. The black ghetto is loud, chaotic and sadder than
anything you will see in modern America. It should never have been
allowed to get this way and it should not be allowed to persist. It will
never be *fixed*, but it can be better.

The only way it gets better is to start where this post started –
biology. Poor people of all races are poor because they make bad
decisions, they have poor impulse control and they have lower IQ’s than
the rest of the population. You cannot fix nature, but you can put
structure around it to mitigate it. Poor people, especially poor black
people, need rules, not choices. Allowing people to suffer at their own
hands is no more compassionate than allowing a depressed person to jump
off a bridge. It is indifference, not compassion.

Once you accept the fact that biology is real, things like mandatory
birth control for poor people on government assistance makes a lot more
sense. Shaniqua cannot figure out that she should not have ten babies.
She lacks the intelligence to think through these things. She can figure
out that getting her EBT card charged up means not getting pregnant, so
she will willingly sign off on Norplant. By the morality of the legacy
generation, which seems monstrous. To the morality of the next
generation, which will be the height of compassion.

Similarly, “fixing the schools” will always be an easy racket for
grifters, but in a world of biological realism, it will be impossible to
pretend that Jonquarius will one day be a computer programmer. The
education reform of tomorrow will be about training 85-IQ blacks how to
do something useful and avoid the obvious pitfalls of life. More
important, no one is going to be deluded into thinking the black
underclass will join the middle class. It is that compassionate racism
will set different objectives for the moral reformer.
