---
title: "The Warning Signs"
date: "2018-08-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14823"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14823"
---

An axiom of this age is that the Left always projects onto others the
things that it is either doing or planning to do. A good rule is to
listen to what they are saying, assume the opposite, and then try to
piece together what they are doing. It is the [Opposite Rule of
Liberalism](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561) and it is an iron law
of modern life. An obvious example is their howling about election
interference. As soon as they started howling about Trump colluding with
the Russians, you knew that it was the Left colluding with someone to
rig the election.

This is due to something Eric Hoffer noticed about people who join
causes. The fanatic is driven by self-loathing. They are attracted to
causes, because it allows them to swap their hated identity with that of
the group. It is also why they tend to jump from cause to cause, often
contradicting previous opinions. Progressivism is a secular religion
that is really just a dog’s breakfast of causes. Today it is all about
trannies, non-whites, and the never-ending vagina monologue from white
women, held together by a hatred of white men.

The point is that you can often get a sense of what the Left is up to by
watching where they are casting the accusatory eye. That’s why [this
story](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/11/technology/youtube-fake-view-sellers.html)
is interesting. Fake twitter followers are a well know phenomenon. It is
fairly obvious that many B and C level media personalities buy twitter
followers. It would not be shocking to learn that lefty sites like the
Daily Beast and Estrogen Post buy followers for their contributors. Are
there really close to one hundred thousand people following [this
person](https://twitter.com/aterkel)? Seems unlikely.

Anyway, the fact that the NYTimes is focusing on fake YouTube views when
their cult is waging an all-out assault on dissidents on-line, probably
means that the view counts for lefty YouTube stars are fake. Just how
fake is hard to know but given the “by any means necessary” attitude of
the Left, there is no reason to think they would be restrained. Keep in
mind that the [NYTimes was buying traffic from Chinese click
farms](https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2017-02-09/fake-newsflow-are-ny-times-guardian-and-wapo-buying-clicks-china-jumps-trickle-half-)
around the same time they started reporting on the phenomenon of fake
followers in twitter.

Perhaps more ominously, [this
post](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/22/opinion/congress-trump-corruption.html)
from the Carlos Slim Journal, demanding Trump be dragged from office and
hanged in Lafayette Park suggests the Left’s war on civilization is just
getting started. Most people will focus on the rank hypocrisy and
dishonesty, but the real focus should be the warning. The Left organized
a wide scale conspiracy to rig the last election. The FBI and DOJ are
currently running a wide scale conspiracy to hide their ongoing efforts
to remove Trump from office and stonewall Congress.

As much as our side jokes around about Pinochet, it is the Left that may
be plotting a coup in order to install an authoritarian government. Just
look at the organized effort to ban people from the financial system.
David Horowitz has just been [un-personed by MasterCard and
Visa](https://twitter.com/horowitz39/status/1032333227552202752). In the
modern age, if you want to wage a civil war, gaining control of the
banking system is the first step. Then you take over the internet.
Without money or a means to reach a mass audience, fighting back in a
civilized way is impossible.

That last bit is important. Most people are willing to fight the good
fight until it means coloring outside the lines. That is the water’s
edge for most of the people the Left sees as their enemy. It is why the
Left is always trying to provoke or invent a backlash. It provides them
with cover to scare the normies and use any means necessary to “defend
our democracy!” As is always the case, the Left seeks to turn
civilization’s virtues into vices they can exploit to undermine society.
Your reasonableness is their best weapon.

The thing to understand with the Left is that they are reactionary. Team
Obama produced the scheme to rig the last election and when this became
apparent to Team Clinton, they reacted by howling about “Russian
hacking.” In other words, they immediately began to project their own
hated activities onto others. Remember that it was the Left that started
the Fake News idea, only to have people point out that the lefty news
organs were nothing but fake news. The same was true of the AstroTurf
chants over the Tea Party.

What all of this most likely means is that the Democrats are quietly
working on their plans to impeach Trump as soon as they gain control of
the House this fall. They have upped Pelosi’s Thorazine dosage so she
does not blab about it during interviews, but the Left can’t help but
get ahead of themselves, hence [the NYTimes
post](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/22/opinion/congress-trump-corruption.html).
The plan is to impeach Trump in 2019 and then count on the NeverTrump
loons in the GOP to join in and force the Senate to remove him. Given
the nature of the GOP, this is a good bet.

This is a bit of a meandering post, but the basic point is that it is a
mistake to take the Left’s chanting at face value. It is not just that
they lie. Ideologues always lie. It is that they are psychologically
incapable of concealing their actions. Again, that old self-hatred gets
the better of them and they start dropping hints via projection. For two
years now, the Left has been trying to convince us that Trump is a
dictator, who plots with foreign agents to “harm our democracy.”  That
should be read as a warning about what comes next.

That is what puts the Left’s howling about a civil war in perspective.
They have been waging a civil war on the rest of us for a couple of
years. They have normalized the idea of using public companies to strip
people of their right to participate in public debate. They have
normalized the idea of stripping people of employment due to their
politics. They are now the [proscribing
people](https://vdare.com/articles/trump-caves-to-enemy-of-the-people-time-to-show-loyalty-to-those-loyal-to-him)
because they hold the wrong opinions. Banning people from using
breathing is next. The only thing missing is a coup and a dictator.
