---
title: "How Long?"
date: "2018-02-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12964"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12964"
---

There are two rules of modern life, with regards to public debate. One
is the [Opposite Rule of
Liberalism](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561). Whatever the Left is
howling about at the moment, imagine the opposite and you are probably
getting closer to the truth. The other rule is that the cops rarely
arrest a first time offender. Usually, someone caught in some sort of
skullduggery has been at it for a long time. The law of averages simply
caught up with them and he was arrested for the first time.

The first rule is an easy one, as we see with the FBI corruption case.
Progressive fanatics accused the Trump people of colluding with Russia
to undermine the election, but it looks like it was the Democrats who
were doing deals with foreigners in an effort to subvert the election.
It’s hard to know if this is just a very elaborate cover for the Uranium
One deal or simple sedition, but the FBI,
[CIA](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/09/us/politics/us-cyberweapons-russia-trump.html)
and at least one Democrat Congressman were willing to cut deals with the
Russians.

The second rule is now central. What is clear at this point in the FBI
scandal is that Comey, McCabe, Strzok and Page were dirty. They cooked
up a scheme to game the FISA court, so they could spy on Trump and his
people. What is unknown is the complete narrative and the role of each
player in the scheme. Another thing that is clear is they were
exceedingly cavalier about what they were doing. Their recklessness is
astonishing for people in their world.

Maybe they were just true believers who became increasingly berserk with
passion for the task. Despite their titles, these people are career
middle managers and this was their first taste of real action. On the
other hand, the image that emerges from the texts between Strzok and
Page suggests they did not see this caper as that big of a deal. There
is no trace of a guilty mind. Instead, even in their cover-up efforts,
you see just the bureaucrat’s concern for petty office politics.

Then there is the General Flynn issue. The whole case has been weird
from the start, as Flynn is a guy thought to be a straight shooter. Yet,
he gets charged with lying to the FBI, over something innocuous. Now we
are are learning [the FBI and possibly Robert Mueller sandbagged
Flynn](http://thefederalist.com/2018/02/19/michael-flynns-plea-reversal-uncover-federal-corruption/),
using fake FBI records to compel a guilty plea. This “new information”
used by the Federal judge does not appear to have come from Mueller, but
rather the Inspector General.

Even if Mueller is just a dupe, and that seems increasingly implausible,
it means he staffed his team with dirty cops from the FBI. It also means
he staffed his team with dirty lawyers and political hacks from the
former administration. After all, those lawyers had to be aware of what
the FBI was doing to entrap Flynn. The picture emerging here is of an
FBI and a DOJ stocked to the gills with people who struggle to
understand the difference between a lie and the truth.

That brings us to the title of this post. How long has this sort of
thing been going on and what other scandals are there? We know the Obama
administration weaponized the IRS in an elaborate scheme to undermine
Republican groups. We also know the whole thing was broomed by the FBI
and DOJ. Knowing that those two organizations have been corrupt for a
long time now puts the IRS scandal in a new light. What we may have seen
was a cover-up in plain sight.

What about the 2012 election? We know that Team Obama was nervous about
re-election after the debacle of the 2010 midterms. There were meetings
immediately after to figure out how to get Obama a second term. One
result was the overt use of the race card that eventually led to the
plague of murders carried out by black lunatics, under the banner Black
Lives Matter. How do we know the Feds were not also playing games with
Team Romney. Maybe that [computer
crash](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2012/11/inside-team-romneys-whale-of-an-it-meltdown/)
was not just bad design.

Then there is the one story that has never made any sense. That is the
case of Judge Roberts reversing course in the ObamaCare decision. He
writes an opinion striking down the individual mandate, circulates it
around and then suddenly changes course and supports the mandate. It was
a such a bizarre turn of events that the dissent just used his brief as
the basis of the dissenting opinion. People who investigate blackmail
and extortion schemes look for these sorts of anomalous changes in
behavior.

One of the lessons of Watergate is that the sort of shenanigans the
Nixon people were doing had become so commonplace, they were getting
reckless and brazen. The Kennedy clan loved wiretapping opponents.
Hoover, of course, was basically the official blackmailer of Washington.
The brazen disregard for law and order by the Obama people and the
Clinton people suggests a culture of corruption that started long before
Strzok and Page decided to become the Bonnie and Clyde of the FBI.

What was needed after the election was a truth a reconciliation
commission. The point of this commission would be to clear the air.
Everyone in the government class would have a chance to come forward and
admit to their crimes, in order to receive a pardon for those crimes. It
would allow the public to finally see the full scope of the corruption
and begin the public debate over how to reform a very corrupt political
class. That is looking like a good idea now.
