---
title: "The Wisdom Of The Ad Men"
date: "2018-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15188"
---

Last night I watched an NFL football game for the first time in so long
I do not recall the last time I watched a full game. I did watch a game
this year on Balkan television. It may have been in Bulgarian or
possibly Croatian. I do not speak either language, I just knew it was a
feed from a Balkan country. It was entertaining for the short time I
watched, mostly for the commercials. From what I could tell, the people
in the Balkans who watch American football really enjoy casino gambling
and drinking.

It used to be that you could tell a lot about the audience for a show or
time slot by watching the commercials. After all, the people buying ad
time want to market to the demographic that will buy their product.
Years ago, when I was between jobs, I found myself staying up late and I
noticed the ads were mostly for products popular with senior citizens. I
discovered that retired people often keep odd hours. If you do not have
a reason to get up early, you have no reason to go to bed early.

The ad last night that got me thinking about this was a DirecTV spot
where two little Aztecs are running a lemonade stand. What looked like a
Hispanic woman walks up and asked for a cup of lemonade. The mother of
the Aztecs jumps in and gives the woman all the lemonade. The scene
flips to the mother and her children in Raider gear on the couch
cheering a football game. Apparently, the people of DirecTV think the
audience for NFL games is single Aztec mothers.

The ad that almost had me turning it off and picking a different topic
for the post today was one for an NBC TV show. This was for a show
called SUV and it appears to feature screeching middle aged hens. In the
episode they were hyping, the hens were about to arrest a government
official for kidnapping migrant children on the border. Yeah, these
lunatics really believe that stuff. What are the odds that screeching
harpies are watching football? Obviously, it is just agit-prop.

Most have figured out that commercials are just as much about selling
the antiwhite as about selling product. In fact, many of the ads are
just propaganda. There was an ad for American Express featuring two gay
guys playing house. A BMW ad had a short clip of couples kissing and one
of the couples was two hairy guys. The people creating these ads
certainly know that the viewers find this stuff revolting, but they do
it anyway, because they hate you.

On the other hand, I noticed something strange in the car ads. There
were high production ads for BMW, Mercedes, and the new Audi A7. An NFL
audience seems like an unlikely place for selling luxury German sedans.
You cannot walk out of a Mercedes dealership without spending sixty
grand on a car they use for taxis in Europe. The Audi they were hyping
starts at seventy grand. I am sure some luxury car owners love football,
but my bet is most fans like pickup trucks more.

The thing is though, those ads were early in the game, but then they
gave way to the ads for the networks degenerate programming and then
later to ads for domestic cars and fast-food products. Maybe the
agit-prop makers have learned that upscale people will watch a little of
the game then move on so they beam ads at the cackling hen demo early
and then they switch over to the core audience. After all, lots of
middle aged single white women pretend to love football and motorcycles.

The hilarious part was the halftime show. It featured the dream team of
three well-spoken black guys. You can be sure that the audience for Ben
Shapiro was trying to get selfies of themselves in front of the TV
screen during halftime. That is where you see the genius of the
marketing men. Whites in America are like trained seals when it comes to
the heroic black guy. It is why Candace Owens will become very rich
simply by tweeting about how much she loves Donald Trump.

Another funny thing you see in the ads is the tech companies have the
super smart black guy as the spokesman. You would think they would go
with an East Asian or a South Asian, since most people are used to those
guys. Instead, it is the sort of black guy no one has ever seen on
earth. He is a bookish looking mulatto, who is glib and confident.
Sightings of Big Foot are more common than black guys running IT
departments and far more plausible.

It is tempting, of course, to say that it is just another example of how
out of touch the Cloud People are about who is watching television. The
reality is though, the ad men know their audience. Whites in America are
fully immersed in anti-white hatred. In fact, it is the civic religion
of white people now. It is the reason they gobble up shows featuring
blacks in traditional white roles. Most white people think the glorious
future will not include them because it should not include them.

It is why howling about the volcano demon is counterproductive. The
response from white person is to bark out some version of “what about
Ben Shapiro.” He is popular for the same reason ads with race mixers are
popular. You cannot change those minds by confirming what they have been
trained to believe. The game is to sow doubt and confusion about the
joys of diversity into the minds of the typical white person, getting
him to question why he feels good about seeing those ads on TV.

That is the thing you see with these ads. The first task of the ad maker
is to create a positive image. The happy black man with the white wife
and caramel-colored kids, juxtaposed to the gloomy old white guy is not
going to sell the gloomy old white guys in the audience, but it will
sell the white women. People on our side need to come to terms with the
fact that reason is never a winning approach. No one has ever been
talked out of their religion. They have a crisis, lose faith, and then
find something else.
