---
title: "Request For Failure"
date: "2018-11-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15522"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15522"
---

I was out with a former co-worker and he had with him an RFP, which
stands for a “Request For Proposal.” When we worked together, handling
RFPs was a regular part of the job. In other parts of my work career, I
was on the other end, helping craft these things. As a result, I have
had the misfortune of having read hundreds, maybe thousands of these
documents. After a while, you lose track. As is the case with most of
them, this one was poorly written, with some hilarious errors and
omissions.

For those unfamiliar with the RFP, which is sometimes called a *request
for quote* or even a *request for information*, it is a document
companies produce when they wish to buy a capital product or service. In
theory, the document describes the item or service, the conditions that
must be met to be considered and the process by which the company
intends to evaluate potential vendors. These are popular in government
and large corporate environments. [Here is a useful
overview](https://tenderspage.com/everything-need-know-rfp-process/) for
those interested.

Not having had to field one of these for a while, I’d forgotten just how
dumb it is to try and do business via this process. If an organization
or government is buying a well-defined product or a commodity item, it
makes sense, but for something like a complex service, then it is a
recipe for failure. Even in the case of well-defined items like a
machine tool, I have seen RFP’s that appear to be written by enemies of
the issuing company. The people creating the document use it to impress
their boss, rather than make a sound purchase.

In the case of the one my buddy had with him, it was missing key
information, like what it is the company does and why it is they are
buying the service. Worse yet, it was written by a consultant. Even
after having been away from this stuff for a long time, I can spot the
greasy fingerprints of the consultant. Every industry has these
creatures, and they are always the same. I am probably being unfair, as
I am sure there are some who are honest and conscientious, but most are
just grifters, who prey on the stupid.

Anyway, we started talking about why this stupid way of buying stuff
persists, despite the fact that it often ends in tears. You do not have
to be in the business world very long to notice that good companies have
strong relationships with both their customers and vendors. They
cultivate their vendor relationships, just as they cultivate their
customer relationships. They train their vendors to be conscientious and
to think of themselves as partners in the enterprise. That way, the
vendor becomes an asset to the business.

I think if I were going to write a business book on how to buy stuff,
the first rule I’d have is never use an RFP. The second rule I’d have is
make sure to visit the vendor’s facility and ask for the nickel tour
before making a purchase. If they have a business culture that fits your
business culture, or even better, one you strive to cultivate, then you
will have a good working relationship with that vendor. If on the other
hand, the vendor is running a sweatshop where the employees are
miserable, that will show up in their service.

Another thing that I have seen often, and it always shows up in RFPs for
a service, is that the prospective customer starts off by lying to the
prospective vendors. It is the strangest thing, but I have seen it a
lot. For example, salesmen are often trained to ask about a budget for
the project. That way, they can gauge how serious the prospect is about
actually doing the deal. Countless times, I have seen companies lie
about their budget or simply refusing to disclose it. The result is they
waste everyone’s time, including their own.

Similarly, salesmen are trained to find the motivators. If a company is
buying a new five axis machine for their manufacturing facility, they
are expecting to spend a lot of money for the machine and the training.
They are not doing this on a whim. They have identified a serious
problem or a serious opportunity. As a result, they are willing to
invest a lot of money to address it. That is important information that
will help get the right machine and vendor, but the company will often
hide that from the vendor, like it is a state secret.

Back to the book idea, the third and fourth rule for buying any
big-ticket item would be to quantify the return on investment and set a
budget. Make that part of the purchasing narrative by disclosing it to
the pool of vendors. Most likely, the guy you select will look at your
reasoning and find additional opportunities for you to turn the purchase
into an investment. Again, this is something I always see successful
companies do for themselves and for their clients. It is why they
attract strong people and vendors.

The other thing that always turns up in RFP’s is the underlying
assumption that the person who wrote the thing is a genius. The
specifications will be hilariously narrow, which results in the request
being for an exact copy of what they have now, but newer. My suspicion
has been that there is a correlation between the level of specificity
and the lack of understanding of the problem to be solved by the
purchase. Smart companies buy products and services to solve problems.
Stupid companies tick boxes on forms.

Again, this circles back to cultivating relationships with vendors. The
RFP that spawned this post was obviously the result of some serious
business problems the company needs to solve. The trouble is that the
RFP so thoroughly obscures it, no vendor will be able to identify the
problem, so they will not be able to solve it. Instead, they will answer
the RFP in a way they think gets them into the next round. In other
words, the purchasing process moves from problem solving to a
long-drawn-out game of liar’s poker.

That would be another chapter in my book on buying stuff. This applies
to every aspect of life, not just business. If you have a problem to
solve, make that the starting point for proposals. Unless you have a
monopoly or an exotic niche, you have competitors who are solving the
same problems. One of them may have come up with a great solution and
his vendor may be willing to sell that idea to you. Even better, the
competitor of that vendor may have an even better solution. Smart people
spend money to solve problems.

 
