---
title: "Never Newark Nights"
date: "2018-06-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14045"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14045"
---

I cut out of my meeting a bit early, so I could catch the train into
Manhattan. I had never been inside Newark Penn Station. I was not
entirely sure how to get to it, so I left some extra time to feel my way
through. For some reason, I never do well in big metropolitan transit
systems. It is not a thing that comes naturally to me. Since I was
expected to meet John Derbyshire on 34th Street at 6:30, I gave myself
an extra forty minutes. Unless I ended up in Trenton, that would be
enough time to correct any mistakes.

I worried for nothing. Penn Station was a ten-minute walk and despite
the near total lack of signage inside the place, I figured out the
correct track for the train into the city. For some reason no one asked
me for a ticket, so I could have ridden the rails like a hobo into
Manhattan, but I was happy to pay the $5.40 fare. The trains run every
few minutes and it only takes 20 minutes to get into New York Penn
Station. I had more trouble getting street side in New York than I did
navigating the New Jersey transit system.

If one wants to understand why city dwellers have a peculiarly statist
politics, spend time in a big city subway system. For the people in the
city, government services are essential for living. They depend on the
subway, the trash collection, and the police department. The city
depends upon this organic relationship between the state and the
citizens. That does not exist in the suburbs or the country. There is a
comfort that comes from the daily interaction with the state. Anyone who
questions that relationship is suspect.

It has been a few years since I was in Manhattan, so I needed a minute
to get used to the rush of the city. In that part of the town, the
sidewalks are a crush of worker bees heading home or headed to dinner,
along with the summertime tourists. That makes for a carnival vibe,
except no one is having a good time. I had some time to kill, so I went
to Starbucks to use the bathroom, but it was locked. I went to a bar and
had a beer, while listening to three large Dominican women loudly
complain about the lack of men in their lives.

I met John Derbyshire just outside the entrance to the Long Island
Railroad station and he recommended we head over to a place called the
Tick Tock Diner a block away. I must admit, I have met John several
times now and socialized with him at events, but I am still a bit
intimidated by it all. I am getting used to the reality of what I am
doing here, but there will always be a sense that I am playing way above
my league. I am grateful that he invited me out and took the long trip
in from his estates on Long Island to have dinner with me.

Of course, I am the worst possible dinner guest. I started talking about
thirty seconds after we sat down, and I did not shut up until we parted.
I can and will dominate a conversation if you let me. Worse yet, I have
no filter, so I will ramble on about the many eccentric ideas and
interests in my head. When I explained to John my idea of creating a new
moral philosophy based on a rational understanding of human nature, a
refutation of the Enlightenment, he had the look of a man suddenly
finding himself with a lunatic.

Luckily, John is a very gracious dinner companion, so he was not only
willing to let me ramble on for hours, but he also picked up the check.
When I let him get a word in edgewise, he mentioned that he was
recording his novel into an audiobook, He is about halfway through the
process. If you can’t wait for the spoken word version, you can buy it
[here](https://www.amazon.com/Fire-Sun-John-Derbyshire-ebook/dp/B00785HJSQ/).
For those new to all of this, his book [We are
Doomed](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409597/)
is a good place to start understanding the roots of the Dissident Right.
John is the man who coined the term Dissident Right.

After talking his ear off, we parted company and I headed down to Penn
Station, wondering if I would get on the right train. The thing that
struck me about the area around the station was just how nice it was
compared to Newark and Baltimore. New York is now a middle-class city,
in that the people, for the most part, are urbanites with bourgeoisie
sensibilities. It is not a city of gritty neighborhoods run by ethnic
coalitions. It is a place for the ruling class, the young strivers of
the managerial class and their non-white servants.

The train ride back was uneventful, but it did offer one glimpse of the
past. Two guys with Knicks jerseys were sitting up front, drinking tall
boys out of paper bags, while talking loudly about something. A black
guy was walking up and down the car reciting street poetry about his
love for the baby Jesus. He was panhandling, but willing to work for it.
I did not give him any money, but I appreciated the effort. These were
the kind of people you expected to see on trains and subways, but they
are being gentrified away too.

Back in Newark, the area around Penn Station is slated for major
development, but now it is mostly abandoned. I saw signs for a condo
complex and it looks like they are building several of them. The hockey
arena is there, along with the Prudential building, but I saw zero
people in the walk back to the hotel. The plan is to gentrify the area,
but it reminded me of efforts to do the same in Hartford years ago. It
is really hard to inject a cultural life into a dead city, but maybe
Newark will be different.
