---
title: "The Knock At The Door"
date: "2018-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15019"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15019"
---

I used to tell people all the time that if you have a chance to listen
to Greg Cochran speak, you should take it, as he is probably the
smartest person you will ever hear. Cochran has excelled in two fields,
physics, and anthropology. The former requires a very big brain to gain
entry. In the case of anthropology, many of the people in the field are
crazy or sociopaths. To be an exception and contribute to the stock of
human knowledge, requires a rare combination of curiosity and blinkered
indifference to social pressure.

Cochran has contributed three very important ideas that may not be
correct, but they open new avenues to understanding human evolution and
biological diversity. In the book *[The 10,000 Year
Explosion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_10,000_Year_Explosion),* he
and his partner, the late Henry Harpending, explained how agriculture
and human settlement accelerated human evolution. This explains local
differences in skin color, eye color, hair texture disease resistance
and other genetic differences in human populations. It also explains
personality and cognitive differences.

Another idea, one that has received less positive press, is Cochran’s
theory that homosexuality must be caused by something outside of
evolution. For example, a pathogen that sets off a chain of events in
the womb resulting in the child being a homosexual. Cochran points out
that the observed level of exclusive homosexuality means genes cannot be
the cause of homosexuality. The fitness cost of genes ‘for’
homosexuality being too great. Natural selection would have eliminated
the gene.

His “gay germ” idea is controversial, and it could be completely wrong,
at least in the case of homosexuality. Its utility is really in how it
changes thinking about human disease and the treatment of those
diseases. Take something like Alzheimer’s disease. Researchers have
spent decades laboring under the assumption it is genetic but have had
little success in finding any proof. Well, what if the cause is
something like a pathogen that sets of the process in the brain? What if
cardiovascular disease is caused by pathogens?

That is a huge and controversial idea, but it probably is not the one
that most scandalizes the moral authorities. Cochran is most infamous
for his work on Ashkenazi IQ. A dozen years ago, he and his partner
Henry Harpending published [The Natural History of Ashkenazi
Intelligence](http://web.mit.edu/fustflum/documents/papers/AshkenaziIQ.jbiosocsci.pdf).
In it they argue that Ashkenazi ████inherit higher verbal and
mathematical intelligence than other ethnic groups, based on inherited
diseases and the peculiar economic situation of Ashkenazi ████in the
Middle Ages.

The paper is controversial for three reasons. One is the heretical idea
that IQ is a real thing that can be measured. Worse yet, they claim
intelligence is heritable, which means it is largely immutable. Smart
parents have smart kids. Both ideas are against everything we believe
and probably a direct threat to our democracy. It is not who we are.
Only very bad people think that human diversity is the result of
biology. Everyone knows that racism is the cause of all the bad
differences, while diversity is the cause of the good differences.

That is bad enough, but the most outrageous aspect of the paper is that
it focuses on the special people and that is not allowed. Even
mentioning them in a direct way is justifiably forbidden now. After all,
the Nazis started noticing these people, talking about their “group
differences” and before long the Holocaust! The fact that racists and
white supremacists often reference this paper is proof enough that it
should be banned, the authors forced to confess and then they should be
hurled into the void as a lesson to others.

If further proof is needed, [this
post](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2018/09/10/ron-unz/) on Greg
Cochran’s blog should be enough. The post itself is just one sentence
long, but in the nearly 200 comments, Cochran counter signals Holocaust
skeptics so hard he probably sprained something while banging away at
the keyboard. Clearly, it is the sign of a guilty conscience. At the
minimum, it suggests he is worried that the morality police will be
coming for him soon. He hopes that his outburst can be presented at his
trial, and he will be given a reprieve. Good luck with that pal.

All joking aside, the post and the comments are a hilarious bit of
Boomer posting. Ron Unz is an eccentric guy, and he is prone to
conspiracy theories. It is hard to know how much he believes them. He
could just find them intellectually titillating, like reading a very
clever crime novel.  I get the sense that he is fascinated by the fact
there is an official narrative, and it is ruthlessly enforced. Almost
all Americans struggle with the bit of reality. Either way, the worst
you should say about Ron Unz is that he is a harmless weirdo.

Casual indifference is never allowed in a theocracy, at least with
regards to the moral codes. You are either enthusiastically on the right
side of the question or you are an enemy of the faith. There can be no
middle ground. Maybe Cochran is worried that the authorities will be
coming for him soon, so he is hoping to inoculate himself against charge
of insufficient signaling against antisemitism. Like a lot of Boomers,
he still thinks we live in a rule-based society and that you can appeal
to reason when defending yourself.

He would deny this and probably threaten to punch me in the nose for
suggesting it, but false consciousness is common with many old white
men. Just look at the comment thread in that post. Why are people in
2018 so worked up about something that happened 80 years ago in a
foreign country? The cultural and ideological processes of the
neo-liberal age blind people to their own motivations. You can be sure
that the people commenting on that post felt great about it, but they
never bothered to wonder why.

All that aside, they will be coming for Greg Cochran soon enough. If he
is lucky, the non-binary, gender non-specific persons of uterus from the
campus committee on inclusion will only require him to [wear a dunce cap
on
campus](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/1024/media/images/63441000/jpg/_63441465_li660825a(2).jpg).
Maybe they will make him recant what [he said about Cordelia
Fine](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2017/03/20/old-t-rex/), peace be
upon her. It is only a matter of time and appeals to reason will have no
impact, because we live in an unreasonable age, ruled by ridiculous
people. One day, there will be a knock on the door, and they will have
come for Cochran.
