---
title: "The NeoCon Persuasion"
date: "2018-12-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15909"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15909"
---

The late Irving Kristol, considered the godfather of neoconservatism,
said his project was “to convert the Republican Party, and American
conservatism in general, against their respective wills, into a new kind
of conservative politics suitable to governing a modern democracy.”
Kristol further went on to describe his vision as uniquely America,
despite the fact it had no roots in American history. The implication
was that neoconservatism would be the New Right of the New America ruled
by the New Elite.

It was a rare example of honesty from a collection of intellectuals and
advocates seemingly incapable of candor. In recent times, people like
Bill Kristol argued in private that the wars in the Middle East were for
the benefit of Israel, while in public he claimed it was a vital
American Interest. At the same time, neocons pushed for the importation
of Muslims, many from lands bombed in neocon wars. The predictable
consequences were then offered as an excuse for more wars.

Going abroad to find monsters to slay and then inviting their orphans
into America looks like madness, rather than a new ruling ideology. The
inability to grasp this obvious problem suggests the neocon persuasion
is built on a foundation of self-deception and decorated with a perfidy
of convenience. The former is the natural affliction, while the latter
is the effort to remedy it. That or what it takes to be a
neoconservative is an endless well of shameless disregard for others.

While it is possible that neoconservatism is a cult that attracted
high-functioning sociopaths, the more plausible answer is these people
have a long-developed lack of self-awareness. The inability to make an
honest appraisal of themselves and their coevals creates a massive blind
spot in which they are always standing. In righteous indignation they
accuse others of crimes the neocons have fully embraced. A good recent
example of this is
<a href="https://archive.is/5g3Si" rel="noopener" target="_blank">the
latest post</a> from Jonah Goldberg.

The tag line of his post, under a picture of President Trump, is “The
problem conservatism faces these days is that many of the loudest voices
have decided to embrace the meanness while throwing away the facts.” The
obvious point he is making is that Trump and his supporters are a bunch
of unthinking meanies. This is a popular refrain from the neocons, who
fashion themselves as intellectuals, despite working from a [small
inventory of talents](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13797). Their
critics are just stupid meanies.

The general thrust of the Goldberg post is strangely like what we have
always heard from the left side of the progressive orthodoxy. That is,
their side is dealing in facts and reason, doing so in a sober minded
fashion. The other side, in contrast, is dumb and enraging in the worst
sorts of behavior. Goldberg is doing this while he calls the writer
Chris Buskirk stupid and dishonest for the crime of pointing out that
<a href="https://archive.ph/88nJe" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">neoconservatism is headed to the dustbin of history</a>.

Of course, what vexes Goldberg about the critics of neoconservatism is
not their tone or their handling of facts. It is the personal insult.
Neoconservatism is a tribe, where the lines between individual identity
and group identity are blurred. Goldberg is lashing out at Buskirk,
because he sees his observations about his tribe as an insult. Again,
this has always been a feature of progressive orthodoxy since before
Gettysburg. Politics is always personal.

There is also the fact that Goldberg has been an egregious smear
merchant for a long time. He invested a lot of time talking about
<a href="https://archive.ph/pbRx8" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Trump
and the KKK</a> during the 2016 primaries, hoping the implication would
stick. He has worked hard to associate the critics of neoconservatism
with neo-Nazis and white supremacists, mostly as a distraction to shift
the focus from neoconservatism. Goldberg is the neoconservative version
of David Brock.

A sleazy dimwit like Goldberg accusing anyone of being mean spirited or
stupid reveals a breathtaking lack of self-awareness. That is the very
essence of the neoconservative, when you look at the shabby cast of
characters flying the flag. Bill Kristol has been wrong about everything
for decades, yet he shamelessly waddles around lecturing everyone, as if
he is brilliant wise man. A normal man, possessing even a shred of
decency, would be in hiding now if he had the record of Bill Kristol.

This strange lack of self-awareness revealed in the words of Irving
Kristol when he wrote, “Neoconservatism is the first variant of American
conservatism in the past century that is in the “American grain.” It is
hopeful, not lugubrious; forward-looking, not nostalgic; and its general
tone is cheerful, not grim or dyspeptic.” Nothing about that is true in
the least, but even now, in the bitter twilight of their final days,
they continue to claim they are the happy warriors in the political
fight.

The neocon persuasion was always a bitter reaction to having lost the
struggle with their more radical coevals on the Left. Neoconservatism is
a great example of the “[elaborate, plausible, and intellectually very
challenging systems that do not, in fact, have any truth
content.](http://www.unz.com/jderbyshire/the-marx-of-the-anti-semites/)”
At its heart was always an irrationality born out of frustration at
having been shut out of the Progressive elite. If the paleocons were the
beautiful losers, as Sam Francis put it, then the neocons were the ugly
losers.

 
