---
title: "The Age Of Gesture"
date: "2018-11-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15565"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15565"
---

Labeling is fun, which is why our history books are full of things like
“the age of sail” or the “feudal period” as convenient shorthand. The
label provides a quick way to think of what was important during a
particular age. Lots of people call the age in which we currently live
“the technological age” because of the microchip. That seems right, as
the microprocessor has fundamentally altered human society and continues
to alter our world. That said, a better label would be “the age of the
public gesture.”

Technology has allowed everyone to be a public performer. The door to
the stage is in every pocket, as the mobile phone is now mostly used for
getting on social media and performing, either as yourself or the
character you have created. The platforms themselves are just carnivals
of virtue signaling, in which nothing practical is communicated.
Instead, they are ad hoc morality plays in which millions perform to
either signal their virtue or condemn the lack of virtue in others.

Recently, fake black person [Shaun
King](https://twitter.com/shaunking?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor),
claimed in a tweet that he was at the market and encountered a white
person doing a Hitler salute. He then claimed to have confronted the
person, forcing him to leave the market. He has since deleted the tweet
because people were laughing at it. That and it was such an obvious lie
that it was self-defeating. The entirety of Shaun King’s life is one big
gesture. His [Talcum
X](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Talcum%20X) routine,
and his social media life are just a performance.

Over the weekend, naughty librarian [Katherine Timpf claimed to have
been accosted](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u5iuLiyedcc) in a store,
because she is stunning and brave. Of course, there is no proof of this
and it coincidentally happens when Fox News star Tucker Carlson is in
the news for being regularly attacked by left-wing goons. It is a
ridiculous fabrication, but in the age of the gesture, the truth is not
what matters. What matters here is she gets to play the role of victim
and get extra morality points for how she has performed the roll.

These incidents where D-level celebrities performed a dramatic gesture
to gain attention can be written off as just that, attention seeking
that is our culture now. The D-level celebs see their betters, the
people they wish to emulate, doing the same things, but on a larger
stage and maybe at grander scale, so they ape them at the small scale.
Twitter is full of anonymous cat ladies posting about how their daughter
asked them why Orange Man bad for the same reason.

Of course, our politics have become just an endless series of gestures
to signal piety or seriousness, depending on the nature of the event. In
Europe, every time one of Merkel’s Millions goes on a murder spree, the
local authorities have a candlelight vigil and walk around arm-in-arm
for a day. When a nut goes shooty in America, the usual suspects come
out and repeat the familiar chants about gun control. This age is a time
when doing nothing, while looking pious, is the most cultivated and
coveted skill.

No age lasts forever, and this one could be in its final phase. When
D-list celebs have mastered the skills, as we see with Timpf and King,
then the value of the act has fallen to zero. If everyone can do it,
then it is not special. The troubles plaguing social media giants are
due, in part, to gesture culture reaching an end. The signaling has
become so intense and frequent, the platforms are now just irritating
strobe lights. Something similar may be happening with the [mobile phone
industry](https://www.yahoo.com/news/conquering-world-smartphone-faces-uncertain-future-032038224.html),
which is suddenly [very
bearish](https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2018-11-02/blain-what-apple-hiding).

No company has done more to profit from and develop the gesture age than
Apple. Their products were always about design, rather than function,
which is why their mobile products have always been popular, while their
desktops have languished. Steve Jobs figured out that he could move a
lot of stuff by turning his company into a type of secular religious
iconography, aimed at a population lacking a soul. The appeal of Apple
products was always the antiseptic design that was a celebration of the
total lack of humanity.

It was a stillborn aesthetic for people with no purpose other than to
signal to one another like fireflies. When Jobs would hold one of his
rallies to evangelize his new products, he certainly knew he was selling
an identity to people lacking one of their own. He was too smart to not
know what was happening, but in an age where no one can think of a
reason to not kill themselves or their fellow citizens, the pointless
gesture, the last flickering of a bygone sense of self, is a great way
to move over-priced toys.

Perhaps the slump in the mobile phone market and the troubles with
social media giants is the final signal of the age of gesture. The
business models of these companies have always depended upon people
believing they had to have the phone, or they had to have a social media
presence. That worked when everyone believed it. Maybe enough people are
not believing it so that the whole thing is coming apart. The phenomenon
of people cutting their cable could be a sign of something larger than
money saving.

Of course, every age comes to an end, but every age is replaced by
something else that seeks to address some need in society. The Age of
Gesture appealed to our rulers because they believed in nothing, not
even themselves, so they created a null society. In an age when the
gesture is not enough, the morality tales are no longer useful in
keeping order, what comes next? As much as it would be nice to see the
end of the constant virtue signaling, what comes next could turn out to
be a much less pleasant age.
