---
title: "Democracy Without Borders"
date: "2018-07-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14613"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14613"
---

Steve Sailer is fond of characterizing the Democrats as the “party of
fringes” as they make their primary appeal to minority groups. When they
run short of minorities, they create them by finding a way to slice off
some portion of the majority, declaring it an oppressed minority. The
result is we have one party that is the default for the white majority
and another party that is for none-whites. It is the circus acts
attacking the audience members.

This misses a larger consequence of democracy. That is, democracies must
always seek to expand the electorate. This is an easily observed
pattern. In the 19th century, as the West began to experiment with
limited democracy, the franchise was sharply limited to males of wealth.
The vote was limited to men, usually over the age of 25, and limited to
property holders. In the early years of political liberalism, less than
10% of the adult population could vote.

The franchise slowly expanded, even in monarchies. The German Empire had
universal male suffrage by 1871. Italy expanded the franchise to all men
over 30 by 1912 and then lowered the age to 21 in 1918. The British
followed a similar pattern. Universal male suffrage became the norm,
then it was female suffrage. Unsurprisingly, women voting got going
first in Germany, the birthplace of every bad idea in human history, and
then spread around the West.

In the United States, the presence of a large black population, as well
as a sizable indigenous population, added another wrinkle to the
process. The urban immigrant population of the early 20th was another
group exuded from voting. Eventually, these groups were handed a ballot.
Immigrants became a powerful political force, pushing aside the heritage
population in major cities. Blacks have become a key part of the
Democratic constituency, once granted full voting rights in the 60’s.

The history of liberal democracy since the late 18th century has been a
steady expansion of the voting base. At each turn, various arguments
have been put forth in support of expanding the franchise, but the one
thing that has always been true is there is never a move to narrow it.
After every reform effort, every crisis and every war, the arguments are
always in favor of expanding the franchise. Today, the debate is over
handing a ballot to children, the retarded and foreigners.

As much as some people wish to believe that open borders are motivated
by greed, the real reason is something more systemic. An official open
borders policy for labor is actually bad for employers looking to game
the rules. That is the whole point of hiring non-citizens over citizens.
The illegal, is less likely to fight back at exploitative employers.
Open the borders and they become a part of the normalized labor force
available to everyone.

The real motivation behind open borders is systemic. In a democracy, all
fights within the ruling class take place within the bounds of
democracy. One side, let us call them the reformers, wants to change
things. The other side, presumably benefiting from the rules, resists
these changes. Selling the status quo to existing beneficiaries is easy,
because over time, democracy creates a prevailing consensus. This leaves
the reformers at a numerical disadvantage.

The solution is to expand the voter base. Political reformers of the
19th century, looking to reform the legal and economic arrangements,
could appeal to disenfranchised men, offering them access in exchange
for a vote, if they could get the vote. Social reformers of the 19th and
20th century could appeal to the female vote, if they could get women
the franchise. The last fifty years in America has been about creating a
new voters, by expanding the franchise with race consciousness .

The fight over open borders today are actually a battle to expand the
franchise by those seeking to push through a post-national agenda. Since
the Cold War, the White House has been held by two progressives and a
neocon, which is just a hyper-violent variant of progressivism. Despite
a near total dominance of politics, the political center has not moved
that much since the end of the Cold War. The consensus has the advantage
of numbers, so the solution is to import millions of new voters.

The expansion of the electorate is a consequence of democracy. In the
age of kings, the ruling class was narrow, closed and well defined. The
interests of the king are the interests of the property classes.
Disputes are narrow, as the ruling class is hierarchical, with the king
having the final word. The ruling class of a monarchy has a motivation
to keep the ruling class numbers small. Expansion of their class must
necessarily dilute their power within the ruling class. No one wants
that.

In a democracy, no one owns the state, so factionalism is the inevitable
result of disputes over the proceeds of government. By the logic of
democracy, the fights between the factions are adjudicated by the public
through elections. Eventually, a consensus forms and the major factions
find an equilibrium. The minor factions and the losers of previous
fights have no recourse other than to undermine the consensus and alter
the make up the voting public.

It is axiomatic that democracy must be short-term oriented. This is not
due to greedy voters, as much as the nature of democracy. The people
holding office are temporary office holders with no investment in their
position. Therefore, their goal is to squeeze every drop from their
position as quickly as possible, Hillary Clinton is the ideal
politicians in a democracy, because she wants to auction off every asset
of the office she holds, as quickly as possible.

When seen in the light of democracy’s inevitable expansion of the
franchise, open borders make perfect sense as the next logical step in
Western democracy. It is why the open borders advocates are endlessly
chanting about “our democracy” requiring the free flow of people.
Democracy starts as a system for the people, controlled by the people in
order to chart their own path. It soon becomes a system that eliminates
the very concept of a people.
