---
title: "Dealing With Lefty"
date: "2018-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12299"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12299"
---

Most of us have a lefty in our lives. No matter how hard you try to
avoid talking politics or current events with them, it always happens
and you come away frustrated by the experience. The reason for this is
Lefty is nothing but political, so even discussing the weather can lead
to them veering the conversation into something like global warming.
Progressives have politicized every nook and cranny of life, so dealing
with a liberal means wrangling over progressivism.

What makes it doubly frustrating is that normal people tend to treat
people as if they are normal, rather than members of a bizarre cult. You
forget yourself and make a reference to current events and all of a
sudden, you are wrangling with lefty over some topic in a way you find
deeply frustrating. Usually, they take something you have said and twist
it around so that you find yourself trying to argue about something you
never intended to discuss. It is as if they exist to be a social
irritant.

That is the first rule when dealing with lefty. As soon as you realize
you are dealing with one of these people, accept that everything they
say is the opposite. The progressive mind is a lot like the mind of a
criminal, in that it assumes its own guilt and acts accordingly. The
criminal says things to lead prying eyes away from their own
culpability. The progressive will accuse others of things he or his cult
are doing at the moment. When they accuse X of something, it means lefty
is doing it.

The Russian hacking stuff is turning out to be a great example of this.
Exactly no one in America thought about the possibility of Boris and
Natasha scheming to upset the last election, until out of the blue,
lefty started saying it. A year later we have learned that it was not
Trump working with the Russians, but members of the cult inside
government that were scheming with the Russians. None of this would have
come to light, but the guilty minds of the left compelled them to accuse
others of their criminality.

Similarly, the progressive, on an individual basis, will seek to shift
the focus from the topic at hand to something related, but far enough
away from the topic to send the conversation off on a tangent. The most
common method is “What about X?” Mention some failing of Progressives
and Lefty will blurt out “what about X among your right-wingers?” Normal
decent people respond to questions and Lefty uses that decency to avoid
addressing the failings of his cult. Lefty naturally shifts the focus
off himself.

Another trick Lefty will use is to start talking about exceptions. This
is another way of distracting from some obvious truth, like the fact
blacks commit a lot of crime, to a debate about exceptions and outliers.
The alt-right boys call this tactic NAXALT, as in Not All X Are Like
That. As with the above tactic, this is all about shifting the focus
from an unpleasant topic for Lefty. Put the two together and in a few
questions, lefty can shift the conversation so far from the original
topic, you no longer remember what you were saying.

This is why you always avoid answering a question from lefty. The surest
way to send him into a panic, is to respond to the “What about X” trick
with “Let’s not lose focus” and then return to the original point. An
alternative is “We can talk about that, but first let’s focus on” and
then get back to the issue. This almost always causes them to spasm as
they are being forced to address an unpleasant topic and what they
thought was an easy escape is now turning into a trap. Often, they just
walk away or explode in anger.

That is the thing to keep in mind when dealing with lefty. You can no
more convince them to question their faith than you can talk a
schizophrenic out of being crazy. All they can be for you is a prop, or,
if you get good at tormenting them, a toy to kill some time when you
have time to kill. This is the hardest thing for normal people to
accept. Normal people think they can cure Lefty by presenting facts and
evidence. There is no cure. These people are forever lost to a form of
mental illness. Just accept that and act accordingly.

Most important, when dealing with lefty, always make him the focus. A
good tactic is what that British dunce Cathy Newman tried to do to
Jordan Peterson. “So, what your position is…” is a good way to focus on
Lefty in a very personal way. They hate this. They want to believe they
are simply accepting transcendent truths, rather than their own
individual opinion. That is the thing with people in cults. They hate
themselves. That is why they are in a cult so they no longer have to
face themselves or have their own identity.

By personalizing the topic, re-framing it as their opinion or their
belief, it has the effect of separating them from the herd. Often, they
will become quite passive and even submissive. That is because Lefty has
no opinions of his own. He truly is the Borg and the Borg is him. He
sees no separation between himself and the faith, so isolating him
rhetorically makes him feel detached from his true identity. It is why
liberals always set their chat shows up as a gang attack on some
helpless non-liberal.

Finally, always insist on clear, plain language. A central tactic of the
left is to disrupt the opposition by sabotaging the language. The habit
of expanding the definition of words to include fringe or dubious
examples, then contracting the definition to exclude the original stuff.
The use of modifiers to turn definitions on their head or neologism that
conjure banal or even pleasant images for negative things. The game is
to force you to accept their language, which is a back doorway of
forcing their moral framework on you.
