---
title: "Kritarchy Then Chaos"
date: "2018-11-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15604"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15604"
---

Imagine if in a local courthouse, we discover that the judges are giving
accused child pornographers a free pass. The accused come into the
system, get booked and then a judge finds some reason to either leave
them free on their own recognizance or simply drop the charges. After a
while, someone notices that this sleepy little courthouse has a rather
high number of people arrested for kiddie porn, but that all of them get
set free on some technicality by one of the judges.

Upon further inquiry, it is learned that the head judge belongs to some
weird club that thinks the age of consent is immoral, that adults should
be free to have sex with children and consume child pornography. Once
installed at the courthouse, he hired other judges from his club, as
well as clerks and secretaries. The whole courthouse was full of these
people. Further, the child porn people heard about it so they would
travel to this jurisdiction to indulge in their fetish, knowing they
would get a free pass.

Such a thing would be the scandal of the century. Now, instead of
something abhorrent like kiddie porn, let us say the secret club is
composed of people loyal to some strange religion or bizarre ideology.
They think the laws of the country are immoral and seek to overturn the
entire legal system. Instead of operating in a local courthouse, they
are targeting the federal system. In other words, it is the same sort of
conspiracy, but the motivation is ideological, and the target is
national.

That is what happens in the federal court system. It is riddled with
judges who belong to a bizarre political cult. They are members of a
legal sub-cult that does not accept the rule of law. Instead, they think
the law and the enforcement of the law should always be in support of
their cult’s radical agenda. As such, they no longer abide by the law as
written and refuse to obey the authority that issues the law. That is
what we are seeing on a daily basis, as [federal judges revolt against
the legal
system](https://www.breitbart.com/news/judge-bars-us-from-enforcing-trump-asylum-ban/).

This is not a new thing. The legendary ninth circuit has been a dumping
ground for lunatics appointed to the federal bench. Rulings come out of
the ninth circuit, only to be struck down on appeal. The reason the
ninth existed was that everyone acknowledged the existence of this cult,
but instead of exterminating it and its members, the idea was to keep
them bottled up in specific circuits. It was like a quarantine around an
infected zone. Rather than kill the afflicted, they would be isolated.

To continue the metaphor, the virus has jumped the quarantine and now
the entire system is showing signs of infection. For two years the Trump
administration has been plagued with federal judges who just make up
rulings. In many cases they are ruling on behalf of plaintiffs who have
no standing in the court. In other cases, they are simply making up
legal theories so bizarre they would get a first-year law student
dismissed from school on mental health grounds.

In this particular case, the law is clear. It is not just US law, but
international law. There is a legal process for applying for asylum. No
country is required to accept anyone who does not follow the procedures.
US law is crystal clear on the issue, yet this judge is making up stuff
that is in direct conflict with the law. This is no less deranged than
if the judge stood up, stripped off his clothes and declared he is an
invisible chicken and that everyone in the court must cluck in worship
to him.

Yet, this judge is not an exception. He is now the rule. The federal
system is full of his fellow cultists, trained in a bizarre legal theory
that insists there is no law, just an unwritten ideology that is the
rejection of the basis of Western civilization. People jokingly call it
the kritarchy, but it is not a bad way to think of it. Instead of the
judge being a neutral interpreter of law, as is the Western tradition,
the judge in this cult is a shaman, charged with spreading the cult’s
ideology.

Kritarchy is a system associated with pre-modern societies, in which
there was no central rule making authority. Instead of a written laws,
there is custom. This works well enough, it is better than anarchy, if
the people within the community adhere to the same customs and beliefs.
The idea is to reach a peaceful and practical result, not a logically
consistent one. In a modern, rule-based society, this form of legal
theory is as alien as human sacrifice. It is an assault on civil order.

The thing is the outcomes are not important here. Even if this lunatic
is overruled, the damage that is being done to civil order is
incalculable. Every time one of these cult members gets on the bench and
starts making these bizarre rulings, public trust in the legal system is
eroded. We are very close to the point where most people no longer think
we have a legal system at all. Instead, it is arbitrary rule by robed
shamans, so the law is irrelevant and the system for writing laws is
illegitimate.

We now live in an age in which the federal court says the White House
cannot decide who gets a press pass, but it is perfectly fine for the
banks to collude to shut you out of the financial system, because they
do not like how you voted. The law says a business can fire an employee,
because he does not accept the company values, but the same business
must hire a mentally unstable man in a sundress and let him watch the
female employees undress. This is a revolt against rationality and
reason.

Getting back to where we started, the remedy for that courthouse overrun
by perverts is to clear out the perverts. What America faces is the near
total takeover of the institutions by a secular cult that is evolving
into a suicidal mystery cult. Removing the believers from positions of
authority will not be peaceful. Allowing their madness to run its course
will not be peaceful either, as the overthrow of order can only lead to
anarchy and what always follows is chaos.
