---
title: "Thoughts On GrifterCon"
date: "2018-12-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15763"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15763"
---

One of the toughest problems for dissident political movements to
navigate is the army of grfters and subversives that are always on the
prowl for easy targets. The Tea Party movement is a great example. The
people who initially got involved did so for all the right reasons. They
were nice, white middle-class people upset about what they saw happening
in Washington. It was the sort of spontaneous civic nationalism that
many white people still cling to as a solution to our present woes. It
is the good sort of populism.

The trouble is, the movement was quickly swarmed by an army of grifters
and opportunists, along with the body-men of the establishment. These
people showed up offering help, organization and in some cases, a famous
name to add credibility. Before long the whole thing became a bust-out,
with the grifters carrying off what they could, before it collapsed in a
heap.  [The caravan of hustlers has now moved onto peddling
neo-libertarianism](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14998) as the
antidote to both populism and identity politics.

Of course, something similar has happened to the Trump phenomenon. [This
story](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/12/07/american-priority-conference-trump-1052214)
in Politico about various clowns and freaks in the MAGA movement is
emblematic of what has become of Trumpism. [Ali
Alexander](https://twitter.com/ali?lang=en), one of the organizers,
appears to be the spawn of Sammy Davis Jr. and an Easter Island statue.
[Judging from his
postings](http://grandwonder.com/entering-the-based-era/), he takes a
lot of drugs or suffers from psychotic episodes. The Tea Party, at
least, drew a decent class of grifter. Trump’s baggage train is just
freaks and lunatics.

In fairness to Trump and the millions of people who voted for him and
still support him, they cannot do much about these freak shows. The
media loves to promote old weirdos like Roger Stone, because it makes
Trump look bad. He provides easy copy, and he is willing to be their
Sambo, dancing at the end of whatever string they offer. People like
Loomer, Molyneux and Cernovich show up because they sniff a few dollars.
They are performers and they go where they can find an audience willing
to pay them to perform.

The fact that the place was empty suggests politically active whites are
starting to wise up to this stuff. Last year’s C-PAC also experienced a
drop in attendance. Maybe people are starting to figure out that these
events are just a way to keep them busy while their pockets are picked.
Maybe white people are rethinking their politics. The utter
disappointment of the Trump presidency thus far has probably been the
worst thing to happen to this sort of political racketeering. It is
smartened up the chumps.

Still, there is a pattern here. The Reagan years birthed Conservative
Inc., which hoovered tens of millions out of the pockets of middle-class
white people into various projects that never accomplished a thing. The
Contract with America institutionalized the system into a permanent
political-industrial complex. The Tea Party, of course, was a complete
bust and now Trumpism is becoming an embarrassing freak show. Any
resistance is either co-opted or turned into something embarrassing.

The thing that all these failed movements have in common is they
accepted the premise of liberal democracy. From Reagan to Trump, all
efforts to reform or challenge the system did so within the context of
liberal democracy. They also assumed that the fight must take place on
the platforms of the Progressive media. Inevitably, the media picks the
most embarrassing members of the alternative to come up on stage. This
happened with Reagan, Gingrich and even Bush. We see the same thing
happening in the Trump era.

This suggests two rules for dissident politics. One is a variation of
the oldest bit of political advice. Never been seen with crazy people or
wearing funny hats. Professional pols have people who make sure they are
never in the same shot as a crank or weirdo. Smart pols also avoid
putting themselves in situation where they can look silly, like driving
a tank wearing an over-sized helmet or getting goosed by a farm animal.
For dissidents, it means staying clear of attention whores and people
with heads full of nutty ideas.

More importantly, it means staying as far away from Progressive media as
possible. This has been a topic for a long time on the Dissident Right,
but the side in favor of engagement has always won. Their argument was
that it was the best way to get the attention of the public. Today, that
is not the case. Mass media is the worst way to get the attention of the
public, because it is all click-bait, agit-prop, and tabloid nonsense.
The fragmentation also means a much lower ROI. There are better ways to
get the public’s attention.

Maybe that is a bit of white pill to take away from the failure of
GrifterCon to attract much of audience this weekend. Maybe people now
associate being in the news with being mentally unstable or being an
unreliable degenerate. While a story about Roger Stone may get eyeballs
on a news site, the people viewing it do so for the same reason people
look at pictures of a snake trying to swallow a goat. The freak show has
reached a point where it is self-discrediting. That would be a great
development for dissidents if true.
