---
title: "Mencken 2018 Diary"
date: "2018-11-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15476"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15476"
---

Last year was my first time at the Mencken Club. I knew about it, as
John Derbyshire has been a regular since the beginning and he has
written about it every year. Not being an intellectual or an academic, I
just assumed it was not for me. A few years ago, a famous person in
dissident politics suggested I give these events a try, as I might enjoy
it. Nothing ventured, nothing gained, so I attended Mencken and AmRen
last year, as well as some other lesser-known events.

The Mencken Club conference is organized like an academic conference,
and it is populated with smart people, many of whom are intellectuals
and academics. There are plenty of normal people there as well.
Academics and intellectuals like to socialize as much as normal people,
so even if you do not play in that space, you can still enjoy
fraternizing with these folks over drinks. The social element is what
makes these things worthwhile. That is why our enemies try so hard to
shut them down…

This year the event went off without incident and it was a good crowd.
Mencken is a smaller event than American Renaissance, mostly because it
unabashedly appeals to an academically oriented crowd. Paul Gottfried,
the man responsible for it, has written a dozen or so books on politics
and political theory. The speakers are all big-brained people, who read
and write about big-brained topics. It is also an older crowd. I scanned
the room and maybe a dozen people were younger than me.

Last year, I noted that there was a strange nostalgia in the room. It
was what I imagined it was like when Confederate soldiers got together
after the war, to reminisce about their experiences and the what might
have been. There was a lot of talk about old lost battles and old lost
friends. There was some of that this year, as it is just part of the
deal with an older crowd. There was also a new embrace of the new fight
and the new battlefield on which it will be fought…

It occurred to me that one reason the sober side of the Dissident Right
is becoming more radicalized is the fact the left is now otherizing
them. When CNN demanded the White House hurl [Darren
Beattie](https://amgreatness.com/2018/08/21/read-the-paper-cnn-says-is-white-supremacist/)
into the void, it was a Fort Sumter moment for a lot of the paleocons
and their fellow travelers. They could live with being purged by
Buckley, because they could still live and work in the above ground
intellectual economy. The Left is now demanding that end and I think
that was a wakeup call…

I met a famous legal scholar on Saturday. I will not name her, just to
be safe, but she is a dedicated reader! In fact, she told me she
recommended one of my podcasts to her students, which was quite
flattering. It is another benefit, at least for me, of attending these
events. To be around members of our intellectual elite is quite humbling
and a good reminder that I can always get better. There were people in
that room, like the legal scholar, who had forgotten more about these
topics than most of us will ever know…

I got to sit next to the great John Derbyshire at lunch. I do not have
to worry about naming him as he has not only been hurled into the void,
but he is also now the pit master. He gave a talk on how the future was
most likely going to resemble Brave New World and most people would be
happy with it. This rankled more than a few people in the room. A woman
from Tennessee stood up during the Q&A and said something to the effect
that her people would fight to the last man to prevent such a future. I
love mountain culture.

I think John’s talk rankled, because he was mostly right. Look around
and you see the signs of the looming World State. People are never vexed
by a dystopia they know is a fantasy, but they do get upset about a
dystopia that is possible. I pointed out to John, however, that his
vision has one flaw. Utopia always implies genocide, as no perfect world
can include the full range of humanity. Marxist relished this truth, but
our rulers, like libertarians, lack the guts to face this reality.
Therefore, they will lack the will to impose it…

On Friday, I met someone who is in government. He heard I was at the
event and came to meet me. I cannot say any more about him but let us
just say he works for a famous politician. We had arranged to meet in
advance, so his name would not be associated with the event. This is not
the first time this has happened. I get e-mails from “our people” who
work in the system, trying to undermine the enemy from within. I
jokingly call it the secret handshake society, but that is the way it
is, and it is what I find most encouraging.

You see, people in power don’t waste time and resources hunting down the
[harmless](https://twitter.com/benshapiro) or harassing the [easily
frightened](https://twitter.com/DavidAFrench). They target the people,
groups, and ideas they see as a threat to them. That has the strange
effect of making heresy more appealing to the sorts of people who oppose
the prevailing order. The Left’s paranoia is not unjustified, but it is
probably our greatest asset. Their lashing out at heretics is making
heresy cool. It is the new counterculture and that alone draws support
to our banner…

Finally, I sat at Paul Gottfried’s table for dinner on Friday. I have
had very little interaction with him to that point, so it was a great
treat to finally get to spend quality time with him. He is a wonderful
person and exactly what one would expect a college professor to be like,
in that he is willing to indulge those striving to learn, but willing to
correct to facilitate the process. He has also got a great sense of
humor too. Like everyone at the conference, I am grateful that he has
created a place for subversives to meet and socialize….

 
