---
title: "President BoomerCon"
date: "2018-06-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14065"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14065"
---

[In his most recent
podcast](https://www.vdare.com/articles/john-derbyshire-trump-can-protect-the-border-and-it-starts-by-telling-kirstjen-nielsen-you-re-fired),
John Derbyshire made the point that there is little hope of getting any
sensible immigration reform out of the current Congress. Paul Ryan is an
open borders sock puppet, determined to undermine any effort at reform.
Even if the House managed to pass something, the Senate is unlikely to
take it up. They have no interest in the topic, beyond amnesty. Just as
important, President Trump has largely lost interest, other than the
occasional tough talk his promised wall.

This reality is vexing to immigration patriots, who correctly see this
as a betrayal, as well as a supreme act of stupidity. Cracking down on
illegal immigration is extremely popular and most voters now support
curbs on legal immigration. A big reason Trump is in the White House is
his tough talk on immigration. This is what set him apart for the
dullards in the GOP primary. In theory, at least, the failure to follow
through on immigration should be bad for Trump and the GOP.

That is not the case. [Trump has a higher approval than Obama and
Reagan](https://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2018/06/trump-approval-rating-better-than-obama-and-reagan-at-same-point-in-their-presidencies/)
at the same point in their terms. That is not entirely a fair
comparison, as both inherited economies in severe recession, as well as
massive reform projects. On the other hand, both came in with a massive
mandate to push through their reform agendas. Trump, in contrast,
entered office with a hostile uniparty and a divided public. Throw in a
berserk mass media and it is remarkable that his polling is so strong.

It turns out that despite what the cool kids of the alt-right have to
say about the Boomers, pleasing that generation turns out to be good
politics. Trump is of that generation, born in 1946, so it is not
surprising that he would be good at appealing to those voters. He is
also a guy who understands the math of politics. Boomers are a third of
the adult population, but close to half the voting population. Older
people vote in higher numbers than young people.

Boomer politics, of course, are close to civic nationalism. Even those
on the liberal end of the spectrum tend toward the orderly and law
abiding, even though they embrace big government solutions. Baby boomers
came of age in a prosperous and orderly age when America was still close
to 90% white. That means they continue to have a high trust in political
and social institutions. Despite what his critics say, Trump has
operated like a good government conservative who believes in the system.

Take a look at his two big achievements thus far. One has been [the
systematic dismantling of the regulatory
regime](https://www.brookings.edu/interactives/tracking-deregulation-in-the-trump-era/)
that had built up under George Bush and Barak Obama. This is one of
those civic nationalist things that appeals to people who believe in the
fundamentals of the country. Similarly, his tax bill fits in with the
general sense that Americans need to keep some of their own money. Put
the two together and Trump’s big achievements are right out of the
CivNat playbook.

Of course, Trump’s growing obsession with the black vote is right in the
wheelhouse of the baby boomer voter. Despite 70 years of failure on race
relations, the boomers still believe blacks can be fully integrated into
white America. More important, they still seek the approval of blacks,
which is why getting a selfie with one of the three blacks at CPAC is a
phenomenon on Twitter every year. Trump getting the seal of approval
from Kanye West resonated with his base.

So far, the best way to describe Trump’s presidency is as a rollback of
the past three administrations to something closer to Reaganism. In
fact, Trump seems to be using Reagan as a model. Look at his approach to
North Korea. Rather than the bellicose approach of the neocons or the
appeasement of the neolibs, Trump has brought back Reagan’s peace
through strength doctrine. Different facts and players, but the same
approach as under Reagan.

Getting back to the immigration issue, what Trump seems to understand,
and what immigration hawks have missed, is that baby boomers have not
abandoned their immigration romanticism. They still think it is groovy
that people come to America “yearning to be free” just as long as they
do it legally. There has been no change in attitudes with regards to
immigration as a cultural. Boomers still think immigration works, as
long as you have the right laws.

Trump appears to have figured this out, so he has modulated his
immigration approach to be heavy on the illegal side, but supportive of
the legal side. That explains his strange obsession with giving the DACA
people amnesty. It is not just an effort to drive a wedge into the
Democrat coalition. Trump wants to be seen as supporting the immigrants
“who have followed the rules” because he knows his voters get weak in
the knees over that stuff.

The lesson here is that American politics is still controlled by baby
boomers, whose politics are rooted in an America that is fading away
with them. While this cohort dominates elections, their attitudes will
be the center of gravity for our politics. As a politician, Trump has
figured that out, so he has adjusted to it. What that means is the
Overton Window has not moved all that much. The actuarial tables need
more time to make that happen.
