---
title: "The Seekers"
date: "2018-09-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14984"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14984"
---

The <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/When-Prophecy-Fails-Leon-Festinger/dp/1578988527"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a>, When Prophecy Fails, is a
classic work of social psychology written in the 1950’s based on a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">study</a> of a UFO cult called the
Seekers. This group was led by a woman named Dorothy Martin, who claimed
that aliens spoke through her to warn of a coming apocalypse. She
employed something called “automatic writing” to channel the messages
from the people of the planet Clarion. Through her, they were telling
humanity that the world would end on December 21, 1954.

The study documented the believers and how they coped with the fact the
word did not end on December 21, 1954. What they found is that instead
of the group realizing they had been duped by a lunatic, they quickly
developed an explanation for why the great event had not occurred and
came to believe that with the same degree of intensity they had believed
the original prophesy. In the case of the Seekers, within hours they
were telling the world that their faith had convinced God to spare the
world.

It is a useful thing to keep in mind. We tend to assume cults have a
charismatic figure at the top, but that’s not always the case. Hassidic
Jews are not led by a charismatic leader, unless you consider the Rabbi
a cult leader. In fact, that may not be a bad comparison, in that Rabbis
come and go, temporarily holding the position of sect leader, but not
really a cult figure. Progressives swap out their chief lunatic as well.
Look at their list of three initial heroes.

In the summer before the 2016 election, the left was sure Hillary
Clinton would be anointed as their new leader. They were so sure of it,
people quitting their jobs so they could prepare to move to Washington
and serve the new ruler. Then disaster struck and the prophecy failed.
Like the Seekers, they waited all night for a miracle, but there was no
miracle. Also like the Seekers, they cooked up an elaborate explanation,
rather than accept the result. Russian collusion is a coping mechanism.

It does not stop there with the left. They have a new prophecy that they
are sure will come true on the first Tuesday of this November. They
believe the magical blue wave will cleanse the the land of sinners, who
defend the evil Donald Trump, by concealing the Russian hacking scandal.
It’s why fiction writer Bob Woodward released his book this week and why
the NYTimes ran the fictional op-ed. These are intended to be evidence
at the trial of Donald Trump, when he is impeached.

It’s also why Elizabeth Warren was out demanding they invoke the 25th
Amendment to remove Trump now. After all, if it is inevitable, why wait
for the election? As far as she and the other hormonal crazies in the
cult are concerned, the impeachment and removal of Trump is written in
stone. True believers always succumb to the Tinker Bell Effect, because
they believe so intensely, they inevitably begin to see everything as
confirmation of their deeply held beliefs.

You’ll also note that these periods of extreme mania come and go. When
Trump fired Comey, the Left was apoplectic for a week. Comey himself was
out there casting himself in the role of martyr for the cause. Then it
passed and no one talks about him anymore, outside of grand jury rooms.
When Trump met with Putin, there was another week of fevered lunacy in
the media. This week’s spasm coincided with the Kavanaugh hearings and
next week, all of this will be forgotten.

What’s happening is the left is responding to disconfirmation in the
same way the Seekers handled it. Rather than reevaluate their positions
or beliefs considering obvious reality, they escalate their intensity to
pull the faithful together. Firing Comey showed Trump was not about to
resign, as the left believed. When he met with Putin, it annulled their
Boris and Natasha fantasy. Now that Kavanaugh is obviously going to be
confirmed, it undermines those beliefs.

Another aspect of the Seekers is relevant here. Dorothy Martin came out
of the same cult that gave birth to Scientology. She later went on to
reinvent herself as [Sister
Thedra](https://www.star-essence.org/about/lord-sananda-and-sister-thedra)
and start a new cult called the Association of Sananda and Sanat Kumara.
Progressives have similarly morphed into different things over the
years. You’ll also note that spiritual cults tend to be led by women or
have a lot of high-profile females.  The same thing is happening with
the progressives.

All of this is amusing but imagine a country with a powerful army and
nuclear weapons being run by nutters like Elizabeth Warren. Imagine a
situation room that looks like the <a
href="https://mic.com/articles/144177/this-tweet-from-a-huffington-post-editor-shows-the-problem-with-white-feminism"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">editorial board</a> of the Huffington
Post. There are no obvious remedies to having the ruling class succumb
to mass insanity. The public can accept that their rulers are corrupt or
evil. It’s hard to accept that they are insane. The proof of that
probably comes too late as the loonies have already pulled the roof down
us.
