---
title: "Electric Lies"
date: "2018-03-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13082"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13082"
---

Once a week, I go through the mail and pay outstanding bills. This week
I had a notice from my electric provider, telling me about my
electricity use compared to my neighbors and to the ideals of the Gaia
worshippers. I get these once a month, but I just toss them in the
trash. I do not care how I compare to my neighbors on anything, much
less something as unimportant as electric use. My assumption is the
state has told the provider they have to do this.

This month, I decided to look at it. The report alleges that the good
neighbors in my area are using 214 kWh per month. To put that in
perspective, a 100-watt incandescent bulb left on all day uses about
2400 watts or one hundred watts per hour. That is 72 kWh per month. That
means my “good” neighbors have three 100-watt bulbs burning all day
everyday, but nothing else. Assuming they have other things, those bulbs
are off most of the time, so they can have enough juice to run the
fridge and maybe charge a cellphone a few times a month.

This is, of course, complete nonsense. To be generous with the electric
company, it is most likely the case that they are using data from homes
that are unoccupied or perhaps hovels that are now vacant, except for
one light at the door. No one, not even someone in a studio apartment
can get by with just a few bulbs. A typical desktop PC will use 60 kWh
per month, assuming the user turns it off at night. Modern televisions,
gaming systems and other video devices use similar amounts of
electricity.

In my case, I am a fanatic about turning lights off as I leave a room.
It is not that I give a damn about the planet, which I do not, it is
that leaving lights on bugs me. In my home, the only light on at any
time is the light in the room I am in. I turn the light off as I leave
the room. The only devise I leave on is my desktop, the refrigerator and
the charger to my mobile phone. Since I am not home most of the day and
I am asleep most of the night, my energy use is as close to the minimum
as is possible.

Yet, they say I am a wastrel compared to my neighbors. In fact, they
claim I use twice what my good neighbors use. Of course, there are some
things that we take for granted, like the HVAC unit, which runs whether
you are home or not. The same is true of the hot water heater and
various little things. That is the point though. They are in every home.
According to the electric company, my good neighbors shut off their HVAC
system before leaving the house.

The truth is this report is most likely just nonsense. I was out and
about today and asked three neighbors if they got their report card. All
reported that they were horrible people, squandering the nation’s
precious resources. The amusing bit was the one neighbor had been out of
town for three weeks. He actually turned his HVAC unit down to the
minimum and shut off all of his lights except one, which was on one of
those timers to make it look like he was coming and going.

Now, the electric company has no incentive to encourage conservation.
They get paid by the kWh so they want us wasting electricity. Most
likely, there is some rule that the government imposed on them, that
requires them to encourage conservation. Rather than be honest about it,
they made this farcical mailer they send to everyone each month. Some
portion of my electric bill includes the $3 of cost to them for sending
me this page full of lies.

Of course, institutional mendacity is a feature of the managerial state.
The people tasked with lecturing me about my electric use most likely
assume I do not care or that I do not believe them. They have to know
that what they do has no purpose, but you can be sure they come to every
staff meeting armed with the same phony-baloney charts and graphs they
send me every month. Perhaps at some level, the pointlessness of it all
is a small comfort to them.

Regardless, you have to wonder if the proliferation of nonsense is
slowly undermining the purpose of the managerial state. A generation
ago, the organs of authority could rally the people to a cause. There
were plenty of skeptics, but most people were willing to trust the
authorities. Today, the default assumption is that everything from
official circles is a lie until proven otherwise. The fungus of
managerialism that grew over the state is slowing draining it of its
life.
