---
title: "Do We Have A Brutus?"
date: "2018-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12836"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12836"
---

For most people, the name “Brutus” brings to mind [the Roman
politician](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marcus_Junius_Brutus_the_Younger),
who took a leading role in the assassination of Julius Caesar. Because
the winners write the history books, he is also remembered as a villain,
the guy who murdered the great man and sent the Roman Republic careening
toward authoritarian rule. That is probably not fair to Brutus or the
other members of the Optimate faction. Julius Caesar was no friend of
the Republic, despite being the leader of the Populis faction, but that
is how it goes with history.

There is another Brutus, one who is relevant to our age. [Lucius Junius
Brutus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucius_Junius_Brutus) is
remembered as the founder of the Roman Republic. Until the fifth century
BC, Rome was ruled by a series of kings. According to Livy, The son
of [Tarquinius
Superbus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucius_Tarquinius_Superbus)
raped a noblewoman named
[Lucretia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucretia), who was a relation
to Brutus. There was already great discontent with the behavior of the
king and Brutus had many other grievances, but this was the tipping
point. Brutus led the revolt against the king and established the
Republic.

The story itself is worth relating. After she had been raped, Lucretia
summoned Brutus, her father, Lucius Tarquinius Collatinus and Publius
Valerius Poplicola, whose name the Founders would use when promoting the
Constitution. After she told them what had happened and how she had been
dishonored, she committed suicide by stabbing herself with a dagger.
Brutus pulled the dagger from her chest, held it up and immediately
shouted for the overthrow of the Tarquins. The revolution started at
that moment.

Hidden in that story, which is most likely apocryphal, is the logic of
republican virtue and republican morality. Free men fight and die for
their honor, for their liberty and for their posterity. It is a form of
rule based on a set of ideals, rather than a practical arrangement among
men. A king is a pragmatic compromise that works now. A dictatorial
committee is just the best way to establish order in the moment. A
republic assumes men are not angels, but it assumes each generation will
generate enough virtuous men to maintain it.

Our first Brutus is remembered as an example of that republican virtue,
not because he established it, but because he sacrificed for it. Brutus
became the first consul of Rome. During his consulship, the royal family
tried to subvert the republic in order to regain the throne. This is
remembered as the [Tarquinian
conspiracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarquinian_conspiracy). Among
the conspirators were two of Brutus’ sons, who were sentenced to death.
Brutus gained great respect among his peers for stoically watching as
the sentence was carried out.

We are a long way from those times, but we have similar challenges. The
emerging conspiracy among career political appointees and intelligence
officials, a conspiracy to overthrow the orderly functioning of the
republic, is not a lot different from what the Romans faced 25 centuries
ago. It is not hugely different from what faced them five centuries
after the founding of the Republic. In the former case, a Brutus was
able to rise to the challenge. In the latter, another Brutus was not
able to answer the call.

In the current crisis, there are some similarities to both events. Those
plotting against republican order are doing so claiming Trump is an
authoritarian. They see his very existence as proof of some hidden
conspiracy to overthrow democracy and install Trump as the 12th
invisible Hitler, returned to usher in the Fourth Reich. That sounds
ridiculous, but not unlike the plotters against Caesar, the people
scheming to get Trump, justify their actions, not on merit, but against
what they imagine Trump is secretly plotting.

Those defending the plotters believe it too. Like the conspirators, they
have no choice but to believe it. They are calling the release of the
memo a constitutional crisis, implying a grab for power by Trump. They
have to go down this path, turning everything on its head, otherwise
they are the villains. They need to see themselves as the white hats and
they need the public to see them as that too. The men who assassinated
Julius Caesar justified murder, by imagining themselves as the defenders
of Rome for the same reason.

On the other hand, we have Trump, maybe the last man in the Imperial
Capital, who still believes in the old ideal of America. Trump is a true
civic nationalist. He is the first president in many generations to
truly sacrifice in order to serve in office. He is a man of weird old
America. He even sounds like where he comes from, which is no longer
typical of a member of the political class. He came into office
believing that his victory would be enough to convince the political
class to go along with his reform program.

On the other other hand, Trump is the guy tasked by history to impose
order on a chaotic American political world. Much in the same way Julius
Caesar was faced with a choice between obeying the rules and permitting
chaos, Trump is faced with the choice of letting things go on as usual
or imposing the rule of law. If he yields to the will of the Senate, so
to speak, he risks undermining the constitutional order. If he goes
against the political class and business as usual, he risks war with the
old guard and all that comes with it.

Trump is both the tribune of the people and the defender of the
prevailing order. He is in a strange position; in that he is pushing for
the sorts of reforms popular with the Populis faction and tasked with
defending the order that makes it possible for the Optimate faction to
exist. He is Lucius Junius Brutus, overthrowing the current order, but
he is also Marcus Junius Brutus, motivated by a desire to defend the old
order. It is like the confluence of two rivers of Western history. Time
will tell if we have the Brutus to save the republic.
