---
title: "The Black Death"
date: "2018-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15008"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15008"
---

Way back when I still had a cable sub and still watched television, I
was watching an episode of Red Eye, the late-night Fox News show, and
the topic was crime. One of the guests was a black libertarian, who said
something along the lines of, “In order to have a sensible discussion
about crime, the first thing we have to do is put aside the issue of
race.” All the nice white people on the panel fell all over themselves
agreeing with the black, of course, mostly because they were grateful
that he let them off the hook.

My recollection of my own reaction was to wonder why they would bother
talking about crime at all, if they are not going to consider the
primary element. After all, net out black crime from the statistics and
crime is not an issue we bother discussing. Sure, Hispanic crime rates
are significantly higher than white crime rates, but they pale in
comparison to black crime figures. The only people worried about white
crime are white liberals, who like to tell each other scary stories
around the fire pit about their trip to Walmart.

People on our side of the great divide tend to think the people in
charge deliberately obfuscate on the race issue, because of nefarious
motives. It’s tempting and there is no doubt that we are ruled by
sociopaths, who enjoy lying to us about everything, not just crime.
Still, a lot of people have simply lost the ability to talk about race.
They have become so fearful of the issue that it has taken on magical
qualities. Just as Jews are prohibited from speaking the name of God,
most white people fear saying “black.”

<a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/10/opinion/delmonte-johnson-gun-violence-chicago.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This weird New York Times op-ed</a>
reminds me of that.

*When they staged a “die-in” at Stroger Hospital in Chicago earlier this
year, Delmonte Johnson and his friends — who together formed GoodKids
MadCity, a group dedicated to ending violence in urban communities — had
a straightforward request. They wanted what their wealthier, whiter,
more suburban peers already seemed to have: freedom from the oppressive
fear of being gunned down in their own neighborhoods.*

*Mr. Johnson, a 19-year-old who loved to sing and dance, who was an
athlete and a budding social activist, will not get to see that vision
realized. He was shot and killed Wednesday after playing basketball near
his home.Mr. Johnson’s death was tragic and unnecessary and enraging. It
was also the sort of death that’s become far too common in America, and
in particular in Mr. Johnson’s hometown, where more than 2,000 people
have been shot so far this year, nearly 400 of them fatally. While mass
shootings involving high-powered guns and high death tolls have claimed
an outsize portion of the nation’s collective grief — and its headlines
— street shootings like the one that killed Delmonte Johnson are far
more common.**Mr. Johnson, who lost several of his own friends to gun
violence,** knew that fact all too well. His own advocacy emerged in the
wake of the school shooting in Parkland, Fla., in February with the hope
that some of the attention captured by that massacre might be cast
toward communities like his — communities that are underserved,
overlooked and routinely plagued by gun violence. “We have been
screaming for gun control for the longest time,” says Carlil Pittman, a
friend of Mr. Johnson’s who co-founded GoodKids MadCity. “But it’s not
until it hits other communities that people pay attention. And then they
respond with harsher laws that criminalize black and brown kids.”*

As everyone knows, guns stalk the streets of our city. For some reason,
the government just let guns walk in over the border, unmolested. In
fact, they have programs to help guns come in to the country and gain
residency. It’s as if the government wants guns to come here and kill
people of color. If you did not know better, you would think that the
people in charge of government care more about guns than American
citizens. When will people wake up and realize that we need a big wall
on the border to keep guns out of the country?

All kidding aside, you have to wonder how it is even possible to write
about “gun violence” with a straight face. To a sober minded person, it
seems impossible for anyone to believe such nonsense. That’s why so many
in 2A community think it is deliberate and well considered lie. A
multi-generational conspiracy sounds more plausible than people thinking
guns magically cause black people to shoot one another. Sadly, that is
what the people who write this stuff think. They think blacks are
compelled to violence by guns.

The murder problem in Chicago is a problem easily understood with a bit
of math and a little bit of race realism. Put a lot of black people in
an area and they will start shooting at each other. Chicago has a lot of
black people, so it has a lot of murders. The city is roughly 32% black,
32% white and the rest Hispanic, Asian and a mystery. Of the 405
homicides this year, as of this writing,
<a href="https://heyjackass.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">330 of
the victims have been black</a>. Just 26 have been white. Just 48 have
been Hispanic, who are over 25% of the population.

Now, it is possible that there are gangs of white supremacists roaming
the streets killing black people in all black neighborhoods. It’s
possible that these white supremacists are so skilled that no one has
ever seen them. It’s also possible that a gang of leprechauns are
terrorizing the black neighborhoods. All things are possible if you wish
hard enough, but the most probable answer here is that the victim rates
reflect the crime rate. That is, 75% of the crime is being committed by
30% of the population, the black population.

Again, sober minded people understand this. The trouble is, we are not
ruled by sober minded people, at least with regards to race. They really
do believe that race is a social construct and that astronomical black
crimes rates are a symptom of social inequality, racism and poverty.
Rather than Old Scratch tempting the villagers into sin, there is now
this mystery force called “whiteness” that is like swamp gas, rising
from the America’s long racist past. In other words, black crime is a
spiritual problem, not a practical one.
