---
title: "Winners And Losers"
date: "2018-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13267"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13267"
---

Mass movements always reach a stage where they can break through and
become legitimate social forces or they can fizzle out and die. They
either take the next step and begin to attract a larger audience or they
are a boutique fad. The neo-reaction movement of a decade ago is a good
example of the latter. It was important on-line for a while, but then it
lost steam and faded away. Its two main idea men have moved onto other
things. The alt-right is at that point now.

If a movement is going to outgrow the pot in which it was a seedling,
the people in leadership need to regularly reassess. The New Left in the
1960’s went through several such resets, finally becoming an
intellectual and cultural movement that swept the major institutions of
the country. One of the early re-thinks for successful movements is
purging previous failed efforts and failed leaders. The New Left figured
out why the old CPUSA guys failed and made sure to avoid the same
mistakes.

Last summer the alt-right fell into the trap of Charlottesville and
allowed themselves to be aligned with the bogeymen the Left has been
using for generations to scare white people away from identity politics.
Guilt by association is powerful stuff, because it works in a mass media
culture. The result of locking shields with various white nationalist
groups on TV was that the alt-right has become tied, in the public mind,
to people who have been unstable and unreliable.

The alt-right, if it is going to be anything, is going to have to build
its own thing, clearly separate and independent of the old white
nationalist guys of the past. It has to stand alone and that means
cutting all ties with the guys who like marching around in public
pretending to be the freikorps. Whatever arguments can be mustered in
their defense, there is no getting around the fact these groups have had
half a century to make their case and they have failed miserably at ever
turn.

Exclusively racist groups are not the only failures of the past. The
paleocons were smart, creative and energetic, but they were
outmaneuvered and eventually purged by the political elite. It is hard
not to admire guys like Paul Gottfried and Pat Buchanan, who have spent
their lives fighting the good fight, but it is also hard not to notice
that they failed. [Sam
Francis](https://www.chroniclesmagazine.org/winning-the-culture-war/)
was a great thinker and everyone should read him, but there is a reason
these guys lost.

The reason they lost is they made the mistake of thinking the other side
was reasonable and amenable to their arguments. The paleocons wanted to
be in the club, not burn the club down. It was this desire to belong
that was used to derail them. Even today, after all that has happened,
these old guys still talk like this is just an argument between friends
rather than bloodsport. If the alt-right is going to thrive, it has to
accept that what comes next is revolution, not reformation.

Another useful lesson from past losers is the chain of causality. For as
long as anyone has been alive, right-wing movements have started with
politics first, hoping to rally people to sway elections. The result in
every case was the effort being hijacked by political opportunists, who
quickly set about trading the goals of the cause for entrée to the
political class. The Tea Party is the most obvious recent example. It
was an authentic grassroots movement that was quickly hijacked.

The one thing about rejecting the losers of the past is it clears the
mind so you can objectively examine the winners. The winners of the
post-war cultural revolution won for a reason. One reason is they built
their politics on top of a cultural movement. The 60’s counterculture
started long before the radicals of the 70’s started taking over
Democratic politics. In other words, there were lots of people ready to
support someone that spoke their language and understood their
perspective.

I watched [a documentary about the Weather
Underground](https://vimeo.com/33006390) and one of the things that
jumped out to me was a statistic. By the middle of the 60’s, Students
for a Democratic Society had 100,000 members. The thing is, the group
started small or grew quietly, focused more on building membership than
activism. Groups like Identity Evropa may seem overly cautious, but the
only way they can grow on campus is if the people in charge ignore them.
Revolution grows in darkness.

Another valuable lesson from the New Left is they built independent
organizations well outside the mainstream. Many of the fads of the era
strike us today as being loopy and weird, but they served a valuable
purpose. The radicals of the 70’s, who began invading the academy and
politics, were born from these counterculture groups. Living outside the
Eye of Sauron is even more important today, now that we have a full
blown surveillance state.

Related to that last point is something else worth noting. The radicals
of the 60’s and 70’s took every shot to establish who was inside and who
was outside, especially when dealing with the media. They would charge
establishment media a fee to attend their events but grant free access
to their guys. They would use insider language in public events, to make
sure you knew if you belonged. It was highly effective at attracting and
keeping people in the movement.

The alt-right, mostly through serendipity and dumb luck, has a chance to
be a legitimate right-wing mass movement. That is not going to happen if
they keep blundering into unforced errors. The fiasco of the Traditional
Worker’s Party should be a wake up call for the people leading the
alt-right. They have to get smarter and they have to stop screwing up.
The alt-right needs to get smart, or it will die. That means learning
from the winners and the losers.
