---
title: "The Perfidious Right"
date: "2019-10-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18915"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18915"
---

A feature of Buckley-style conservatism has been its willingness to
borrow the language from those it purges, but tarting it up with
modifiers in order to make it acceptable to their masters on the Left.
They are not really borrowing the ideas, as they have no interest in
those. What they are looking for is the energy of the people they
purged, in the same way a mythical beast sucks the life force from its
victims. The idea is to direct some of the excitement toward themselves,
without having to do anything.

It’s not just an American thing. It may be better to cast it as a
feature of English-speaking politics. A great recent example is from
England, where the Tories decided to steal the thunder of the
nationalists by putting Brexit up to a vote. The game was to pretend
they wanted Britain to leave the EU, but have the vote go the other way,
so the Tories could pretend to be nationalists, without having to clash
with their paymasters and moral betters. It did not work out that way,
but that was the plan.

The first example of the Buckleyites playing these games was way back in
the before times when they purged the Birchers. There’s little doubt
that many of the Birchers were nuts and unstable. They accused everyone
of being a tool of Russia, which makes them a forerunner of the modern
Democratic party. The thing is, Buckley purged them from the movement,
but kept extreme anti-communism as his issue. Conservatism was
thereafter defined by a less than serious opposition to communism.

Often, what the so-called conservatives will do is bolt on modifiers to
ideas popular among their base or in dissident circles. The game is to
pretend to be enthusiastic for the thing, while telling the Left there
is no reason to worry. The compassionate conservatism stuff peddled by
the neocons is a great example. The unspoken meaning was that these
compassionate conservatives were big fans of Reagan-style politics, but
would make sure the Left was happy with whatever they were doing.

As Buckley conservatism fades into the background, the push now is to
revive it by tarting it up as a defense of nationalism. The first effort
was the Yoram Hazony book and roadshow this past summer. Now, Rich Lowry
has <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Case-Nationalism-Rich-Lowry/dp/0062839640"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a book</a> out claiming to be
a manly defense of American nationalism. Lowry was at the Hazony show
over the summer and no doubt noticed that no one bothered noticing him.
He wandered around the venue like a lost soul. Suddenly he is a
nationalist.

Of course, his brand of nationalism must first be accepted by the
globalist oligarchs that keep Conservative Inc in business. According to
the official blurb for the book, “He explains how nationalism is an
American tradition, a thread that runs through such diverse leaders as
Alexander Hamilton, Teddy Roosevelt, Martin Luther King, Jr., and Ronald
Reagan.” You see, as everyone knows, nationalism has always been about
diversity, because everyone knows diversity is a nation’s strength.

Lowry is not the only body snatcher trying to repackage the arguments of
Pat Buchanan into a new movement palatable to the Left. Someone calling
himself Colin Dueck has <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Age-Iron-Conservative-Colin-Dueck/dp/0190079363/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a book</a> making the same
claims as Lowry. <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/10/what-is-conservative-american-nationalism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s his latest bit</a> of
self-promotion on the National Review website. His big idea is the
clunky term Conservative American Nationalism, which he would no doubt
pitch as CAN. Maybe he’ll take to calling himself the CAN-man or sell
coffee mugs with CAN on them.

Dueck is a defender of the liberal international order and he is
primarily concerned with preserving that order, while addressing public
unhappiness with it. His book does not clearly make that point, but he
has made that point himself. Here is a
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TC2GRuszo14"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">short clip</a> of him doing so
from last year. In other words, the game here is to use the language of
nationalism to defend the liberal international order. It’s the same gag
they ran on the Tea Party people. Borrow the language in order to neuter
it.

You see the perfidy in the opening paragraphs. Dueck writes, “With
regard to foreign commitments, America’s conservative nationalist
tradition goes back to George Washington’s Farewell Address, along with
Thomas Jefferson’s confirmation of it, urging the country to avoid
permanent entangling alliances.” Notice the modifier attached the phrase
“entangling alliances.” The implication is that Washington was fine with
temporary entangling alliances, just not permanent ones.

In <a href="https://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/washing.asp"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">his farewell address</a>,
Washington said something different. “The great rule of conduct for us
in regard to foreign nations is in extending our commercial relations,
to have with them as little political connection as possible. So far as
we have already formed engagements, let them be fulfilled with perfect
good faith. Here let us stop.” At the time of his address, the United
States had few political relations with Europe. Yet, even these
*temporary* connections were seen as a threat by Washington.

Later, Washington is even more explicit. “Excessive partiality for one
foreign nation and excessive dislike of another cause those whom they
actuate to see danger only on one side, and serve to veil and even
second the arts of influence on the other. Real patriots who may resist
the intrigues of the favorite are liable to become suspected and odious,
while its tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the
people, to surrender their interests.” Washington was describing Buckley
conservatives perfectly.

Of course, the main flaw in these new calls for nationalism in America,
even if they are sincere, is that the time for that has passed. The
people now throwing around nationalistic language were the people, who
purged people like Pat Buchanan back when it was still possible to
preserve the historic American nation. Instead, the Buckleyites usurped
the confidence of the people, in order to convince them to surrender
their interests to cosmopolitan globalists.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
