---
title: "Numbers Still Matter"
date: "2019-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19197"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19197"
---

A general assumption, even by the biology deniers, is that China will
eventually surpass the West, because China is full of smart people.
There’s no questioning the underlying assumption, as China always comes
out at or near the top in IQ studies. This replicates in the United
States, where East Asians are dominating admissions for elite
preparatory schools and colleges. Pretty much everyone agrees this is
mostly due to the fact that Asians are smart people, who also work hard
and value education.

There’s one problem with the China supremacy claim and that is China has
always been smart, but China has always been China. It has never been
Renaissance Europe or even Industrial Europe. Occidental people have
conquered the world and built global empires, while East Asians have
struggled to control their own turf. Even now, China has a per capita
GDP one fourth of Mississippi, the poorest state in the union. Those
smart Chinese have a long way to go to catch the West.

China’s inability to get over the hump and become something like a
Western country is an important thing to consider. To assume, as many IQ
absolutists do, that their mental firepower will be enough, is to miss
the forest for the trees. Clearly, there is something else to it, as
China should have dominated the world a long time ago, if IQ was as
determinant as some claim. It should not have taken the Industrial
Revolution two centuries to sink roots in China if it was only about IQ.

This is important to consider when thinking about the demographic
changes happening in America. Those East Asians pushing out the
remaining whites from elite schools will, presumably, begin to take up
positions in the ruling class. This was the pattern with Jews who first
flooded into colleges, then it was elite colleges and then finally the
institutions. When you look at the enrollments of elite schools, whites
are the most under-represented group now. That will only get worse.

The question then is what sort of ruling class will we have when Asians
take up positions in the American elite. More precisely, what sort of
ruling class will we have when it is a Jewish and Asian ruling elite,
with a passive white rump and some browns tossed in as
decorations. Given the clannishness of Jews and East Asians, that is the
most likely result of what we are seeing. <a
href="https://www.brusselstimes.com/all-news/magazine-all-news/41086/the-past-present-and-future-of-antwerp-s-diamond-industry/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Antwerp diamond market</a>
offers some clues as to how this will play out over the coming years.

One thing to consider is that East Asians and Jews may thrive in
occidental societies, but only because those societies provide the right
framework for them. On their own, in control of their own lands, both
groups have punched well below their IQ. Just as China has
under-performed based on IQ, Israel is an under-performer. There are
other issues for Israel, obviously, but Israel could not survive on its
own without support from the West, especially the United States. No one
disputes this.

Like China, Israel has had many chances to get her act together and
exploit her human capital, but it has always ended in tears. Israel
always ends up being a nation of oxpeckers with no big game as a host.
Instead they succumb to picking at one another until they exhaust
themselves. Eventually they fling open the gates to a conqueror in order
to have a natural landing spot. Israel is a land of advisers and
critics, perpetually haggling with one another until some outsider ends
the bickering.

Of course, China has always been a land with very rigid vertical and
horizontal social relationships. The Chinese tendency toward
authoritarian bureaucracy was too strong for Marxism and now too strong
for neo-liberalism. China today is the same place Marco Polo found seven
centuries ago, just decorated with technology appropriated from the
West. China is proof of the great chain of causality. Her biology and
culture dictate the institutions, politics and economics.

What does this mean for America when the ruling class is dominated by
Asians and Jews, with a sprinkling of whites and browns? Given that
neither group is equipped to operate a modern occidental society, the
choices are collapse or a slow retooling of America to reflect the
biology of the new ruling class. How a naturally authoritarian people
will work with a naturally subversive people is a mystery. In fact, it
seems unlikely that such an arrangement could work at all.

Another possible outcome is that the decline reaches a point at which
Jewish and Asian exceptionalism begin to reverse. The circumstances that
presently allow for their success disappear and they begin a steep
decline in terms of group success. In a world where getting into a good
prep school and then an elite college is declining in value, the ability
to game those systems quickly loses value. Think of a world in which no
one trusts the media. Having control of the media is a liability, not an
asset.

This is why fears of a ruling class dominated by people of an Oriental
outlook is probably misplaced. The displacement of whites from the
ruling class is just another symptom of the decline. It is a phase that
will lead to greater social unrest and instability as North America
slowly becomes majority-minority. A ruling class distrusted by and alien
to the majority of the population is not going to have a long future, no
matter how smart and ruthless they are as people. Numbers still matter.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
