---
title: "Who And How Many"
date: "2019-01-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16139"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16139"
---

The immigration debate in America, and maybe the West as a whole, is not
much of a debate, at least as far as public policy. Instead, it is
something of a meta-debate, in that the facts and important decisions
are talked about indirectly. For example, in the US, everyone sort of
thinks it is about Mexican immigration, but no one ever explicitly
speaks to the facts about Mexican immigration. Details about who is
coming over the border or gaming the anchor baby system remain a
mystery.

As is always the case with big issues in America, immigration is debated
on purely moral terms and even there, the morality is not explicit. No
one ever bothers to explain why America is a “nation of immigrants” or
whether that is salient. For that matter, no one can seem to wrap their
head around why immigration of any sort is morally good. Even
immigration hawks go to great lengths to speak well of legal immigrants.
Ours is a meta-debate about the morality of undefined policies stripped
of facts and details.

Imagine a public debate over building a bridge across a local river. The
salient facts would be the cost, where to put it and who benefits from
the bridge. Instead, one side talks endlessly about the morality of
building bridges. It is who they are. By extension, those who oppose
bridge building in the abstract are immoral in some way. The other side,
in contrast, spends its time trying to prove they are not opposed to
bridge building, but simply have questions about where to put this
bridge and how much to spend on it.

Even when someone tries to talk about the economics of immigration,
putting aside cultural preferences and demographic reality, the debate
soon veers into a weird sort of romanticism. It is just assumed that
jobs are going unfilled due to the lack of labor. There is never any
examination of the claims. Further, it is assumed that temporary labor
shortages in one area of a continent sized country are immoral. Rising
wages are treated like an insult to the economy, this vaguely understood
thing we must worship.

The fact is though, the reality of all public policy is that it is and
will be a debate over the facts of the issue. That reality can be wished
away for a long time, but eventually the reality comes home. That is
what we are seeing with the stand-off between Trump and the Cult of
Brown Ascendancy. We are slowing creeping up on the fact that
immigration is about who and how many. That is, who will *we* accept and
how many of them will we accept. Immigration has always been about who
and how many.

Those are not a question most Americans are equipped to answer. The how
many part is the easiest, especially if you start with zero as the
default. No one is walking around thinking to themselves, “We really
need more Eritreans around here.” If immigration were capped at zero, no
one would notice. In fact, if there was a moratorium and the government
started to aggressively deport people, even those in the system, most
people would not care. In other words, the how many is a small number.

The tougher question is what sorts of immigrants we will accept, even in
limited numbers. In the Mid-Atlantic, where a large Korean community
exists, most people would be fine with Korean immigration. Unlike the
Chinese, Koreans are not fleeing political oppression or economic
uncertainty. Koreans come here for lifestyle reasons, so they assimilate
rapidly. They also take pride in being the model minority, despite what
some lefty advocates claim. Koreans came here to be Americans.

At the other end, no one would want any Muslims from the Middle East, as
they simply do not fit a modern Western country. Everywhere Muslim
migration has been high, we see terrorist barriers, armed patrols, and
absurd security measures. In fact, most Americans could be convinced
that we make an exception to the First Amendment and ban Islam, maybe
even deport all Muslims. It has not worked, and it can never work. The
Western policy toward that part of the country should first be
containment.

Similarly, sub-Saharan Africans are a no-go. America has a long history
of trying to integrate Africans into a Europeans country. It does not
work. Most people can accept the moral obligation to the descendants of
former slaves, even if their ancestors were not slave holders. Bringing
in a new population of unassimilable people, with natural hostility to
Europeans, makes no sense. Again, no one is walking around wondering how
things are going in Chad. That and American blacks do not like African
migrants.

One of the interesting things that happens when you start to think “from
where and how many” is the how many becomes an easier question the more
you think honestly about the “from where” part. For Americans, the real
issue is how many South Americans we will accept. That quickly reduces
to a much simpler question. Do we need any of them? For most people, the
answer is no, we do not need more people. Therefore, the only question
left is are we morally bound to take anyone in for permanent settlement.

That, of course, is why the open-borders crowd prefer to keep this a
meta-debate about meta-morality. Once you start thinking about the
facts, the default on immigration swings 180 degrees. The default
becomes zero and building a massive barrier to entry makes complete
sense. The debate is over the exceptions and more important, the
conditions for those exceptions. The moral authority becomes the will of
the people, rather than a self-selected cult of true believers divorced
from daily reality.
