---
title: "Scientific Theology"
date: "2019-10-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Progressives
  - Religion
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18965"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18965"
---

Way back in the before times, when terms like “multiculturalism” had not
escaped the academy, it was assumed that science and math were immune
from the politicization that was ongoing in fields like history. After
all, history is about storytelling, while math is about getting the
right answer. Surely the right answer fields would not succumb to the
growing lunacy on the Left, with regards to race, sex and ethnicity.
Yet, here we are in the current year and the Left has <a
href="https://www.hoover.org/research/seattle-schools-propose-teach-math-education-racist-will-california-be-far-behindseattle"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">declared a fatwa against
math</a>.

It turns out that lunacy and intelligence are not opposites. Smart
people, the sort you tend to find in science departments, can believe in
crazy things. This probably should have been obvious to the men of
science a long time ago, but scientists, like the lunatics now making
war on them, have always had a narrow definition of religion and the
supernatural. They fell into the trap of thinking the people spouting
oogily-boogily about the gods were churchgoers, not their friends at the
university.

A classic example of smart people embracing wacky beliefs is the
fascination with communism in the last century. Lots of brilliant
people, some working on top-secret government projects, were sure
communism was the future. Marxism was their religion in the same way
Catholicism was for Blaise Pascal. By the standards of his day, Pascal
was considered a religious fanatic, even an extremist, but there’s no
disputing his influence on math and science. Religion and science are
not oil and water.

That is what we have to keep in mind as the sciences of today are
overrun by the modern fanatics. A person capable of sitting through an
undergrad degree in biology and then advanced degrees in human sciences
is also capable of thinking their penis is a human construct and they
are oppressed by pronouns. People are of two minds, the moral and the
empirical. The former will always override the latter when it comes to
their group participation. Morality is the shared reality of the group.

That’s important to keep in mind when <a
href="http://ewanbirney.com/2019/10/race-genetics-and-pseudoscience-an-explainer.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">these epistles</a> are issued
by random clerics and imams of the academy. The people putting these
together are not using their science brain, which is why that post is
largely devoid of science. Instead, they are using their moral brain in
order to both reassure themselves by huddling tighter with their
coreligionists, but also to increase their standing within that group.
You can be sure they got plenty of positive feedback from their fellow
members of the hive.

The anti-science quality of that post is clear in the second paragraph.
The authors talk about “dark forces” in the same way a primitive would
warn villagers of spectral forces he experienced in the forest. That’s
not a phrase that has any business in a post about facts, but it is not
a post about facts. It is an effort to anathematize a set of facts that
contradict deeply held beliefs by the ruling cult of the West. The “dark
forces” are not wrong as a factual matter. They are wrong in the
spiritual sense.

This is something normal people have struggled with for a very long
time, as they foolishly think facts and reason can overcome emotion.
They have been sure they can “win” the fight with the Left by assembling
enough facts or providing bulletproof reasoning. That never works. Facts
will never triumph over people’s sense of right and wrong and that is
the point of that post. They are not disputing the facts. They are
subtly arguing that those facts are immoral, so they must be condemned.

Of course, the reason the fanatics are so focused on the human sciences
now is they see it as a way to solve a problem in their faith. A couple
generations ago, before genetics began to reveal important facts about
humanity, the Left could claim to be on the side of reason against the
superstition of religion. Their opponent was Christianity and they were
on the side of facts and reason. Now that their opponent is the new
information springing forth from science, they have lost their
authority.

Imagine if suddenly the Catholic Church discovered some scrolls written
by Jesus that contradicted key parts of modern Christianity. It turns
out that Jesus wanted everyone to convert to Judaism. One option would
be to overturn two thousand years of theology and tradition, admitting
that Christianity is a hoax. The other option would be to toss the
scrolls into the fire and be done with it. It’s not hard to see which
way things would go, which is why this idea makes for a great plot
device.

That’s what the primitives of the Left are doing when they attack the
new findings from the human sciences. Everything the authors believe
about the world, including their social connections and personal beliefs
about themselves, are tangled up in the religion of the blank slate and
extreme egalitarianism. The facts that are now showing those beliefs are
false, perhaps deliberately false, are just like those scrolls in the
hypothetical example. It’s easy to see why they are ready to destroy
science in order to save it.

It is tempting to assume that the truth will eventually triumph, but
that has never been the way to bet, at least in the cultural realm. We
are more likely to see Steve Sailer burned at the stake as a heretic
than we are to see these primitives accept biological reality. Belief is
powerful magic that can easily overcome the most stubborn facts and the
most stubborn people holding them. The barking at the moon fanatics now
in control of the West will let the world burn before abandoning their
faith.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
