---
title: "Another Trip Around The Sun"
date: "2019-11-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19105"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19105"
---

Yesterday was my annual physical, so I got to experience a little bit of
the American health care system. Since I don’t have any maladies, I only
experience the system on these annual trips to get inspected. As is
always the case, when you are familiar with something, its quirks seem
normal. When you are unfamiliar with something, those quirks and
contradictions jump out to you. My trip to the doctor is like visiting a
strange place for the first time. All the weirdness stands out to me.

The first bit of oddness is the check-in. Last year they started this
new process where you answer a survey when you arrive for the
appointment. They ask questions about your personal habits that are none
of their business. One question was whether you own firearms and why.
There’s no reason for the doctor to know this or ask it, but that
question was on the survey again this year. A new question was to list
the states I had visited in the last year. It is not hard to see where
this is going.

Another new item this year is a kiosk where you check-in for the
appointment. One of the things they do is take your picture. My dentist
started this last year. There’s no reason for them to take a picture of
you, at least not one to do with health. Most likely, the pics are being
sold to the tech giants. The mass surveillance system being built out by
companies like Google and Facebook will use facial recognition to track
us as we go about our business, so they want a database of faces.

In this regard, the health care system is a glimpse into the future our
rulers have planned for us. To the people in the health care system, I
am just a talking meat stick, one of many, they have to supervise. The
relationship between the patient and the system is impersonal and
transactional. Health care is a process. The patients enter the system,
pass through the system and come out the other end repaired, broken in
some new way or dead. No one really cares, just as long as the process
continues.

Of course, the American health care system is really just a massive
series of toll booths and processing centers. All along the way,
patients are turned upside down and given a good shake to get money from
their insurer. If you have a malady, you get diverted into a new series
of toll booths and processing centers, so the people manning those
operations can dip into the insurance pool you represent. The business
of treating sick people is a good business for a lot of people.

A good example of how this works is I had patella tendinitis a few years
back. I was pretty sure that was the issue, but I asked the doctor about
it. He sent me to a quack called a physical therapist. My insurance
covered five visits, so he said I needed five visits, then I would be
sent for an MRI. To get the MRI, I would need an X-ray. The doctor, of
course, needed to see me in-between stops. The point of the process was
to squeeze out every dime from my insurance plan.

If the goal were to treat my injury, they would have sent me for the MRI
right away, as that would tell them the best course of action. They
would see that it was tendinitis and that rest and a brace were the
right course. That would not line the pockets of the quack, the X-ray
company or the doctor, so that’s not what happens. This is one reason
American health care is absurdly expensive. We have great health care,
but you have to pass through a lot of toll booths to get it.

Another new thing this year was a giant flat screen in the waiting area
running ads for various drugs and treatments. It used to be that the
sci-fi movies about the dystopian future would show a world bombarded by
ads everywhere you went. That’s where we are headed now. I suspect that
the next time I see the doctor, he will have patches on his smock like
race car drivers. He will great me with, “this physical has been brought
to you by the makers of” some drug being pushed on patients.

The funny thing about the problems of the American health care system is
that this is the one area where libertarians could apply their
arguments. They don’t, of course, as that would take time away from
selling weed and porn to grade school kids, but there is a libertarian
case to be made about health care. In fact, we have a libertarian health
care system operating in the United States. It is world class and
provides amazing results for the patients. It is called veterinary
medicine.

In America, our pets get better health care than most humans on earth.
The cost, compared to any system in the West, is trivial. The service is
phenomenal, as there are lots of suppliers competing for customers. In
my area, I have one doctor and five veterinary clinics. I don’t need
permission to make an appointment and I am not required to pay a monthly
fee for services I’ll never use. It is a great example of how to operate
a market-based health care system that no one ever mentions.

Whenever I mention this, the immediate push-back is that you can choose
to put down your animal, but you cannot put down your granny. That is
nonsense, as we end care all the time for terminal people. In Europe,
they are euthanizing people now, sometimes against their will, just to
cut costs. All the current system does is disguise these tough choices
by shifting them onto the system. For most of human history people
accepted that death was the inevitable end of life. We can accept is
again.

The good news is the ravages of time have not made me obsolete, so the
system recommended I remain operational for another orbit around the
sun. Even though I had no issues to report, I was still relieved to
learn I was not on that list. Like most men, I don’t like interfacing
with the health care system, so good health means less interaction with
the system. Of course, it will not be long before my social credit score
flags me for refurbishment or perhaps recycling, but for now I get to
live another day.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
