---
title: "The Uncertainty Of Money"
date: "2019-08-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18406"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18406"
---

Imagine a world in which governments do business with one another only
in gold, as in physical gold. They can issue promissory notes to one
another, but it has to be backed by verified stores of gold.
Governments, however, do not use gold for paying employees or
contracting work with private business. In the case of employees,
government pays in script, the value of which is set by the government.
The vendors, on the other hand, are paid with silver, as in real silver
coin or silver notes.

The first part of this thought experiment is not a big leap, as
governments still hoard gold and will on occasion pay one another in
gold. In our imaginary world, gold would be the exclusive currency of
government, so regular people would hold very little of it, other than
for novelty. This is not much different from today, as gold is not legal
tender in most of the world. It is treated, in the law, as a commodity,
like diamonds, barrels of oil, bales of hay, and so on. Gold is a
product, not money.

The rest of the thought experiment gets a little weird, as companies do
business in the tender of their home country. If they did business with
one another in silver, then one of two things would happen. Either the
price of silver would be pegged at the value of the legal tender or it
would be pegged at the price of gold. Since government would always be
willing to buy gold in silver or tender, from anyone holding gold as a
store of value, the most likely result is all three would be related in
value.

The result of this arrangement would be a world where the credit
worthiness of governments would be pegged to their gold reserves, but
also the gold reserves of their native companies and populations. A
government that could quickly buy up gold from its people would have
more flexibility than a government so distrusted that its own people
would resist selling its gold to the state. Something similar would
apply to the credit ratings of businesses, with regards to the supply of
silver.

A well run country with a high trust population and a responsible
government would find that the flow of gold and silver would be high, as
there would be no reason to hoard them. Similarly, the value of the
paper script used for retail transactions would have a steady value,
relative to the currency of business and government. This would not just
be an internal trust. Outsiders would see it too. In contrast, corrupt
states with corrupt people would have low trust and lots of hoarding of
gold and silver.

Now, this thought experiment is useful in understanding what is
happening with the screaming headlines about [negative bond
yields](https://www.wsj.com/articles/germany-for-first-time-sells-30-year-bonds-offering-negative-yields-11566385847).
The media hypes these events as if they are the sign of the end times.
Most likely, they are triggered by the word “negative” and just assume
it is bad news. In reality, what the market is saying is that the German
bonds are so safe, the holder is willing to pay for the privilege of
holding them. Lenders are literally paying the German state for the
privilege of lending to it.

Now, it is tempting for a certain sort of person (libertarians) to say
it is ridiculous to compare government debt to gold, as in this analogy.
They are right. Government debt is actually more secure. The reason is
this. Tomorrow, the government can ban the private ownership of gold.
Executive Order 6102 is a United States presidential executive order
signed on April 5, 1933, by President Franklin D. Roosevelt that
effectively banned the private ownership of gold in the United States.

On the other hand, no government anywhere could ban the private
ownership of government debt. In fact, no government could risk the hint
of not paying its outstanding debts, as that would make all debt
worthless. Since, in the case of Western countries, those government
bonds are the basis of the financial system, public trust in the credit
worthiness of government is vital. That’s why people are literally
willing to trade gold at a loss for the privilege of holding German
bonds right now.

Now, that does not mean negative rates are all puppies and sunshine.
Going back to our analogy, a world where everyone trusts government, but
is not willing to trust companies, would result in a disequilibrium in
the relationship between gold, silver and the paper script used in
retail. The “price” in terms of script for silver would collapse, while
the price of gold would soar. After all, why hold silver when business
is bad, when you can hold gold or even cash, which has a higher value?

In our age, government debt is the gold in the analogy, but corporate
debt is the equivalent of the silver. Modern business works off debt, as
it is the currency of the modern age. In prior ages, government debt and
corporate debt was captive to the supply of gold and silver. Today, the
relationship between sovereign debt, municipal debt, corporate debt and
legal tender is enabled and managed by central banks, primarily the
Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank.

This is why borrowing rates across the West remain at historic lows. The
whole point of this arrangement was to prevent the ups and downs, the
booms and busts that plagued industrial economies since the steam
engine. The trouble is, the system also allows for the easy manipulation
of the economy through the money supply. Inevitably, that worked one way
and we are now in a place where no one is willing to pay the price of
getting things back to something close to historic norms.

This system has also been based on certain assumptions about America
that are starting to unravel. One is that America would continue to
operate like a giant shopping mall, willing to buy on unfavorable terms.
Both Europe and China based their economic models on this assumption.
Trump has abandoned that and that’s why we see problems in China and now
economic uncertainty in the heart of Europe. The uncertainty of world
political arrangements is now showing up in the money.

It also suggests the markets are slowly coming to terms with the fact
that the Trump economic model is the new normal. The election is
fourteen months away, so if his loss in 2020 was the safe bet, the
markets would be responding now. Instead, the global economy seems to be
slowly coming around to the fact that either Trump wins in 2020 or his
polices will be carried on no matter what happens. America as problem
solver for the world’s money problems may be coming to an end.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
