---
title: "The Eternal Scold"
date: "2019-06-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17942"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17942"
---

A popular game with the old Buckley conservatives was to figure out how
to blame the actions of the Left on socialism or a quest for power.
Whenever the Left found some reason to attack some aspect of white
culture, the National Review types would work their fingers raw trying
to explain why it was either due to socialism or a quest for political
power by those dastardly democrats. Sometimes, they would combine the
two, so that the quest for power was to impose socialism on us.

Some elements of the dissident right have inherited this tendency to
reduce all left-wing activity to simple, individual motivations. The
Left does something similar, but they prefer supernatural and mystical
explanations. In fact, that is probably a useful way of describing the
political divide. One side relies on magic to explain the world, while
the other side relies on some form of self-interest. In both cases, the
preferred answer strips the humanity from the actors and reduces them to
robots or pawns.

The truth is, human society has a lot of complexity, because we have a
wide range of human types. For example, the scold is a feature of all
white societies, regardless of political and economic makeup. These are
people who take pleasure in lecturing the rest of us about our failings.
Sometimes they often find a home on the Left these days, because the
Left defines the civic religion of the West. In a prior age, they would
have been defending order and tradition, as part of the religious
community.

These people are not motivated by greed or a lust for power. Their
scolding of the population may result in elevated status or a
comfortable lifestyle, but that is not what motivates them to scold the
rest of us. Al Gore made a lot of money off the climate change rackets,
but that’s not why he does it. He was plenty rich before he got the
green fever after the 2000 election. What gets him up in the morning is
the need to be Gaia’s prophet, an Ezekiel warning the rest of us about
the end times.

A recent example of this is the decision, by some scolds on the San
Francisco board of supervisors, to ban e-cigarettes. According to the <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2019/06/25/health/san-francisco-e-cigarette-ban-sales-bn/index.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">news accounts</a>, they will
ban the sale of these devises and ban the shipment of them into the
city. Strangely, people will still be allowed to possess them and use
them in public. Perhaps the scheme is to ban the public use of them next
and then criminalize the possession of them. That’s the way they
attacked the sale and use of tobacco forty years ago.

Now, the anti-smoking crusades were allegedly about public health.
Smoking is not only unhealthful to the smoker, it has a societal cost.
Lung cancer is a terrible way to die and an expensive one as well.
Public health is often cast in emotional terms, trying to save lives,
but as policy matter, it is about saving money. Either way, the cover
story for the taxes on tobacco and limits on smoking was about public
health. We wanted to end smoking and therefore improve the health of the
people.

Of course, that was never true. It was convenient that smoking was bad
for your health, but the real motivation was the need to boss people
around. The scold has to have someone they can bully. The reason is just
an excuse. That’s what you see with these crusades against electronic
cigarettes. There is no data suggesting they are unhealthful like
cigarettes. Nicotine is not the issue with tobacco use. It is the other
chemicals and the particulate matter from burning tobacco. That’s not an
issue with e-cigarettes.

The funny thing about this is these electronic cigarettes are probably
the best tool for quitting conventional tobacco use. They allow the user
to wean themselves from the psychological habit as they wean themselves
from the chemical addiction. There is some evidence suggesting the
addictive power of cigarettes is not the nicotine, but the drug cocktail
used to prepare the tobacco, in combination with nicotine. Therefore,
this delivery system is a better way to get off the drug than other
methods.

None of that matters to the crusaders. It never mattered to them when
they were howling about smoking at ballparks or out of doors. What
motivates these people is the need to lecture the public about morality.
The scold always assumes pleasure is an indication of sin. Those hipster
goofballs vaping in the coffee shop, therefore, must be doing something
wrong. That’s the bat signal for the local scolds to rally and demand
the activist be stopped, else the community will be at risk.

That’s the other thing about scolds. They always justify their activity
by claiming they are sacrificing for the good of the community. In this
case, they are looking out for the children, as if toddlers are growing
beards and taking up vaping. In reality, it is just the same old people,
the eternal scold, getting a rush from making other people stop doing
something they enjoy. It’s not about money and it is not about power.
For these scolds and busybodies, the reward is in being the scold. It’s
who they are.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask.
Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to destroy
your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer">PayPal</a> setup for those who prefer that
method to donate. Thank you for your support!
