---
title: "The Cheap Credit Trap"
date: "2019-06-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17671"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17671"
---

The Federal Reserve is making noises about <a
href="https://www.cnbc.com/2019/06/05/former-fed-governor-on-powell-speech-possible-us-interest-rate-cuts.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">cutting interest rates</a> for
the first time in several years. The reason is the trade dispute with
China and now Mexico is potentially having an impact on the global
economy. Even though it is only a signal of an intention, markets
rallied on the news. Global investors and their robot traders love cheap
credit from the Federal Reserve, so anytime there is the promise of more
cheap credit, there is a rush into equities. It is a reminder of what
actually drives stock indices.

It used to be that recessions were seen as a correctives for the system,
as they eliminated unproductive and parasitic elements from the economy.
In good times, all sorts of inefficiencies are tolerated, as everyone is
making money. When times get tight, everyone gets serious again.
Inefficient businesses and industries fail, thus putting those resources
into more productive areas. The recession was the economy’s way of
policing itself, so it was considered a necessary, if unpleasant,
feature.

No one thinks like that today. Any sign of a downturn produces panic,
especially among office holders. Part of it is no one has any respect
for office holders, so voters will look for any reason to throw the bums
out. For people who live off the public, losing an election is worse
than death. Another part of it seems to be the sense among the ruling
classes that they have only a tenuous grip on power. This is a bread and
circus world now and they better make sure both are in ample supply.

That’s all speculation, of course, but it’s also a reminder of the long
running problem that no one can figure out how to remedy. That is the
interest rate trap. Lowering rates to address a slowing economy or a
financial crisis is easy. Raising the rates back up again appears to be
impossible. It has been over a decade since the mortgage crisis and the
Federal Reserve is still trying to unwind its position and bring rates
back up to historic norms. This news suggests they will never pull it
off.

One reason the Federal Reserve is trapped in a world of ultra-low
interest rates is the world economy is based on credit. The foundation
of the credit system is U.S. treasuries. When the government borrows
money, it is also creating an asset to be used in the financial
system. Stable and predictable interest rates make treasuries valuable
collateral, as their value will never decline. In fact, the market has
an insatiable appetite for American sovereign debt. Those super-low
rates are a big part of it.

Of course, the flip side of this is the U.S. government can only exists
as it does with super-low borrowing rates. Current debt stands at $22
trillion and goes up by a trillion per year, give or take. Even if the
so-called fiscal conservatives got all the items on their wish list, the
cost of the great Baby Boomer retirement guarantees massive borrowing
for the next several decades. That is only possible in a world of cheap
credit, so both sides of the debt transaction need super-low interest
rates.

Then there is the retail side. Whole industries have become hooked on
super-low borrowing rates. Imagine what happens to housing if mortgage
rates return to historic norms, in terms of interest rates and terms.
Imagine what happens to the car business when car makers cannot offer
84-month terms and low interest rates. The answer is these industries
shrink considerably and take the economy into a depression from which it
would unlikely recover. These industries need low rates to survive now.

Now, there is an argument that borrowing rates are normal for a highly
efficient modern economy. Historic averages are not useful, as the world
where men paid debts with gold coin, or mortgages were processed by
hand, is nothing like today’s world of automation and complex financial
instruments. There is a lot of truth to this. Automation has not just
made transaction processing faster, it has made it more reliable, thus
reducing systemic risk and friction. Cheap rates are a reflection of
cheaper costs in the system.

There’s also the fact that central banks have greater control of the
global economy than at any time in human history. The microprocessor has
had no greater impact on the world than in the financial system. Not
only do central banks have more information about the state of the
economy, they have tools that allow them to see trends before they get
going, thus allowing them to anticipate problems before they reach
crisis level. It’s not perfect, but managed capitalism is more efficient
and predictable.

That said, the main tool central banks have in fighting a financial
crisis is lowering borrowing rates. The reason they could soften the
blow of the mortgage crisis is they could spread the cost of remedying
it across the following decades. In the simplest terms, the Federal
Reserve used a payment plan to cover the cost of fixing the mortgage
crisis in 2008. That was only possible with the room to lower rates and
borrow heavily from the private economy to soak up bad debt and
warehouse it at the Fed.

Inevitably, this topic leads to questions about whether the current
credit based economy is sustainable in the long run. The old joke about
“in the long run, we’re all dead” is true here as well. The current
monetary system has been in place since the Louvre Accords in the
1980’s. While there have been recessions, there have been no depressions
that threaten the political order. The ability to borrow has never been
stronger, which means the West should be able to manage the great
demographic change over.

Still, there is that haunting sense that this credit regime is a
slow-motion bust-out where social capital is turned into cash and used
to perpetuate the current order. At some point, when the West is nothing
but a shopping mall full of strangers, with no connection to one
another, what happens then? The West is haunted by the sense that the
true cost of cheap credit makes the credit based economy unsustainable.
In the end, the cultural capital will have been exhausted and there will
be nothing left to borrow.

To contribute to my <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Escape From Lagos Fund</a>

Or, You can send money to me at:

P.O. Box 432  
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432
