---
title: "Brought To You By The Letter R"
date: "2019-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18617"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18617"
---

Something you cannot help but notice, if you spend time scanning the
political sites, is the growth of sponsored content. Breitbart will
often have stories labeled “Sponsored Content” at the top, but otherwise
they look like the rest of their stuff. This is content they are paid to
post on their site. In the case of political sites, this content
is generated by an industry group or lobbyists, who then pay the site
for the opportunity to post the content, much like an advertiser. Hence
the name “sponsored content.”

There is also something called “white box” content in the trade, which
means it comes without attribution. Someone or some group with an agenda
will produce a story and either give it to a site or pay them to take
it. Part of the deal is the site gets to claim it as its own work. They
will format it to their style and put the name of a writer they claim as
their own the byline. The anti-BDS people use this to place stories
unfavorable to the BDS movement into so-called conservative
publications.

This is dishonest, at the very minimum, but it is a common enough
practice that no one seems to care about it. Just how much content on
these political sites is produced by concerned interests in Washington
is hard to know. The stuff labeled as sponsored content is easy to spot,
but the white box stuff is a mystery. Some of this white box content is
quietly provided directly to friendly freelance writers, so even the
site publishers do not know the real author of these pieces.

For example, how much of Cathy Young’s work is truly her own? Her
content is clearly from a very specific perspective. It coincidentally
matches perfectly with people like Max Boot, Jennifer Rubin, Bret
Stephens and other neocons. Oddly, these people push an agenda the Left
violently opposed not so long ago, yet all of these people now work for
far left scandal sheets like the Washington Post. In the case of Young,
she turns up in so-called conservative sites and far Left sites. What
versatility!

There’s another aspect to the political writing game. This is the part
tangled up in the Washington hackarama. This is where political
consultants, connected individuals and members of the permanent
political class use the political sites as a form of advertising for
their services. They produce content for the sites and either give it
away or in some cases pay for access on the sly. Instead of representing
some anonymous interests, the point is to get their name in circulation.

An example of
<a href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/09/truth-about-huey-long/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this</a> is a recent article
in National Review. It is a post suggesting Huey Long deserved to be
murdered because he was a populist and everyone knows populists are the
worst people. The writer is listed as
<a href="https://twitter.com/ellencarmichael/status/1170329806396952576"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ellen Carmichael</a>, “the
president of
<a href="https://www.thelafayettecompany.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">The Lafayette Company</a>, a political-communications
firm.” A few minutes <a
href="https://www.politico.com/story/2019/08/28/playbook-birthday-ellen-carmichael-1476640"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">searching around</a> and you
will learn that she started in local Louisiana politics right out of
diapers and has now moved to Washington as a consultant.

One way to get her name out to potential clients is to post stories
suggesting things about her partisanship, her ideas and so forth in the
sorts of sites read by people in the political business. At this point,
National Review has no audience outside of Republican politics. It is
pretty much a trade magazine now. They are happy to take this sort of
content, as it is cheap and it fits in with their model, which is to
wield as little influence over American politics as possible, while
remaining in business.

Now, this is just one example, but multiply this, the sponsored content
and the white box content over hundreds of times a month. It is not
unreasonable to think that a large portion of what shows up on political
sites is created by the hackarama. A lot of the cable news content is
produced this ways, as well. For example, all of the Middle East content
on mainstream sites is probably the work of
<a href="https://youtu.be/3lSjXhMUVKE" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">The Lobby</a>. Whether through friendly writers or
directly through their own staff, it’s all agit-prop now.

From the dissident perspective, this is a useful starting point when
discussing politics with normal people. Most readers of normie
conservative sites are unaware of the fact lots of the content is really
just product placement. The fans of Ben Shapiro don’t know he is <a
href="https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2018/12/how-hollywood-invented-ben-shapiro"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">pretty much just an actor</a>,
hired to promote
<a href="https://twitter.com/benshapiro/status/1171455400610160642"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">certain positions</a>. Instead
of harping on the latter, the way to awaken normie is to talk about the
former. Your Boomer uncle may love Israel, but he really hates being
lied to, so go with that.

This may seem like another good reason to burn Washington to the ground,
put the inhabitants to the sword and salt the earth afterwards, but that
is a foregone conclusion at this late stage. It is another example of
how the political system is corrupt beyond any reasonable hope of
reform. Washington is a closed system ruled by a uniparty of permanent
residents. It’s <a href="https://memory-alpha.fandom.com/wiki/Borg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the Borg</a>. When parts die
off or are expelled as waste, new people are absorbed and assimilated
into the system.

This reality of Washington is important to understand when examining the
Trump administration. He came to town promising to reform Washington,
but the Imperial Capital is beyond reform. It operates like a unitary
organism now. Any attempt at reform will unleash antibodies to isolate
and kill the foreign object. Those antibodies show up in the media.
Washington now exists solely to perpetuate itself. To reform it is to
kill it, which is no longer reform, but another word that begins with
the letter R.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
