---
title: "The Break Up"
date: "2019-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19063"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19063"
---

Not so long ago, societal collapse was a big topic of conversation among
critics of the current world order. Usually it was centered on
economics, as the financial system has become so complex that no one can
explain it. The run-up to the mortgage crisis had lots of people
promoting economic collapse theories. A decade earlier, the Y2K panic
ushered in theories of technological collapse. Of course, the zombie
apocalypse movies and TV shows are a regular part of the pop media
rotation.

Societal collapse, however, is probably not in the cards. The best known
treatment of the issue is by Joseph Tainter. In [Collapse of Complex
Societies](https://www.amazon.com/Collapse-Complex-Societies-Studies-Archaeology/dp/052138673X),
Tainter makes the point that collapse in the modern age is unlikely, as
all complex societies are dependent on one another. Therefore, when one
society begins to fail, the rest will provide support to prevent the
rapid disintegration of the failing society. In other words, the modern
age is a network of reciprocal relationships between complex societies.

In the case of America, the rest of the world needs America in order to
remain intact, so a crisis in America will be met with a response from
Europe, Asia and even South America. The internal response to crisis
will include global support for repairing the internal problems of
America. This network of relationships may not arrest the decline, but
it will prevent collapse. The rest of the complex societies will ease
America into the autumn of its existence, thus buying themselves time to
adjust.

An alternative to this analysis comes from John Michael Greer. He wrote
a paper on what he termed [catabolic
collapse](https://www.ecoshock.org/transcripts/greer_on_collapse.pdf).
The general theory is that all human societies create complex
institutions and social structures that require maintenance. Over time,
the cost of maintaining them begins to exceed capacity. The solution is
a deliberate downsizing where these complex systems are abandoned in
order to focus resources on the core functions of society. Complex
societies don’t collapse. They downsize.

Greer’s idea is a variation of the Tainter theory, in that it focuses on
the material aspects of society. In the Tainter view, collapse is like
bankruptcy that ends in a liquidation of the society. Greer’s view is a
bankruptcy that leads to a reorganization of society going through
bankruptcy, so it can reemerge simpler and more viable. In reality, both
ideas are working from the same assumption. That is, human societies
grow inefficient over time and that inefficiency eventually reaches a
tipping point.

One issue that is a problem when discussing these theories of societal
collapse is we tend to think of collapse as something that happens
relatively quickly. That is, it happens not just in our lifetime, but
overnight. One day things are going along just fine and the next day the
wheels are coming off the cart. It is the image of Rome at its peak
compared to the image of hairy barbarians scaling the walls. We
naturally want to think of collapse as the sudden, unexpected death of
society.

Collapse is most likely experienced in fits and starts, with those fits
and starts spanning lifetimes. For example, the men who founded the
American empire in the early 20th century passed out of this world
seeing their creation in the throes of the cultural revolution of the
60’s and 70’s. The so-called greatest generation that inherited the
empire from the founders, were re-engineering American society so their
rotten kids would stop rioting in the street and burning the college
campus.

The generation that founded the empire probably thought it was headed
for collapse, but by that point they were too old to care. It did not
collapse. American society stabilized, regained its footing and started
to recover in the 1980’s and 1990’s, with the great economic and
technological boom. Ironically, the baby boomers are experiencing what
their grandparents experienced as they head for the void. They are
seeing what appears to be the collapse of American society in a spasm of
multicultural rage.

A half century ago, California was the epicenter of the cultural
revolution that threatened to collapse society. It is the test bed for
the multicultural favela the rage heads in the ruling class have planned
for the nation. Today, they have rolling blackouts in a third world
effort to keep from setting the state on fire. Their efforts to manage
air pollution, a great crusade in the 1860’s and 1970’s, is [beginning
to
fail](https://phys.org/news/2019-11-satellite-polluted-los-angeles-air.html).
Their pension system is effectively bankrupt, just waiting to collapse
in the next decade.

In other words, the spasm of decline and near collapse of a half century
ago was part of a cycle of decline. This crisis will probably be
followed by some correction, where things settle for a while, but never
return to the prior normal. Just as the 1980’s never reached the level
of social accomplishment of the post-war years, the next period of
tranquility will fall far short of the 1980’s and 1990’s. It will simply
be an interregnum between one period of crisis and the next, another
step down the ladder of collapse.

At some point, the old social capital of the prior greatness is
exhausted. The Romans were a spent people for over century before the
collapse. In fact, they were arguably done in the third century. The
real question about the late Roman Empire is how it managed to stagger
on for so long. That may be where we are now in present day America. The
next step down the ladder of decline may be so unstable that the weight
of past error crashed society through to the bottom.

The case for this theory of collapse is the rapidly shrinking white
middle-class. It’s not just shrinking as an economic institution, but as
a cultural one. The dominant culture today is one that celebrates
degeneracy and barbarism. Bourgeois culture remains, but unlike the
1980’s, it is not front and center, offering a stabilizing point to
arrest the cultural turmoil of the day. The antidote to what’s happening
today is not a man in a sundress demanding the rest of us pretend he is
a girl.

In addition to the shrinking influence of bourgeois white culture, there
is the growing sense that what’s left of America is not worth saving.
Everyday, more and more white people come to the conclusion that the
people they see in politics, the media and popular culture are
incompatible with the world they want for themselves and their
decedents. That old bourgeois white culture is looking at America like
the family exhausted by an alcoholic relative. It’s time to cut our
losses.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
