---
title: "Dancing Conspiracies"
date: "2019-05-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17519"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17519"
---

I was listening to the
<a href="https://therightstuff.biz/2019/05/20/tds445-dollar-sign-ultra/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">TDS boys</a> yesterday and
they had on Ryan Dawson to talk about the latest development in the
“Dancing Israelis” story. If you just put that term into your nearest
google machine, you will know why this is now a hot topic in the
conspiracy community. For a long time there has been a sub-group of 9/11
conspiracy people, who focused on the hundreds of Israeli nationals
picked up in sweeps following the attack and the subsequent silence by
the government on the issue.

Whenever I run across Ryan Dawson on a podcast, I start thinking about
the structure and nature of conspiracy theories and the communities that
grow up around them. It is one of those topics
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15022"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I have written about in the
past</a>. Dawson is a genuine outlier in the conspiracy world, as he has
developed a style that is intended to conflict with the general
conception of the conspiracy theorist. He’s the skeptical guy asking
questions, while people like Alex Jones are nuts, who give skepticism a
bad name.

There is, of course, a big difference between guys like Alex Jones and
what we think of as a skeptic. For example, the official narrative of
the RFK killing is less believable than most of the conspiracy theories
around the JFK assassination. The official record contradicts itself and
the testimony of people at the event. That’s skepticism rooted in fact.
On the other hand, claiming that school shootings are staged, as Alex
Jones has done, is crazy and a terrible thing to say, given that the
victims are usually children.

The TDS boys talked at length about what the “dancing Israeli” thing
means, in terms of 9/11, geopolitics and domestic politics. One of the
things anti-anti-Semites get wrong about the anti-Semite community is
the modern anti-Semite is not focused on his hatred of Jews. Instead, he
is invested in what amounts to a conspiracy theory about Jews and their
alleged control of the West. After all, if Kevin McDonald is right about
everything, Jews are the master race, cleverly manipulating the rest of
us for their own gain.

That is a different thing than what you see from counter-Semites, who
think Jews are just a great model for the rest of us, but that the
interests of Jews conflict with the interests of their host countries.
There’s a lot of overlap, because both camps use the same humor and
jargon. For anti-Semites, Shlomo is a super-intelligent super-villain,
while for counter-Semites, Shlomo is just shorthand for Jews. This is
another difference the anti-anti-Semites fail to grasp, when sputtering
about this stuff.

There is a fair amount of research into conspiracy theories, but a lot
of it suffers from the same defects as the subject matter. The people
doing the research want to believe things about themselves in contrast
to their environment. Belief in conspiracy theories appears to be driven
by a need to rationalize events, a need for safety and as a way to find
a comfortable social group. Conspiracy theories tend to create
subcultures built around one or more conspiracy theories. It’s a
community, not a theory.

That’s the thing that is missing about the research into this topic. The
structure of the conspiracy is probably the result of the community that
supports it. That is, some event occurs and the official narrative is
either incomplete or unsatisfying to people who eventually coalesce
around their doubt. At this point, the normal group dynamics kick in and
the theory matures and grows in complexity. The members of the group
reinforce the belief among one another, as group dynamics works toward a
consensus.

Another interesting thing about conspiracy theories is they used to be
on the fringe, but now they are mainstream. We are rapidly reaching the
point where accepting the official narrative on anything is a sign of
mental instability. The whole Russian collusion story that has convulsed
our rulers for three years is a conspiracy theory that is every bit as
weird as the 9/11 truther stuff. Israeli complicity in 9/11 sounds quite
plausible compared to invisible men from the Kremlin altering the
results of the election.

The fact that an actual conspiracy within the FBI tried to rig the last
presidential election probably has a lot to do with the popularity of
conspiracy theories among our rulers. One way to excuse the Obama
administration’s domestic spying efforts is create an even more
outlandish conspiracy. This allows Progressives to dismiss the real
conspiracy, as small potatoes, and focus on the “real” conspiracy. In
this light, the whole Russian collusion narrative is an elaborate coping
mechanism.

Now, as far as my own view on the dancing Israeli stuff, I think it is
odd that Israeli nationals were running moving companies in Boston and
New York. I think it is odd that some of them had direct connections to
Israeli intelligence. I also think it is odd that a lot of Arabs were in
the moving business. I did business with these people in the late
1990’s, so I know a bit about it. I knew two former El Al air marshals,
who wound up in the moving business. They were serious men back in
Israel.

The fact is, Levantine politics is nothing but an endless riddle of
conspiracy and intrigue that is inscrutable to occidentals. When America
decided to annex this world into the empire, we imported all of the
intrigue and conspiracy. The same shenanigans these people engage in
over there, they started doing over here. That’s how they ended up in
the US in low-barrier to entry businesses like moving companies. It was
great cover, as they continued their Bronze Age game of cat and mouse
with one another.

What we’re going to learn is that conspiracies and conspiracy theories
are a necessary feature of multicultural societies. The Levant is the
quintessential multicultural society, as it is the crossroads of the
West and East. Three great religions and their off-shoots have their
roots in the region. The fact that it a land of intrigue where no one
ever takes anything at face value is a feature, not a bug. Creating that
society in the West means creating a West that is tribal, distrustful
and prone to believing outlandish conspiracies.

To support my work and my escape from Lagos, please
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">subscribe here</a>.
