---
title: "Normal Is Not Forever"
date: "2019-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16298"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16298"
---

If you watch a movie from the 1970’s or maybe look at old family photos
from the period, you will notice that people dressed funny. The men wore
tacky looking polyester suits in odd colors, like lime green and powder
blue. Women also wore polyester. They liked high-waisted pants with a
bell-like shape to the trouser leg. Both men and women would wear denim
or suede jackets on purpose. From the perspective of our age, the
fashion of the 1970’s is hideous, but the people in that age thought
they looked great.

Fashion is a form of public morality. We do not think of it that way,
but public morality is just a set of rules and customs that everyone
assumes to be true. Some parts of public morality are informed by
religion. In America, rules governing when and where it is acceptable to
drink alcohol have their roots in Christian ethics of the 19th century.
In the case of other rules, no one knows the source of authority. Like
fashion trends, they just seem to be the set of rules everyone accepts
at the moment.

If someone turns up in your office, dressed in a denim suit, you are
going to assume they are crazy or maybe going to a costume party after
work. It is not that wearing a denim suit is against the law. It is that
it is so far outside of present sensibilities about how people are
supposed to dress that you would assume there is some motivation other
than taste. If it were just a bizarre sense of fashion, or lack of
fashion in this case, the wearer would exile himself by doing it.

Fashion changes quickly and for no obvious reason. Why did people
suddenly decide that velour jogging suits looked great and then suddenly
they decide they looked silly? Most likely, some famous person was
talked into wearing a velour tracksuit on television and all of a sudden
everyone had to have one. Maybe a clothing maker just took a shot and
suddenly it was a trendy thing. A big part of the fashion business is
simply trying to figure out how to create a new trend, so people will
rush out and buy new clothes.

Just as fashion can change, other parts of public morality can change
quickly for no obvious reason. It used to be that homosexuality was
known but best kept out of public view. It was perfectly acceptable to
mock homosexuals. Today, of course, lack of reverence for homosexuals is
on the list of unforgivable sins. Mark Steyn was purged by National
Review, because he repeated an old Dean Martin joke about homosexuals.
His crime was not being properly offended by a decades old gag.

In this area of public morality, it is popular to assign nefarious
motives to the people pushing these changes in public morality. Some of
it is true, for sure. Just as famous people wear strange costumes in an
effort to signal their trendiness, people pushing trendy social fads are
hoping to signal their virtue to good whites. Some of it though, is just
the weird way in which trends change. Hollywood has been littered with
homosexuals since the start, but it was OK to mock them, then suddenly
it was not.

Of course, even though something like wearing a denim suit was
fashionable in the 1970’s, you can still get mocked for it after the
fact. John Derbyshire thought he looked great when he was [taking on
Bruce Lee](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7BdJ3YR6EvM), but there’s no
doubt his kids still tease him for the hair and clothes. A stock part of
family life is the parents showing their kids old pictures and the kids
making sport of their parents for their weird costumes. The hideousness
of the 1970’s is a nightmare from which the people of that era will
never awaken.

Would the people in the 1970’s have been more discriminating if they
knew their future selves would so ashamed of those outfits? Most likely.
If you know that in twenty years, heretics will be made to dress like
you dress now, and be treated as pariahs, will you change things up?
Most people would certainly like to avoid that sort of humiliation. They
would absolutely want to avoid being associated with people being
ostracized from future society. That knowledge would certainly change
present behavior.

The same applies to other areas of public morality. The Left now goes
through the social media timelines of newly famous people looking for
blasphemy. Every once in a while, an athlete has to issue an apology for
something he said in high school or college. The whole “me too” movement
was about traveling back in time to find things that were in violation
of present morality. Thirty years ago, the casting couch was a fixture
of Hollywood. Today it is a crime against humanity, at least it was
until it stopped trending on Twitter.

Today, the fickleness of public morality regarding a wide range of
issues has created a culture of fear. It is not just that people are
afraid of saying something blasphemous by today standards. They fear
holding an opinion that will be blasphemous by tomorrow’s standards. The
assumption is that the current trends with regards to human nature,
human organization and politics will keep going in the same direction
forever. Today it is immoral to laugh at a man in a dress. Tomorrow it
will be immoral to not be a man in a dress.

As we saw with the fashions of the 1970’s, public morality can head down
a cul-de-sac and then reverse course. Into the mid-60’s, fashion trends
were fairly consistent, then suddenly they went off course. By the late
1970’s, people were dressing like clowns and goofballs. Then all of a
sudden, the trend reversed, and people quickly abandoned those goofy
styles and got back to dressing like sane people. The fever broke and
public morality regarding sartorial sensibilities returned to normal.

Something like that can happen with other areas of public morality. The
residue of the cultural revolution is still with us, but the bellowing
and shouting we see today could very well be a rear-guard action to hold
off the inevitable retreat. Antifa enforcers patrolling social media
could very well be the velour track suit of this period. The people
sporting those ideas today will be mocked mercilessly in the future. Amy
Harmon will be the [William Jennings
Bryan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Jennings_Bryan) of this
age, a symbol of primitive obscurantism.

It is impossible to know, of course, which is why our old picture albums
are full of men in hats and women wearing weird outfits. Public
morality, like fashion, does change and in unpredictable directions,
because we are not good at seeing the future. With regards to public
morality, covering things like science, reality is the ultimate check on
these spasms of fashionable lunacy. The same is true of human
organization. Multiculturalism is the decorative cod piece of this age.
It has no utility and will eventually fall out of style.
