---
title: "The Jewish Dilemma"
date: "2019-07-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18023"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18023"
---

Like the fog, talk of nationalism is slowly starting to roll in on the
intellectual and pseudo-intellectual conversations of the West. One
reason for this is the rise of populist movements in Europe and America,
responding to the importation of non-Western people into Western
nations. Another reason for the rise in nationalism is the sense that
the ruling classes of the West are no longer Western. To the typical
occidental, the elites seem foreign and oriental in the language and
dispositions.

The emerging debate about nationalism among the intellectual and
pseudo-intellectual classes is therefore reactionary. Across the board,
the debate is being picked up by people so unfamiliar with the topic,
they struggle with the basics of the concept. <a
href="https://www.dailywire.com/news/49005/prager-clarity-about-nationalism-dennis-prager"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This column</a> by Dennis
Prager in the American Zionist broadsheet The Daily Wire is a good
example of the fumbling you see when these people take up the issue. He
treats the word like it is on loan from a foreign race of men or
possibly space aliens.

Nationalism presents a particularity difficult problem for the Jewish
ruling elite, which is another thing you see in the Prager piece. The
word “nationalism” is derived from the word “nation” and that comes to
us from the Old French word *nacion,* which means birth, rank,
descendants, relatives, country, homeland. The French, of course,
inherited the meaning from the Latin word for “birth, origin, breed,
kind, species, race of people, tribe.” The word nationalism means
loyalty to a people, *your* *people*.

If the word nationalism means what it actually means, then it presents
an obvious dilemma for diaspora Jews in the Occident. If Jewishness is
what the religion says, then Jews are their own race of people. Jewish
nationalism would therefore be to the Jewish people and the state of
Israel. One cannot be equally loyal to two nations or two of anything,
for that matter. Inevitably, you will have to pick between the two, thus
establishing one as the primary loyalty and the other secondary.

This is the age old issue with Jews in the diaspora. For the longest
time, they were accused of dual loyalty, but in reality they were
accused of having no loyalty. Like so much about this topic, the facts
have been corrupted to obscure the truth. In reality, the accusation was
that the primary loyalty of Jews was to their people and the apparent
loyalty to their host population was out of convenience and necessity.
The core of Western antisemitism in the West is the claim that Jews are
not us.

Jewish intellectuals have always understood this, so after the Second
World War, they pounced on the opportunity to anathematize the concept
of nationalism. The claim was that nationalism was the cause of the
great industrial wars that reduced the West to rubble and gave rise to
fascism. Therefore, to avoid a repeat of those horrors, nationalism must
be stamped out. In fairness, this was not solely a Jewish project, as
there were plenty of gentile communists who embraced the idea.

Still, the primary beneficiaries of anti-nationalism were Jews. In
America, this allowed Jews to enter the ruling class and by extension
the global ruling elite. The global power of the American Empire, now
including the international financial network, gave diaspora Jews
unprecedented power. Jews are now wildly over-represented in all of the
positions of power and influence. While this is a popular talking point
for anti-Semites, it has also been a <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B005646E32/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&amp;btkr=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">point of pride for Jews
themselves</a>.

We see why Zionist like Denis Prager are terrified by the sudden
reappearance nationalism in the West. If the people of the Occident
regain their love of self, then Jews are on the horns of a dilemma. They
can either assume their traditional role as guests in their host
counties or they can join their neighbors in these host countries and
place loyalty to their neighbors over loyalty to their ancient tribe.
Judaism becomes just a remnant of who they used to be, in the same way
Catholicism is for the Irish.

The third option, one you see in the Prager piece and in the Ben Shapiro
book is to muddy the waters on the whole issue. For example, Prager
defines good nationalism as that which is good for him, while bad
nationalism is when it is bad for him. Ben Shapiro, on the other hand,
tries to redefine 2,000 years of Western history to make Jews the loyal
partners of Christendom. The absurd concept of Judeo-Christianity is
just an effort to rewrite the past to insert his ancestors into your
family tree.

Then there is the problem of Israel, which is an ethno-state, despite
the humorous efforts to prove otherwise. Jews see the physical land as
theirs because according to the central tenant of their faith, God gave
it to them. Their loyalty to the land of Israel is an expression of
their loyalty to the people of Israel, wherever they may reside. In this
regard, Judaism is the most pure expression of nationalism, as it
literally transcends time and physical boundaries. Israel is the symbol
of that blood loyalty.

You really cannot square that reality with objections to the French
demanding their country be for the French people, as defined by the
French people. If what it means to be a Jew is defined by Jews, which is
literally true, then what is the moral or factual objections to Germans
defining what it means to be German? There is none, of course, which is
why Israel has always been a problem for diaspora Jews. You can’t be a
Zionist, while preaching multiculturalism and open borders.

The usual suspects assume this contradiction will inevitably lead to the
age old conflict, but that is not necessarily true. Much of the history
of antisemitism is apocryphal, used by Jews to gaslight themselves into
remaining loyal to the tribe. In fact, Jewish identity in America is
largely a negative one now as a result. To be authentically Jewish is to
believe that your gentile neighbors will one day pull their khaki
outfits from the back of the closet and get the trains running on time
again.

The alternative is for diaspora Jews in America to come to terms with
the fact they have a different history from the rest of the Tribe. They
represent a fork in God’s project, creating a new tribe of Israel. This
new tribe places its primary loyalty with the host country, because it
cannot exist otherwise. Since Israel, as it is currently constructed,
cannot exist without a powerful America as its powerful ally, American
Jews serve Israel and the Jewish people as loyal allies of their fellow
Americans.

It is possible that Zionist Jews hold such a conception of themselves.
Whether they keep this to themselves because they distrust their gentile
neighbors or they don’t trust themselves, not speaking to it is a
problem only they can solve. If even Zionist Jews remain locked into an
old identity, then the only way forward is to slough off that old
identity and accept present reality. Regardless, the dilemma of
resurgent nationalism in the West is a Jewish dilemma, not an occidental
one.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money
to destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z
Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!
