---
title: "Changes In The Land"
date: "2019-12-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19191"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19191"
---

Americans have always been a mobile people. The first settlers started
moving west into the interior, almost as soon as they established
colonies. The search for land was the main motivation. As the country
expanded West, the race for land and the resources under the land led to
millions packing up and heading West. The Industrial Revolution drew
people north into cities and then west into new industries. At the end
of the last century, the great exodus out of the north was the story.

This mobility is often counted as a sign of economic health. The
assumption is that a big diverse economy in a big diverse country will
have areas booming while other areas are not so booming. That means
people and capital will flow from the down areas to the boom areas. As
things settle, new boom areas, possibly the old down area, will spring
up, starting a new flow of people and capital. Just as the velocity of
money in the economy is a positive, the velocity of people is a good
thing too.

As we enter the demographic age and the American government loses
control of the border, the flow of peasants and barbarians into America
is the story. While this is easily solvable in theory, as a practical
matter it is hopeless. The government is controlled by cosmopolitan
globalists, who have no interest in maintaining borders. The slight
slowing of movement under Trump will be followed by a deluge. The same
is true in Europe, where they will be swamped by a billion Africans this
century.

The thing is, people tend not to wait for their government to respond to
changes in the economy and culture.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockbusting"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Block busting</a>, which was a
way for the usual suspects to skim value from white urban neighborhoods
in the middle of the last century, resulted in something called white
flight. This resulted in a whole new economic sector servicing white
refugees from urban areas. Suburbia was born from the great movement of
people out of the cities, away from diversity and vibrancy.

In America, where packing up and moving is a part of everyone’s story,
the most likely response will be a new migration. This time, the
migrants will flow away from the barbarian hordes pouring over the
border, into places that are less vulnerable. The people behind the
invasion, of course, have long since insulated themselves from the
consequences of their demographic hostility, but everyone else will have
to figure out a way to do the same. A great migration is upon us.

The first thing people will look for is the complexion of possible
destinations. As the Southern states get more vibrant and the politics
become more third world, middle-class whites will look for nearby white
states. California has seen a flood of middle-class whites heading to
places like Nevada and Colorado. This is not without its problems, as
those refugees bring their voting habits with them, thus spoiling their
new homes just as they ruined their old homes. Invasions are never a
good thing.

In a broader sense, it also means people will actively look for super
white states like in New England or the upper Midwest. That could be why
the rulers are dumping Africans into places like Maine and Minnesota.
They are trying to cut off their victims at the pass by destroying
possible destination for them. Still, even with the African dumping,
these areas are super-white and therefore becoming desirable. In time, a
white flight out of the South into the North is a likely outcome of open
borders.

As the government loses control of the border, it is also losing control
of the country, which is why global enterprise is stepping in to police
the public space, monitor the public and so on. What’s happening is
something similar to what happened in the Western Roman Empire in the
fourth and fifth century. Power is shifting away from the Imperial state
to local power centers. It will not be long before global enterprise is
subtly serving whites and Asians fleeing the great invasion.

You can see a bit of this in California. One way the tech giants scared
the hues away was through real estate. In order to live in San
Francisco, you had to be in the “new economy” as no one could afford to
live their otherwise. In 1980, for example, Oakland was close to 50%
black. It is now less than 25% black. San Francisco, where the black
population peaked at about 20% is now 5% black. In the future, global
giants and their industries will play a big role in the demographics of
your community.

This suggests there will be two models for dealing with the great
invasion. One will be something like techno-feudalism, where people are
tied to a corporate lord, because that is their protection from the
invaders. The defense in depth that evolved in the late Roman Empire
resulted in no human mobility. People, including their rulers, were tied
to the land. What the future holds is one model where people are
clustered into static communities controlled by corporate oligarchs.

The other model will be the old American model, where people head to
someplace lacking vibrancy. The hope will be that the cold will keep the
hordes at bay. Perhaps the use of local laws, as is happening in Idaho,
to discourage the wrong sorts from moving in will become their defense
in depth. Voting where you were born makes a lot of sense in this sort
of environment. Maybe it will just be a lawless place where tribal
assumptions are enforced ad hoc in order to keep the peace.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
