---
title: "The Media Awakening"
date: "2019-10-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Mass Media
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18896"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18896"
---

In the current crisis, one of the useful and clarifying ways to divide
people is in how they respond to the mass media. On the one hand are
those who just assume everything reported, regardless of the alleged
partisan bias, is fake. It’s manufactured for some undisclosed reason
and fed to the many airheads working in media. The other side of this
dive are those who still think the political theater is real. They take
one side or the other in the mock battles between the two wings of the
bipartisan uniparty.

You see this in the “fake news” stuff among Trump supporters and
opponents. For those supporting Trump, the fake news outlets are those
that “report” bad things about their guy, while the real news outlets
are the sites that sing his praises. Of course, the people in the
anti-Trump camp take the opposite view. In other words, these people
don’t think the news is fake. They think the other side’s news is fake.
It’s the same old Red Team – Blue Team dynamic, just decorated with new
language for the Trump era.

For the legacy people, the fake news meme has been a coping strategy to
deal with the collapse of the old politics. Every day, an assumed
partisan comes out and says something that seems at odds with his side.
This past week, so-called liberals have been out saying all the things
neocons used to say in the Bush years, regarding the forever wars on
behalf of Israel. They have all but called Tulsi Gabbard a dirty hippy
for her support for a withdraw from the never-ending Middle East
theater.

It really is incredible to watch the assault on Gabbard. Her position on
foreign policy is what we were told was the mainstream of the Democrat
party. Even before Bush and the neocons bankrupted the nation on
pointless wars of choice, the America Left was anti-intervention. They
were the side that argued for multi-lateral talks and negotiated
settlements to disputes. For eight years Obama preached this line, as he
cut deals with Iran and allegedly pulled troops out of the Iraq
disaster.

Now, politics is about lying, so lying about past positions, even if
those positions were held just an hour ago, is nothing new. The game is
to attack an opponent for their lack of purity at the moment, thus
elevating yourself. When
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Griselda_Blanco"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Hillary Clinton</a> attacked
Gabbard as a Russian asset, it was about trying to rehabilitate Clinton,
at the expense of Gabbard, not about the facts as presented. Clinton is
worried that the investigation into her 2016 election shenanigans may
leave her holding the bag.

That’s something even the naivest legacy person can grasp. It is the
conduct of the media that is the tell. Instead of pointing out that
Gabbard is saying the same thing all of the Democrats, including Barak
Obama, said during the Bush years, they are piling on the Syria issue.
<a
href="https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2019/10/tulsi-gabbard-hillary-clinton-video-feud/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The far Left</a> is even
joining in on attacking Gabbard as a tool of Putin, Assad and other
bogeymen of the Left. In other words, we don’t have a media in modern
America. What we have are amplifiers of the party line.

It is not just the left-wing engaged in this. It works on all sides
engaged in the official political process. <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/giuliani-the-consigliere-holding-a-hand-grenade/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> in American
Conservative is a good example. It is written by
<a href="https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/author/barbara-boland"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">one</a> of the army of
dingbats in the Washington dingbat chorus. The people hired by B and C
list news sites, are young, dumb and eager. They repeat what they are
told with breathless enthusiasm and seriousness for whoever will pay
them. They don’t ask questions, because they dream of making it big in
political media.

That story is complete nonsense. It is the neocon line of attack on
Trump, hoping to finally destroy Trump, before he dismantles their
forever war regime. The line being pushed is that any inquiry into
Ukraine is illegitimate. Since all of these people are up to their
eyeballs in Ukrainian corruption, the last thing they want is a thorough
examination of American involvement there. Joe Biden is not the only guy
who was taking bribes from various Ukrainian oligarchs over the last
decade.

American Conservative is supposed to be an anti-war, non-intervention
publication, but here they are pimping the neocon party line. Like the
people at Mother Jones, what the people at American Conservative want
most is to be in the club. The so-called ideological positions and
resulting policy claims are just decoration. In the end, even the fringe
media is just another amplifier of the party line. Their dissent is a
sales pitch to keep the racket going. Otherwise, they repeat what they
are told.

That right there is the divide in retail politics. One side gets this
and the other side is still trapped in the old model. The legacy people
still spend their time pointing out the hypocrisy, thinking this time it
will make a difference. The dissidents, when they pay any attention to
it at all, just note that our media is propaganda. That “both sides” are
working for the same team. Otherwise, retail politics is a game for
legacy people, who still visit the Drudge Report and watch cable news
programs.

This is probably where the awakening for most people will start. The
journey to this side of the political divide begins with awakening to
the fact the media, small and large, is just propaganda. The people
pitching it are not any side but the official one. If word comes down
that Marxism is the new conservatism, Ben Shapiro will be doing show in
the glories of Lenin and Mark. When people wake up to this reality, they
begin their journey as a dissident. It may be that fake news is the
dissident’s best weapon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
