---
title: "Materially Hollow"
date: "2019-11-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18975"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18975"
---

If you wanted to locate a point on the timeline as to when America began
its descent into the current crisis, a good candidate would be when the
Right decided to focus on economics over culture. While there is no
specific day on which they made the shift, it happened somewhere during
the cultural revolution of the 1960’s and 1970’s, largely in response to
that culture war. When the Right embraced fusionism, the die was cast
and events would inevitably lead to the current crisis we see today.

Fusionism was the work of Frank Meyer, a 20th century political thinker,
who was one of the founding members of National Review. In the book, *In
Defense of Freedom: A Conservative Credo,* Meyer sought to unite
libertarian ideas with traditionalism, into a new conservative ideology
to oppose the Left. Instead of defending culture and tradition on their
own terms, the New Right would use libertarian arguments to show that
traditional culture was economically superior to socialism.

What happened to the American Right is it embraced the materialism of
the Left, but sought to use those arguments to arrive at traditional
ends. Rather than reject the hollow materialism of socialism and
communism, the New Right would embrace it and celebrate it. Man was no
longer a spiritual being operating in a material world, but a narrowly
self-interested economic unit, who pursued his subjectively-defined ends
in the most efficient way possible. Culture now took a back seat to
economics.

Of course, what they were doing, even if they did not understand it at
the time, was conceding the culture war to the Left. By shifting from a
defense of culture and tradition on their own terms, the Right was no
longer going to challenge the moral claims made by the Left. Instead of
disputing the morality of Progressive reforms, the Right would put on
the green eye shade and explain why those reforms were too expensive or
upsetting to the economy. The Right became the accounting department of
the Left.

Again, at the time, this probably seemed like a clever strategy.
Post-war America was concerned about peace and prosperity. If you wanted
political power, thus control of the culture, so the argument went, you
had to win the argument over how best to achieve peace and prosperity. A
political platform that promised economic growth and a foreign policy
that promised peace through strength was the winning ticket. The Reagan
Revolution of the 1980’s looked like a proof of concept.

The trouble was this could work as long as the general culture remained
intact, ready to simply say no to the latest Progressive innovations. It
turned out that 20th century conservatism was a free rider, living off
the cultural surplus of post-war society. Like the Left, the New Right
consumed this cultural surplus, but never contributed anything back to
the cultural stock of society. More important, it allowed to atrophy the
tools a people need to defend their culture and traditions from the
Left.

By elevating economics over culture, the Right could just as easily
justify left-wing assaults on civil society. The destruction of
small-town America, for example, is largely a right-wing project. They
are the ones defending oligarchical operations like Amazon and Walmart,
that convert social capital into profits, draining the life from small
town America. As long as it can be justified economically, the Right is
happy to see these economic pirates raid your town and your
neighborhood.

Think of it this way. For generations, social organizations relied upon
local businessmen to underwrite them. The local church relied about its
wealthy members to pay for the upkeep of the church and bankroll church
activities. Local youth sports leagues were sponsored by local small
business. Google is not going to pay for the repairs to the church’s
pipe organ. Amazon is not going to sponsor your kid’s ball team. The
price of cheap goods from Walmart was the spirit of your community.

This is why the cultural decline is accelerating. In the 1990’s, the
mainstream of the Left snickered at homosexual marriage. A generation
later and you get fired from your job if you are insufficiently
enthusiastic for the guy in accounting, who recently started pretending
to be a woman. The political Right has no answer for why this madness is
intolerable, as they cannot find an economic argument suggesting it is
too expensive or bad for global finance. They don’t know why
transvestite story time is wrong.

When it all comes down to money, it means every man has a price. More
important, it means his price will be at wherever the cheapest seller is
at the moment. That’s been the story of the Buckley Right for the past
thirty years. They are always ready to sellout to the lowest bidder,
thus the culture war turned into a race to the bottom. The wreckage of
Buckley conservatism is the result of a political strategy based on
knowing the price of everything, but the value of nothing.

If there is to be a revival of the American Right, it must be a cultural
revolution, not an economic one. An authentic alternative not only says
Bob from accounting cannot wear a dress, but Bob cannot be in our town,
as he is not one of us. We don’t tolerate men who wear dresses, because
that’s who we are. An authentic alternative rejects economic man and
embraces the whole man, who is defined by is community and his role in
that community. Spiritual man must reign over economic man.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
