---
title: "Autumn Joy"
date: "2019-10-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18891"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18891"
---

It is a rainy and gray in Lagos, as the keeper of sacred law begins her
descent into despair, anticipating the return of her daughter to the
underworld. According to myth, this is the time when the goddess
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demeter#Demeter_and_Persephone"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Demeter</a> begins to grow
sad, thinking about her daughter, Persephone, leaving her to return to
Hades. As a result, the earth begins to lose its life and become
increasing barren. When Persephone departs, the land falls into winter
until the time when Demeter anticipates the return of her daughter.

Now, there are other interpretations of the myth. The alternative
version has the barren period as the dry Mediterranean summer, when life
was threatened by drought. For most people, that version does not work
and it does not square with the sophistication of the people who created
the myth. It’s the sort of thing a certain sort of person says in order
to be disruptive. The Greeks understood not only the cycle of life, but
the consequences that came from ignoring or denying this natural
reality.

That’s probably why autumn has such a magical quality to it for most
European people, at least those with a grip on reality. There is the
beauty of it, of course, but that beauty is followed by winter. It is
the ability to appreciate the majesty of nature, even when you know what
follows, that separates people. On one side are those who long for an
endless summer, where they never have to think about tomorrow. On the
other side are those who accept the cycle of life and the reality of the
human condition.

Even in a place like Lagos, the beauty of the season is impossible to
miss, unless you are one of those summer people. There are those who
prefer summer to winter, but would not want to live in a land without
seasons. Then there are those who spend their winter bitching about the
cold, swearing oaths about how this is the last winter in wherever it is
there is winter. If you are around these sorts, autumn in made even
better, as you get to see their torment against the backdrop of the fall
foliage.

Being a level-headed occidental man, I love this time of year. Yesterday
morning I got out on a bike path in the country. The leaves are just
starting to turn around here. For some reason, fall has been late this
year. Perhaps Demeter got her hopes up that this time things would be
different. Maybe she took a class on feminism and died her hair blue,
until Zeus came down and straightened here out. Women, even the
supernatural ones, need a man to keep them in line. That too is the
nature of things.

Out on the path, I did not encounter many people. Around Lagos, spring
is when people get out and do their walking, hiking and riding. As
spring turns to summer, the number of people I will see out in the woods
will shrink until the fall, when it is down to the hardy souls who are
outside all year round. This is true of fishing. If you are a fall
fisherman, this is one of the better times, as you have the river to
yourself. The people inside don’t know what they are missing, but then
again, those outside don’t miss them.

This time of year in this part of the world brings the white tail rut.
It is the time of year when a young buck goes in search of a bride. In
reality, it is when they go insane chasing tail to the point of
exhaustion. It is one of those things that you can explain to a city
person and they suddenly become wiser about life. Urbanization has cut
most people off from the reality of life, like the breeding cycle of
animals, which means they can fill their heads with crazy ideas at odds
with the human condition.

I think the thing I like most about this time of year is the shorter
days or that the days are growing shorter. I am at my most productive in
the fall and winter, as the ever shorter days reminds me that I have
only so much time. When the sun is up until a few hours before bed time,
it feels like time comes to a crawl. When you wake in the dark and come
home in the dark, you have no illusions about time. Every rustle of the
leaves is like a giant clock striking the hour. Best get at it.

Now, I do like winter, so the gathering darkness and dropping
temperatures is not followed by something I think is awful. In fact,
winter is my second favorite month of the year, just behind autumn. The
only reason winter falls behind autumn on my list is that it does not
snow enough here in Lagos. Instead we get ice storms that are no fun.
They can be pretty, but usually it means spending an hour chiseling my
car door open, while trying not to fall and break a hip. I’m not a kid
anymore.

In Denmark, they call this the cozy season or the start of the cozy
season. They have a word for it, “hygge” which roughly means “a quality
of coziness and comfortable conviviality that engenders a feeling of
contentment or well-being.” They take all their fun indoors, where they
will turn the lights down, sit by the fire and have conversation with
friends and family. In Lagos, we include the sound of sirens and
gunfire, but the concept is the same. I’m looking forward to the hygge.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
