---
title: "A New Western Code Base"
date: "2019-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18783"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18783"
---

Critics of the modern age usually start from the assumption that the way
in which the West is organized is fine. The problem is either the
people, as in we have a rotten ruling class, or some set of defects that
have been introduced into the system. The lament is often some form of
“if we had only not done X.” This is usually accompanied by fingering
some point in the recent past, like the 60’s. Recency bias has always
been a major part of right-wing criticism of left-wing politics.

The underlying assumption is that liberal democracy will work just fine,
if we can just get rid of those terrible liberals or go back and correct
some mistake from the past. No one ever stops to wonder if maybe those
nasty liberals and errors in judgement are a feature of liberal
democracy, rather than a defect. Like Marxists or libertarians, the
right has worked from the assumption that the right sort of citizen can
be conjured or created, in order to make liberal democracy function as
intended.

The truth is, the results we see around us, whether it is spasms of
radical self-destruction or the suicidal flood of migrants, are all the
natural result of liberal democracy. The troubles facing the West are
not the result of some defect or shabby operators at the top. This is
what you get from liberal democracy. As a wise once man said,
“Democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts and murders
itself. There was never a democracy that did not commit suicide.”

The reason, of course, is the underlying assumption of democracy. That
is, all men possess the same set of talents. After all, if every man’s
say in the running of society is equal to the rest, if it carries the
same weight at decision time, then all men must truly be equal.
Otherwise, it is a system that deliberately vests the incompetent with
the safety and security of others. In other words, the democrat must
either be suicidal or sincerely believe men are of equal talent in this
important task.

This is the fundamental faith of modern liberal democracy. It assumes
and demands that all people are equally capable of making decisions
about public policy. This is why noticing any differences in people has
become a crime. To note that the retarded, for example, lack the
necessary agency to care for themselves, raises the question of who else
may lack the necessary qualities to care for themselves. If you cannot
care for yourself, how can you be trusted to judge what is in the best
interest of others?

This is why we see campaigns by radicals to expand the ballot to
children, criminals and the mentally feeble. They couch their cause in
fairness, but ultimately what is driving them is absolute
egalitarianism. To acknowledge that people are not equally capable of
being citizens, means debating where the line is drawn between those
capable and those incapable of citizenship. This is a slippery slope
that can only lead to the upending of the assumptions of modern liberal
democracy.

That is where any alternative right, or alternative anything, must
start, as it is the only way to arrive at an alternative outcome.
Democracy starts and ends with egalitarianism, which is a binary issue.
Either all men are equally capable of active participation is society or
they are not. There is no middle ground. Democracy chooses the former
and must relentlessly work to make it manifest. This is the root of the
current madness that has gripped the West. It is a denial of biological
reality.

This is the place to start when contemplating an alternative to the
prevailing orthodoxy, whether it is in the narrow domain of politics or
the larger one of culture. If all people are not the same in the
particular sense, then it follows that all people are not the same in
the general sense either. Since a “people” is the sum of the traits and
abilities of the individual components, then what we observe as national
character is the result of those individual differences peculiar to the
people of that nation.

This brings us to the other face of democracy, which is universalism.
Every democracy, from the Greeks to the present, assumes that the only
legitimate and moral form of government is democracy. After all, if all
men in the democracy are equal, it must mean all men in every society
are equal. The social contract instantly becomes portable, applicable
everywhere. Therefore, anything but liberal democracy is an immoral and
inauthentic form of human organization.

The Peloponnesian War was a defensive struggle to resist the rapacious
aggression of the Athenians, versus the natural hierarchy of the
Spartans. The Great War that devastated Europe was ultimately to impose
liberal democracy. The Second World War was a follow on to defend
liberal democracy from fascism, which was followed by a 70 year war to
defend it against Bolshevism. The history of democracy is a blood bath
to prove it works everywhere for all people.

If what we observe is true, that people are not all the same in the
wholesale or the retail level, then the question is why? The
egalitarians point to various forms of magic like racism, the
environment and the tides of history, but all of these collapse under
the least bit of scrutiny. If any of these claims were true, we would
see evidence of it in the West, where tens of millions of non-Europeans
have been imported. Instead, the evidence revels the opposite. The
differences in people are natural.

It is these natural differences in people that must be the starting
place for any alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy. That sounds easy,
but it is the great struggle of this age. It not only means standing
outside the moral order, it requires questioning everything we inherited
from the Enlightenment. That is what will divide Right and Left in the
coming age. On the one side will be the defenders of the Enlightenment,
and its egalitarian pretensions, while on the other will be biological
realists.

Just as the Enlightenment struggled to escape the cocoon of the Middle
Ages, biological realism is struggling for life today. Even sober minded
critics of liberal democracy struggle to embrace it. Paul Gottfried, in
his <a
href="https://www.chroniclesmagazine.org/2019/September/43/9/magazine/article/10847183/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">first post</a> back at the
venerable paleocon outlet Chronicles, makes this point about himself. He
can acknowledge some of the points from biological realists, but
ultimately he prefers to hug the shore of nurture, rather than sail into
the sea of nature.

Yoram Hazony, the Israeli philosopher, wrote <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Virtue-Nationalism-Yoram-Hazony/dp/1541645375"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a book</a> in which he
wrestled with biological reality in his defense of nationalism. Chapter
after chapter relied on accurate observations about human diversity. In
fact, the foundation of his argument is that nations are different,
because they are composed of people, different from the people of other
nations. Yet every time he reached the obvious end point of his logic,
he pulled back and started flapping his arms and howling about equality.

Hazony and Gottfried are realists, when it comes to ethnicity. Hazony is
an ethno-nationalist, while Gottfried is a paleo-conservative. Neither
man is naive about the realities of the human condition. Both struggle,
however, to transcend their conditioning, which shows how powerful the
egalitarian ethic is in the West. It can overcome not only facts and
reason, it can make you question your own observations. The project to
build a metaphysics around biological reality, therefore, is daunting.

The human diversity we see all around us, the diversity of outcomes,
within regions and nations, as well as between them, is not an accident
of fate. It is not the result of some dark magic or a conspiracy of one
people at the expense of another. These differences are rooted in our
nature. Human biological diversity is a real thing that describes who we
are as a species. Man is not man without this great diversity, because
we are the result of a long natural process of regional trial and error.

Because biology is real, that means sex is real, race is real and
ethnicity is real. These are all real things, coming into sharper focus
every day through the study of the human genome. The long journey from
the dawn of modern man to the first civilization was not the same for
all people. The resulting nations of people reflect the long biological
journey made by each people. It also represents the natural division of
labor, for creating life and for living it, between the sexes and
between the talents.

The Enlightenment was the software needed to take Western man out of the
Middle Ages, through the age of sail and the industrial age, into the
technological age. Like all legacy code, it has reached the end of its
time. The demographic age, in which Western man finds himself a minority
in a sea of diversity, all creeping up on his natural habitat, will
require new code. We need a new moral framework and to do that means
deposing the current one and everything that it entails.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
