---
title: "Because We Say So"
date: "2019-07-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18142"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18142"
---

Our great challenge in this age is getting white people to think that
their preferences are valid. That is, white people can want a public
policy or a social custom for no other reason than they want it.
Instead, whites are endlessly searching around for some external
standard against which they can measure their preference. Only then can
they declare that desire valid, because it matches that standard. Whites
no longer feel as if what they want is valid because they want it.

The best and most comical example is the sacralization of blacks by
conservatives. At C-PAC every year, they bring in a black conservative
to bless the gathering with their presence, like a visiting dignitary or
aristocrat. You could get rich charging these people for a selfie with a
black guy. The attendees would empty their bank accounts for the chance
to show they are not racist. In fact, Candace Owens is getting very rich
by going around and telling whites it is OK to want what they want.

This tendency has now reached the absurd with white politicians
criticizing non-whites based on the Israeli standard. If Trump wants to
mock a dingbat like Ocasio-Cortez, he has to frame it as a defense of
Israel.
<a href="https://twitter.com/HawleyMO/status/1152573100476784641"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Senator Josh Hawley</a> says
he would give his life to defend Israel and the Jewish people. He’s not
Jewish. He just accepts that he cannot have opinions of his own. They
must be signed off on by some group outside of white people in order for
them to be valid.

Hawley is a hero of dissidents, so it is tempting to try to explain this
in more favorable terms, but think of it this way. Imagine him tweeting
out “You’ll have to carry me out on a slab before I compromise my
defense of white people, their greatness, their history, their safety,
and the state of Missouri.” Even if you strike the “white people” part
it is inconceivable that any white politician would say such a thing. It
would be assumed that he implied white people and he would be forced to
grovel.

We now live in a world in which white people no longer have a say. If
whites want to live like white people, they have to prove it is not
racist. That means finding some blacks to bless their activity. This is
not just something the Left imposes on the Right, in order to control
their opposition. Confront liberal whites about gentrification of their
cities or the extreme whiteness of their neighborhoods and they will go
into convulsions trying to avoid discussing it. They don’t get to be
white either.

Here’s <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/07/immigration-cannot-fix-challenges-aging-society/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">an example</a> from National
Review on the immigration issue. You would think that the alleged
flagship of conservatism would have a lot of cultural arguments to make
regarding immigration. You would be wrong. The only thing they can
muster is that the economy is not happy with open borders. These are
people who have come to worship the pivot table, as it allows them to
validate their desire to live as they want to live. If Excel, peace be
upon him, blesses it, then it is OK.

The end point of the war on white culture, starting after World War II,
is that whites no longer feel their desires have merit. If whites want
something, they must first find a non-white to bless it. When a black is
not available, then the next move is to prove it is good for Israel or
Jews. When that fails, then it is an appeal to the Holy Spreadsheet.
It’s as if the tastes, the preferences and the desires of white people
are so anathematized, white people are ashamed to acknowledge them.

This is the mentality of a conquered people. This is the slave trying to
convince the master to allow him a little room for himself. This is the
outlook of people who no longer have a self that has aspirations,
desires and a future. Instead it is the attitude of a people who see
themselves at the mercy of others. That is exactly the situation of
white people today. To say, “This is who we are and this is how we live,
because it is the way we want it” is outside the shared reality of white
people.

Fundamentally, this is the heart of the fight. All the stuff about
demographics, race realism, ethnography and so forth are window
dressing. The real battle is to break the conditioning of whites, who
have been trained their whole lives to see themselves as fundamentally
amoral, therefore in need of external moral standards to justify their
desires and their preferences. The end point of this is that time when
it is natural for white people to say, “Because we live here and this is
how we do things.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
