---
title: "Enemy Of The People"
date: "2019-01-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16125"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16125"
---

There has never been a time when normal people did not know the media
was biased in a predictable direction. For every normal in the media,
there were at least ten liberals, maybe more, but then, as now, some
lefties liked to pretend they were independent or some third option. The
media used to invest a lot of time denying they had a bias and an
agenda, but the only people who believed them were on the Left, which
had the odd effect of confirming they had a bias and an agenda.

The thing is though, the media seemed like it was biased in a
predictable way. In the 1980’s, for example, the newspapers featured
stories about the so-called homeless crisis on a weekly basis. That is
when we went from calling them bums to pretending their only problem was
a lack of shelter. Once Clinton assumed power, the homeless stories
disappeared. It was a running joke for a long time, because it was so
obvious, but also because it was so predictable.

As many have observed, the mask began to drop during the Clinton years
when so many media members quit their jobs and went to work in the
administration. It is hard to maintain the illusion of independence when
there is a revolving door between the media and left-wing political
operations. That is when CNN became known as the Clinton News Network,
because they were so hilariously in the tank for them. Some tried to
maintain the ruse, but any pretense of objectivity ended in the 1990’s.

Again, there was still a sense that it was just bias and that it was
predictable and therefore you could adjust for it. This is no longer the
case. The mainstream media has become advocates, but not necessarily
advocates for the progressive base of the Democratic coalition. They
seem to be serving the agendas of private parties operating off-stage.
For example, sites like the Huffington Post and Daily Beast are about
moral enforcement rather than news and current events.

The recent harassment of Alex McNabb by Antifa member Christopher
Mathias is a great example of the phenomenon. The Huffington Post
provides him with a cover identity as a reporter, but in reality someone
else is paying his way. His job is as a witch hunter, looking for anyone
in violation of the blasphemy laws. This is a strange new phenomenon
that does not have a corollary in the past. Even Woodward and Bernstein
were legitimate reporters.

There is an argument that this sort of religious advocacy is the natural
result of the narrative journalism that evolved in the 1960’s and
1970’s. If you are going to report stories, the point is to inform. If
you are going to spin tales, then the first goal is to entertain and
there is nothing as a gripping as a morality tale. These doxing stories
are just campfire tales for the hard thumping loons of the far Left. The
point of them is to tell the reader that they must be vigilant, as
heretics are everywhere.

That is probably true, but what about stories like [this
one](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2018/12/24/new-york-times-pressures-credit-card-giants-to-blacklist-gun-purchasers/),
where it is clear the New York Times now has a whole department involved
in political advocacy. That is a highly organized effort to alter public
policy. More important, it is a long-term project, going back to the
Obama years. The New York Times posted a [database of gun
owners](https://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/19/nyregion/newspaper-takes-down-map-of-gun-permit-holders.html),
with an accompanying map, in a campaign to terrorize gun owners. This
goes well beyond bias and even past the morality tales spun by the
Huffington Post.

It does not stop there. [This
story](https://www.tabletmag.com/jewish-news-and-politics/278423/an-improvised-explosive-device)
about the death of Saudi national Jamal Khashoggi takes advocacy to
another level. As an aside, the story is written by Lee Smith, who was
fired from The Weekly Standard by Bill Kristol. His crime was having
uncovered Kristol’s involvement in the fake dossier the FBI was using to
subvert Trump. The story of Khashoggi’s life and death reads like a spy
thriller, but it was not a CIA caper. It was an operation apparently run
by the Washington Post.

We have come a long way from simple bias. The same media that cannot
stop talking about Russian efforts to trick voters into voting the wrong
way, was running a covert operation to trick the government into
supporting Iran over Saudi Arabia. Unlike the Russians, the Washington
Post got someone killed. Unlike the Trump team, the Washington Post was
working with a foreign country that is often viewed as hostile to
American interests.

Trump started calling the media the “enemy of the American people” but
he seems to have dropped it for some reason. Maybe the media threatened
him. Given what we are seeing, how long before Washington Post reporters
are planting car bombs and spiking drinks with polonium? Whether or not
they see Americans as the enemy is hard to know, but it is the safe bet.
While they may not yet be the enemies of the people, they are a short
bus ride to that position.
