---
title: "The Tax Revolt"
date: "2019-09-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18679"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18679"
---

In the realm of economics, hidden taxes are considered the worst taxes,
as they corrupt the relationship between the parties in a transaction.
The hidden tax adds a third party to the transaction, which clouds the
true cost from buyer and seller. This secret partner to the transaction
is often the government. Fees in the supply chain, like energy taxes,
for example, show up in the cost of the product or service, but they are
not disclosed, so the true cost is hidden from both the seller and buyer
in many cases.

In the social realm, there are hidden taxes that are not really hidden,
as they are experienced every day, but no one thinks of them as taxes.
For example, people living in Lagos on the Chesapeake are well aware of
*the tax*. This is the daily cost of insulating yourself from crime and
mayhem. It may be a direct tax like alarm systems or bars on the
windows. It can also be an indirect tax, like the two hour commute from
one part of the suburbs to another. Time is just another form of money.

There is also an emotional cost that comes with living around so much
vibrancy. When you live in a place like Lagos, around *the tax*, you can
never relax. Life in diverse areas is a constant struggle between two
species that were never meant to occupy the same ecosystem. The fragile
peace is a source of stress, because it is so fragile. You know that the
cost of that peace is tolerating the endless inconveniences. The pale
face just assumes maintaining the peace is his burden alone.

It is not just the anxiety of living in constant danger. *The tax* shows
up in a million little ways in your daily life. If you go into a lunch
place in certain parts of town, you can expect to see a local struggling
to order from the menu. The inculcated sense of entitlement means they
will waste time ordering odd things that slow up the whole process for
everyone. In the grocery store, shoppers will pick checkout lines, based
on the assumed tax in each option. Everyone tries to be a tax dodger.

Like real taxes, there is no way to avoid *the tax*. In a place like
Lagos, it is everywhere and is just a part of the background radiation
of the universe. One just learns to navigate around these burdens. You
are only made aware of the tax when you go away to some tax haven and
then return to Lagos. The most stressful day of vacation is the first
day back. It’s like moving from black and white to color. For newcomers,
the tax is not just disorienting, it can be terrifying, but then they
acclimate.

Of course, the newest tax comes from open borders. Illegal immigration
is fueled by the demand for cheap labor. All of those little brown guys
riding leaf blowers are here because they are cheap. The price of the
landscaping services may be lower, but the cost shows up in the
emergency room or in the police blotter. This is a form of cost shifting
that is, in effect, a hidden tax on the people using other services. The
high cost of cheap labor is another hidden tax all of us are forced to
pay.

The tax is not just a racial thing. The ultimate cause of the tax is
Progressive whites, who are a tireless burden on everyone around them.
When box wine auntie shows up for Thanksgiving dinner, everyone pays the
price for tolerating her. The day is a little less enjoyable, a little
less relaxed. In many cases, everyone is thankful that racist Uncle Bob
did not strangle her at the table. Perhaps instead of thankful, everyone
is disappointed. Again, everyone secretly wishes to be free of the tax.

That, of course, is the ultimate hidden tax. Every normal person has had
to self-censor, hold their tongue around some Progressive goofball.
Maybe it is at work, where fear of being canceled out of your job leads
to self-censorship. Often, it is in daily life where everyone avoids
certain topics around the liberal guy. Being polite, something that is
supposed to be a gift you give to others, becomes another tax in your
life. Every normal man has quietly thought about canceling the tax man
in their life.

The tax is everywhere. Turn on the television to watch a sportsball game
and you will be inundated with commercials for race mixing, homosexuals
and girl power. What should be a few hours vegging out in front of the
tube to watch men play a game, quickly turns into an aggravation that
saps your strength. TV ratings have declined for sports, because for
many normal people, the tax is now exceeding the benefit. Staring
blankly at the wall is more relaxing than another lecture on girl power.

This is the massive hidden tax on normal people. The price of tolerating
Progressive lunatics is the stress of crumbling community, the
irritation of endless propaganda and the bitterness than comes with
self-censorship. Everyone’s life is diminished because a small group of
people impose a heavy tax burden on the rest of us. The rise of
dissident politics is not a reaction to Progressive lunacy, so much as
it is the result of carrying the hidden tax burden. Normal white men are
tired of paying the damned tax.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
