---
title: "A Plague Of Nonsense"
date: "2019-02-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16614"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16614"
---

In American mythology, enemies of the people come to the attention of
the state because they are doing something that worries the state. The
people who got in trouble with the Soviets, for example, were either
freedom fighters, skeptics of communism or religious people just trying
to practice their faith. In other words, the people getting the business
from the state were both heretics and a specific threat. The state
rationally picked them out from among the population for special
treatment.

The truth is, there is a great deal of chance involved in these
situations. The Chinese have always understood this. The Chinese curse,
“May you be recognized by people in high places” captures the
serendipity that is always part of government. There are minor
nuisances, who get caught up in the government dragnet, while others,
who are very serious subversives escape attention.  Sometimes it is
simply a matter of pissing off the wrong person. Sometimes it is just
bad luck or bad timing.

Ideological government, either the hard type like the Soviets or the
soft sort like we have in America, needs enemies. More specifically, it
needs examples. In order to reinforce the rightness of the civic
religion, they need to demonstrate the wrongness of heresy. That means
the demand for heretics is constant. Finding heretics one at a time is
expensive, so it soon becomes a bulk operation. They cast the net, pull
in some troublemakers, throw away the small ones and keep the useful
ones.

Social media has proven to be excellent fishing waters. The need to
signal, means left-wing fanatics flood these sites. They become chum,
attracting the sorts who enjoy criticizing progressive piety. Every once
in a while, a heretic gets caught up in the nets and is hauled aboard
for defenestration. It is no surprise that doxing, the tactic of
leftists where they harass heretics at their work and school, almost
always starts on social media. Swim near the trawlers, risk getting
caught in the net.

There seems to be a corollary to this in the realm of official
propaganda. The fire hose of fake news, conspiracy tales, and selective
reporting is also an economical way of solving the propaganda issue.
Instead of spending time and money coming up with credible narratives,
the ideological state can simply reduce the verity of all social
information to zero. If everyone comes to believe everything they hear
is false, the critics of the regime have no way to convince the public.

Think of it this way. Imagine JFK was actually assassinated by a secret
cabal within the government. In order to avoid detection, they could
find a sucker to set up for the crime, but there is the risk someone
could notice defects in the narrative. What if the sap they selected has
an alibi or some physical evidence contradicts the story? The other
choice is to try and erase all evidence pointing to the conspiracy, but
this is hard to do. There are always a few breadcrumbs that point
investigators in the right direction.

A third option is to create and promote a wide range of conspiracy
theories that are plausible but lack proof. This not only muddies the
waters, but it also attracts the sorts of people who seek attention.
Before long all the kooks are promoting their favorite theory of the
crime. Not only does this obscure the facts of the crime, but it also
makes the real theory seem just as nutty as the fake conspiracies. The
very act of trying to identify who killed Kennedy disqualifies the
person doing it.

This is a pattern, by the way, we see with lots of unsolved mysteries.
The official inquiry comes up dry or seems to lack official support, so
there is a flood of conspiracy theories by professional conspiracy
mongers. Obama’s birth certificate is a great example. Team Obama let
that linger, because they wanted people talking about the birth
certificate, rather than the gaping holes in Obama’s official biography.
Before long, anyone puzzling over his backstory was cast as a “birther”
and laughed off the stage.

This what has happened to our media over the last few decades. The
ideological state no longer has to sell a credible narrative. They just
have to allow the fake news to flood the zone so that the public assumes
everything is fake, even the people criticizing the ideologues in
charge. In a zero-trust society, the value of subversion falls to zero,
but the value of the institutions grows geometrically. Therefore, the
people controlling the institutions increase their power, even as they
become less credible.

This is probably not by design. That would be a conspiracy theory of its
own. No, these things may simply evolve. In the late stages of the
Soviet Union, dark humor about the near total lack of trust in Russian
society was common. It is probably not an accident that some of those
jokes are making a comeback in modern America, particularly in response
to the Russia conspiracies. In a world where there is no truth and no
one can trust anything, all you can do is laugh.
