---
title: "At War With Ourself"
date: "2019-07-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18070"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18070"
---

In the age of kings, the monarch’s interest in the economy or in the
law, was purely personal. Trade with another kingdom, for example, was
about how it would profit the king and the people who served him. The
same was true of domestic policy, where the point was to maintain order,
so the king remained king. In theory, the king was the leader of his
people and charged with looking out for their welfare, but in reality
the reciprocal obligations were about maintaining the interests of the
king.

In any system of personal rule, the law is about maintaining the
relationships between the individuals in society. Disputes between
individuals are adjudicated based on the established order, the position
of the individuals in that order and the details of the personal
dispute. Justice in such a system is never about public interests, as
there is no such thing as public interest. Society is a system of
hierarchical private interests that ultimately serve the interest of the
monarch, who sits atop the social order.

In a liberal democracy, things are reversed. Public interest is now
sovereign, transcending the personal interests of even the most
powerful. Prosecutors can charge a prominent rich guy, for example,
because they see it as their duty to the public to do so. It’s not about
their personal conviction or their personal relationship with the rich
guy. It is about what is understand as the public will, as defined by
the law. All men are equal before the law, because the law is the public
will, which is sovereign.

In theory this sounds superior to private rule, as the state operates as
referee, maintaining and enforcing a set of rules on everyone equally.
All of the private interests in society are then free to pursue their
private interests, within the rules established by the law. Businesses
compete with one another for customers. Individuals compete with one
another for wealth and status. Society is a dynamic ecosystem of
individual interests operating within the medium of the public good.

Because political offices lack transcendent legitimacy, the authority of
the office rests in the general will, as expressed by the civic
religion. This civic religion justifies not only the political structure
of the state, but the manner in which office holders are selected.
Instead of men rising to the top because they are favored by the gods or
by the design of biology, they are selected because they win the favor
of the people. They hold office because the public wills it and the
public will is sovereign.

Because civic religions lack a limiting principle, civic mindedness
inevitably becomes and ideology venerating the public good. The
individuals occupying public office begin to see themselves as keepers
of public morality, a priesthood, which serves the public in the same
way a priest serves his flock. That brings state regulation of private
interests in the name of public interests. Before long, the very nature
of private interest assumes its primary purpose is the public good.

This is the nature of woke capital. The reductionist interpretation is
that the people in these corporate giants are motivated by power or
political ideology. They just want to help their tribe. In reality, what
drives this is a culture inside these organizations around the belief
they are there to serve the greater good. Apple is not a firm that makes
expensive toys in China. It is a company with a mission to make the
world a better place. The people are not there to profit the company,
but to benefit mankind.

The conflation of private interests and the public good that inevitably
must happen in a democracy, turns every company into a religious order
and every powerful man into a bishop of the civic religion. As happens
in all markets, the competition for what defines the public morality
consolidates into one universal public morality. The entrepreneur wants
to get rich, not for material reasons, but for spiritual reasons, as
that becomes the path to high status. “Giving back” is the ultimate goal
of wealth.

It is not just the private sphere that is subverted by the public will.
The very institutions of the democracy become one with the new religion.
Instead of training young people in the practical arts, education turns
into indoctrination centers. Everything about our modern education
system, even the private schools, is bent toward brainwashing young
people into the ideology of the state. It’s why standards have
collapsed. They are making believers now, not scholars.

The democratic custodial state, like all ideological enterprises, must
eventually consume itself, as ideologies are always at war with nature.
Ideology is about how things should be, not how they are. We are seeing
that with the custodial state, where institutions, in order to carry out
their spiritual duty, must violate the basic principles of law that make
democracy possible. For the woke corporation or progressive college to
complete its mission, it must violate the principle of equality before
the law.

We see this in the [explosion of sexual assault
allegations](https://www.baltimoresun.com/maryland/baltimore-county/bs-md-baltimore-county-counter-claims-20190401-story.html)
on campus. These are hotbeds of ideological fervor, producing waves of
new fanatics. In order to function as such, no discouraging words are
permitted. Since Chad’s very existence is a discouraging word to the
concept of feminism, the campus is now at war with Chad and the front
line solders in that war are hysterical coeds. You cannot be a fully
actualized women without having been raped by Chad in your dorm room.

The trouble is, rape has a legal definition. Sexual assault has a legal
definition. These are legal constructs that bring with them legal
procedures. When Becky claims she was assaulted by Chad, she has to
supply some proof of the allegation. If the police think there is enough
to arrest Chad for assault, they will do so and turn him over to the
prosecutor, who will determine if there is enough to prosecute him. If
that happens, then the court will determine Chad’s legal guilt through
another legal process.

The result is a conflict between the desire of the coeds to fully
actualize their moral self and the structures that makes liberal
democracy possible. This conflict turns up all over woke capital, as
well. That person sitting in a cubicle, debating whether to cancel your
bank account, is balancing their duty to the greater good against the
rules limiting their power in the organization. Where ever they can
serve the greater good, they will, even if it pointlessly harms you. To
them, you are just an irrelevant abstraction.

The inevitable end point of liberal democracy is a system that is at
perceptually war with itself, because it is animated by a religion
without a limiting principle. Every reform in the name of the public
good is followed by calls for more reforms. Every new rule or limit that
replaces some old discredited rule is immediately attacked as against
the good of the people or a danger to the democracy. The end point of
liberal democracy it a riot of fanatics murdering one another in the
name of the people.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
