---
title: "Unraveling Impeachment"
date: "2019-09-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18765"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18765"
---

In the days after the election, when the Left was howling about Russian
collusion, it was clear they were hiding something. The theory they were
pitching was so ridiculous, it had to be about something else. The
mendacious mediocrities in mass media could be convinced it was real,
but that’s their job. Normal people always knew the claims were absurd.
We later learned that the Russian hoax was part of an effort to conceal
the seditious plot by the intelligence community.

The Russian collusion hoax is a good place to start when trying to
unravel the latest impeachment panic. That caper was about getting a
special prosecutor named before Team Trump could figure out what was
happening. Mueller, the horse-faced flunky, would provide cover, while
greasy operatives on his staff would hoover up anything related to the
FBI caper. The whole affair would be sequestered while they figured out
how to get rid of Trump and anyone too curious about what happened.

Put another way, the point of the caper was never really about Trump. He
was just a useful pivot point in order to address a different issue.
They were much more concerned about people like Devon Nunes, who were
doggedly pursuing the case. The special prosecutor was a way to end-run
Congress and pests like Nunes, so the whole thing could be hidden from
public view. If not for a few Congressional Republicans, there would
never have been a need for the Russian collusion hoax.

It’s pretty clear that this new gambit is being run by many of the same
people who were involved in the original caper. It has the same
signature. There is a fake whistle blower, who was purpose built for the
task. His claims were systematically leaked to the media, so the
Democrats could pretend to be outraged and demand an investigation. The
media was ready for a full onslaught of impeachment stories. Like the
Russian collusion hoax, this one is highly coordinated with the press.

If the last impeachment hoax was about covering up the FBI spying and
seditious plot to overturn the election, the question is what are they
trying to cover for now? The original investigation of the FBI seems to
be heading in some strange directions after Barr took over the case.
Reportedly he is on official business in Italy. That has the Democrats
going bonkers, as it suggests he is looking into the CIA role in the
Russian collusion hoax. They seem <a
href="https://talkingpointsmemo.com/news/nadler-barr-must-recuse-trump-dragged-him-into-this-mess"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">very worried</a> about Bill
Barr all of a sudden.

The thing that has been ignored that probably is important is that
Pelosi was trying to put an end to the impeachment stuff until recent.
When she went to meet with her caucus over this whistle blower stuff,
the pundits assumed she was going to squash the whole thing. Instead,
she came out of those meetings fully on board with not only impeachment,
but fast tracking it. Maybe her caucus was in revolt and she felt she
had no choice or maybe she learned something and felt she had no choice.

Regardless of the internal dynamics of the party, this latest
impeachment frenzy seems to be related to what Barr has been up to
lately. <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2019/09/28/attorney-general-bill-barr-visits-italy-on-official-business-remember-that-audio-tape-deposition-by-joseph-mifsud/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> at Conservative
Tree-house goes into a lot of detail, but what stands out is the Mifsud
item. It was his involvement with Papadopoulos that allegedly set off
the FBI probe. If he is actually a CIA asset used as part of the larger
plot, then that changes things considerably. It now brings the CIA into
the mix as co-conspirators in the seditious plot to overturn the
election.

That could be why the CIA had one of their people work with the
Democrats to create the whistle blower story. They are worried that they
are now in some jeopardy. Their concern may be that they have been
secretly listening to Trump’s official calls with foreign leaders.
Notice that the Democrats are now claiming the transcript the White
House provided is a forgery. They could only think that if they were
told there is stuff missing from the transcript, by someone who saw the
original.

In other words, the first impeachment hoax was about covering up the FBI
plot to overturn the 2016 election. This latest impeachment hoax is
about muddying the waters in order to conceal CIA involvement. The hope
is the Democrats and the media can someone gain jurisdiction over the
whole thing and prevent public disclosures that will be very bad for the
CIA. The FBI spying on politicians is bad, but the CIA working for
foreign countries to spy on politicians would be devastating.

The thing that does not make a lot of sense is that the Congress cannot
take over an investigation like a special prosecutor. Perhaps that’s
what the game is here. They will dirty up Barr while claiming to
investigate this latest hoax, then demand another special prosecutor.
That would explain why they are in such a rush to get started. As we saw
with the first hoax, this one may not be about Trump at all. It may be
about taking out someone who is asking the wrong questions about the
right people.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
