---
title: "The Children’s Crusade"
date: "2019-10-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18958"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18958"
---

For the longest time, the Conservative Movement operated as the
screeching gates of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tartarus"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Tartarus</a> that kept the
damned from reentering politics. This worked because they had some great
thinkers and writers, who functioned as adamantine columns. For the
politically engaged, especially the youth, these writers provided the
convincing arguments and critiques from the Right. That’s what made
Buckley-style conservatism so effective at gate-keeping. They had high
quality gate-keepers.

It was this effectiveness that was probably the undoing of Buckley
conservatism in the long run. By the 1980’s, being an acceptable
conservative was a good job at a good wage, so few were willing to risk
being hurled into the great pit of despair. As a result, those gates and
their adamantine columns were not maintained. The great writers faded
away one at a time. The system itself grew corrupt, attracting
<a href="https://images.app.goo.gl/EGfh8x1LX3Guc9mv5"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">grifters</a> and
<a href="https://images.app.goo.gl/rhKzaaExCYw9xNZ68"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">lunatics</a>, who saw Buckley
conservatism as a means to an end.

As a result, even those grifters are moving on from conservatism. Jonah
Goldberg and Steve Hayes are now peddling their warmongering fetish to
Progressives. As <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/the-dispatch-is-warmed-over-neoconservative-news/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Paul Gottfried pointed out</a>
in a recent essay, they are just drifting Left in search of an audience
willing to buy their shabby neoconservative act, while dressing in the
rags of Conservative Inc. The movement is left to hiring homely child
actors like Charlie Kirk to run around peddling whatever it means to be
a conservative these days.

An example of the callow mediocrities charged with keeping the gates is
this <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/10/online-censorship-and-the-alt-right/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">recent post</a> at National
Review. It is a review of the Andrew Marantz book about various scary
creatures he encountered on his adventure outside the hive. Simply on
technical grounds, this is something that never would have made it past
the editors thirty years ago. It is a dilettantish effort at comparative
analysis and a ham-handed effort at gate-keeping, while accusing Andrew
Marantz of trying to be a gate-keeper.

The ridiculousness of the post is made plain in the penultimate
paragraph when he writes, “For all that Marantz gets wrong, everyone
should agree that far-right extremists should have as little influence
as possible.” That right there is exactly what dissidents mean when they
accuse these guys of being gate-keepers. The writer just concedes to the
Left, the people he allegedly opposes, the basic premise that those most
feared by the Left can be systematically excluded from public debate.

Later in the same paragraph he writes, “Their gatekeeping either will be
too tepid for progressive activists or it will enrage the Right, which
will hit back — by revoking their protection against liability under of
the Communications Decency Act, or with antitrust enforcement against
Big Tech, or with a culture war that puts the would-be gatekeepers
squarely in the crosshairs.” In other words, the point of the post is
not an attack on the Left, but a friendly bit of advice to help them
maintain their power.

Of course, the absurd assertion that the Right will become enraged and
hit back at the Left is so lacking in self-awareness that it reads like
a troll. The defining feature of Buckley conservatism is its steadfast
unwillingness to fight back. They never get enraged about any of the
excesses of the Left. Instead, conservatism is just a collection of sob
sisters warning that one of these days, not now, but soon, they will
stand up on their hind legs and do something. It’s why the word “cuck”
stings them so much.

Notice also the unwillingness to address the excesses of the Left with
regards to the public space. Marantz is making the case that the rich
and powerful should crush the people he does not like, but dig deeper
and it is really a way to justify what the Left is doing already. In
other words, the mobs of heroin addicts and mental patients called
Antifa are just a response in lieu of more responsible elements stepping
in to control dissident opinion. Marantz is trying to justify what is
already happening.

Nowhere in the piece will you find any push-back to what the Left is
currently doing with their terrorist tactics. In fact, Conservative Inc.
has been silent on these issues, because ultimately, they agree with
them. In their historic role as the gate-keepers, they are always
willing to take help from their friends on their Left. The only bad guy
in the post is the people both Left and Right agree is their shared
enemy. That enemy is the swelling number of people willing to fly the
black flag of dissident politics.

Again, the writer is <a href="https://twitter.com/nicholas_c_p?lang=en"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">young and inexperienced</a>,
so it would be uncharitable to make more of this than is required.
That’s the thing though. There was a time when Conservative Inc. did not
have to rely on rent boys for content. Someone this age with an interest
in writing should be covering high school sports for a local paper or
maybe submitting articles to his college journals. That’s where you
learn to form your thoughts and express them in a compelling manner, not
the flagship of conservatism.

That’s what conservatism is reduced to these days. They operate like a
grooming gang of creepy geezers, cruising the college campus for young
people so dull and joyless they think pleasing an audience of seniors is
cool. Charlie Kirk, an old person’s idea of a young person, is used not
so much to sell whatever it is Conservative Inc. is peddling these days,
but to keep young people from looking outside the bounds of conventional
politics for answers. Charlie Kirk is a far cry from Russell Kirk.

In a time when many dissidents are feeling a bit low about the state of
the fight, this should be a source of encouragement. When the flagship
of Buckley conservatism is relying on kids like Nicholas Phillips,
they’re finished. If the gate-keepers think a ridiculous dimwit like
Charlie Kirk is their big gun to defend the citadel against the
barbarians, it may be time to open the gates. Children’s crusades are
always the last desperate effort of an exhausted combatant.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
