---
title: "It’s Personal"
date: "2019-11-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19032"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19032"
---

Something that has been noticeable for a long time now is that the Left
is in a perpetual state of rage. The smallest things send them into
spasms of anger. They hate Trump and they really hate his voters. They
will go <a
href="https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2019/11/08/OpenLetterLinuxFoundation.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">rummaging around</a> in the
social media history of people, looking for reasons to hate them. It’s
not a general all-encompassing hate, like hating the fans of a rival
sports team, but a very personal and cruel hate. They want the victim to
suffer and they want to enjoy his suffering.

One reason for this, obviously, is that many people attracted to the
Left are mentally unstable, so their politics are just a vehicle for
their pathology. Many of the Antifa people, for example, have no
coherent political thoughts. They just like being crazy on the streets
and causing mayhem. This is the type of person who was attracted to the
riots that used to follow the big economic summits. There was never any
purpose to their rampages, other than the thrill of smashing things and
causing mayhem.

Another more important reason for the rage is the nature of leftist
politics in our post-national age. Being on the Left no longer means
joining a group that has a tangible enemy, against whom the group throws
themselves. The days of unionist, socialists and communists operating as
collectives are gone. Even the post-modern movements like climate change
and sexual politics is atomized. Much of it is backed by the sorts of
people the Left used to oppose like rich people and business.

Lacking an organized enemy and a transcendent reason to formally
organize, left-wing politics is highly personal now. No one is
committing to a cause bigger than themselves, as their self is the most
important thing in their life. It’s why the pronoun stuff is such a
thing for these people. There is not much more personal than how the
world will refer to you in terms of sex. This intense focus on how the
world must perceive them is the root of their politics now. The issues
are just vehicles for self-expression.

This is not something anyone is trying to hide. <a
href="https://medium.com/@plaosmos/extinction-rebellion-isnt-about-the-climate-42a0a73d9d49"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This essay</a> by one of the
organizers of the climate activist group Extinction Rebellion explicitly
makes this point. He’s not really concerned about the climate. He
concedes that there is nothing to be done that is going to change what’s
coming. The purpose of his activism is to normalize himself and his
sense of self. It’s all about him forcing you to listen to his story and
then accepting it and him as something other than strange.

The idea of the personal being the political is not new. The phrase
comes from an essay by feminist Carol Hanisch in the 1960’s. The idea is
that personal experience is intertwined with larger social and political
structures. One’s personal choices reveal one’s politics. Consequently,
one should make personal choices that are consistent with one’s
politics. The political person should live the life they advocate, so
that means not doing business or associating with the wrong people.

Today, this has moved from simply not buying stuff from a business owned
by a bad thinker to committing one’s life to destroying the bad thinker
and anyone foolish enough to not share the same hatred. The whole woke
movement is a blood lust, an effort to cause real harm to people by
denying them the ability to live. Climate activism, as expressed in that
essay, is about destruction. Everything the writer sees as keeping him
from reaching personal fulfillment must be destroyed.

It is not a politics of self-interest, as the so-called conservative
would imagine. The modern leftist is like a bear protecting her cubs.
Any perceived threat is met with overwhelming aggression. You see it in
the language. They conflate ideas and statements with actions. Holding a
contrary opinion makes them feel unsafe, as that opinion is viewed as
violence. They need safe spaces, by which they mean the removal of
anything and anyone that contradicts their sense of self.

This is the real cause of what is behind the social media purges. From
the perspective of a radical, everything in their space is theirs and an
extension of their self. When a contrary opinion, or even an oblique
reference to one, shows up in their twitter timeline, it feels like a
home invasion to them. Those women posting about how they are literally
shaking or sobbing because their favorite cable show had a bad person as
a guest are not exaggerating. They were physically effected by the
experience.

It’s an important thing the alt-right got wrong about their on-line
activities. They still assume the reason they get thrown off these
platforms is because their ideas are so powerful. In reality, their
ideas are meaningless. The reason they are removed from the platforms is
the same reason one would kill a snake. It’s not that the snake poses a
threat to the ecosystem. It is that the snake is a personal threat. The
person kills the snake because they can’t feel safe until they know it
is dead.

The ultimate cause of this highly personal radicalism is the same thing
that is driving dissident politics. The dehumanization, that is the
result of post-national liberal order, is creating a growing number of
people looking for something to fill the void left by community,
identity and culture. For some, it means a deep dive into their own
psyche where they live hiding behind the sandbags of their own peculiar
traits. For others it means a search for community and fraternity.

The sorts of people drawn into the politics of self are not new to
humanity. These people are not the victims of a new pathogen or chemical
contamination. It’s just that in the past, our societies had evolved
cultural and institutional ways of channeling these people into defined
roles. The obliteration of community by global capital and the
destruction of culture through multiculturalism has destroyed everything
that gives meaning and purpose to life. That’s why they are so angry.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
