---
title: "The End Of Atheism"
date: "2019-02-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16520"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16520"
---

If you are over the age of 40, perhaps a bit older, you have lived long
enough to see a great fad get going, peak and then fade away completely.
Lots of fads run their course in a few months, obviously, but social
movements tend to build slowly and then stick around for a while, before
disappearing down the memory hole. One of those fads is atheism, which
had a good run in the 80’s and 90’s. It started to peter out in the
90’s, had a brief revival in the aughts, but now seems to be headed to
oblivion.

The so-called “new atheists” are [not ready to throw in the
towel](https://whyevolutionistrue.wordpress.com/2019/02/15/is-new-atheism-really-dead-three-new-atheists-respond/)
on their reason to exist, as it were, but that’s to be expected. Harris
and Dennett moved all their chips into the middle of the table with the
atheism stuff. It got them the attention they desired, so as a gambler
will wear a diamond pinky ring to recall his one big score, these guys
still proudly wear their atheism. All of them have moved onto other
things, but they will expound upon their hatred of religion if the crowd
demands it.

Of course, anytime the word “new” gets attached to something old, it
means that old thing is now dead. It also means that old thing had some
serious internal defect that eventually killed it. The “new right” made
an appearance when it was clear Conservative Inc. was just a ruthless
money racket. The previous iteration of “new right” appeared in the 70’s
when everyone agreed the old right was dead. The reason “new atheism”
got going is everyone agreed that regular old atheism was creepy and
weird.

The central defect of atheism, old and new, is it is an entirely
negative western identity and entirely dependent on Christianity.
Specifically, it requires people of some status to defend Christianity
and the Christian belief in the supernatural. Atheism has always been
the
[oxpecker](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/those-little-birds-backs-rhinos-actually-drink-blood-180964912/)
of mass movements. Everything about it relies on its host both
tolerating it and thriving on its own. It is why atheism has had its
spasms of success when Christianity in America has had a revival, as in
the 80’s and the 2000’s.

Atheists will deny this, of course. They will argue, as Dennett often
does, that the steep decline of Christianity is proof their arguments
were superior. The reason they no longer talk about their thing is they
won and their enemy is dead. The fact that there are plenty of Muslims
and [crackpot feminist
airheads](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/18/us/edray-goins-black-mathematicians.html)
around spouting magical oogily-boogily never seems to get their
attention for some reason. The only guy to venture into this area was
Dawkins, but the Prog quickly reminded him who pays his bills.

That has always been the tell with atheism. Belief in something as
insane as male privilege or implicit whiteness should get their
attention. After all, these are not just beliefs in the supernatural,
they are *primitive* beliefs in the supernatural. Men of the classical
period had more plausible and complex beliefs than people like Amy
Harmon. She is a click away from demanding human sacrifice. Yet, the new
atheists were never much interest in *those* magical beliefs. They were
too busy hounding the last Christians.

That is another tell. Atheism has always been a popular pose on the
Left, because it was a useful signal. The bad whites loved their boom
sticks and sky gods. The good whites rejected all those crazy beliefs.
It is why atheists tended to focus on the mainstream of Christianity,
like Catholics and mainline Protestant churches. Mormons were always an
easy target. They avoided the Jews and black Baptists. Sure, once in
while a zinger against the tribe would be tossed in, but the enemy was
always white Christians.

The decline on atheism is a good example of the perils of negative
identity. When you define yourself as being in opposition to someone or
something, you inevitably become a slave to it. Your very existence
depends on it. As the main Christian churches collapse in scandal and
bizarre attempts to move Left, the enemies for atheists to attack are
getting more difficult to find. Attacking Christians is like beating up
a puppy. Only the severely mentally disturbed think Christians have any
power today.

The other thing working against atheism is it has been mostly male. That
is an interesting thing, given that the American Atheists was created by
a woman in the 60’s. Then again, [Madalyn Murray
O’Hair](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madalyn_Murray_O%27Hair) was just
a cat’s paw for the usual suspects. Her role was to be the point the
spear in the war to decouple Christianity from American civic and
cultural life. Since then, atheism has been a male thing. Given the
declining status of males on the Left, particularly white males, it is
no surprise that atheism is dying.

Given the state of affairs in the West and the crippling decline in the
Christian churches, it is hard to see atheism having another revival.
Christianity appears to morph into a private, bespoke thing in order to
survive outside the Progressive orthodoxy. That makes it a worthless
enemy for atheists. You can never know, of course, but it looks like
public Christianity is done for. That means atheism is done for as well,
unless it moves onto Judaism or Progressivism and that will never be
allowed.
