---
title: "The Jim Snow Laws"
date: "2019-12-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19179"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19179"
---

Everyone raised in the Unites States over the last fifty years has been
required to memorize the official dogma regarding Jim Crow laws. These
were state and local laws that enforced racial segregation in the
Southern United States. The official version preached to this day is
that they were draconian restrictions on blacks preventing them from
having a normal life. Modern blacks are told that their condition is the
direct result of white discrimination against blacks via these laws.

Now, there is a debate as to the intent and the effect of these laws,
mostly because the Left has re-imagined that period in American history.
The official version of the Civil Rights era is a fantasy with little
connection to reality. What is not under dispute is that these laws
existed and they had a negative impact on blacks. Black institutions did
not receive public support. Blacks were denied access to the legal
system, which often denied them justice when the victims of white
malfeasance.

The best argument against these sorts of laws is that they created a
second class of citizens, as a legal construct. You cannot have
democracy if you have second class citizens, as democracy assumes all
men being equal before the law. If the effect of Jim Crow was separate
and equal, then maybe they would fit into democracy. In reality, they
were separate and unequal, even accounting for the differences in the
races. Therefore, as a legal construct, they violated the ideal of
equality before the law.

While not always written into the legal code, certainly not explicitly,
the Jim Snow laws are just as offensive to the ideal of equality before
the law. The evolving legal construct under which whites are treated
different from non-whites is a variation of what existed in the South
during segregation. While the intent of Jim Crow was to keep the races
separate, the intent of the Jim Snow laws is vengeance. It is part of
the blood libel against white people in America.

The most recent example is the firing of hockey coach <a
href="https://www.bostonglobe.com/sports/bruins/2019/11/30/bill-peters-done-his-own-words-and-actions/ucA0ptpyOvpgryggkLfDwI/story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Bill Peters</a> after
allegations of racist remarks made by the coach came to light. Peters
admitted to using the magic word when addressing a black player ten
years ago. Why a Nigerian was in Canada playing hockey is never
explained, but Peters admitted to the crime. He was first required to
publicly grovel for his crime. He posted an open letter apologizing for
blaspheming a black, then he was fired and forever banished from hockey.

Now, his behavior may be unprofessional, but coaches have never been
known for being polite or sensitive to the feelings of their players.
Even so, the crime happened a decade ago. There’s no evidence this is an
ongoing thing. Maybe there is a case to me made that he should apologize
to the black guy, but only a lunatic nurses a grudge for a decade over
mean words. Instead, it is assumed he is a racist, because all whites
are racist. This just proves it. Therefore, he must be banished.

This type of situation could never happen with a black. For starters,
blacks use the magic word in their everyday speech. Good whites break
into reverent tears whenever they hear a famous black utter the
incantation. It’s like a magic spell. Further, non-whites are free to
rage against whites without restriction. The New York Times hired Sarah
Jeung because she hates white people. Michelle Goldberg has a prominent
position on the pages of the Times, because she hates white people.

This double standard does not stop with the war of words. Blacks are now
allowed to murder whites if they can claim the white was racist. In the
case of <a
href="https://www.inquirer.com/news/philadelphia/rittenhouse-square-stabbing-verdict-michael-white-sean-schellenger-20191017.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Michael White</a>, who
murdered a white man in cold blood, the assumption of racism was enough
to give him a pass. The N-word pass has become so embedded in the
culture that every black accused of wrong doing claims he was reacting
the use of the magic word by the white person he attacked. This is the
<a
href="https://fox8.com/2019/11/21/myles-garrett-accused-mason-rudolph-of-using-racial-slur-prior-to-fight-report/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">latest example</a>.

The default assumption of the Jim Snow laws is that whites are
relentlessly racist and always motivated to harm non-whites. Therefore,
whites are required to prove they are not acting on racial bias. In the
case of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curtis_Flowers"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Curtis Flowers</a>, this claim
is now going to the Supreme Court. No one doubts he killed these people
in cold blood. The issue is that whites cannot be trusted to render the
verdict. After all, it assumed they are so racist, they cannot be
trusted to convict a black killer.

The heart the Jim Snow laws is a blood libel. Whites are guilty by the
virtue of being descended from whites. They have inherited their guilt.
<a
href="http://www.unz.com/sbpdl/fbis-2018-hate-crime-data-shows-blacks-2-6-times-more-likely-than-whites-to-commit-hate-crimes/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The fact</a> that this
assumption is at odds with reality is immaterial. The people in charge
of the culture hate white people, so the Jim Snow laws are enforced. In
the case of <a
href="http://www.unz.com/estriker/inside-the-proud-boys-war-with-the-new-york-police-state/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Maxwell Hare and John
Kinsman</a>, they were sent to prison for the crime of being white. They
are in jail, having been denied the basic legal right to face their
accuser.

The main differences between the Jim Crow laws and the new Jim Snow laws
is the intent of the laws and the temperament of the people enforcing
them. It has been forgotten, but most blacks were fine with segregation.
Jim Crow was about preserving two distinct cultures in the same place.
Jim Snow is about wiping out white culture and the white people
defending it. Unlike the defenders of Jim Crow, the Jim Snow proponents
will never relent. Their vengeful hatred will never permit it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
