---
title: "The Mad Hater"
date: "2019-08-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18379"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18379"
---

In modern America, it is generally assumed that intelligent people are
smart about everything, not just a narrow specialty. It is also assumed,
with regards to social policy, that smart people are on the “right side”
of the issue. Taken together, smart people are general experts, who
agree and amplify the current Progressive fads. Whenever the television
chats shows want to add weight to some claim, they roll out credentialed
experts to repeat what the left-wing presenter just said.

The flip side to this, of course, is that critics of the current
Progressive fads are ignorant and primitive. They oppose the current
trends because they lack the intellect or proper education to understand
the issue. There is an oriental quality to it. The experts are talked
about as enlightened, as if years of focus have allowed them to ascend
to a high plane of existence. The critics, in contrast, are
unenlightened, unaware there is a higher plane and thus ignorant of
their own ignorance.

It is a useful social control mechanism, as it puts a tremendous moral
burden on the intellectual class. No one, especially smart people, wants
to be considered ignorant, so the natural tendency is to conform to the
latest trends. Social pressure is a powerful weapon, as humans are
social animals. To live as a pariah is the worst punishment in a status
seeking community like academia. The result is the people who know
better tend to keep quiet, while the rage heads and cranks run free.

There is an exception to this. There are people who seem to be smart,
but they also go against the current trends, usually in a flamboyant
way. Today that means acting like a crazy homeless guy on-line,
screaming about stuff to no one and everyone. A good example is someone
like Nicolas Taleb, the popinjay of probability. His latest thing is to
gainsay evolutionary biology, by claiming all of it is all bunk. It
usually involves attacking people.
<a href="https://twitter.com/nntaleb/status/1155944224795140096"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here</a> he picks out people
at random and calls them names.

Taleb has a special animus for psychometry. Here is a long essay where
he claims that <a
href="https://medium.com/incerto/iq-is-largely-a-pseudoscientific-swindle-f131c101ba39"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">IQ is largely a
pseudoscientific swindle</a>. This is ironic, given he made his money in
a field that does not rise to the level of pseudoscience. Finance is
just a swindle, where the “winners” have found a way to swindle the
losers. Putting that aside, his essay is typical of his work. Heavy on
complicated graphs and meandering logic, all of which is intended to
make the reader think the writer is a super genius.

Of course, this is the stock and trade of the intellectual grifter. A
pretty good rule is that a graph in an essay better be a highly
simplified representation of what the preceding text just explained. If
on the other hand, it is a complicated splatter chart following a pile
of spaghetti language, the writer is trying to run a con on you. There
are exceptions and complex topics can sometimes defy simple
explanations. Still, the <a
href="https://kottke.org/17/06/if-you-cant-explain-something-in-simple-terms-you-dont-understand-it"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Feynman Rule</a> and its
natural derivatives is good to keep in mind with guys like Taleb.

Another interesting aspect of the Taleb act is that he is extremely
ethnocentric. In fact it is his ethnocentrism that drives many of his
Twitter tirades.
<a href="https://twitter.com/nntaleb/status/1003235550147563520?lang=en"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This one</a> is a good
example, as it reveals a couple of things. The first thing is he does
not know much about fascism or localism. He seems to think the fascists
were internationalists. Of course, he assumes fascism is a synonym for
bad. Therefore, it must have an opposite, as all bad things are bad
because they are the opposite of the good things.

He picks localism as his good opposite of fascism and then makes the
claim that the Phoenicians were localists. A popular thing with Lebanese
nationalists (Christian) is to claim they are descendants of the
Phoenicians. What he is up to here is a sideways celebration of his
people. They were the first anti-fascists! Put another way, the root of
his political analysis is an extreme pride in his people and culture,
real or imagined, not a desire to understand the motivations of those
making public policy.

It may be that his attacks on psychometry are driven by his
ethnocentrism. Lebanon is a curious place. It is blessed with many
natural resources and an ideal location between Europe and the Middle
East. Yet, Lebanon is pretty much the ghetto of the Levant. If not for
the Palestinians, the Lebanese would be at the bottom of the status
pole. Israel, Syria and Iran use Lebanon as a staging area for their
proxy wars. The Lebanese live as perpetual victims of their more
powerful neighbors.

For a Lebanese nationalist, it is easier to look outside Lebanon for
reasons why their country is such a mess. To admit that the Lebanese
smart fraction abandoned the place a long time ago, which is mostly
true, leaving the less able behind, is not going to fit well with
ethno-nationalism. From an ethno-nationalist perspective, it is better
to just deny there can be such a thing as a smart fraction. That
obviates the need to explain a lot of Lebanese history, as well as
Taleb’s personal history.

Now, it is possible that the real motivation behind these frequent rants
against biology is just good old fashioned attention seeking. Taleb is a
bit of gasbag and he certainly likes himself a lot. On the other hand,
he could simply be a great example of someone with one good insight and
not much else. Intellectual history is littered with people who had one
great insight and a bunch of crackpot ideas. There were a lot of
brilliant physicists in the last century, who were convinced
international communism was the future.

Regardless, Taleb is a good reminder that smart people are right about
things more often than dumb people, but they are still wrong about a lot
of things. The further they stray from their narrow specialty, the more
certain they seem to be in their wrongness. That and intelligence is a
different from morality. Holding the right ideas is a different thing
from holding the correct ideas. A guy like Taleb, in addition to
providing free entertainment in Twitter, is a good example of how dumb
smart people can be when they try.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
