---
title: "What Comes Next"
date: "2019-06-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17732"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17732"
---

One of the great challenges of dissident politics is creating and
articulating a vision for what comes next. A large number of people have
become aware of the central issues around identity politics, so what do
they do to start changing society? Is the next step public activism? Is
it creating a political party? Is it taking over an existing party or
backing certain candidates? People have been conditioned to think
politics is about changing public opinion in order to change the laws
and culture in some way.

This is the liberal model everyone reading this has been raised to
accept. Our history has been rewritten to support this idea. Our modern
politics is full of symbols and rituals designed to reinforce this
belief. Even the economic sphere is drenched in the principles of free
market idealism. Don’t like that massive tech oligopolies are stripping
you of you legal right? Just go create a competitor! The liberal
democratic system teaches the people that they live in a massive market
place of ideas, so change is about market share.

That’s probably the hardest thing for newly minted rebels to accept
about right-wing identity politics. They have been conditioned to
believe they must act on their beliefs in order to get others to do the
same. In reality, there is no way forward within liberal democracy to
attain the goals of national populists or identitarians. The reason is
the system is fully evolved to perpetuate itself. Any effort by outside
elements to engage the system result in the outside influences being
fully incorporated into the system.

This is something that is easily observed in Europe, where it is still
possible to create new political parties and participate in electoral
politics from outside the very narrow mainstream.
<a href="https://news.kynosarges.org/full-speed-into-the-void/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This wonderful translation</a>,
by Christoph Nahr, of a German identitarian essay on the subject is
worth a read. This is a problem that exists in America in the form of
Trumpism. How do dissidents engage in politics in order to further our
goals, without being absorbed into the political habitus or destroyed by
it?

This is something Sam Francis observed about the conservative movement
when it was reaching its peak. In order for Buckley conservatives to
become an effective political force, they had to embrace the rules and
customs of liberal democratic politics, as defined by the Left. The Left
controlled the moral framework, so in order to participate in politics
meant embracing the Progressive moral framework. In the view of Francis,
it was only a matter of time before they were absorbed by it.

That is what happened with Buckley conservatism. It could remain a
challenge to the Progressive order only as long as exogenous factors
created tension between themselves and the Left. The threat of nuclear
annihilation artificially created a debate between the two sides of the
increasing narrow political space. Once that exogenous force was
removed, the moral gravity drew both sides into the center like a
collapsing star. The result is the political mono-space of
neoliberalism.

One way of approaching this problem is to accept the framework of
liberal democracy, but focus on the people in charge. Like a church in
need of reform, the Progressive clerisy can be replaced and thus
reinvigorate the institution. If only the people in charge of the
institutions accepted dissident ideas, then the system could be turned
in the direction of dissident politics. This is essentially what
Christian conservatives embraced in the 1980’s resulting in the Bush
victory in 2000. It was a total failure for them.

It is this truth of liberal democracy and right-wing political
philosophy that is the hardest for even the most sober minded to accept.
The two are utterly incompatible. For generations, the Right has blinded
itself to this reality, by fashioning itself as the defender of
tradition and the restorer of community. They have seen themselves as
the cleanup crew that comes in after the Progressive riot to put things
back in order. For generations, the Right has been the janitorial staff
of the Progressive state.

Since the core of liberal democracy is the abnegation of community, in
favor of the public will, free association is impossible. The person is
identified and defined by his role in the democracy. On the other hand,
all forms of conservatism begin with the organic social habitus of
shared history and identity. Therefore there can be no conservatism
without free association. It’s not the artificial freedom of
individualism, as preached by liberal democracy, but the freedom of
organic communities to reach their own destiny.

That is the reality of dissident politics. It is not about “politics” in
the conventional sense of the word. It is about a set of understandings
with the goal of <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K75K2xIagX4"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">constructing organic
communities</a> that operate outside of the liberal democratic system.
That means breaking the conditioning of white people, who have been
raised to reject this approach, so they can focus their energy on
building a counter-culture that challenges the prevailing orthodoxy on
moral grounds, not factual grounds.

This is an enormous challenge, as the aesthetic for the Right,
especially the bourgeois class, is as a restorer and defender. It is a
backward looking mindset that not only sees solutions in the past, but
sees the past as the solution. Building a counter-culture at odds with
the remaining orthodoxy is the sort of stuff they associate with
degenerates and communists. Yet, that is what must come next as liberal
democracy winds its way to its inevitable denouement. Dissident politics
is about what comes after this.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">please contribute here</a>.

Or, You can send money to me at: P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD
21030-0432
