---
title: "The New Order"
date: "2019-11-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19047"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19047"
---

One of the curious things about conservatism, as in Buckley-style
conservatism, is that it never examined its failures. Even today, when
asked about why they were unable to muster a defense against the
homosexualization of the culture, a guy like Charlie Kirk is poleaxed by
the question. He’s standing in front of a sign that reads “culture war”
alongside a homosexual and he is baffled about the question. Even the
more thoughtful and honest among conservatives have a huge blind spot
for their past.

One reason for this is an assumption by Buckley-style conservatives that
the things they oppose cannot “work” and therefore must eventually fail.
Socialism, for example, is just assumed to end in failure. That’s why
even now, they howl like lunatics about the empty shelves in Venezuela.
It is proof that what they fear cannot withstand contact with reality,
so they ignore all the other stuff going on in Venezuela. That means
they also ignore all of the prosperous countries that make socialism
work.

You see that in this
<a href="https://amgreatness.com/2019/11/10/the-looming-1984-election/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Victor David Hanson piece</a>
on the 2020 election. He has a section on the troubles in California and
mentions the power outages. He asks how it is possible for the tech
giants to function in land with power outages. There is that assumption
that what should not work will eventually stop working. The massive
homeless problem in the state is another example he uses. The assumption
is that the open borders, multiracial future is unworkable and must
fail.

The trouble with this thinking is that it assumes things about the
ruling class that has never been in evidence. That is, they have the
same standards for civilization as a conservative like Dr. Hanson. In
other words, their definition of what works is the same as his
definition of what works. Therefore, unless the rulers wake up to what
is happening, the system will collapse. On the other hand, if only
someone can get them to see the error of their ways, they will change
course to avoid disaster.

Conservatives never stop to think that maybe California is what the
ruling class wants for all of North America. After all, the people
running those tech giants are living great lives. In fact, they live
lives no mortals have experienced in the history of man, so from their
perspective, the system works. It’s not just the plutocrats at the top.
All the way down the line, the managerial elite is now living as
aristocrats. Sure, there is rot down toward the bottom, but that’s true
of all ruling elites.

Another thing that conservatives have always gotten wrong is in the same
post, where Hanson discusses national character. He laments the radical
authoritarianism that is now the campus culture. He wonders what sort of
politics that it will produce on the national stage. He wonders how the
breakdown of order will alter politics and if this new politics will
replace the national character. That is, the cultural revolution from
the top will produce a response from the bottom, the victims of this
assault.

This fear is rooted in an assumption that has never been true. The
United States was never a nation in the tradition sense. It was always a
federation of nations. The structure the Founders created was an
explicit acknowledgement of it. The regional difference in the colonies
at the time of the founding were not superficial. Those regional
differences are still with us today, despite the migrant wave unleashed
on many parts by the ruling class. America was always a house with many
mansions.

Therefore, to speak of national character, other than in the most
general terms, is to misunderstand the country and its people. More
important, this concept of the national character is one dreamed up by
the Right long ago to adjust to the triumph of Norther Progressives over
the rest of the nations. It is an entirely fabricated concept with no
basis in reality. It’s simply something that worked for the people in
charge as a propaganda device. They can easily abandon it for something
else.

That’s the thing conservatives have never grasped. For as long as anyone
today has been a live there has been a ruling class. They may not have
official titles and a formal role in government, but there are people in
charge. Like every ruling class, their primary interest is in remaining
in charge. When America was 90% white, the national character stuff that
resonates with Victor David Hanson was what they used to perpetuate
their rule. In other words, that sort of civic nationalism was a big
lie.

Now that America is non-white, the people in charge are searching for a
new moral construct to control the population. They also seek a
rationale for their position as the ruling elite. Without the
traditional forms of legitimacy, they have to search in their ideology
for a reason to justify their position. As the long reign of Robert
Mugabe showed, vengeance for past sins is a powerful tool of control.
The national character, if we allow it, will be a blood libel against
white people.

Finally, what remains of Buckley-style conservatism, and certainly of
its mongrel variant you see from people like Ben Shapiro and Charlie
Kirk, is a weird, fatalistic romanticism for a past that never existed.
What draws crowds to these people is the hope that they will make it all
better and that things will return to normal. That’s what makes this
stuff so insidious. It prevents decent people from facing the reality of
what’s coming and most important, it prevents them from preparing for
it.

There will be no confirmatory collapse of the Progressive order. There
will be no sudden realization of their errors and a great retreat from
radical multiculturalism. There is no returning to the America of the
past, real or imagined. The old white America where civic nationalism
was enough to maintain regional cooperation will not work in a land of
hostile strangers. In a land of tribes, many hostile and many encouraged
to be hostile, something else will be used to maintain control.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
