---
title: "Complicit Rightness"
date: "2019-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17278"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17278"
---

One of the unmistakable features of the modern Left is the increasing
hostility to Jews and Jewish issues, particularly Israel. The new
darlings of the coalition of the vibrant have a habit of displaying
hostility to Israel. Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Somalia) sounds like a member of
Hamas when it comes to our greatest ally. Despite the loud noises from
other members of the Left, Omar has suffered no consequences. You can’t
help but get the feeling that behind closed doors, the woke women of the
Left are not enthusiastic for the Tribe.

Another unmistakable feature of the modern Left is they tend to preach
against that which is a feature of Jews and Israel. A current example
popular on the Right is the fact that the Left hates walls, but Israel
seems to love walls. The Israelis have built border walls that are just
only impressive. They work. In fact, the Israelis are really proud of
having solved their problem with Arabs secretly crossing the border.
Meanwhile, here in the United States, opposing a wall on the southern
border is the top priority of the Left.

It’s not just political things either. Group solidarity has become the
new fascism with the Left, even as their demands for conformity get
shriller. The surest way to get fired from your job is to say out loud
that white people have a right to exist. Those “It’s OK To Be White”
signs are treated like acts of terrorism now. Yet, tribal solidity is
very Jewish. It is the defining feature of Jews. In fact, it is the
quality that has allowed them to survive and thrive in the West. You see
it in <a
href="https://www.timesofisrael.com/how-jewish-activism-has-wiped-out-tay-sachs/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story</a> about their
efforts to fight Tay-Sachs disease.

Genetic diseases tend to be very nasty, as nature tends to use harsh
measures to defend against harsh threats. Resistance to malaria, a
terrible disease common in sub-Saharan Africa, is the great example. One
copy of the gene is a powerful weapon against a powerful disease. Two
copies means a monstrous death. Tay-Sachs disease is a rare inherited
disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells in the brain and spinal
cord of new born children. Afflicted children die a terrible death in a
few years after birth.

Tay-Sachs was never common, but it was not unknown either. Jewish
hospitals had wards just for sufferers of the disease, so it was common
enough. In the late 1960’s a test was devised to check if someone was a
carrier of the disease. Parental screening had the effect of preventing
the birth of children with the disease, but also encouraging carriers to
have children. Screening allowed parent to choose a different path in
order to make sure their children did not have the disease. As a result,
Tay-Saks closed to wiped out.

That is a remarkable result and it is only possible when a group of
people has both a strong sense of identity and a strong sense of a
shared future. That tribalism that has kept Jews from being swallowed up
by their host populations turns out to be pretty good for all sorts of
things that are good for the Tribe. The campaign against breast cancer
is another example. Jewish women have much higher rates of breast
cancer. Jewish activism and philanthropy has made it the best funded
cancer research on earth.

Jews should be very proud of having worked together to prevent a
terrible disease and it should be an example to all people. It’s not
about the shared past, so much as the desire for a shared future that
makes tribalism work in the modern world. If you look at your people as
a large extended family, you will want your people to survive and thrive
into the future. That means you cannot just look at yourself as a lonely
individual looking out only for you. You are part of a larger whole and
must sacrifice for the greater good.

Despite this obvious upside to group identity and solidarity, the Left
is violently opposed to even the hint of it. Even Jews are getting the
treatment, as we see with the bright new faces of the ascendant. It’s a
strange thing that many write off to some secret conspiracy, but it may
simply be an example of implicit rightness. The people having this
bizarre response to identity politics are the people most likely to
experience it up close and personal, so it is informing their politics,
like a reaction to an infectious disease.

In America, Progressivism is based exclusively on the college campus.
The days of left-wingers organizing the working classes are no more. The
defining feature of the Left is their fear of being anywhere near real
work. Instead, they fester and boil on the college campus, where they
come up with new ways to rage about the people on the other side of the
walls. They also spend a lot of time around Jews. Other than maybe
finance or perhaps the law, Jews are most over represented on the
college campus.

As a result, American Progressives are the people most exposed to Jews.
An ideology that is supposed to explicitly trump biology is therefore
going to evolve in response to the most extreme version of
ethnic-nationalism. In other words, this indomitable quality of the
Jewish people is what Progressivism has evolved to oppose. Let loose on
the general population of America, a people with a frontier mentality,
the result is like small pox on the American Indians. Wokeness is the
Tay-Saks of white America.

Reality is that thing that does not go away when you stop believing it.
The reason Jews are the most successful tribe in human history is they
have a shared identity and shared future. That sense of a collective
self is what has seen them through the worst of times, despite being a
tiny minority. Ethnic identity is what made it possible for the West to
accelerate past the rest of the world. Identity politics is the antidote
to the mind virus of Progressivism. It turns out, implicit whiteness is
the germ of complicit rightness.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">subscribe here</a>.
