---
title: "The Modern Dionysia"
date: "2019-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18116"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18116"
---

For the longest time, the Right, variously understood, has argued that
the best weapon of the Left is control of the media. The fact that they
own the megaphones of society gives them the ability to overcome the
best arguments, merely by putting their message on blast to the general
public. When everyone in the media agrees with them and agrees that the
opposition is evil, it changes a lot of minds. In a democracy, the
people who control the organs of propaganda control the democracy.

While it is true that controlling the propaganda organs is vital to the
Left, it misses an important point. That is, controlling the cable news
shows or the major print publications is only useful if you know how to
use them. The Left not only has control of the media, but they are
experts at using this control. A vital part of that mastery is they are
experts at anticipating how their opponents will respond to their media
campaigns. They are expert showman who account for every aspect of
theater.

For example, they have always known that the so-called conservatives
crave the chance to make their case to the public. They know the Right
seethes when the Left gets to speak in public unchallenged. This
knowledge has allowed them to master the morality play, where they bring
on a conservative to make his case, but in reality he is cast into a
role that emphasizes the arguments of the Left. For decades, so-called
conservatives would go onto lefty shows, only to be pilloried.

If you stop and think about how this works, it is rather amazing. The
Left controls the media, but manages to convince their opponents that
the path to victory is getting on media platforms, controlled by the
Left. That means public debate is always an uphill slog in the rain for
anyone opposing them. The Left is so good at this they continue to lure
in people, even after decades of setting these media traps. It’s like
cats convincing mice that the only way to be a mouse is to hang out by
the litter box.

This is not just a natural consequence of controlling the media either.
When media people solicit people for interviews or media appearances,
their go-to move is to tell the intended victim about their opportunity
to reach a different audience. They will say something like, “This is a
great opportunity for you to get your message out to a broader
audience.” That’s the bait and they always use it because they know it
works. The Left has a mastery of media and their monopoly of it.

A good recent example is [Richard Spencer turning up on
CNN](https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2019/07/16/white-nationalists-celebrate-trump-racist-tweets-sidner-pkg-lead-vpx.cnn).
The producers picked him because they know he is desperate for attention
and would agree to anything, as long as it got him on television. He
would be happy to play the role of cartoon Nazi in the story about the
evil orange racist. Not only that, they also knew it would get them
enormous attention from the [cuck
belt](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/richard-spencer-cnn-appearance/)
that lives to insulate the Left. Dutifully, [the typical
dullards](https://twitter.com/willchamberlain/status/1151252701348544512)
scolded CNN for having Spencer on the air.

What CNN did was turn their opponents into their marketing department.
First, you get the white nationalists promoting a guy who, let’s face
it, has been a disaster for their interests. Then the cucks light up
like fire flies at dusk, blinking their disapproval at one another. Some
choose to denounce the white nationalists, while others blink about how
liberals are giving racists a platform. All of it funnels attention on
CNN and their propaganda campaign to declare orange the new white.

It was a remarkable three cushion shot for a network that has no
viewers, outside of airports and mental hospitals. It shows that even
the worst talents in Progressive media are very good at using their
tools. More important, they know how to manipulate their audience and
their opponents. Mike Enoch has probably mentioned CNN more times this
week than he has in the last five years. They triggered a guy, who is
quite media savvy himself, into playing along with their program.

The trick the Left has evolved is to use their media power to tell
stories. If it is the choice between the truth and an obvious lie, the
public will pick the truth. If it is a choice between the unvarnished
truth and a lie wrapped in a heroic tale of moral courage, the public
will always side with the latter. Thus mass media is an endless series
of morality tales, a Dionysia to reinforce Progressive civic morality.
All the actors on the stage are cast in service to the morality tale the
Left is pushing.

That’s the real lesson dissidents need to grasp. It’s not that the Left
controls the media or that they are expert at using it. It’s not even
that they have people like Richard Spencer ready to play whatever role
they need, as long as he can get on stage. It’s that the Left maximizes
this power by always fighting a moral war. They never let facts and
reason become an obstacle to their morality play. It’s always about
controlling public morality, as that allows them to control public
behavior.

If a genuine alternative is going to rise up, it is going to have to
provide an alternative to the current moral framework. In order to do
that, it must cast the issues in explicitly moral terms. You don’t
convert people to a new religion by explaining how their current god is
empirically flawed. You offer them a better moral framework, one that
allows them to feel as if their self-interest coincides with the natural
moral order. That means putting on better morality plays in your own
Dionysia.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
