---
title: "The Feedback Loop"
date: "2019-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17212"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17212"
---

Confirmation bias is one of those universals that effects everyone. It’s
natural for people to gravitate toward that which confirms what they
wish to be true. No matter how hard you try to “be objective” you
naturally prefer that which fits your biases. In the sciences, there are
elaborate processes to correct for this tendency. In theory, having your
work reviewed by peers, especially those with different biases, will
correct for bias. It does not always work that way, but that just shows
how tough it is to overcome our biases.

In the realm of public policy, there is no process for overcoming bias.
In theory, public debate should work like peer review, but the people
allowed into the debates tend to hold the same biases as everyone else
in the debate. Every debate on crime, for example, excludes the
important stuff, because of reasons. The result is a debate between
people, who all agree that the important stuff can never be mentioned.
Therefore, the public is left to hope that the people making public
policy get lucky.

In theory, even if the people in charge all share the same biases, they
have to face the public, which is supposed to be the acid test of
liberal democracy. If the public is unhappy with what the politicians
are doing, they vote in new politicians. This fear of unemployment is
supposed to keep the politicians from straying too far from the
consensus. As we see throughout the West, the reality is something
different. Ruling classes all over the West are wildly out of step with
the public, which is the cause of these populist revolts.

Part of the reason may be a feature of the managerial state that has
emerged since the end of the great industrial wars of the last century.
The political class is no longer part of the feedback loop that existed
between themselves and the public. Instead, they get their information
about public sentiment through policy experts and polling. When an
office holder wants to know where to stand on an issue, he does not
canvas his district or hold a series of constituent meetings. Instead he
consults his staff of experts.

The result is something you in [this rather odd
post](https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/04/immigration-debate-white-identity-politics-whiteshift-book/)
at National Review. The post is a long rebuttal to the main thesis of
the book
*[Whiteshift](https://www.amazon.com/Whiteshift-Populism-Immigration-Future-Majorities/dp/1468316974):
Populism, Immigration, and the Future of White Majorities*, by Eric
Kaufmann. The main thrust of the book is that white nationalists and
immigration patriots should be allowed to participate in public debate.
Since immigration fanatics and non-white identity groups get to
participate, whites should get the same courtesy. That this is a radical
idea at National Review is topic all by itself.

A clue that you are in an emperor’s new clothes moment is when the
response to a simple suggestion is a graph, followed by thousands of
words of commentary. That’s what you see from the writer. His answer to
the complaints by whites about immigration, for example, is to claim
that whites are not really complaining about immigration. In other
words, instead of addressing the main argument, he attacks the premise.
In effect, his point is the immigration patriots cannot participate
because they don’t exist.

Now, it has to be said that the sorts of people writing for National
Review live in terror that one day the Left will put their name on the
wrong list. Therefore, their every waking moment is spent confirming the
current morality of the Left. At the moment that means anything with the
word “white” in it is bad and opposition to the brown hordes pouring
over the border is immoral. Basically National Review is going on record
saying this Kaufmann fellow and his crazy ideas about debate is a very
bad person with bad ideas.

Putting that aside though, consider what Verbruggen is doing. Instead of
looking outside to get a sense of what’s happening in the public, he
consults a Gallup study, one that confirms his bias. Of course, the only
people who read National Review these days are Republican Party
consultants, who will use posts like this to convince their masters that
there is no need to worry about their angry voters. After all, those
torch wielding mobs outside their office really don’t exist. It says so
right in that Gallup poll.

Of course, there is the fact that the response by these people to public
unrest about immigration, way back when they threw open the borders, was
a public relations campaign to anathematize opponents. Back in the
1990’s, when it was still possible for people like Peter Brimelow and
John Derbyshire to post opposition to immigration on National Review,
the public was comfortable being in opposition. Once opposition to open
borders was declared immoral, the public stopped voicing concerns to
pollsters.

In other words, the feedback loop in the managerial state now works like
this. The power elite want some set of polices, so they hire top men
from the managerial class to sell it to the public. Whether or not the
public buys it is immaterial, they just need evidence that there is
public support for it. Once they generate that, they are convinced and
set about convincing policy makers to push the new policy. Of course,
there is plenty of money to go around, so politicians are more than
happy to believe whatever is fed them.

In the managerial state, the feedback loop is like something you would
see in a business school model of a failing business. Senior management
brings in a market research firm to tell them the problem is not
management. Rather, it is positioning in the market place. The solution
is to hire a new marketing firm to convince the market that the
company’s products are the best. The same research firm then studies the
results and reports back that everything is working. Meanwhile, the
company sinks further into the red.

That may sound like a strange comparison, but take a look at [this
post](https://www.cjr.org/special_report/national-review.php) in the
Columbia Journalism Review about the new publisher of National Review.
The collapse of National Review over the last twenty years has one
direct cause, the embrace of neoconservatism and the abandonment of
their core constituency. Instead of facing up to the fact that they have
a bad product and a lot of bad managers, they are going to rework their
website so they can create a safe space for engagement. Meanwhile, their
site is a ghost town.

The apparent insularity of the political class is the result of being
cut off from the normal feedback loops. When National Review had to
scramble for readers, they had to know something about the public. When
the political class had to canvas for votes, they met actual voters who
told them about what was on their mind. Today, the entire managerial
class is like a monastery, where everyone is trying to be the star of
the choir or the best at illuminating manuscripts. They spend all of
their time talking to themselves.

As an aside, the reason social media and website comment sections
terrorize these people is it is there where the yawning gap between
themselves and the public is most obvious. When National Review had a
comment section, their writers saw plainly that the readers were not
buying what they were selling. The solution was to get rid of the
comments. On social media, the solution is to purge the platforms of
anyone that upsets human resources. Our thought leaders can only take so
much reality.

Sam Francis made the point decades ago that both political parties in
America are far to the Left of the people who vote for them. The reason
for that is the political center of the ruling class has always been to
the extreme Left of the public. Cut off from the feedback loop, that
center has now drifted out beyond the event horizon of most people. It’s
why our rulers seem like strangers to us. It’s why writers for
Conservative Inc. stagger around in a daze, years after having been
jolted by their remaining connection to the feedback loop.
