---
title: "Why They Hate Us"
date: "2019-08-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18268"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18268"
---

It is conventional wisdom on certain parts of the Right that the
anti-white animus we see on the Left is nothing but a practical solution
to a political problem. For years, Steve Sailer has been pitching the
idea that the Left has to keep its non-white auxiliaries focused on the
evil white man. Otherwise they will notice they don’t like one another
all that much and begin squabbling. The implication is the Left is not
really anti-white. They just work that double-game for practical
political consideration.

Another way to frame it is the Cold Civil War that John Derbyshire
described twenty years ago. This imagines the political battle field as
the good whites, the old Yankee coalition, versus the bad whites, the
old Confederate coalition. The good whites use anti-bad-white language
to recruit non-white auxiliaries. At the same time, the bad whites rely
on subtle calls to racial solidarity to bring in whites from outside the
Old South, including disaffected whites in good white areas.

The implication of this view is that the anti-white rhetoric is just a
pose. The good whites are not really anti-white, as they themselves are
white. As Joe Sobran observed decades ago, “In their mating and
migratory habits, liberals are indistinguishable from members of the Ku
Klux Klan.” This observed preference for their own kind not only
undermined their moral claims, it motivated them to keep a firm hand on
those non-white auxiliaries, which would make their coalition unwieldy
and ineffective over time.

This way of imagining the Left is comforting, as it suggests they will
come to their senses at some point and pull back from their suicidal
leap into multiculturalism. It also means it is possible to appeal to
their humanity and decency. This has been the path so-called
conservatives have chosen since they lost the Civil Rights debate.
Instead of confronting the Left, they have functioned as the conscience
of the Left, but also as a loyal assistant, shielding the Left from a
real opposition willing to fight.

What is becoming clear today is the rhetoric from the Left is not just a
clever way to organize their coalition. It is not just esoteric language
in the cold civil war. The Left really does hate white people. This is
plain when you watch their candidates react to news events. They sound
like ambitious pols in the African National Congress, trying to
establish themselves as the cutting edge. Their favorite chant these
days is to claim America is haunted by white supremacist going back to
the founding.

This anti-white hysteria has its roots in the revising of American
history after the Second World War. The America ruling elite stood not
just as the rulers of America but the rulers of the free world. America
was a global empire with a global elite. That required a new narrative
and mythology to explain and justify this new reality. That new
narrative was the second founding theory, which argued the Civil War was
the second founding, finishing what was started in the original founding
of the country.

As is usually the case, we can understand this by examining the
obsequiousness of the co-called conservatives. <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/americas-other-original-sin-philippines/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> on the
ironically named American Conservative is a good example. Note the
repetition of the idea of America’s original sin, which of course is
slavery. The implication is that the original founding was flawed, as it
maintain slavery, at that sin is with us to this day. Just as man’s
struggle with original sin is what animates life on earth, the sin of
slavery is what animates American history.

In this framing, the promise of America was the Declaration, but the
result was the constitution adopted in Philadelphia. The starting point
of “all men are created equal” gave way to the three-fifths compromise
and the maintenance of slavery. You see, that is the original sin. The
promise of the founding was subverted by those wicked slave holders in
the South. This not only justifies a blood libel against those bad
whites, it justifies endless self-loathing for the good whites, who went
along with it.

The person to blame for turning an ancient rivalry between English
cultures into an endless brother-war is the historian Harry Jaffa. His
retelling of the Civil War is considered the starting point for the idea
of the second founding. He is largely responsible for turning Lincoln
into the American Moses. Eric Foner is another historian who promotes
the notion that the Civil War was a second founding, or a completion of
the first founding. Foner has a book conveniently titled <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Second-Founding-Reconstruction-Remade-Constitution/dp/0393652572"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Second Founding</a> due
out this fall.

Now, this second founding that completed the first founding,
re-centering the nation on the Declaration, rather than the
Constitution, was not the end. After Reconstruction, blacks were not
fully incorporated into society. Women did not have full legal rights.
Jews, of course, were still excluded from the elite. Whites were still
allowed to control their own lands. The story from the second founding
to now is the process of rectifying those things and <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2015/10/americas-unfinished-second-founding/411079/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">achieving the ideal of the
Declaration</a>.

In other words, we have slowly and steadily moved from a place where
ending slavery in a bloody civil war fixed the defects of the first
founding, to a place where making the rhetorical flourishes of the
Declaration the religion of the land. The founding cannot be complete
until all men are equal, which means as long as whites are seen as doing
better than non-whites, the task remains unfinished. The conclusion of
our rulers is that the second founding can only be completed when there
are no more white people.

That’s how we got to this place where anti-white proselytizing is
becoming something of a religion for the ruling class. It’s why bigots
like <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2019/08/06/get-grip-white-people-were-not-victims/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Max Boot</a> and <a
href="https://www.newsday.com/opinion/columnists/cathy-young/trumpism-nationalism-conservatives-1.34169939"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Cathy Young</a> are compelled
to lecture white people on their failings. You’ll note these types never
write columns about how Jews need to relax or consider their privilege.
One does not have to be an anti-Semite to wonder why two Russian-born
Jews feel the need to lecture American white people about their alleged
moral failings.

Contra the anti-Semites, this is not part of some global plot. People
like Max Boot and Cathy Young are not terribly bright, but they are
ambitious. They stake out these positions because it helps them gain
entry to the elite of their field. Boot, despite being wrong about
everything for decades, has a perch at the Washington Post. Sarah Jeung
landed a prized spot on the New York Times editorial board, based solely
on her emotional rants against white people on Twitter. Today, hating
white people is the key to success.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
