---
title: "Regulating The Public Space"
date: "2019-06-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17749"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17749"
---

There are few things good about aging, but one of those benefits is you
start seeing how history often repeats itself. There is nothing new
under the sun, but when you are young most everything is new to you.
When you get old, you have experienced enough to begin noticing the
repeats of things you saw in your youth. For example, those old enough
to remember the early the days of the internet, probably recognize
what’s happening with the tech giants trying to regulate the public
space.

By early days, I’m not talking about the iPhone 4 days. I’m talking
about the Windows 3.1 days, when the internet was for weirdos, who knew
how modems worked and liked tricking the phone company for free long
distance. It was when hobbyists assembled their own computers It was
when NewEgg was called Egghead and operated in shopping centers. That
was before the phrase “social media” existed, but there was still plenty
of social media and plenty of people on it, just smarter people.

Usenet and bulletin board systems served the same role as Twitter and
Facebook, without the cute names and billionaires trying to control the
platforms. Like the big social media platforms, they started with the
same general idea. They would be open forums for people to debate and
argue. The internet was going to be free from the censorship of the old
media and free from government control. The same things people say about
bitcoin today were said about the internet in the olden thymes.

What happened to those first public forums and those that succeeded them
is a good lesson for understanding what is happening to the big social
media platforms. Usenet, for example, started as an open platform for
anyone with internet access. It did not take long for jerks and
troublemakers to arrive. Soon, the squabbling and fighting fractured the
community into separate channels. In short order, Usenet became a
million little havens for like-minded people to talk about their thing
in semi-private.

Bulletin boards followed a similar path. Their successor, the message
board also followed a similar arc. The first boards for college sports,
for example, soon turned into free-for-alls and shattered into hundreds
of small, private boards. Unlike Usenet, the creators of these boards
initially tried to regulate the content by having moderators ban trouble
makers and people trolling for attention. That just encouraged the
trouble makers to find clever ways around the rules, in order to disrupt
the communities.

What was discovered in those early efforts of public forums is that the
public is pretty awful and needs to be regulated. You just can’t let
everyone into a public forum and have them say what they wish. On the
other hand, the cost of regulating who enters and what is said is
prohibitive. The more you regulate the forum, the cleverer the
troublemakers get at disruption. This sets off an increasingly costly
game of cat and mouse between the moderators and the people seeking to
disrupt the forum.

The solution to the problem was the oldest of solutions. Peaceful
separation allowed everyone to have a forum, but it reduced the
incentives for the disruptive. Going into the forum of a rival group,
for example, and posting a bunch of troll-bait, did not provide the same
dopamine rush to the troll as it did on a public forum. There was no one
around to see it and cheer it. It was like being a graffiti artist in a
blind community. These trolling efforts were quietly removed and the
community could easily ignore them.

That is what will happen with the big social media hubs. Twitter is the
first that will splinter into a million separate channels, as it is the
most public. Gab has weathered the assaults and now provides a home for
dissidents. Telegram is now becoming the favorite tool for young people
creating small communities. Others are working on alternatives for other
tribes, looking for a place on-line both free of censorship and the
sorts of people who just seek to disrupt. This is a repeat of the
message board phenomenon.

YouTube and Facebook are a bit different. Facebook already has the
ability to let users self-segregate within the forum. That solves the
trolling a bit, but the company is run by the sorts of people who liked
being moderators on chat boards in the old days. They can’t help but
meddle in the discourse of others, even those in private groups on the
platform. Given the demographics of the platform, it will probably
collapse at some point as people realize its user base is old people,
robots and gullible advertisers.

YouTube is the one to watch. As server capacity outstrips demand, the
cost of hosting video will keep dropping. There are services popping up
as alternatives to YouTube, with some starting as commercial
enterprises. <a href="https://www.uscreen.tv/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">This service</a> lets you create a branded channel that
can be distributed on a variety of platforms. If you have talent and can
hold an audience, the days of relying on YouTube are numbered. Since
YouTube has never made money, it’s hard to see a future for the service
as currently constructed.

None of this is to say that the tech oligopolies will come to their
senses and stop trying to suppress speech on-line. In all probability,
they will exhaust themselves trying to stamp out dissent, which means
things will get much worse. Apple, for example, is now censoring speech
within chat programs like Telegram. Microsoft is promising to moderate
speech over Skype. The people behind these efforts are driven by hatred
and self-loathing, so they lie awake at night thinking about this stuff.

The trouble is, it is expensive. The latest YouTube banning probably
cost the company $10 million dollars to organize. It’s pretty clear they
invested a lot of manpower in reviewing specific videos. The return on
that investment was mostly bad press and greater awareness by regulators
that there is a problem. That’s a lesson from the old days too. No
matter how right they were to regulate users, the forum moderators were
always looked upon unfavorably. They were the prison guards of the
system.

That last bit is probably key. A decade ago, Apple was a cool brand run
by an equally cool genius who liked wearing black turtlenecks. Now it is
seen as a Chinese electronics company run by an angry homosexual.
Similarly, YouTube used to be a place where young people could express
themselves. Now it’s where old Jewish women yell at young people for
using naughty language.With every censorship effort, the reputation of
the oligopolies declines. Silicon Valley is now the universal villain.

The point of all this is not that libertarians are right that the market
will magically sort out the problem for us. All of this could have been
avoided if the government had done its job and cracked down on these
oligopolies a long time ago. The natural disaggregation of the public
space will not happen without help from the state either. It’s that wide
open public forums cannot last. It was tried decades ago by smarter
people and a much smarter user base. Eventually, peaceful separation
became the only alternative.

If you like living off the sweat of others, then ignore the following.
On the other hand, if you care about your community and want to support
those working hard on your behalf, consider supporting my work by
donating the price of a beer or a cup of coffee at Starbucks.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money
to destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at:
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
