---
title: "The Madness Of Anti-Racism"
date: "2019-09-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18754"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18754"
---

Every liberal society must have a civic religion and it is fair to say
that the prevailing religion of current year America is anti-racism. For
sure, things like anti-sexism and anti-antisemitism are in the mix. On a
regular basis people are condemned for not liking homosexuals or people
of mysterious origins. The list of “bads” is very long. All of these
other “isms” that make up the set of official “bads” all have the same
root as anti-racism. That is, they are twisted around the pole of
biological reality.

The place to start is with the dictionary definition of racism.
According to Merriam-Webster, the first definition of racism is “a
belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and
capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority
of a particular race.” Dictionary.com defines racism as “the belief that
all members of each race possess characteristics or abilities specific
to that race, especially so as to distinguish it as inferior or superior
to another race or races.”

Now, within living memory, racism was an act. A racists was someone who
would not hire people of a certain race or would deny people of a
certain race access to goods and services. Then the definition shifted
to include words. If one said disparaging things about someone of
another race, they could be a racist. The assumption being that to think
poorly of another race must inevitably lead to acting poorly toward
people of another race. Racism was now a state of mind.

Of course, this is now true of all the bads. If one is not sufficiently
worshipful of homosexuals, for example, it is assumed you must be
homophobic. The days of “hate the sin, but love the sinner” are long
gone in our secular theology, assuming such sophistication ever existed
or was even possible. With all of the bads, one’s virtue on these
matters is an A-B test. You’re either sufficiently worshipful of the
protected group or you are an apostate, possibly a heretic, who must be
condemned.

The thing is, racism is not empirically verifiable. In fact, it is not
something people thought much about until recent. The best one can do,
as far as making an empirical claim about racism, is that it is
verifiable under a set of logical rules. If someone believes these
things, then they are racist. Those rules, however, are cognitively
meaningless. That is, they are not true in and of themselves. Those
rules exist because the people in charge have wished them into
existence.

That’s the truth of all moral codes. They don’t exist naturally. They
may arise from observation of nature or as a result of some qualities of
man. People do not want to be killed, for example, so human societies
have evolved moral codes against killing people inside the society. The
moral codes of a society may have evolved in response to universal or
particular facts facing the people, but they had to be conjured into
existence by the people in charge of society. Therefore, racism is a
social construct.

There is a slow shift going on with the definition of racism. The first
part of those common definitions now says something like “the belief
that all members of each race possess characteristics or abilities
specific to that race.” In other words, the moral codes that define
racism now include an assertion of fact. That is, race does not exist.
After all, to say that people have shared traits that define them as a
people is what is considered the primary definition of racism. To be a
racist is to acknowledge race.

Racism is well on its way to becoming a form of magic. The racist mind
is now one that perceives things that are not real, like sub-Saharan
Africans having dark skin. The epicanthic fold not only cannot exist,
noticing it suggests the person seeing it is possessed by the demon of
racism. There really is no other way to interpret the emerging
definition of racism. In order to resolve the conflict between the
definition and nature, they must introduce some supernatural element.

The problem, of course, is that there are characteristics and abilities
specific to race, ethnicity and sex. People are not amorphous blobs that
can be shaped into whatever the ruling class favors at the moment. In
fact, it is impossible to maintain a functioning society without
accepting biological reality. Otherwise, the differences in outcome, for
example blacks in sports or Jews in business, can only be explained by
theories of nefarious forces operating in the shadows at the expense of
your group.

Now, in fairness, they still tag on the old modifiers about superiority.
That’s the thing though, those modifiers are now in the back. Given the
behavior of science deniers in the mass media, it is not going to be
long before those modifiers about superiority are dropped entirely. One
has only to look at the conflation of the terms “white nationalist” and
white supremacist.” The ruling cult now uses them interchangeably. To
notice that whites are different from other groups is to be evil by
definition.

Even if they figure out that those modifiers must be maintained in order
for the definition of racism to have coherence, there are those
differences between the races. It is an undeniably truth that
sub-Saharan Africans perform differently in physical competitions than
other races. In fact, they are *superior* at sprinting and at extreme
long distance running events. These differences are rooted in those
common traits. For people to be different, it means they must be better
or worse at various quantifiable things.

In the fullness of time, anti-racism, and the whole basket of bads that
come along with it, will be viewed as a madness that took possession of
the ruling classes. The need to see all people as equal, a requirement
of democracy, has led the ruling elites of the West down a dark journey
into a madness. The denial of physical reality can only be tolerated for
so long. Reality is that thing that does not go away when you stop
believing in it. Soon, reality shall return and wash the madness away.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
