---
title: "Travelogue: Awakening"
date: "2019-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16968"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16968"
---

The morning of the conference, the weather in Turku was perfect for a
nice long walk around the city. It’s still winter, but the signs of
spring are appearing, so in the morning it is cold, but too cold. I was
waiting for the secret message telling me where the secret meeting would
be held in the afternoon. I had decoded the message from the previous
day, which gave me the location of the dead drop, so I had a few hours
to kill. My first stop was the big old Lutheran church, that was a few
blocks from where I staying.

Turku Cathedral was originally a catholic cathedral of Finland, but
today it is the Mother Church of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of
Finland. It is the central church of the Lutheran Archdiocese of Turku.
It was originally built out of wood in the late 13th century, but was
expanded in the 14th and 15th centuries, using stone and brick as the
construction material. In person, it is impressive mostly due to its
age. It was not hard to imagine people walking to mass 500 years ago on
the same spot I standing.

The cathedral is located next to the river that runs through the city.
There is a little park there where you sit and watch joggers and bikers
on the path along the river. In the early morning, it is very peaceful.
As I walked along the path, I suddenly remembered how much I miss being
on the water. It has been a few years since I’ve done any fishing, so I
made to myself to pick up that hobby again. That is one of the great
benefits of travel. It gives you time to think about what is important
and remember to get back to doing that.

After a walk along the river, I took a hike up the big hill that
overlooks the whole city, on top of which is an old anti-aircraft gun
from the Second World War. There’s also a bunker that looks like it is
functional. a short walk down the hill is the Luostarinmäki Handicrafts
Museum. It appears to be a replica of what I think is a original
village. During normal hours, they have actors playing the various roles
of villagers from the period. It’s like an open air, interactive museum,
along with a craft museum and the requisite gift shops.

From there I walked to the art museum, which was closed, but alongside
of it was an open air food market. On the street leading up to the
museum, which is on a hill, is a bust of Lenin. The Finnish Bolsheviks
were a nasty lot, ready to see out their brothers to a foreign power,
all in the name of a madhouse dogma. The Finns experience with the
communists is a good reminder that there is no dealing with lunatics.
There are simply some people who are born to be traitors to their own
side…

Having retrieved the location for the secret meeting from the dead drop,
I headed off from the hotel a little before the start, as it was a short
walk from home base. Of course, I took a circuitous route, doubling back
a few times to make sure I was not being followed. Upon reaching the
location, I immediately saw someone I knew. We exchanged the appropriate
greetings, which of course is the secret handshake. The cloak and dagger
aspect these things is serious business, but there’s nothing that says
you can’t have some fun with it.

All of these security protocols are due entirely to the fact that even
in Finland, lunatics from Antifa are allowed to roam the streets causing
mayhem. In fact, it is fair to say they are the unofficial secret police
of the global managerial state. They are allowed to commit crimes,
intimidate people and harass businesses. The government could shut them
down tomorrow, but they don’t, which is an endorsement of Antifa by the
state. That’s where things are in the West. We’re ruled by gangsters
that employ thugs…

Inside the event, I was struck by the professionalism of the organizers.
They really have their act together in Finland. The event kicked off
with a recorded video from Jared Taylor, who was supposed to be at the
event. He is usually quite sunny, but he was still a bit angry over what
has happened to him. I really can’t blame him. When our enemies do these
things, it is intended to be an insult, a humiliation. There’s nothing
wrong with getting mad in response, even if it will change nothing. We
are human.

Most of the attendees were young, 20’s and 30’s, with some graybeards
sprinkled into the mix. There was a good number of people in their 40’s
and 50’s too, so it made for a lively crowd, but not too lively. Most
were people who worked in companies and were comfortable in a
professional setting. The event had the feel of a corporate retreat.
Once again, it was a reminder of why our rulers fear us so much. If not
for the thugs, this event could fill a large venue with the sorts of
people that keep society functioning.

Millennial Woes filled in for Taylor and gave a nice talk about the
usual things. I think if I were to list one complaint about these events
it’s that the speakers tend to spend too much time rattling off the list
of crimes committed by out rulers. If you are at one of these events,
you know why you’re at the event. Being the rude obnoxious American, I
eventually spoke up during the question and answer period, making the
point that these events need practical stuff about organizing, rather
than the listing of complaints.

Olena Semenyaka, the international secretary for a Ukrainian group that
calls itself the National Corps, gave a talk that lasted longer than it
should. That and she sounded a lot like the IRA thirty years ago. Kevin
McDonald was on hand and gave the sort of speech you would see at the
Mencken Club, except for some commendatory on the Jews. He really hated
the fact that I recalled the headline of John Derbyshire’s review of
Culture of Critique. He’s still sore about that, I guess. I don’t think
he likes me very much.

The best talk was given by Mark Collett. In all honestly, I liked his
speech because he repeated many of the things I write here on a regular
basis. I don’t know if he reads me or not, but he made a point I have
been making for years. That is, no authentic alternative movement is
going to succeeded by being negative. Positive identity has staying
power and it naturally attracts people to it. A movement that is nothing
but a laundry list of grievances only attracts misfits and trouble
makers. That cannot be said enough…

I did have readers and listeners there at the event. Some of them
recognized my voice and came over to say hello. It’s not false modesty.
I just struggle with the fact that lots of people read these posts and
now lots of people listen to me. It’s an odd thing to hear someone say
they recognized my voice or tell me they are a fan. It’s even stranger
when it happens seven time zones from home. That said, it’s always good
reminder that there is serious stuff going on here and I always need to
keep that in mind…

The event was over around seven, so we adjourned to a nearby pub to
drink beer and socialize. The Finnish police were on high alert, as the
local lunatics were threatening to cause mayhem. I’m not sure what
happened, but we were told to leave one bar and then another. I noticed
someone, who looked like Ted Kaczynski just after they pulled him the
cabin, following us around, screaming like a lunatic. My guess is he was
the one getting the bars to throw us out. We managed to have a good time
nonetheless.

The lesson I’ve drawn from attending events in the US and Europe is that
dissident politics is woefully short on organizers. We really need to
get better at organizing locally, building real life communities and
working out how to get together without alerting the crazies. That means
were have to stop thinking of ourselves as concerned citizens. Like it
or not, we live in a lawless age where the rulers will lie, cheat and
steal to undermine dissent. That means we have to stop trying to play by
the rules when organizing and conspiring.

Dissident politics will have to be radical politics. That’s the real
awakening this week. We are the new Jacobins. If this thing is to
succeed where prior movements have failed, it is going to have start
with that understanding. That means operating like radicals, rather than
the local rotary club. It means throwing sand in the gears, making sure
that the wheels of society don’t turn smoothly. That’s going to be hard
for many to accept and it will be harder to sell, butt hat is the only
way forward, if white identity politics is going the thrive…
