---
title: "Travelogue: To Copenhagen"
date: "2019-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18837"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18837"
---

The first thing you notice about the Toronto airport is the garbage on
the floors of the terminal. I’m using Air Canada for this trip, so it
means connecting through Toronto on the way out and Montreal on the way
back. I got off by flight from Lagos, went through a maze to arrive at
the end of terminal. The other flights are to Asia, so the terminal has
the feel of the British Empire. That would be the dirty, squalid part of
the empire. I feel as it I should be wearing a pith helmet and khaki
shorts.

That explains the trash on the floors. The terminal is full of Sikhs,
Chinese and various South and East Asians. Canada has a lot of Sikhs.
Those are the swarthy looking guys who wear the interesting headgear. I
think the name for it is Dastar, which comes from Persian, suggesting
the people under the headgear also come Persia. That part of the word
does not interest me, so I will not bother looking into it. What matters
here is those guys were all over the terminal, as passengers and
employees.

Why Canada imported so many Sikhs is a mystery, but the lunacy of
western ruling classes should be considered a feature at this point.
Most likely, the usual suspects were behind the idea of importing Sikhs
into Canada for the usual reasons. This has given Canada a criminal
element that it would otherwise lack, so there’s that. [Gurmeet Singh
Dhinsa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gurmeet_Singh_Dhinsa) is one of
the nation’s most notorious criminals. Since his journey to a Canadian
prison came via America, they can blame America for it.

Anyway, the garbage on the floor of the terminal is probably due to the
Asian population. I saw several Chinamen toss litter on the floor.
Another East Asian, probably Chinese as well, ate something with
chopsticks and then left the remains on the floor of where he ate them.
Sikhs, of course, like all south Asians, are dirty people. In Lagos, you
see them littering all the time. They seem to think the ground will
magically clean up after them. Maybe they just don’t care, as back home
they live in filth….

Travel in the modern age is the worst part of traveling. All of us are
now tethered to our work by e-mail, mobile and text. That means a vital
part of travel is making sure you have access to the internet. Of
course, the intensely on-line start to come unraveled when disconnected
from their favorite platform. Young people, of course, may as well have
their mobile embedded into their skulls. They are glued to the things.
The result is the airport is a life and death struggle for access to
charging ports…

While I was watching chickens and goats scurry about the terminal, an
elderly Chinese man approached me. In not so good English, he explained
that he was taking a survey about how people enjoyed their time in
Canada. Apparently, this is something sponsored by the government.
Perhaps the fact that I was sitting in what looked like a rail station
during the British Raj should be their focus. Maybe if Canadian cities
were full of Canadians, there would be no need for such surveys…

On the plane, a big black women immediately broke open her picnic
basket. This is something you notice when you travel. Black women love
eating on planes. They bring massive amounts of food and spend the fight
eating from various baskets and bags they pull out the entire flight.
This woman was eating soup as a first course, which was a nice touch. I
fell asleep, but as we approached Denmark, I noticed she was grazing on
what looked like my cat’s dry food. I guess that’s the kibble course…

A funny thing I spotted on my last trip to Copenhagen is that the Danes
cannot control their body temperature. As soon as the temps fall before
the mid-70’s, they break out the winter gear. It is about 15 degrees
Celsius, which I roughly 60 degrees American, a beautiful fall day by
our standards. All over the city I see locals bundled up like is the
dead of winter. Clearly, they are not cold blooded, as there are no
sunning rocks, so I’m guessing they just like winter. It is an odd
customer nonetheless.

At the airport, I hire a car from a place that is new to me. Sixt is a
rental company that operates in Europe. The clerk is black, West
African, but she speaks English like native Danes, so she probably grew
up in the country. She needs constant supervision, another thing I have
noticed about vibrancy in the Nordic countries. Maybe the point of their
open borders policy is to give their people a hobby. Rather than the
normal, boring efficiency that comes natural to them, they are punching
things up with diversity.

In my trips to this part of the world, that’s what has always jumped out
to me. America has been multi-racial since the beginning. We have
evolved our systems to accommodate the decedents of slaves. That made it
easier for us to integrate the recent waves of brown people for over the
horizon. Our retail and administrative systems were built to be operated
by morons. That’s not the case in this part of the world and it really
shows…

I’m staying one night in Copenhagen to get rested up, then I’m off for a
day trip along the Swedish coast into Norway. I rented what appears to
be q child’s toy. It is a Renault Scenic, which is about the size of a
Prius. It’s diesel and manual transmission. I was less than
enthusiastic, but putting around Copenhagen, I see the utility of having
a tiny little car. Dodging the damned bicycles is a great challenge. On
foot, it is a hassle, but in a car, it is maddening. Driving is like the
old arcade game Frogger.

I got lost, of course, as the hotel is tucked away in a residential
neighborhood outside of the airport. What has always struck me about the
residential areas of Nordic countries is the sublime pleasantness. Even
the working-class areas have the community feel to them that you only
see in the tonier neighborhoods of America. Seeing white people, quietly
walking the streets, commuting on bikes and shopping at local stores in
an urban area is quite jarring when you come from Lagos on the
Chesapeake…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
