---
title: "Negrophilia"
date: "2019-06-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17661"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17661"
---

In Paris, during the interwar years, the avant-garde and artists
developed a passion for what they saw as black culture. Part of it was
due to the trade in exotic items from French colonies in Africa and part
of it was due to exposure to black troops from America and Africa during
the war. The word *negrophilia *is derived from the
French *négrophilie *that means love of the negro. The modern and
fashionable of the day would collect African art, listen to Jazz and
hang out at clubs where the Charleston was popular.

A century later, a similar sort of frenzy has gripped people who fashion
themselves as sophisticated and fashionable. Instead of Jazz, they
listen to hip-hop and worship black sports figures. Instead of
collecting African art, they collect <a
href="https://i0.wp.com/www.occidentaldissent.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/IMG_0988-e1367244486244.jpg?resize=600%2C381"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">African orphans</a>. More
important, instead of admiring the cultural products of blacks, they
have developed an unconscious worship of blacks. They have elevated them
to minor gods, who must be protected at all cost. The protection of
these gods is a sign of righteousness.

This new form of negrophilia is entirely a conservative thing. That’s
conservative as in right-wing Progressive, not historic conservatives.
These are the people who see Candace Owens as something of a shaman. So
much so allegedly sober minded people are willing to <a
href="https://humanevents.com/2019/05/18/the-lived-experience-of-candace-owens/?utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">embrace nutty academic
fads</a> in order to prove their love for her. It’s not her
specifically, but black exceptionalism in general. Any black who
embraces the habits of white bourgeois society becomes something sacred
to be defended at all costs.

You see that with the so-called principled conservative crowd, who are
suddenly <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/06/daily-beast-doxes-vlogger-nancy-pelosi-video/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">up in arms</a> about the media
harassing someone for their political opinions. Those principled
conservatives took to their quill pens to denounce the Daily Beast for
posting personal information about a black Facebook user, who mocked
Nancy Pelosi. He either created or doctored a video of Pelosi, which
showed her slurring her words. The Left was very upset by it, as it
mocked their octogenarian leader.

Up until this point, the principled conservatives were silent on the
campaign of harassment by the Daily Beast against other people holding
taboo opinions. The reason is those victims were white and their
opinions are pro-white. Conservatives were not just silent about the
social media purges of pro-white users, they celebrated it. They wrote
snickering posts about how private companies had the absolute right to
censor speech and the victims were free to create their own platforms.

The obsequious <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/06/daily-beast-doxxes-the-powerless-to-defend-the-powerful/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">David French</a> tries to find
some principles that makes it OK for the media to harass white people,
but not black people. All he is able to do is insert himself into the
story as an alleged victim of mean people on-line. His effort to defend
the sacred black man is just autoethnicgraphic groveling. For those
unaware, when the term “cuckservative:” was popularized, French was one
of the first guys to see it turn up in his twitter feed. He has never
recovered from it.

One thing to note is that none of these principled conservatives can be
bothered to defend a principle here. Theirs is an emotional response.
They see a sacred black in distress and they naturally rush to his aid.
It’s what drove them to slobber over Diamond and Silk, the black YouTube
performers. It’s what made Sheriff Clark a star. Sure, it is a way for
them to shout “DR3” as they hiss at the Left, but the driver is not just
the desire to zing the Left. These people worship an idealized black.

This fever has gripped them to the point where they are unable to defend
their own ideas, what few of them exist, without finding a back to
confirm them. Conservative Inc. has been vexed by the rise of white
identity politics, but could never muster much of an argument against
it. The reason is it would require attacking left-wing identity politics
and they can’t risk that, so they now <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/05/in-the-lies-that-bind-kwame-anthony-appiah-takes-on-identity-politics/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">have a black</a> to do the job
for them. Blacks are always used as a cat’s paw by principled
conservatives.

Of course, the cause of this is a phenomenon that started on the Left in
the 1980’s, when liberals moved past the street theater of radicalism.
Instead of going to the ghetto to link arms with people like Jess
Jackson, the new radicals wanted to invite blacks into their world. Not
just any blacks, of course. They preferred the talented ten percent, who
would be happy to confirm the sensibilities of bourgeois radicalism, by
aping the opinions and mannerisms of the bourgeois bohemians. Barak
Obama says hello.

Forgotten to the mists of time were Obama prototypes like former
Baltimore mayor <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_Schmoke"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Kurt Schmoke</a>. Back in the
1980’s, he was the first of a new breed of black politician. He was Ivy
League educated and more comfortable in the boardroom than the ghetto.
As the saying went at the time, he was black, but not, you know,
*black*. His role was not to be the voice of black America in the ruling
class, but instead to be the symbol of ruling class virtue. White
politicians loved having their picture taken with him.

Because today’s principled conservatism is just yesterday’s Progressive
fads, the modern conservative now embraces the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Negrophilia-Pedestal-Americas-Racial-Obsession/dp/1935071823"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">negrophilia</a> of the 1980’s.
Just as the liberals of yesterday were interested only in an idealized
black, today’s conservatives only care about blacks who play a similar
role. They ignore the blacks who the Left employs to attack white
culture, as they fear being called a racist. Instead they worship people
like Candace Owens and Diamond and Silk, who are willing to confirm
their virtue.

That’s not to say that Sheriff Clarke or Candace Owens are dishonest in
their presentations or running a con on white people. They seem sincere
in their beliefs. According to all accounts, they are genuinely nice
people. The thing is, what they say is not remarkable. The reason they
are stars is they are black people saying the same things Sean Hannity
says every night. These principled conservatives love these people
because they assure them they are not going to be called a racist.

The one big difference between the Left’s negrophilia and that of these
principled conservatives is self-awareness. For the Left, these good
blacks were just useful pawns in the culture war. They were a means to
an end. For principled conservatives, these sorts of fads are an end in
themselves. That’s because principled conservatism is a defensive
crouch, not a set of ideas aimed at a goal. Despite all of their howling
about their principles, principled conservatism is just a pose.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">please contribute here</a>.
