---
title: "What Comes Next"
date: "2019-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18144"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18144"
---

There was a [disturbing
report](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/07/18/americans-say-the-nations-political-debate-has-grown-more-toxic-and-heated-rhetoric-could-lead-to-violence/)
the other day from Pew Research which claimed that 91% of Democrats
think political violence is what comes next. In the same study, 61% of
Republicans said violence is inevitable. The poll was done in the
context of Trump spat with the foreign women in Congress. There’s no
break down by race, sex or age, just party self-identification. Usually,
the lack of demographic data invalidates a poll, but people willing to
self-ID as either party these days are going to be easy to generalize.

The report is disturbing, because of the well-established pattern of the
Left signaling what they are going to do, by warning that they fear it.
For example, in the Bush years, they regularly told us they feared the
government would use these new powers to spy on Americans and subvert
the political process. As soon as they had the chance, the Obama
administration began widespread abuse of the government surveillance
powers and tried to subvert the 2016 election.

Of course, the game the Left has always played is to use violence as a
pretext to impose their preferred policies. We’ve had waves of left-wing
violence since the Obama administration, all intended to elicit a
response. Those responses are used to justify what amounts to political
terrorism. The toppling of statues and the ruination of people, who hold
unpopular opinions, was all justified by one or two incidents.
Charlottesville is still used to justify anti-white pogroms by the Left.

Given past patterns and the trajectory of the country both ideologically
and demographically, what comes next is important to consider. Most
insiders assume Trump loses the 2020 election to whoever the Democrats
pick. Last time they could muster a few million illegal votes in key
states. This time it will be more than ten million, as they have been
working the problem for four years. The tech oligopoly has been hard at
work to make sure there will not be a repeat of 2016.

There’s also a good chance the Republicans lose the Senate. Even if they
hang on, the senate GOP is so easily bullied, they will offer no
resistance to the Left. After 2020, the Left will have complete control
of the federal government. More important, given the demographics, they
will be the dominant party for as long it matters. The future will be
one in which people like Ilhan Omar and Ocasio-Cortez gloat about their
ascendancy, while championing anti-white policies. The future will be
vibrant, but not bright.

In order for such a world to stagger on, expect the tech giants to ramp
up their censorship operations using anticipatory censorship. They are
tinkering with this now on platforms used by children and stupid people.
Instagram is now preventing users from posting things that they
prohibit. Instead of the user posting it then having the post taken down
after complaints, the system censors the post as they submit. You can
expect this technology to become widespread, even in e-mail.

Dissidents tend to respond to this stuff by arguing that there are ways
around it and alternative platforms will inevitably spring up in
response. That’s not really what they are doing with this type of
censorship. It’s about nudging the frame. Even if in the narrow area of
social media, people get used to self-censoring, anticipating what
happens with this technology, that habit will carry over into their
daily life. This is something the tech giants have learned from their
Chinese communist engineers.

Of course, semi-permanent control by the Democrats will usher in the
demographic collapse that immigration patriots have been warning about
for decades. Record numbers are crossing the border every day now and
that is with a political atmosphere not welcoming of migrants. Just
imagine what happens when President Harris gives a speech inviting half
of the world to come to America for free health care. The rush to the
border will be unprecedented.

That’s the thing to keep in mind when contemplating what comes next. The
pattern thus far has been that the future comes faster than expected. In
the 2000’s, people warned that homosexual marriage would have all sorts
of negative consequences. In a little more than a decade, parents are
being forced to take their children to drag queen story time at the
local library. In a flash, we went from “let them get married” to little
boys doing drag shows at gay clubs. Cultural collapse tends to
accelerate.

That really is how to think about what comes next. When you are in the
avalanche, every minute feels like a lifetime. In the crisis, time
slows, but in reality everything moves quickly. Two decades ago,
immigration patriots warned that America would lose its white majority
by 2050 at the earliest. In all probability, it will happen by the
middle of the next decade. Today, dissidents are warning about the
coming left-wing authoritarianism, as if it is far in the distance, when
it is right around the corner.

There are two types of coping strategies that will emerge. One is to
over-estimate the awfulness of what comes next. People insulate
themselves with hopelessness in order to avoid facing reality. The flip
side of this is to dismiss the warnings about what’s coming, a sort of
whistling past the graveyard. Even today people still say that the
radicalism of the Left will destroy itself. You see this with the “go
woke go broke” chants that fly in the face of reality. No woke
corporation has suffered in the slightest.

The proper response, what must come next for those on this side of the
great divide, is to accept the reality of the situation and act
accordingly. That means getting involved in social activities that allow
you to recruit, building social networks of likeminded people and
working to always be the reasonable voice in the room. The vibrant
future may look like a dark age, but the future is not written. Even in
the depths of the dark ages, communities thrived, even prospered, and
people lived good lives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
