---
title: "Travelogue: Copenhagen Nights"
date: "2019-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18839"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18839"
---

The BBC is full of Orange Man Bad stories. This is their permanent
setting, as best I can tell. This time, they are flipping out over
Turkey invading Syria. The fun part of being a dissident is we know why
this so.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ceCOhdgRBoc&amp;t=308s"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Lobby</a> gets its money’s
worth from their socks in the media. Jeff Flake is all over the news,
claiming Trump has to be removed because Orange Man Bad. Everyone has
their serious face on, pretending that this is the most critical moment
in human history. These people are ridiculous…

The hotel I am in is a working man’s place. It appears to cater to
people holding meetings offsite. Lots of middle management types in the
bar. All are middle age as well, which is something you see in America.
Corporate America runs on middle-aged, middle-class white people trusted
to do their best in their positions. The difference here is middle
managers are more casual. Most of the men are in pullovers and jeans,
like it is casual Friday. Europe is much more casual than the US.

Europe is also slower than the US. This is my East Coast bias. Of
course, living in Lagos, people tend to live fast and die even faster,
so there’s that. If you travel to the West in America, things slow down,
but Europe is still a slower pace overall. They start late, finish early
and don’t carry their work around with them. In America, the typical
businessman works 60 hours a week. That does not seem to be so in
Europe. They have a much more transactional relationship with their work
too.

Much of what goes on in modern business is busy work. People are hired
to do necessary tasks, but they always end up doing lots of unnecessary
stuff too. When there are layoffs, the same amount work gets done, but
with fewer people. Those people are not suddenly tasked with massive
hours either. They work a bit harder, but they soon adjust by not doing
the unnecessary stuff. Of course, much of it could be automated today
and most of what’s left could soon be automated.

My hunch is the robot revolution never happens as expected, as those
humans in those offices and cubicles do something a robot cannot do.
They provide a culture. The corporate and industry culture are a defense
in depth. It protects the firm and the industry from disruptions. All of
the insiders seek to maintain the value of their insider status. A robot
will never say, “this is how we have always done things.” Human networks
are natural stabilizers and internal breaks that the robot lacks.

That’s what you see in corporate life. I’ve been out on my own for a
long time, but watching the business types in the bar, I fondly recall
the many after work drinking sessions with work friends. In every hotel
bar that caters to the business man in the West, you find these ad hoc
meetings. It’s part work and part social bonding that reinforces the
culture. Humans are the gyroscope of business culture and that cannot be
replaced with robots. An industry of ATM machines cannot exist…

I ran into some Americans, who are here on business, but have some down
time to see the city. They asked me if I had some tips and, of course,
where to avoid. I told them what I know and mentioned some dodgy areas
“where they store their diversity.” They replied, “We’re from Detroit,
we know.” I said, “I’m from Baltimore.” We had that moment of quiet
understanding that men, having lived amid diversity, have when they meet
one another. It’s an experience we share that is foreign to many…

On the BBC, I saw a show called “Live At The Apollo.” It is a comedy
show like the American one of the same name, but it is in London. It is
non-white comics making fun of the British. The audience is all white.
The bit I saw was a black doing a bit on how rotten Britain was to
Africa. They are laughing at how Brits are terrible, yet the comics
would be sitting on a log scratching themselves through their loincloth,
wondering where the next meal is coming from if not for whites. Why are
we doing this…

In the bar, I struck up a conversation with who I thought was a local
fellow. He took me for an American and wanted to chat. Our good looks,
charm and wit are known the world over, so we get used to this when we
travel. The BBC was on doing Orange Man Bad, so he used that to break
the ice. A few minutes chatting with him, he said, “you sound familiar.”
I get this a lot, as I now know I sound like every male PBS personality,
so I’m prepared to make this point.

After some back and forth, he asked, “Are you here for Scandza.” At that
point, I knew he was one of us, so I said I was and then he asked if I
was the Z-Man. The world is a small place for most of us, but sometimes
it feels claustrophobic. He is a listener to the podcast. He introduced
me to a couple of friends. We had a good time drinking and talking about
the things that occupy the mind of a dissident. I was very grateful for
the company and the fellowship…

I did a couple hours with the fellas from Myth of the 20th Century. The
<a
href="https://myth20c.wordpress.com/2019/10/09/the-z-man-reaching-the-tipping-point/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">resulting podcast</a> is now
posted on their site. I think the show came out well. I did better than
normal, but I suspect that is due to them having a good format. They
sent an outline in advance, so I could be prepared a bit. Most shows are
ad hoc. I never know what I’ll be expected to discuss. Good hosts get
the most from their guests. If you like deep-dives into historical
topics, then I highly recommend their podcast. Lots of good stuff…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
