---
title: "The Sham Of Democracy"
date: "2019-10-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18942"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18942"
---

Over the weekend, the news brought word that someone calling himself Abu
Bakr al-Baghdadi had been killed by special forces in Syria. According
to President Trump, “He died after running into a dead-end tunnel,
whimpering and crying and screaming all the way.” He apparently blew
himself up using a suicide vest. Presumably, real men are boastful and
arrogant as they deploy their dynamite vests. Or maybe real men simply
allow themselves to be captured and sent off to Guantanamo Bay.

Of course, we cannot even be sure this actually happened. [The
Russians](https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/isis-leader-abu-bakr-al-20738636)
are telling the world they doubt this thing happened. They point to
various factors that would seem to contradict Trump’s story. This is a
bit ironic, in that the people accused in the biggest hoax in American
history are now claiming this is a hoax. You get the feeling that maybe
the three-year long Russian hoax has caused the Russians to suspect that
American politicians are not the most honest people in the world.

All that stuff aside, this news event is another example of the
incoherence of modern American politics. Two weeks ago, Trump was boldly
and proudly saying he was pulling troops out of the quagmire of Syria.
This was confirmed by the Left, which claimed his decision was resulting
in a genocide. The pols owned and operated by the Israeli lobby, which
is the Republican party and most of the Democrat party, were kvetching
about how this was all very bad because of something about whatever.

Now we have Trump out crowing about those troops that were supposed to
be out of Syria, conducting an operation in Syria to kill some guy. Even
nuttier, this guy he had not mentioned until this event, was literally
Hitler. Of course, the Left, who regularly tells us Trump is literally
Hitler, is now less than enthusiastic that Trump is doing what they
demanded he do last week. In effect, the man they say is literally
Hitler, went ahead and killed the guy he says is literally Hitler, so
that makes Trump literally Hitler.

This whole story reveals that democracy in the current age is just a
sham. At every point, the various camps pick a side, which could very
well be the opposite of what they said last week. It’s as if each of
these events is a play put on by the political class, where the actors
draw lots to see who plays which role. Today one party is anti-war,
while tomorrow the other party will play that role. Like actors boasting
of their versatility, our politicians are proud that they can take any
side on every issue.

Further, why in the hell is America in Syria? You’ll note there was
never a debate about this or resolutions passed authorizing the use of
the troops in Syria. According to [available
timelines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American-led_intervention_in_the_Syrian_Civil_War),
it was under the Obama administration that America started to get
entangled in the Syria mess. In 2011 he authorized aid and intelligence
support to irregulars battling the Syrian army. Presumably, this came
from American troops in Northern Iraq, a place he claimed to have
withdrawn all US troops.

By 2012, the Obama administration was openly supplying weapons to
various groups of irregulars going under names no one in his
administration understood. Now, in 2012 there was this thing called an
election going on in America, in which this stuff is supposed to be
debated. Mitt Romney, the alleged opponent of Obama and leader of the
opposition party, [proposed doing exactly the same
things](https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2012/05/mitt-romneys-syria-policy-basically-barack-obamas-syria-policy/327508/)
Obama was doing in Syria, but promising to use different rhetoric to
justify it to the public.

This is, of course, why the public is slowly beginning to sour on the
ruling class of America and democratic politics in general. If democracy
was a real thing, someone in politics would have proposed not getting
tangled up in the Syria mess. Instead, everyone agreed to angrily
disagree with one another about the right way to agree with one another
on a plan none of them understood, a plan put forth by the
military-intelligence complex that runs American foreign policy. It was
just a show.

For his part, Trump, who is pretty much a naive civic nationalist, is
saying sensible things about these endless conflicts. Despite his
faults, his instincts on this stuff are correct most of the time. He
wants out of the whole region. As he said, the biggest mistake the
country made was getting involved in the Middle East. The trouble is, he
is not actually in charge of anything. Two times now he has ordered
troops out of Syria and we still have troops in Syria. Now we have new
raids in Syria.

Clearly, the people really in charge of American foreign policy decided
to let Trump know who is really in charge, so they conducted this raid.
That leaves Trump little choice but to act like it was his idea. Despite
his good instincts, he is slowly being turned into another organ
grinder’s monkey for the military-industrial complex. It is another
example of how voting makes little difference in a democracy, because
the people in charge simply ignore the results of the elections.

The fact is, until the Israel lobby decides they no longer need us in
Syria, America will be involved in the Syrian conflict. The army of
lobbyists, crawling over Washington like aphids, paid for by foreign
interests and the military-industrial complex, will never stop bleeding
the nation dry. Only when the American middle-class collapses and there
is no more cash to be stolen from them, will the endless wars come to an
end. That’s the beauty of democracy. It completely consumes the fools
who support it most.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
