---
title: "A Book Of Contradictions"
date: "2019-07-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18094"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18094"
---

When reading Yoram Hazony’s book, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Virtue-Nationalism-Yoram-Hazony/dp/1541645375/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Virtue of Nationalism</a>,
the image that keeps coming to mind is of a man working a puzzle, only
to keep arriving at an unsatisfactory conclusion. There’s the period
where it feels like it is all coming together, then that moment when he
realizes the emerging answer is all wrong. Not factually wrong, but
unacceptably wrong. After a brief moment of terror, he then throws his
work into the fireplace and begins again with a fresh sheet of paper.

The point of the book is to make the case for nationalism, but not just
any old form of nationalism. Hazony sets out to craft a new definition
of nationalism that is essentially Zionism, without the overtly Jewish
attributes. It is a nationalism that any people can embrace, but not
every people can have. He then compares this form of nationalism with
the alternative, making the case that this form of nationalism is
superior. In the process he makes some interesting claims that are worth
exploring.

The book starts with the rather interesting claim that imperialism is a
political system that “seeks to bring peace and prosperity to the world
by uniting mankind, as much as possible, under a single political
regime.” This a curious way to describe empire that makes imperialism
sound like a hippy movement from the 1960’s. While it is true that
empires grow from a desire to create peace for the conqueror, the
prosperity and happiness of the conquered is never a concern.

This odd way of defining imperialism is a part of his rhetorical sleight
of hand. What he seeks to do is redefine imperialism away from its
biological and material motivations, to something that is ideological.
The empire is not about putting one tribe ahead of all others or the
material benefit of the emperor. It is about imposing a politics and
culture on all people. The reason this is important is it allows Harzony
to claim that Nazism is imperialistic, not nationalistic, in its
fundamental nature.

Few scholars of fascism would agree with this, even though they would
acknowledge that Nazism was expansionist and probably necessarily so.
This is the result of the geopolitics of the period, not the inherent
logic of fascism. That’s not the point. What Harzony is doing is
inoculating himself and Zionism against the charge that is always
leveled at nationalism. That is, it the logical endpoint of it is Nazism
and that inevitably leads to war, genocide and barbarism.

That is the real argument of the book. Harzony puts no effort into
explaining how his conception of nationalism could be applied in Europe
or America. Instead, his argument is that Zionism, Jewish nationalism,
is both the pure form of nationalism and the best form of human
organization. It allows a people to chart their own destiny, but also
prevents one nation from meddling in the affairs of another. A world
composed of naturally occurring nation-states would be peaceful and
prosperous.

He is not wrong. Judaism is the purist expression of nationalism. On the
one hand, you have a collection of people, who not only share a
language, history and religion, they share a common ancestor,
hand-picked by God. Not only that, the Lord picked a land for his chosen
people. To be a Jew is to be a member of a timeless tribe with an
unrivaled link to the heavens and an unrivaled claim on the land. It is
a sense of nation that transcends time, place and boundaries.

This is where Hazony reaches that point where the emerging answer to the
puzzle he is working terrifies him. If a nation is a people with a
common language, customs, history, territory and ancestors, then how is
it wrong for a nation to not accept foreigners into their ranks? If
France is for the French, they should have the right to deport the
non-French from their lands? More precisely, would they not have a duty
to deport these people, as their patriotic duty is to preserve the
nation for future generations?

To get around these obvious difficulties, Hazony compares the nation to
a family with lots of adopted children. Some reviewers think this sort
of equivocating is a bow to the ideological realities of this age, but a
closer reading suggests he is concerned with a different part of his
audience. If a nation can decide who it allows in, based on its own
internal logic and customs, then there can be no moral basis for
opposing racism or antisemitism, as both are just natural extensions of
nationalism.

Of course, the other problem with nationalism for the Zionist is the
case of the Arab minorities in the Levant. If a nation is defined as a
people with a common language, history and territory, then why can’t the
Palestinians have a country? Why are their claims against Israel not
valid? In chapter 17 Harzony resolves this by refining his definition of
nationalism to limit it only to those who can attain a nation. In other
words, everyone can have a nation, if they can get it and keep it.

In chapter nine we get another one of those moments where you can
imagine him pulling up short as he realizes the implication of what he
is writing. He starts out making the case for the biological
underpinning of human society, then realizes where that is headed and
swerves into the guardrail of civic nationalism. Then in the following
two chapters, he makes the dissident case against social contract theory
and the case against the materialist view of society peddled by
libertarians.

If you can ignore the whiplash, the book has some excellent points to
make that dissidents would be wise to read. In chapter 15 he carefully
explains how federalism cannot work, using the case of America leading
to the Civil War. He then compares that to the internationalist dream of
a world controlled by supranational bodies arbitrating disputes between
states. In the following chapter, he eviscerates the arguments of Ben
Shapiro, without actually naming him.

Chapter 16 is his best chapter and one of the strongest arguments for
ethno-nationalism you will find, outside of dissident circles. That
chapter would not look out of place in Greg Johnson’s <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/product/the-white-nationalist-manifesto/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">White Nationalist
Manifesto</a>. It is both an argument against multiculturalism and an
argument in favor of ethno-nationalism. He is careful to avoid directly
mentioning the biological aspect of nationalism, but no rational person
can read that chapter and no think Hazony assumes a biological root to
nationalism.

The last section of the book, which most reviewers apparently skipped,
offers some very interesting insights into Zionism. In chapter 22 he
writes about the shame Jews feel over not having fought back against the
Nazis and how this is integral to Jewish nationalism and national
identity. Instead of Jews being a people whose men and women stood
helplessly as their children were murdered by the Nazis, Israel is a
nation of armed men and women defending their children.

Similarly, chapter 24 offers insight into why Jews see criticism of
Israel as a form of racism and antisemitism. On the one hand, they see
the West adopting the Kantian model of nations, which holds white
nations to a higher standard that non-white nations, like the Arab
countries surrounding Israel. That’s the racism. On the other hand, the
imperialist opposition to nationalism, which is what defines the Jewish
people, is a hostility only aimed at Israel. That’s the antisemitism.

As is to be expected with polemical book, The Virtue of Nationalism will
drive the pedant mad at times. Hazony makes some odd claims about the
Thirty Years War. His view of Catholicism is weird and comes close to
bigotry. As stated at the beginning, his definition of imperialism is
hard to accept. Of course, the equivocation on the biological
foundations of nationalism, especially Jewish nationalism, will strike a
certain type of reader as predictable. That said, it is a good read for
the dissident.

Finally, something that is not touched on by Hazony, but is implied in
all Zionist discussions of nationalism, is this basic reality. For
Israel to exist as currently constructed, it needs a robust relationship
with a robust America. That America can only exist as a majority white
and chauvinistically white. This inevitably puts the Zionist on the same
side as the white nationalist. It turns out that the great irony of this
age is that the fate of the West may ride on ancient enemies finding
common ground.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
