---
title: "Travelogue: Out Of Lagos"
date: "2019-04-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16924"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16924"
---

The first leg of my journey was a stop in London. When booking the trip,
the cheapest flight took me through Heathrow, with a half day layover. I
hate having to run to make connections, as that often ends in me missing
my connection, so I don’t mind a few hour gap between flights. Having
almost a full day between flights was not ideal, but it beat the
alternatives when I was booking the flight. My plan was to leave the
airport and do a quick tour of London, but that plan got scuttled by
British security.

When leaving the airport’s secure area, I was pulled aside for the
rubber glove treatment by whatever they call their security forces. I
was taken to a room and asked the usual questions. Then they asked to
examine my phone, which got them upset, as there is nothing on it other
than some classical music I loaded for the trip. I keep nothing on my
phone as a rule. This one is brand new, so the browser does not even
have some history on it. That lack of a information seemed to upset
them.

That led them to ask to look at my laptop. I use a travel laptop, so if
something happens, I’m not missing important parts of my life. This one
I just setup with Linux and a new solid state drive. This only increased
their anxiety, so we spent an hour or so playing Petrovich and
Raskolnikov. My Russian visa did not help matters. I’ve gone through
this a couple of times in American airports, but this seemed different.
Maybe I’m imagining things, but I got the strong sense of being on a
list. Maybe it was just the culture gap.

You see, that’s the other thing. The British Starsky and Hutch were Apu
and Mustafa, two brown guys from over the rainbow. Their English was
fine, but it had the hint of the exotic, suggesting they grew up
speaking something other than English at home. They also had the
narrowness that is typical of the South Asian. There’s always a barrier
that exists between the Occidental and the Oriental, despite the degree
of shared experience. There is an inscrutableness there that always
leaves a degree of uncertainty between us…

After getting sprung from gaol, I was free to explore the giant shopping
mall that is the Heathrow airport. The best I could tell, all of the
employees were either brown people from over the horizon or Eastern
Europeans. I got something to eat and all of the wait staff was not
British. Given the international flavor of the passengers, you would be
hard pressed to know you were in the heart of Britain. They don’t even
have televisions playing the BBC or local sporting events. Heathrow is a
foreign country disguised as an airport…

I’ve been in a great many airports in my life and I have a weird
fascination for them. Most airports serving big cities are really just
complex systems that have evolved over many years to solve evolving
problems of air travel. An airport is a solution for a problem of modern
life. As a result, you can learn a lot about the evolution of human
organization by observing what happens at the big airports. Their design
is similar everywhere, but everywhere is not the same, so the airport
says something about the local culture.

If you are going to make a list of the worst airports on earth, it’s
hard to imagine how Heathrow would not make the cut. It is a big hub for
international travel, so it is a lot like the bar in Star Wars. They
have turned the thing into a giant shopping with an airport attached to
it. To do that, it meant connections require train rides and shuttle
buses to get to your connection. There’s no way to make a connection
there without allowing a few hours in between. Otherwise, you watch your
flight take off from the shuttle bus…

On the fight from Lagos to London, a couple of Africans were across the
aisle, one row up, from where I was sitting. Both were dressed up in
what Hollywood tells us is traditional African dress for African
royalty. Their accents suggested Ghana to me. At some point, the male
got very agitated at the person in front of him, who had reclined her
chair. He started violently shaking her chair-back and hollering
something. Two stewards came over and gave him a lecture about his
behavior and airplane etiquette.

Watching the two of them struggle to understand how to be passengers on
an airplane, I realized what it would be like to bring Stone Age people
into this age. The two of them were just too dumb to navigate plane
transport. They were frustrated by the food service process. They
struggled to understand simple directions. When the plane landed, they
got up and started walking down the aisle, while the plane was still
taxiing to the gate. They are primitives incapable of existing in a
modern society, without constant supervision…

Walking around Heathrow, it is easy to see why our rulers love
multiculturalism. They look at the diversity you see at a big
intentional airport and they think of it as the Casablanca of this age.
It makes them feel worldly and sophisticated. That brown guy in their
department with the perfect continental English is not just a colleague.
He is a symbol of what makes them special. They are not provincials.
They are worldly cosmopolitans. They never see the other side of it.
They just see the good part of the transaction.

Frankly, I don’t blame them. I could not help but be a bit impressed
with myself, as I mingled with my fellow globetrotters. If I spent my
days looking out at a polyglot, multiracial sea of people getting on
well with one another, I might start thinking we have transcended
something more than the Malthusian limit. Mankind is about to cross over
into being a single race, a global race. It’s an illusion, but one that
is reinforced every day, so for them it is reality. The trouble is,
their reality is not our reality or even reality…
