---
title: "Neo-Democracy"
date: "2019-01-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16046"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16046"
---

Most people think democracy means the people get to vote on who holds
office and what laws get passed. Government by the people and majority
rule, at least when it comes to elections and referendums. Not so long
ago, serious types would correct someone if they said that America was a
democracy. They would say it is a republic, not a democracy, which is
technically correct. Civic nationalists will still do this whenever
someone says America is a democracy, even though the term has become
ubiquitous.

Putting aside the linguistic issues, most people think of democracy as
something close to the Merriam-Webster definition, “a government in
which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them
directly or indirectly through a system of representation usually
involving periodically held free elections.” The people have the final
say on who holds office and by extension, what they do while in office.
The government is controlled by the people, through an orderly process
of elections and referendums.

The people in charge, however, have a different definition of democracy.
They look at democracy as a thing, rather than a process. When they
speak of democracy, they are talking about the offices and institutions
they control, both official and unofficial. The media, for example, is
an unofficial part of democracy. The array of non-profits and think
tanks are part of democracy. The entirety of the managerial state is
this thing they call democracy, which is why they endlessly talk about
the need to defend it.

For example, [this
story](https://foreignpolicy.com/2018/12/25/the-welfare-state-is-committing-suicide-by-artificial-intelligence/)
in Foreign Policy magazine is about how Denmark’s use of computer
software to manage welfare benefits is a threat to liberal democracy.
The authors use the term in the way in which normal people would use it.
They provide an example of how one municipality is using “a system that
would use algorithms to identify children at risk of abuse, allowing
authorities to target the flagged families for early intervention that
could ultimately result in forced removals.”

For these systems to work, the state needs access to all sorts of data
that not so long ago was assumed to be outside the scope of government.
Think about what the state would need to know about “the children at
risk” to know they are at risk. Most of what would be useful is the sort
of information people in liberal democracies think is none of the
government’s business. Then there is the notion that the state has the
right to involve itself in the affairs of citizens, *before* they do
something *wrong*.

Notice also the shift in language. Those inclined to dystopian views
like to use the word “pre-crime” to define this sort of thing, but it is
worse. The new class think they need to intervene in your life before
you do something *wrong*, which is different than preventing crime. What
the Danish state is up to is intervening in the lives of citizens before
they act in a way that may be legal but not in their interests. The
state now has a monopoly on morality, in addition to a monopoly on
violence.

As the authors point out, the core assumption of liberal democracy has
always been that the state must be restrained. This is described as
negative liberty. The state is out of the way of the people who are then
free to pursue their interests. It is why the US Constitution narrowly
describes the role of each branch of government. It is also why there is
a bill of rights, which describes broad spheres into which the state is
prohibited. In theory, the government is like a dog on a leash. It can
only go where the leash permits.

What has happened in the last several decades in the West is a subtle
shift away from negative liberty to positive liberty. This is the claim
that to be free, a person must be self-determined, able to control their
own destiny in their own interests. For example, an addict is not free
because they are a slave to the drug. A black person, despite equality
before the law, is not free due to white racism and the legacy of
slavery. The state may not be placing obstacles in their way, but the
person is not in control of their destiny.

The role of the state, therefore, is not to stay out of the way, but to
intercede to clear these limits on the citizen’s ability to fulfill
their potential. That is why the Danish government just assumes it is
their duty to meddle in the personal lives of citizens. They are not
violating their rights. Instead, they are helping them reach their
potential, by preventing them from doing things that are not in their
interests. In the case of family life, it means stopping people from
being bad parents or bad examples to their children.

It is why the new class is in such a panic over the rise of populist
movements in the West and willing to use totalitarian means to suppress
them. From their perspective, these forces are a threat to democracy,
because they are democracy. The new class, this consolidating class of
people at the top of politics, administration, finance, business, and
the law, are the indispensable class. Without them, there is no
democracy, because there is no one to structure your life so you can
reach your fullest potential.

It is also why they are prone to blaming the supernatural for observable
phenomenon like racial inequality or the differences in the sexes. When
you eliminate the natural explanations for why blacks have different
life outcomes than whites, then you are left with the supernatural.
White privilege is just another way of blaming bad juju. The same is
true of “gun violence” which shifts agency from the trigger puller to
the object. These various bogeymen become an explanation and a rallying
cry for the new class.

More ominous is how the new class, at least in America, is slowly
concluding that the reason the new citizens are not reaching their
potential is that the old citizens have a mystical power source. The
mere presence of legacy Americans, minding their own business, living
their lives, is bad for the new citizens. After all, that is the
definition of white privilege. There can be only one solution to that
problem. That probably explains why the [Sackler
family](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/10/30/the-family-that-built-an-empire-of-pain)
walks free. They are the sword of democracy.
