---
title: "The Inhumanity Of Openness"
date: "2019-02-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16388"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16388"
---

A core assumption of cosmopolitan globalism is that the ideal society is
the completely open society. That is, there are no barriers between
people and all transactions are completely transparent. Organizations
are based entirely on neutral rules, so that anyone meeting an objective
set of criteria may join. Goods and services flow freely, without regard
to national borders or local interests. The open society is therefore
transactional, where the friction of customs, national interest and
tradition is eliminated.

To see how central the concept of the open society is to the globalist
project, you just have to look at the chief global advocate for
globalism, George Soros. He is a citizen of nowhere, but he meddles
everywhere. Through his organization, [The Open Society
Foundations](https://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/), he funds
subversive organizations all over the West. The goal is to destroy
borders, customs, and traditions, in order to turn the West into an
open, transactional commerce area for the world. Openness is central to
post-nationalism.

If a society is fully open, it means all people have access to all
things, all places and so forth. It follows, according to the logic of
the adherents, that any organization lacking the diversity of its
surrounding environment must not be fully open. A fire house without
vibrancy, for example, is somehow discriminating against the vibrant.
There does not have to be proof of this. The lack of vibrancy is proof
enough. After all, if the hiring process of the firehouse were open and
transparent, it would be fully vibrant.

At first blush, this sounds sort of reasonable, but it is when you
examine it in detail that this zeal for openness is found to be every
bit as extreme and inhuman as the radical ideologies of the past. [This
post](http://www.overcomingbias.com/2019/01/gender-is-big.html) from
Robin Hanson offers a good illustration. His first thought experiment,
regarding discrimination against the left-handed, concludes that busting
up exclusionary group preferences is good for the world. The reason is,
such discrimination offends the gods of efficiency.

This sounds fine in the abstract, until you think about it in practice.
Hanson assumes insiders create rules for arbitrary reasons. They like
one another so they foolishly create rules that favor themselves. If
only they could see the beauty of openness, they would drop those rules,
so let us just bust up those rules for them. Attacks on free association
and private discrimination are not just about liberating the *excluded*.
They are about liberating the *included*, so they can enjoy openness and
vibrancy.

He then gets into “gender” differences, by which he means sex
differences. This confusion we see on the Left between biological
reality and their fantasy constructs is an essential element of their
world view. It is a form of fallacy where they compare reality to some
model of reality, then critique the model, rather than use the model to
gain a better understanding of reality. Therefore, they talk about
gender roles and ignore biology, because the model of gender is easier
to critique.

This passage from his post is where we see the extreme radicalism.

*Some may postulate gender as an innate atomic feature of the universe
of human concerns, so that when we desire that an associate have a
certain gender that has nothing to do with their many other associated
features. But that seems crazy to me. Much more plausibly, what we like
about a gender is strongly tied to the set of associated features that
tend to go along with that gender. That is, we like the package of
features that “are” a gender.*

He is taking the theoretical model of gender that is not based in
biologic reality then imposing it on reality. The whole post is a great
example of sophistry, but it is also an insight into the thinking of the
people who currently rule over us. They really have accepted the blank
slate arguments about observable reality being a social construct. When
you start talking about society “assigning roles” based on packages of
features associated with genders, you have slipped the chains of
reality.

The monstrous nature of the open society lies in the fact it assumes
choice, based in anything but objective criteria, is invalid. The male
who marries a female because of biology is acting from bias. The male
who marries a man, because of economic benefit is acting rationally,
because his decision is based on objective criteria. This view of people
strips them of their humanity and turns them into economic units, cursed
with a sense of moral duty and a belief in free will. They must be
broken of those beliefs.

This is what lies behind the sudden promotion of race mixing on
television. Every ad must feature a mixed-race couple. It is not so much
a denial of biology, it is a denial of choice driven by anything other
than objective criteria. Preferring your own race or ethnicity is
invalid, because it places a barrier between you and others. Breaking up
these antiquated notions of choice is not about racism. It is about
destroying any barriers between people, as those are by definition
invalid in an open society.

This is why they are so berserk about what is coming from the human
sciences with regards to the nature of man. If people are wired to favor
their kin over strangers, for example, an open society cannot exist.
More importantly, biology is a more authentic authority than whatever is
bubbling up from the soft sciences. Destroying science will become a
crusade, as it is the only way to preserve an open society. The
un-personing of James Watson is not a sacrifice. It is atonement.

There is also an anarcho-nihilism quality to the open society. If all
human relations are reduced to self-interest based in objective
criteria, there is no reason for anyone to sacrifice. Trust is not
objective, and it cannot be measured. Without trust, human cooperation
is impossible, as no one has an interest in sacrificing today for the
good of a whole he may not be around to enjoy. The result of the open
society is a Hobbesian world where everyone is a stranger, and everyone
is a predator.

That is what makes the zeal for openness immoral. It violates the
natural order. It is why a people under siege will sacrifice rather than
open their gates. They know without that barrier between them and the
besiegers, they do not exist. It is why the first demand of the
conqueror is for the conquered to tear down their walls. The people
preaching the open society are similarly acting from the position of the
conqueror. If the West tears down its walls, removes its borders,
becomes fully open, it ceases to exist.
