---
title: "Privacy In The Technological State"
date: "2019-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17488"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17488"
---

Privacy is something that has become a front burner topic for everyone,
because every day we are treated to stories about how corporations are
spying on us. They harvest information from our daily routines, put it
into databases and then use it to push ads on us wherever we turn. They
are now inserting surveillance devices in our homes to listen in on us
as we go about our daily routines. Of course, no one knows how much is
done with government blessing and cooperation, but we know it is there.

Of course, the fact that everyone is worried about this issue means the
politicians never speak of it. The old Joe Sobran line was that America
is a country where the political parties are significantly to the Left
of their voters. Today, when Left and Right are meaningless artifacts
from a bygone era, both parties simply make sure to never address the
concerns of the people. While Democrats are analyzing spectral evidence
for signs of Russian gremlins, the GOP is thanking you for <a
href="https://www.rollcall.com/news/congress/senate-majority-leader-mitch-mcconnell-introduces-bill-raise-federal-legal-smoking-age-21"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">not smoking</a>.

Even though it seems that the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Unwanted-Gaze-Destruction-Privacy-America/dp/0679765204"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">unwanted gaze</a> is upon us
everywhere, we are just at the start of a new problem. In the
pre-industrial age, the privacy concern was the king’s men rummaging
through your possessions or intercepting your courier. For most people
this was never going to be a concern. In the industrial age, the state
expanded to the point where everyone could be exposed to a government
process. The concern then was your rights within the process. How much
did you have to reveal to them?

In the technological age, where the lines between the state and the
global technology companies are blurred, we have very different
problems. These are the sorts of problems classical liberals, so beloved
by libertarians and conservatives, never contemplated. It’s why civic
nationalism sounds so ridiculous when debating what to do about these
tech firms controlling our civil discourse. For example, this blog is
blocked by corporate firewall makers, which are private companies doing
the bidding of the political class.

Think about this. Police departments are now using services like
Ancestory.com to help solve cold cases. They submit DNA evidence to the
service and the service reports back members who have some connection.
You committed the perfect crime in 1982, but left behind some DNA at the
crime scene. Your cousin decides to trace her (it’s always a her in
these cases) ancestry using a DNA service. All of a sudden you have cops
at your door asking you about your whereabouts 40 years ago.

It’s easy to shrug this off as the person suddenly tangled in this new
technological surveillance web is a criminal. We all want to see justice
done. But, think about the implications of this new world. All of us now
have a permanent record that is increasingly open to examination by
unofficial agents of the state. How long before some tech company gets
into the business of solving crimes? How long before the cops start
purchasing their services on-line just like they are doing with
ancestry?

There is another side to this. The tech companies can also spy on the
state, by accessing the records of people working in the state. Every
government has to keep secrets in order to function. It is why every
modern society has developed processes for determining what can be
revealed and what can be concealed by government. There are processes
the public and government must follow and they are administered by the
courts. What happens when the tech giants can bypass all of this?

Think of another problem. Before the media was completely owned by the
government, private media operations would publish government secrets
they thought the public had a right to see. It sounds crazy, but it used
to happen. The courts carved out exceptions to permit this, basically
putting the burden of keeping secrets on the state. Now, with help from
technology, the state can fight back and go after the handful of
independent media people snooping around government. <a
href="https://www.sfexaminer.com/the-city/san-francisco-police-raid-home-of-journalist-to-find-leak-in-adachi-death/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> will be
interesting.

There are two problems we face in the technological age that are new.
One is how to place hard limits on the synopticon. This unwanted stare
called the surveillance state that is now on all of us will have to be
blinded, unless there are hard limits on where *anyone* can peer into
the lives of the people. In other words, it is no longer about the state
and the citizens’ right to privacy. It is about society and the human
right to a private space, free of the unwanted gaze. We will need
absolute zones of privacy.

The other problem is how to fashion punishments that are so terrifying
that they change behavior. What’s happened within these massive
technology firms is the evolution of a culture where everyone sees
themselves as a member of a clerisy, guarding the public from
themselves. These decisions to ban books and censor speech are not made
at the top, but in the middle, by functionaries doing what they assume
is their duty. Either the firms are destroyed and the people chased off
or we change the culture in them.

One way to change the culture is to attach liability to violating the
safe zones. The reason every company in America spends money proving
they are not racist is there are serious liabilities that come with
doing otherwise. Something similar must happen with privacy. Companies
need to be as berserk about not looking where they are prohibited from
looking, as they are about conforming to current morality on race.
Otherwise, the solution is to let <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2018/04/04/us/who-is-nasim-aghdam-youtube-shooter/index.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a million flowers</a> bloom in
Silicon Valley.

To support my work, please
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">subscribe here</a>.
