---
title: "The End Of Nothing"
date: "2019-01-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16102"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16102"
---

Something that was quite clear at the end of the Cold War was that the
Republican Party, without the Soviets as an enemy, was just a collection
of unrelated groups. What held the GOP together was a general opposition
to communism. It was, at the simplest form, the party of patriotism, the
weak form of nationalism that used to be the core of the American creed.
That patriotism was, in large part, kept alive by the Cold War. The
Soviet menace was a daily reminder that we had to stick together to
defend our liberty.

What kept the GOP together, to a much greater degree, is what gave
coherence to the Buckley Right. The thing that fused the various tribes
on the Right together was external to all of them. They feared Soviet
communism. To traditionalists and social conservatives, the godless
materialism of communism was monstrous. To the libertarian capitalists,
it was communist central planning. To the internationalists and
expansionists, Soviet domination was the great menace they feared.

Once the Cold War ended, it was no longer obvious as to why the
Republicans or conservatives should hang together, other than habit. The
GOP first tried to recast itself as technocratic reformers, promising to
make government more efficient. That was the general thrust of
Gingrich-style politics. It was just a green eye-shade version of what
came from the [Democratic Leadership
Council](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Democrats). Instead of
pitching themselves as “new democrats” they would pitch themselves as
“new republicans.”

This had an appeal to certain parts of the Buckley coalition as well.
The libertarian wing was loaded with technocrats eager to try their hand
at social planning. The Jack Kemp wing was sure that some tinkering in
the tax and regulatory code would bring an era of boundless prosperity.
Second generation neocons were eager to apply this same logic to
international affairs. [The Freedom
Agenda](https://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/infocus/freedomagenda/)
was, when you think about, urban planning applied to the Middle East to
save Israel.

All this technocratic obscurantism concealed a fundamental truth about
American conservatism, at least as far as the Buckley version. It was
never a movement based in a core philosophy. It was just a buffet of
rhetoric and policy positions borrowed from movements rejected by the
Left. For example, if the Left had retained its Christian roots and
enforced that morality, Evangelicals would be on the Left. Most are
indifferent to economics. Their interest in foreign policy begins and
ends with Israel.

No doubt, Christian readers would take exception to this, because they
have been conditioned to believe Christianity is a right-wing
phenomenon. That is a carryover from the Cold War where the Left was
identified with godless materialism. In America, the Left has its roots
in Christianity. The 19th century reformers were all explicitly
Christian and working from Christian morality. Go back and read the
writings of abolitionists and it is clear they saw their movement as a
Christian movement.

Similarly, the neocons have no obvious fit on the Right. Their worldview
is the philosophy of Athens, while paleo-conservationism is the
philosophy of Sparta. Conquering the world to make it safe for democracy
was always on the American Left. It is what motivated the Wilsonian
reformers and the New Deal radicals. It is what led Kennedy and Johnson
to commit to a land war in Asia. The neocons were always a liberal tribe
looking for a political home, not a philosophical one.

This reality of the American Right, that it is just a collection of
misfit toys, was made plain in the reaction to Tucker Carlson great
speech. If what he said was truly at odds with the core philosophy of
the Right, the response would have reflected that. Instead, it was a
grab bag of policy complaints (examples:
[here](https://www.dailywire.com/news/39964/tucker-carlson-claims-market-capitalism-has-ben-shapiro),
[here](https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/01/the-right-should-reject-tucker-carlsons-victimhood-populism/),
[here](https://www.nationalreview.com/the-morning-jolt/tucker-carlsons-populist-cri-de-couer/)
and
[here](https://reason.com/archives/2019/01/04/tucker-carlson-thinks-the-problem-with-a))
The carrying on about Carlson questioning the sanctity of global
capitalism strongly suggests these people don’t know why they believe
what they believe. They are just repeating lines from a hymnal.

Of course, this is not a revelation. It was obvious for a long time,
but, again, it was papered over by the technocratic obscurantism of the
libertarian wing and the Jewish liberation theology of the neocons. The
Mitt Romney campaign of 2012 was like watching a robot read the lines of
a rule book. No one could think of a reason why Mitt Romney should be
president or why his party even existed. His campaign was a collection
of slogans recycled from old copies of National Review.

That is the reality of Buckley conservatism. It was always just a
catechism of convenience that gave disparate groups a set of rules so
they could work in concert. Over time, it became a racket and repeating
those lines correctly became the secret handshake of those working in
Conservative Inc. As an organizing philosophy, it offers nothing,
because it promises to do nothing. It is just a list of reasons why a
group of strangers with nothing in common should vote for more of the
same.
