---
title: "Right-Wing Activism"
date: "2019-06-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17920"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17920"
---

Political and social activism is most effective when it reveals some
moral contradiction hidden from public view, reveals perfidy by the
ruling class or exposes some immoral activity by the rich and powerful.
Activism is about changing the moral battle space so that the critics
appear to have the high ground, while their targets appear to have
something to hide. What the activist is doing is using morality to even
the fight, but also using the disparity in power to amplify their moral
claims against their opponent.

Every movie or documentary about activists takes great pains to portray
the activists as plucky and sincere. They are driven by a hunt for truth
or justice. They sacrifice for their cause in order to right some wrong.
Meanwhile, the target is always big and powerful, motivated by lower
instincts like greed, ego or power. It’s why the rich and powerful, who
bankroll left-wing street activism, take pains to launder their money
and support through not-for-profit front groups like
<a href="https://www.propublica.org/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Propublica</a>.

There is another component to effective activism that may be the most
important in the modern media battle space. That is the element of
surprise. Those posters someone created that read, “It’s OK To Be White”
worked because the Left did not see it coming. They were unprepared for
how to react to it. Worse yet, their normal instinct to surround a
threat and scream at it compounded the problem. By calling it heresy,
which is what they mean by racist, they revealed their moral
contradictions.

The street artist Sabo works a similar angle. The Left has a big blind
spot when it comes to the arts. They assume they have a monopoly on
artistic expression, because so many of their cult members pretend to be
artistic. It is a bit of the self-flattery that is integral to modern
Progressivism. Sabo turns that against them with clever and very well
done guerrilla street art that lampoons liberal self-regard. Not all of
it is effective, but some of it <a
href="https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&amp;source=images&amp;cd=&amp;ved=2ahUKEwjm3pyt1__iAhXOneAKHfNCCXIQjRx6BAgBEAU&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.technocracy.news%2Fnew-york-plastered-with-anti-facebook-posters-by-well-known-street-artist-sabo%2F&amp;psig=AOvVaw3I5_RPfSqOoCIOOJK0PaPB&amp;ust=1561381931292822"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">hits the Left</a> where they
never bother to defend themselves.

This is something right-wing activist need to consider, especially when
it comes to guerrilla tactics like street actions. Unlike the left-wing
activists, which have the full support of the ruling class, the Right
must always be looking for soft targets. The Left can mass up a bunch of
zombies to fill a street and have their media organs broadcast it around
the world. The Right must operate like guerrilla fighters, probing for
weak spots in the perimeter, so the actions have to be small and
precise.

For example, the Left is largely blind to the realities of immigration.
For them, it is a purely moral issue at this point. They don’t even
understand the financial interests of people like the Koch Brothers or
the Silicon Valley oligarchs. That’s a pretty big blind spot that can be
exploited. Instead of a banner drop over a highway, a better target is
the apartment complex that runs migrant flophouses on behalf of local
employers. It’s a soft spot that is undefended and the Left is not
prepared to react.

This is one of those issues that angers middle-class white people. They
don’t know about these flop houses, often operating on their edge of
their towns. They don’t know the mechanics of smuggling in these
indentured servants from India to work in programming shops and
engineering firms. That’s never presented on Fox News, because the
Murdochs would never allow it. Revealing the perfidy of the ruling class
by bringing these flophouses to public view will rustle the right
people.

That’s just an easy example of low-hanging fruit that dissidents tend to
ignore. The Left is so powerful and so explicit in how it wields power,
it has a gravitational force. It draws even its harshest critics into
it, so they must fight on left-wing terms. Immigration becomes a moral
issue pitting the romantic immigrant narrative against the cold-hearted
nativists over what to do with illegal immigration. The real
opportunity, however, is legal immigration, which has a much greater
impact on white people.

The thing that right-wing activists need to keep in mind is their target
audience is often incredibly naive about the world. The reason so many
college kids fall for the TPUSA scam is they grew up in nice suburban
neighborhoods with nice bourgeois parents, who think we still live in an
orderly republic. More important, the people in charge are very good at
concealing the truth from these people through control of the media. As
a result, even though the result of the great replacement are all around
them, they don’t see it.

The most red-pilling act is when that hidden reality is suddenly made
plain. Tell the typical Baby Boomer about books being banned or banks
closing down accounts of political activists and their blood boils. Even
though this stuff is plastered all over social media, they don’t see it,
because they are trained not to see it. For most of their lives, banning
books is what happened in backward communist countries, not in a place
like America. There was never a reason to think about it.

That’s an important thing to keep in mind for all dissidents. The shared
reality of the modern age is carefully and effectively manipulated to
keep people blind to what’s happening around them. The people running
the media are good at their craft. That’s why guerrilla tactics like
those “It’s OK To Be White” were so effective. The people in charge have
grown used to a predictable enemy. They don’t know how to respond to
those sorts of tactics. That’s their weak spot that can be exploited.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask.
Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to destroy
your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer">PayPal</a> setup for those who prefer that
method to donate. Thank you for your support!
