---
title: "Conspiracy"
date: "2019-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18577"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18577"
---

In America, conspiracy theories have always had a negative connotation,
despite being the heart of most Hollywood thrillers and action films.
The conspiracy theorist is someone, who is excessively distrustful, yet
willing to accept massive leaps of logic to explain everyday phenomenon.
They will also be very paranoid. After all, anyone who is onto the grand
conspiracy is going to be seen as a threat by the conspirators and the
powers that be, so the conspiracy theorist is always under threat.

It’s a funny dynamic, when you think about it. The elaborate, often
ridiculous, conspiracy is the heart of so many popular movies and TV
shows, yet the conspiracy theorists is a wacko and threat to society.
Alex Jones had to be removed from the internet, due to being a
conspiracy monger. Added to this is fake news spread on social media,
which is a form of rumor designed to create conspiracies and conspiracy
theorists. This trope is now so real, the <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-08-31/u-s-unleashes-military-to-fight-fake-news-disinformation"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">US military</a> has been
assigned to tackle it.

Of course, fake news and conspiracy theories are a matter of
perspective. For the Left, a conspiracy theory is any explanation that
does not support their agenda. Trump secretly colluding with invisible
Russians to mind control voters in the 2016 election is a perfectly
rational explanation for his victory. People wondering why senior FBI
men were colluding with foreign intelligence agencies to spy in the
Trump campaign is a dangerous conspiracy theory, probably started by
Russians.

Now, many, if not most, conspiracy theories are nutty and designed to
get attention for the conspiracy theorist. That’s why Alex Jones exists.
He figured out that if he entertainingly talked about conspiracies, he
could generate a big audience willing to pay to see him perform. Red
Ice, the popular alt-right YouTube show started life as a conspiracy
theory outlet. Their stock and trade early on was space aliens and the
paranormal. As Hollywood knows, conspiracy is good box office.

A funny thing about most hard core conspiracy theorists though, is they
don’t have a lot of interest in genuine conspiracies. There are, after
all, real conspiracies. They are common in politics, as politics is the
business of plotting in secret to undermine opponents. Without
conspiracies, there is no politics. Boris Johnson just learned this the
other day when some of his colleagues plotted against him. These sorts
of plots, however, have no interest to the conspiracy theorists.

Think about the two big conspiracies of the current year. We have the
seditious coup plotted by senior elements of the security agencies. Then
there is the on-going cover-up involving two attorneys general and two
FBI directors. This is Cassius and Brutus plotting against Caesar, in
terms of import and drama, yet the popular conspiracy mongers are not
all that interested in the story. You would think the conspiracy guys
would be all over it, just as proof that conspiracy are real.

Another conspiracy that seems to have gained little traction with the
conspiracy community is the strange life and death of Jeffrey Epstein.
Probably the most bizarre and salacious story in half a century,
involving shadowy figures in the over class, has generated little
interest from the conspiracy mongers. The weird thing about the Epstein
case is it got more attention from the conspiracy theorists when he was
just a shadowy fixer, than when he was the victim of a conspiracy.

You could easily write a couple of books on the conspiracy theories
surrounding the 9/11 attacks. If you google “dancing Israelis” you get
page after page of links to sites covering that angle. Ryan Dawson has
done dozens of videos on it. These guys are examining beard hair
patterns in grainy photos to prove their claims.
<a href="http://www.unz.com/pgiraldi/the-dancing-israelis/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Philip Giraldi</a> has written
extensively on the subject. This two decade old story still gets plenty
of attention from the conspiracy community, but current conspiracies get
none.

This suggests a couple of things about the sorts of people who become
obsessed with conspiracy theories. One is they like the leaps of logic
required to tie the various facts together in the narrative. It’s like a
solving a puzzle for them. Finding a picture of Person X in the same
room as Person Y, who they have already connected to the event, allows
them to “solve” some great riddle. The fact that person X and Person Y
have no known connection, other than the photo, makes it all the better.

The other thing about the conspiracy people is they eschew certainty.
The typical conspiracy theory has lots of ambiguity and uncertainty. On
top of that, it has multiple explanations operating in parallel. Where
one narrative runs out of road, another narrative picks up from there to
connect to another narrative. In a real conspiracy, like the FBI
scandal, there are real facts. If all of the classified documents are
ever made public, which will never happen, everyone will know what
happened.

That’s the funny thing about the critics of conspiracy theories. They
claim that these theories are popular because people like simple
answers. That is probably a conspiracy there itself. People don’t like
simple answers. If they did, Hollywood thrillers would feature no plot,
just stuff exploding in between sex scenes. The truth is, people hate
simple answers and conspiracy theorists *really* hate simple answers.
The people who prefer an orderly world with no ambiguity are the critics
of the conspiracy theorists.

All of this leads to the conclusion that the best way to keep prying
eyes from looking to close at your shenanigans is make it look like a
conspiracy. Make sure to have a few villainous looking characters and
lots of contradictory elements. This will attract the conspiracy people
looking to make bank on it. This will then attract the anti-conspiracy
people, looking to debunk the conspiracy theorists. The back and forth
will allow you to get away with your scheme and enjoy a
<a href="https://www.ack.net/business/20180913/property-transfers"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">quiet retirement on
Nantucket</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
