---
title: "Trust Nothing"
date: "2019-08-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18243"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18243"
---

The official story on the seditious plot to overturn the 2016 election
is that nothing happened and citizens should return to the economic
duties. A few over-enthusiastic agents engaged in nothing more than
office gossip. All is well. Like everything that comes from the rulers,
this is all nonsense, but this is just how things are with a highly
corrupt ruling class. The rulers don’t lie because they are hiding
something. They lie because they take pleasure in humiliating the
people.

There are plenty of theories about what went on, supported by leaked
documents and clever people fitting puzzle pieces together. The website
<a href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Last Refuge</a> has done a
lot of work aggregating publicly available data. They are a bit
conspiratorial and often fill in blanks with speculation, but they have
a lot of good stuff. <a
href="http://directorblue.blogspot.com/2017/12/a-timeline-of-treason-how-fbi.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Doug Ross</a> has put together
an amazing list of news items related to the plot. Seeing all of the
planted news stories in chronological format makes for interesting
reading.

The sober minded analysis says that elements in the FBI and the DOJ took
it upon themselves to help the Clinton campaign win the 2016 election.
Some of them were motivated by greed. Some are obvious fanatics. Others
are just mediocrities, who rose well above their abilities and were easy
patsies. They planted stories in the press to then use to get FISA
warrants to spy on the Trump campaign. That information was then leaked
to the media and to the Clinton campaign through cutouts.

The reckless nature of the operation has been explained as resulting
from the belief by the participants that Clinton was a lock to win the
election. Clinton would come in and reward these people with good jobs
and the whole operation would be locked away in the vaults. When Trump
won, the plotters were forced to go into damage control, which is why
they cooked up the Russian collusion scheme. The special prosecutor
would sequester the details of the plot from public view.

Additionally, the special prosecutor would build and trap to ensnare
Trump and his people, which would then be used to impeach him or force
him to resign. It’s clear that Senator Mark Warner and Senator Richard
Burr were deeply involved in orchestrating this scheme. It’s why they
went to war over Trump nominating a loyalist, John Ratcliffe, to the DNI
position. Warner and Burr need one of their people in that job, so
incriminating information is not declassified by Bill Barr.

That’s the unofficial version of the plot. It’s the sort of narrative
that is fun to follow, but not a conspiracy theory that requires great
leaps of faith. There’s not much in the way of assumed associations,
which is the stock device of conspiracy theory. Person X is around
Person Y, so it assumed they are connected. That connection is then used
to connect a bunch of unrelated people and events. This narrative lacks
that as there is plenty of documentation to tie all of these people
together.

The trouble is, the supposed motivation to setting this whole thing off
is based on a glaring contradiction. The conspirators supposedly did all
of these things, because they just assumed Clinton would win in a
landslide. Well, if they really thought that, why bother with the
shenanigans? There’s also the fact that most of the people in this caper
are incompetent office drones. On the FBI side, the participants are
careerist nobodies, who rose up the ranks through rumpswabbery and time
serving.

The Watergate break-in has been mythologized by the Left, but the caper
itself is probably instructive when analyzing the FBI corruption. The
people who actually broke into the Watergate thought they were pulling a
campaign caper. The person who organized it, John Dean, appears to have
been working a separate operation that he kept from the burglars. That’s
the thesis of the book *Silent Coup*. Dean engineered the break in and
cover up for reasons having nothing to do with politics.

Given the presence of oleaginous schemers like Rod Rosenstein in the
middle of every aspect of this caper, the comparison to Dean is natural.
When you factor in people like Clapper, Brennan and people in Congress,
the natural question is what is their interest in this caper? It’s
possible that these people are just natural schemers, the sorts that are
always attracted to power. Royal courts have been hives of these people
since the first human settlements. Maybe these people just like the
action.

There being some unknown first mover in all of this would explain a few
things. The clowns from the FBI should have been charged by now. The
worst they could do is rat on some other flunkies in the political
scene. Cutting a deal so they take the pinch like men would be easy. The
same would be true of the FISA abuse stuff. There’s no obvious upside to
concealing what everyone assumes to be true. This whole thing could have
been wrapped up a long time ago, but it still lingers.

The same can be said for the impeachment stuff. The House Democrats are
intent on holding impeachment hearings. Politically, they think it is a
good idea, despite all the evidence to the contrary. That suggests they
know something the rest of us don’t know or they think they do. One
reason for the Mueller probe was to build an impeachment trap for Trump
that Congress could spring on him. That seems to have failed, but what
if there is something else going on here?

Supposedly, the IG will be releasing his reports over the next few
months, so we should learn a bit more, even if it just a white wash.
Often, what the official story excludes is what matters. Bill Barr has
been promising to release documents to clear up the FBI sedition, so
maybe that will fill in some blanks. Even so, this is a story that lacks
a sensible origin point and believable narrative. There’s something
missing. We’ll probably never know the full story, but the current
version is surely false.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
