---
title: "The Problems Of Design"
date: "2019-08-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18398"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18398"
---

Whenever the subject of Intelligent Design turns up, it is always in the
context of believers in ID attacking evolutionary biology. The ID’ers
have a list of claims about “Darwinism” that they insist make evolution
impossible. A popular one now, for example, is that there is not enough
time for natural selection to produce enough gene mutations to explain
the fossil record. A fair description of ID is that it is a list of
arguments and assertions about evolution wrapped around a set of central
claims.

One of those claims is that creation, as we observe it, must be the
result of design and therefore a designer. They never describe the
designer, as most people just assume they mean God, but the designer
could be space aliens, in theory. A certain type of self-described
Christian finds this appealing. They assume the designer is God, as they
have an understanding of God that is much more personal. They believe
God is highly involved in the granular details of human existence.

Now, it should be pointed out that this understanding of God is outside
Christian tradition and perhaps even anti-Christian. Early Christians,
like the Jews of the period, were highly influenced by the Greek
understanding of the world. For them, the universe was an orderly place
operating by fixed rules. You can’t have a covenant with God, after all,
if the universe is a lawless place controlled by a fickle creator. That
would make God’s covenant with man just another trick played by him on
mankind.

Intelligent Design is occasionalism. While the natural world seems to
operate along a set of knowable rules, God often intervenes to change
results. He is always in that space between cause and effect, ready to
alter the relationship according to his design. God created the platypus
for reasons only known to God. If he chooses, he can make the Nile flow
south or the sky turn pink. The proof of this, according to Intelligent
Design, is the variety of species alive today, as well those no longer
in existence.

In fairness to the ID’ers, occasionalism did creep into Christian
theology in the Middle Ages, as the Christian West came into contact
with Islam. [Nicholas of
Autrecourt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicholas_of_Autrecourt) was a
14th century French theologian, who was a critic of the orderly view of
the natural world and a proto-occasionalist. David Hume dabbled in the
ideas, but stopped short of claiming a creator or designer. Modern
ID’ers can therefore claim they are not *way* outside Christian
tradition, but they would have to defend against it.

Another central claim of Intelligent Design is that the natural world is
either the result of chance or design. This is the keystone of their
theory, as Intelligent Design is not an affirmative argument in favor of
a designer. Instead, they frame the debate as between two competing
theories. Therefore, if one is shown to be invalid, by default the other
must be true. It is a bit of rhetorical sleight of hand to avoid the
central problems of Intelligent Design, which of course is that it can
never be proven.

This aspect of Intelligent Design relies on a characterization of
natural selection as random chance, like rolling of dice. It’s the claim
that a football game is either the result of random chance or the game
is fixed by the officials, either in advance or as the game proceeds to
its conclusion. Obviously, this is ridiculous. The result of a sports
match is not random and it is not predetermined or fixed. The result of
a sportsball game, is the result of the players acting and reacting to
one another, within a known set of rules.

That’s the case with evolutionary biology. Random mutations in the
genome are one aspect of the evolutionary process. Environment obviously
plays a role here.  Sexual selection is another. Human intervention is
another. After all, people have killed off whole species. People have
killed off whole groups of people. Like the sportsball game, there are
multiple actors, acting and reacting, within a set of rules that science
does not fully understand. Evolution is not an argument in favor of
chance.

The point here is Intelligent Design is built, in part, on a false
dichotomy. Natural selection is not random chance, at least not how most
people understand what random chance means. Further, even if natural
selection is unable to explain everything, there are other forces, like
sexual selection, that come into play. Even if everything about
evolutionary biology is wrong, it does not make Intelligent Design true.
It simply means we have no good answer understanding the natural world.

This again comes back to the question as to whether Intelligent Design
is at odds with Christian theology. The Sphynx cat exists and we know
why. The ID’ers would argue that it is an example of design, but that
presupposes the breeders were either directed by God or compelled by God
to create the breed. That means man has no agency and that sin cannot
truly exist. This argument for Intelligent Design comes dangerously
close to the argument that man has no free will, which is heretical on
its face.

This is why ID’er focus all of their energy on the negative argument,
making various claims about evolutionary science. That way, the
discussion is always on the science, rather than the theology. This
rhetorical sleight of hand is also dishonest, which raises another
theological problem for ID’ers. How can something be in line with
Biblical teaching if it is based on a falsehood? Maybe the ID’er have a
way to explain this, but it is not something they choose to address in
their books and articles.

The most serious issue with Intelligent Design is what it implies about
God. A designer that is endlessly tinkering with his creation is not a
designer with foresight. Alternatively, it is a designer that is a
fickle trickster, tinkering with his creation for his own amusement,
without regard for his creation. It is a designer that purposely makes
flawed creations that harm his other creations. This is a designer
burning army men with a magnifying glass and blowing up the model train
trestle. That’s not God. That’s the Devil.

From a mainstream Christian perspective, Intelligent Design has some
serious theological problems, with occasionalism being the main one. The
one way to solve the theological problems is to move the designer back
to the beginning, where the Bible writers preferred to place him. The
classic watchmaker model, where God sets the universe in motion,
according to a fixed set of rules, with evolution possibly being one of
them. That leaves room to debate evolution, but does not make God a
villain.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
