---
title: "The Cuck’s Life"
date: "2019-08-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18504"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18504"
---

The triggering event for when the so-called conservative movement made
the final turn toward the dustbin of history was when the term
“cuckservative” started to gain traction on social media. A portmanteau
of “conservative” and “cuckold”, coined by fans of Richard Spencer, it
captured the very essence of the person peddling Buckley-style
conservatism during the populist revolt of 2015. These were men
routinely humiliated by their women, with the women being their
political masters on the Left.

The humiliation comes from the fact that these so-called conservatives
are not forced to grovel by the political Left. It’s that they have so
internalized their servitude, they think their self-debasement is a
point of pride. They are like the house slave defending the master
against the field slaves. It’s not that they get material benefits from
selling out their kind. It’s that they have come to be defined by the
fact that they have surrendered themselves to their masters completely.
They are “men without chests.”

It is not enough for the cuckservative to remain silent about the
proselytizing of the Left or excuse their excesses. The cuck’s life is
one of always trying to be ahead of the curve, when it comes to
championing Progressive morality. As soon as the Left starts making
noises about something, the cuckservative will turn up with a highly
polished explanation for why Progressive morality is, in fact, a
conservative principle. They prove their worth by being to the Left of
Progressives on moral issues.

The king of the cucks is probably David French, who invests all of his
time lecturing the dwindling readership of National Review on why he is
too good for them. His game these days is to write long sob stories
about how normal white people don’t appreciate his wonderfulness for
having adopted a black girl from Africa. There’s the sense in his
self-serving posts that he regrets having obtained the black child
through adoption, rather than the old fashioned way. Such is the cuck’s
life.

That is what makes the term *cuckservative* so perfect. It is the issue
of race where these people reveal themselves to be soulless. [This
string of
tweets](https://web.archive.org/web/20190826113119/https:/twitter.com/WilcoxNMP/status/1165269540474904582)
from someone called Bradley Wilcox is a great example. Wilcox is
Director of the National Marriage Project at the University of Virginia.
He’s also funded by the American Enterprise Institute, an outfit that is
[a breeding
ground](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/josh-rogin/wp/2018/10/12/giselle-donnelly-can-finally-be-herself/)
of cuckservatism. Wilcox also hilariously fell for [the absurd rape
hoax](https://www.nationalreview.com/2014/11/right-and-campus-rape-w-bradford-wilcox/)
perpetrated by Rolling Stone Magazine.

That last bit is a good example of how the cuck’s mind works. He is
always looking to rush to the front of the latest Progressive crusade,
so he can smugly march past the crowd, carrying on like he is an
important part of the cause. When the Left was manufacturing the campus
rape nonsense, good old Brad was ready to rush out and make himself the
champion of the issue. The fact that he picked National Review to be the
platform remains a symbolic moment in their decline.

Notice how the cuck always personalizes his tantrums. In this case,
Bradley starts with the lament that he has supposedly been called a
racist in the past. That seems unlikely, given his minor status, but
that does not matter. What matters is that the Left believes that he
believes racism is the worst. His tweet storm is a performance, not for
the remaining lost souls still kicking around Official Conservatism.
He’s performing for the Left, humiliating himself for their titillation.

One tell in this tantrum is that it was triggered by Amy Wax’s
observation that immigrants are litterbugs. This is something that is
obvious to anyone who has been around immigrants or been abroad. In
fact, it is something the immigrants themselves will notice, as they
compare their new community with their old. Amy Wax is not claiming that
Mexican possess a litter gene and as a result are compelled to toss
their empty Modelo cans in the street. She is making a *cultural*
observation.

If Bradley was about anything other than promoting the career of Bradley
to his Progressive masters, he could have used this fact to promote his
creedalism nonsense. After all, the alleged basis of creedalism is that
what makes America is a list of arguments. As a result, anyone can be an
American, as long as they accept those arguments. Presumably, part of
the American creed is that you should not throw your trash on the
ground, so as not to offend [a fake
Indian](https://www.chicagotribune.com/opinion/commentary/ct-perspec-indian-crying-environment-ads-pollution-1123-20171113-story.html),
but that’s not the cuck’s life.

Of course, creedalism is a sham. A devoted Christian would use the sin
of the fallen as a chance to apply his beliefs to save the sinner. The
committed communist uses hard times to argue on behalf of his the
abolition of property. The creedalist, in contrast, uses his alleged
beliefs to position himself as the fiery critic of the enemies of the
Left. It affords him a safe space, so he can post tirades on Twitter
about racists not wanting garbage in their streets or piles beer cans in
the local park.

This is why “cuckservative” is such an effective term. The cuckold is
mocked and derided, not because his wife is unfaithful. He is an object
of derision because he refuses to do anything about it. That’s so-called
conservatism. For generations now, they have been unwilling to take on
their partners on the Left. No matter the humiliation, they come
crawling back. The cuck’s life is defined by his humiliation. No man has
respect for the cuckold and no one has respect for the cuckservative.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
