---
title: "The Fifth Columnists"
date: "2019-01-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16193"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16193"
---

Imagine you are an antiquarian who specializes in obscure books. You
like the odd stuff that focuses on folktales and legends. After a while,
you start to notice some similarities between legends that should not be
connected. Maybe they came from different time periods are different
parts of Europe. You get curious and after years of research you
establish four main categories of this legend. There’s overlap between
all of them, but none of them are exactly like any of the other three.

One possible explanation is that each set of authors borrowed from the
previous authors but added and removed material to fit their audience.
On closer inspection, you cannot see how any of these authors had access
to one another’s work. That and two were contemporaries, but separated
from one another by a great distance. While it was possible they
borrowed from one another, it is highly improbable. Instead, the most
likely answer is they were working from a common source, some unknown
body of work.

Those familiar with biblical scholarship will recognize where this is
going. Most Bible scholars have come to believe that the solution to
the question of the specific literary relationship among the three
synoptic gospels is they relied upon a yet undiscovered source or
sources. They have constructed what that source would look like by
careful comparison of the three Gospels, to catalog their similarities
and differences. The term they use for the source is the [Q
Document](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Q_source), that may or may not
have existed.

Discovery through inference is a useful skill for understanding the
world, because we are usually presented with incomplete evidence. In the
case of biblical scholars, their understanding the provenance of the
Gospels would be simple if the writers had used end notes, hyperlinks,
and direct quotations. That is not the case, so they must “recreate” the
missing data in the same way one figures out the shape of the missing
pieces to a jigsaw puzzle. You fit everything else in place and examine
the gaps.

That is a useful way of thinking about these waves of fake scandal
stories that are becoming a feature of the Trump era. On the surface,
they look like what we used to call tabloid news or what we now call
fake news. The “reporters” take some information and frame in such a way
it takes on a whole new sinister meaning or they salt some fantasy they
are peddling with unrelated facts to make it seem plausible. The
headline makes one claim, but the body of the report fails to deliver
the goods.

There is some truth to that, but there are facts that do not fit that
narrative. For example, the main organs of the media are often silent on
these things until they run their course. For example, instead of
running with the BuzzFeed story, the mainstream sites showed a great
deal of wariness. Even CNN was skeptical. Part of it had to do with the
fact that the authors were, as Columbia Journalism Review out it,
“serial fabulists.” Still, CNN has never been afraid to make up the
news, so it was odd that they were skeptical.

Then there is something else. The Never Trump loons dropped all their
other subversive activities to push this story on social media.
[Confirmed plagiarist Jonah
Goldberg](http://acecomments.mu.nu/?post=379275) was still pushing it
even after the Mueller people knocked it down. As far as Goldberg is
concerned, the story is true, even if it is false. The odious carbuncle
John Podhoretz was working his greasy little fingers raw pushing the
story on Twitter. Of course, the pope of the neocon fifth columnists,
Bill Kristol, is still pushing the story.

There is also the ham-handed nature of this caper. Giving the story to a
serial liar like Jason Leopold was bound to raise suspicion. Giving it
to the tabloid like BuzzFeed is just asking for scrutiny as to the
accuracy of the sourcing. If you are trying to push a rumor, this is the
wrong way to do it. The way to drop a story in the media is to find a
low-level reporter at the Washington Post or the New York Times and give
them the scoop of the year. That is how the professionals put a rumor
into the system.

The one guy capable of being comically ham-handed when trying to
undermine Trump is Bill Kristol. This is the guy with some sort of weird
attraction to bald gentiles. He first pushed the mentally unstable David
French as a primary opponent to Trump and then landed on Evan McMuffin,
[the guy with comically bulbous
head](https://thehill.com/sites/default/files/blogs/trumpmcmullin_080816_1.jpg).
One must assume that Mitt Romney is loading up on Gillette products so
he can run as the bald alternative to Trump in the 2020 primary. Yes,
Romney is that obsequious.

The point of this rambling post is that when you start to think about
these endless waves of fake news about Trump, there seems to be a
missing source. That is, the patterns suggest there is a piece of the
puzzle missing. It is just assumed the neocons all share the same
thoughts about foreign policy for the obvious reason. Maybe what we are
seeing is an active conspiracy. Maybe these guys are coordinating their
efforts, while working at various news outlets and government posts.

It is certainly a cliché to call people like Bill Kristol a subversive,
but clichés do not spring from nothingness. [They have some
truth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julius_and_Ethel_Rosenberg). We
know he was involved in the fake dossier the FBI used to spy on the
Trump campaign. How unrealistic is it to believe that this crew is the
source of the endless waves of fake news about Trump? Further, how
unrealistic it is to think they are actively conspiring with one
another? In other words, the missing piece to this puzzle is a
wide-ranging conspiracy of people with a shared interest.
