---
title: "The Fraud Of Democracy"
date: "2019-09-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18571"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18571"
---

One of the features of the current year is the regular reminder that
western style democracy is a complete fraud. According to the political
class, democracy allows for public policy to reflect the will of the
people. The parties put forward candidates offering various policy
proposals and the public signals their preferences by voting for one or
the other candidates. The winners then set about trying to implement the
policies they proposed. That’s how we’re told representative democracy
works.

In reality, nothing like this happens. Instead, the parties put on a
show for the voters, rarely intending to actually do what they claim.
Instead, they manufacture differences between one another, so they can
pretend the choice before the voters is stark. Once the election is
over, the politicians go back to living their lives of leisure, waiting
for instructions from the people who actually run things. The
politicians are like robot actors, brought out for elections, then put
back in storage.

The obvious example of this is the most recent American presidential
election in which Donald Trump scored a stunning upset on the promise to
reduce immigration, crackdown in illegal immigration and address the
gross inequality resulting from globalization. So far, none of that has
been done. Instead, he spent most of his presidency fighting a seditious
coup to get him out of office. In fact, Trump’s three years are pretty
much what Jeb Bush promised when he was running in the 2016 primary.

Notice that hardly anyone in either political party is terribly
conce3rned about the FBI plot to overturn the election. Sure, there are
a few lonely voices on the Republican side asking questions and
demanding transparency. They have no support from leadership. On the
Democrat side, they are actively colluding with the plotters to cover up
the affair. One would think the people subject to the voters would care
about the integrity of the process, but you would be wrong. The revealed
preferences are on full display.

An ugly as the Trump era has been, it is civil and decent compared to
what is happening in Europe. The Italians are now watching their
political class submarine the will of the people in an egregious series
of deceits by the Five Star Movement. The Italians voted for a populist,
anti-EU coalition. Instead, the Five Star Movement [cut a
deal](https://www.politico.eu/article/italys-5stars-secure-members-approval-for-new-coalition/)
with the internationalist, pro-EU party to sabotage the nationalists.
The result is the exact opposite of what the people voted for in their
last election.

In Britain, the government put a choice before the people back in 2016,
as to whether remain in the EU or become an independent nation again.
The public chose nationhood by a respectable margin. In any democracy,
getting 52% of the vote, particularly in a highly popular election, is a
solid majority. Here we are, more than three years on, and the political
class is still debating whether to accept the election results. In other
words, the elected officials are deciding whether the election results
matter.

To make matters worse, you now have members of one party actively
colluding with members of other parties to undermine the orderly process
in Parliament. Up until this week, the “remainers” could plausibly claim
they are operating within the democratic process, despite thwarting the
will of the people. Britain is not a pure democracy, so the pols have
some leeway. Now, [they are in active
revolt](https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/9851319/brexit-boris-johnson-majority-gone-latest-philip-lee-liberal-dems/)
against the system that they are sworn to uphold, in an effort to upend
the result of the Brexit referendum.

In all of these cases, the question that never gets asked in the media
is who is bribing these people to carry on this way. The most likely
reason Five Star finked on its voters is the leaders too bribes from
Brussels. In Britain, the “remainers” are certainly on the payroll of
global enterprise. Those paymasters are most likely foreign. In the
United States, of course, both political parties are wholly owned by the
donor party. No one in the media bothers looking into it, as they are
owned by the oligarchs as well.

The tell is that these shenanigans always work one way. You’ll never see
the party of the globalist suddenly have a crisis of conscience and
defect to the nationalists. It’s always the other way. There are no
“remainers” siding with the Brexiteers in order to respect the will of
the people, despite their own misgivings. In Washington, no globalists
have switched teams to support Trump. In the charade that is democracy,
the fink is always played by the same character in exactly the same way.

The reason we never see a politician break ranks in order to support the
popular will against his own side is that western democracy is a fraud.
Elections are a beard worn by the oligarchy to fool the public. The
public space is filled with drama and outrage, drawing in the public. It
is the circus half of the bread and circuses. Meanwhile, the oligarchs,
most of whom are now
[foreign](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=klQZLssoyl4) to the people
over whom they rule, exercise the real power of the supposedly national
governments of the West.

In the United States, both political parties are funded by the same
people. For example, anyone questioning the endless wars for Israel gets
pilloried, because Israel runs a [massive
lobbying](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lSjXhMUVKE) operation to buy
off both political parties. They work [this
racket](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ceCOhdgRBoc) in other Western
countries as well. The tech giants operate in violation of the laws and
civil order, because they own the politicians of both parties. Of
course, the
[commentariat](https://www.breitbart.com/tech/2019/02/18/sundar-pichai-confirms-google-gave-money-to-national-review-institute/)
is being paid by the same people to maintain the fraud.

Every society has an elite. This is the natural state of mankind. In a
democracy, this reality is concealed from the public. Instead, it is one
man, one vote. The people decide public policy. In reality, it is a
handful of men and your votes mean nothing. Worse yet, those oligarchs
pulling the strings are wholly unaccountable. They don’t have to answer
to the public. Instead, they pay
[flunkies](https://images.app.goo.gl/KxnZ2H8pcyZN2SBZ7) and [coat
holders](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/12/emerald-robinsons-lies-google-cash/)
to do it. Democracy is a fraud to distract the public, while their
society is looted by oligarchs.

The worst part of it is the public, instead of peering behind the
charade to see the string pullers, vents its anger on the actors. In
2016 the public voted against the status quo in the form of Donald
Trump. Angry at that result, they voted for his opposition party in
2018, as a punishment against his party for their intransigence. In
2020, the public will probably throw Trump out for someone promising
something different, but the result will be the same. The result is
always the same. Democracy is a fraud.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
