---
title: "Questions"
date: "2019-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18711"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18711"
---

A good rule to live by in modern America is that you can never be too
cynical. No matter how negative your view of something, particularly
politics, you are most likely being naive or optimistic relative to
reality. If you go back a few decades, you’ll find that every cynical
joke about how things will get worse turned out to be sunny optimism, at
least with regards to politics and culture. Sadly, the doomsday
predictions about economics, meteor strikes and other catastrophes
turned out to be false.

As the [Biden – Ukraine
story](https://www.zerohedge.com/political/democrats-full-blown-panic-over-biden-ukraine-msm-hits-full-spin-cycle)
begins to unfold, that old rule about being too cynical starts to look
prudent. The degree of corruption in the Obama years among the Democrats
is beyond what even the cynical imagined. So far, this looks like Joe
Biden, while Vice President, pressured the Ukrainian government to give
his crooked son a pass on some crooked energy deal in Ukraine. Biden’s
son was being paid fifty grand a month for what appears to be a no-show
job in a business about which he knows nothing.

Financial shenanigans are nothing new in politics, but this rises to a
whole new level, which raises the first question. How crooked were these
people? It’s one thing to use your influence to pressure a business for
favors to a relative or political ally. This appears to be an effort to
manipulate foreign policy in an effort to funnel cash to the son of the
sitting VP. This is much more flagrant and much more dangerous than
shaking down a contractor or taking a bribe from a donor.

This is not some one-off thing with Biden’s kid. [His crooked
dealings](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/07/08/will-hunter-biden-jeopardize-his-fathers-campaign)
in China have long been part of the background noise of the Democrat
primary. He’s also been into shady dealings with domestic financial
firms and lobbying shops. The picture that emerges is of the loser son,
who uses his family name to facilitate get-rich-quick schemes. He’s
protected from scrutiny by his famous father. This is not Hillary
Clinton level corruption, but the flagrant and reckless way in which it
has gone on is amazing.

Speaking of Clinton, the effluvia of corruption that surrounds Hillary
Clinton’s time in the Obama administration adds some context. The
assumption has been that she was selling favors out of the State
Department while she was Secretary of State. She was also eyeball deep
in the [Uranium One
scandal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uranium_One_controversy). You
can’t help but notice how the old Soviet Union keeps playing a role in
these stories. The whole Russian collusion narrative takes on a new
meaning in light of these revelations.

Of course, this not only leads back to the Russian collusion hoax, but
to another question that naturally flows from all of this. How stupid
are these people? Take a look at the recent Biden flap. It has been
known for a while that the Trump administration was trying to get that
story in the media for a year. It was ignored for the obvious reasons,
so they appear to have pushed this whistle blower story. The media took
the bait, only to learn that it was not the smoking gun of impeachment
they imagined.

Now, this may have been dumb luck on the part of Team Trump. In
politics, it is better to be lucky than good. Luck in politics is to be
blessed with very stupid opponents. That seems to be the case here, but
at a much wider scale. Biden had been bragging in public about throwing
his weight around with the Ukrainians when he was VP. Rudy Giuliani had
been pushing this story for a year. It should not have been too hard for
the media to see what was coming, but they fell for the story anyway.

The question of competence is even stronger when you bring in the
seditious plot run by the FBI against Trump in 2016. There was never a
reason to do this. All Clinton needed to do was run a reasonably
competent race and make sure to grease the Democrat machines in
Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan. Instead they went for the insanely
complicated entrapment plan. Cartoon super-villains in the movies are
more sober minded with regards to their schemes than these people.

This brings up something else. Why did they go after Paul Manafort, who
was also involved with the Ukrainians? The assumption has been that he
was low hanging fruit, but now that it is clear Biden was involved in
similar dealings with Ukraine, the case takes on a new dimension. Maybe
going after Manafort was about protecting Biden and by extension the
Obama administration. It could be serendipity, but if you were going to
look into Biden’s corrupt dealings, paying a visit to Manafort in prison
is a good idea.

When Hillary Clinton arrived in Washington, her first move was to seize
the raw FBI files on the political class. At the time, it was alleged
she did this to get dirt on Republicans, but everyone knows Republicans
are harmless. Given that Clinton operatives eventually made it to the
top of the FBI, it brings that scandal back to life. Is it possible that
the point of that caper was to seed the FBI with Clinton operatives?
Maybe that caper was really about turning the FBI into an arm of Clinton
Inc.

That sort of thinking raises the obvious question as to the purpose of
the Obama administration. It is looking more and more like it was taken
over by Clinton cronies and Obama was just a decoration. The most
cynical said Obama was a figurehead and the real power were left-wing
ideologues. Maybe the real power was the Clinton graft machine that had
slowly consumed the Democrat party and the political class of
Washington. Team Obama was just assimilated by the Clinton Borg.

Every time a new rock is overturned, new questions arise about what went
on in the Obama years. They always seem to have some connection to
Hillary Clinton, which raises a lot of other questions. The main
question, of course, is will we ever get the answers to any of this. The
answer to that is where we started. You can never be too cynical these
days, with regards to politics. That means we will never know the truth
of these scandals and we will never reach the end of them either.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
