---
title: "The China Questions"
date: "2019-08-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18490"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18490"
---

The trade war with China is heating up, so the usual suspects are now
turning up in the media to pronounce on the issue. There is the sense
that many of the pundits are relieved to take a break from discussing
the culture war that surrounds the Trump presidency and the Progressive
response to it. Talking about trade and global economics feels like old
times. Here is a <a
href="https://pjmedia.com/spengler/trade-wars-the-empire-strikes-back/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">longish post</a> from David
Goldman, the man behind Spengler of the Asia Times, addressing the trade
war.

As is always the case in these matters, <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/65213-briefly-stated-the-gell-mann-amnesia-effect-is-as-follows-you"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the Michael Crichton
observation</a> about the media should be kept in mind. The growing rift
between China and the United States is a complicated matter by itself.
The impact it will have on global trade, the US economy and geopolitics
is even more complex. Even people paid to risk real money in these areas
don’t have a firm grasp of all the moving pieces. The people posting in
the media know even less. Often they know nothing at all.

That does not mean there is nothing we can know. The first question, in
any heated trade dispute between two countries, is “who is buying and
who is selling?” and the related question is, “What is being traded?” In
this regard, trade disputes are not a lot different from disputes
between customers and vendors. How they proceed and how the end is
entirely controlled by the relationship and the products in question.
That determines who has the most leverage in the dispute.

In this case, the relationship is easy to sort. U.S. imports from China
totaled $539.5 billion in 2018. U.S. exports were $179.3 billion. That
export total is about 7% of all U.S. exports for 2018. Put another way,
the U.S. market is about 5% of the Chinese economy, assuming the fake
Chinese economic numbers are even close to reality, which is surely not
the case. The Chinese market is less than one percent of the U.S.
economy in 2018. Imports are about 3% of the U.S. economy.

Right away, the relationship between China is the U.S. is not an equal
one, in terms of dollars, but also in terms of impact. Then there is the
nature of trade between the two countries. Almost all of the U.S.
exports to China in 2018 were aircraft parts, electronic components and
car parts. In many cases, these are either high precision items the
Chinese cannot produce or they have intellectual property that the
Chinese will try to steal, so they are made in the U. S. and sent to
China.

This is why Trump is playing hardball. He believes he has far less to
lose than the Chinese in a trade war. Even if all trade with China comes
to an end, the cost to the U.S. economy is not going to be devastating.
In fact, it will be hardly noticed. Much of that trade will be replaced
with other cheap labor countries, as it is not really trade in the
conventional sense. America’s economic relationship with China is about
off-shoring manufacturing to dodge labor, tax and environmental laws.

This is a point that cannot be made enough. When American producers sell
good to Canada, and Canadian producers sell good to America, that’s
trade. When American producers move manufacturing to Mexico, then bring
those goods back home under a tariff free regime, that’s not trade.
China is not selling the world anything the world does not have or
cannot make. What China is selling is a safe haven to avoid the labor,
tax and environmental laws that exist in the West.

That does not mean there can be no impact. That’s the other set of
questions that can be examined from the outside. China can play a long
game, as the Chinese leaders are not facing annual elections and endless
media scrutiny. The West, particularly Trump, are in an endless election
cycle. Any little blip in the economy is magnified by the media and then
fed into the political calculus. While this trade war will inflict more
pain on China, they have a much higher pain threshold than Trump.

That’s the theory. It is not all that clear just how much pain Trump
will suffer from this standoff with China. The timing actually works in
his favor. The slow buildup not only gives American business time to
adjust, it gives the political class time to cast it as the typical good
guy versus bad guy story. Xi Jinping is not exactly a lovable Jackie
Chan type of guy, so casting him as a villain will be easy. In other
words, Trump may be trading a little economic capital for a lot of
political capital.

Then there is the question of just how much pain China can take and for
how long. It is just assumed by Western analysts that the Chinese can
absorb any amount of suffering for as long as it takes. After all, China
weathered the Cultural Revolution without a mass revolt by the people.
Mao had to die before the party moved to end the madness. Why would the
Chinese people revolt over a slight down turn in the economy? Why would
the party move against Xi Jinping, if the trade war contracts her
economy?

No one can know this, but we do know that wealthy people are far more
sensitive to small changes in the economy than poor people. We see this
in the West. A small down turn has the middle class turning against
their party, but a generation long depression in coal country has not
caused a revolt. That same reality may be true in China. There are a lot
of people living bourgeois lifestyles along the Chinese coast, all
financed by one-sided trade with the United States and her allies.

While all of this economic 4-D chess will occupy the pundits, there may
be a simple answer to what is going on with China. It could simply be
that China has become a liability to the West. The benefits of moving
manufacturing to China has been consumed at this point. What’s left is
the liability, which is currency manipulation, IP theft, espionage and
financial shenanigans. China is running out of friends in Western
capitals. The appetite for tolerating this stuff may be waning.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
