---
title: "The War On Nature"
date: "2019-07-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18089"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18089"
---

Since the French Revolution, the enduring feature of all radical
movements, has been a war on nature. Whether the radical movement calls
itself communism, Marxism, libertarianism, socialism or Progressivism,
at its root is a war on nature. The radical looks around at the world
and says it should not be this way. He then conjures a system that will
bring society back to what he imagines to be the ideal. The fact that
the people are unwilling to go along with this new order is proof of its
validity.

For the longest time, perhaps due to the shadow of Christianity, the
radicals justified their new conception of society as getting back to
the natural order. Rousseau imagined his world as being at odds with
man’s nature. “Man is born free and everywhere he is in chains” was the
rallying cry of radical movements throughout the 19th century, because
they assumed that the present order was a corruption of the natural
order. Getting back to that natural order would set men free.

Of course, this conviction justified the slaughter of millions. After
all, to fight against the imposition of the new order was to fight
against freedom. The reactionary was worse than a slave owner, he was
the tool of the slave owner, an enemy of the people who deserved no
mercy. If the natural end of human society is a return to the natural
order, it must therefore mean the elimination of those who oppose the
natural order. Marxism turned mass murder into salvation, a blood
sacrifice to the new man.

In the current age, arguing that radicalism is rooted in man’s nature is
no longer possible, as science now tells us otherwise. We know that man
has never been what the radicals imagine, so the radicals have been
forced to take a different tact. Instead of arguing that their cause is
a return to man’s natural condition, they now argue that nature is
imaginary, an optical illusion, socially constructed by the people
benefiting from the current order. Nature is now the chains of man.

This is where post-nationalism makes its entrance. The people arguing
for open borders and the end of nations, whether they are libertarians
or Progressives, start from the assumption that nature is a social
construct. You see that in <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/07/tucker-carlson-ilhan-omar/593602/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this Atlantic piece</a>
squealing about Tucker Carlson. The writer is one of the cheeky dullards
Jeffrey Goldberg uses to churn out click-bait for his site. They serve
the role of court jester, except their purpose is to mock reality,
thereby proving it does not exist.

The arguments, such as they are, rest on the claim that America is not a
nation, but simply a social construct, like a social club that is
required to grant admission to anyone who applies. By this logic,
Carlson is less of an American, according the writer, than Ilhan Omar,
because he rejects the idea of American being a concept. In other words,
a complete stranger has a greater claim to being an American than an
actual American, because the stranger does not believe there is such a
thing as America.

Conor Friedersdorf, like most libertarians, lacks the sophistication to
fully understand the implication of post-nationalism. Progressives, on
the other hand, are eager to argue that nature is a social construct. It
is why the main stream media is littered with women claiming that
biology is an optical illusion. They understand that their fight is not
with an alternative ideology or with a specific group that stands in
their way. Their fight is with nature and anyone who accepts biological
reality.

It’s why nationalism has become the bogeyman of all radicals everywhere.
As Yoram Hazony argues in his book, *The Virtue of Nationalism*, the
nation is the largest natural organizational unit possible. It is a
collection of tribes bound together by a common language, a common
history, a common struggle and a common ancestor. The nation is the
fullest expression of man’s nature, therefore it is the fullest
expression of everything the radical fears about the world and himself.

Conservatives, as in Buckley conservatives, are a useful canary in the
coal mine of Progressivism. Because they fully embrace Progressive
morality, but seek to point it toward other ends, their arguments are
helpful in understanding the radical mind. <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/07/immigration-cannot-fix-challenges-aging-society/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> on immigration
is a good example. The author makes the case that immigration will not
solve the economic troubles looming on the horizon. In other words, open
borders are great, but they can’t solve every problem.

Nowhere in conservative arguments against open borders will you ever
find the basic argument that a nation has the right to decide who enters
their lands. The answer to foreigners demanding access to your land does
not have to be any more than, “You cannot come in, because we live here
and we say so.” No conservative would ever dare utter such a thing,
because it violates Progressive morality, which says biology is an
illusion, so nationalism is not a valid argument against open borders.

This long super-cycle, which began with the Enlightenment and will
conclude at some as yet undetermined point in the future, is a long war
on nature. Each generation of radicals conjures a new world and new war
on biological reality. Rousseau said, “The world of reality has its
limits; the world of imagination is boundless.*” *This is the radical’s
creed, but nature has a creed of her own. That is, reality is that thing
that does not go away when you stop believing in it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
