---
title: "Carny Town"
date: "2019-12-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19454"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19454"
---

One of the important side effects of the communications revolution is
the proliferation of grifters, con men and hustlers. Things that were
impossible thirty years ago, like e-mail scams, remain a constant
problem. The internet has made it easy for even the crudest hustlers to
reach a broad audience. As a result, the number of hustlers has
increased and the types of hustles have also increased. The twitter
troll, for example, is an entirely new type of hustle, made possible by
the internet.

One reason for this is that the internet has turned into a big stage
where anyone can try out their act on the public. In the old days, a
carny bimbo would have been confined to a traveling carnival, Hollywood,
New York or community theater. Maybe she would have ended up in
pornography. It was not an easy way to make a living. Today, she can
have a twitter account where she flashes photo-shopped pics of herself.
Thirsty losers send her money through PayPal or super chats on her
YouTube channel.

The low barrier to entry means every female with a desire for the carny
life can get on stage from the privacy of her studio apartment. It’s not
just females working the new rackets. In a prior age, Mike Cernovich
would have been traveling from town to town selling his monkey mind
juice to gullible townies at state fairs. Alex Jones would have been
mailing people his mimeographed newsletter, where he explained how space
aliens control the Federal Reserve Bank.

Most likely, it is the communications revolution that has caused the
news media to commit suicide. In the old days, when the audience was
fixed, the focus was on maintaining the facade of objectivity. No one
was under any illusions about growing the audience, so they focused on
keeping the audience. The internet promised a global market and
unlimited market share. A relentless drive for eyeballs gave rise to the
clickbait journalists turning the media into fake news.

The thing is though, the basics of the confidence game have not changed
all that much with the new technology. The confidence man gets his name
because he is adept at winning the confidence of the mark. The mark then
lowers his defenses and foolishly trusts the con man, rather than his
own natural skepticism. The mark is manipulated into thinking the con
man is a friend or at least someone who can be trusted. The con man then
uses that trust to exploit the mark.

The way in which the con men does this is by flattery. The mark trusts
the con man, because the con man finds small ways to confirm the beliefs
of the mark. The adept grifter will be a good listener and pick up the
little things that the mark thinks are important, like religious beliefs
or opinions about personal matters. Seemingly out of the blue, the con
man will express those same opinions, which flatters the mark. After
all, everyone likes being told that their private opinions are smart.

That’s something you see with the internet grifters. They often have
worn a lot of masks as they seek out on-line audiences. Mike Cernovich
is the obvious example. <a
href="http://www.occidentaldissent.com/2017/03/16/tranny-surprise-w-mike-cernovich/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">He was a sexual deviant</a>,
then he was into the man-o-sphere stuff. He was alt-right and then it
was alt-light and Trump . After Trump won, he morphed into new media,
claiming to have White House connections. Now he is a guy hustling
supplements. He works a lot of hustles, because he is always looking for
a new crowd to flatter.

Another aspect of the con that remains constant is how the con man uses
his alleged status as a victim to work the mark. Con men will use their
mark’s natural empathy to win their confidence. Today that often means
claiming the big bad tech companies are censoring them. Alternatively,
they will claim evil trolls are haunting their internet activity,
causing them harm. The term troll has been changed from meaning someone
seeking attention to something almost supernatural.

This is a favorite of the Left. They know their audience wants to
believe they are in an end of days struggle with dark forces. Like the
old circuit preachers, who would pretend to be wrestling with Old
Scratch, the left-wing grifter claims to be in a holy war with
right-wing trolls. The game is to portray themselves as a victim, as
people naturally sympathize with victims. This scam allows the left-wing
grifter to shift the focus from her con to the alleged evil doer.

That’s something else you see with the new con men of the internet. Like
the old school con men, they really do see themselves as victims. That’s
why they get so man angry when they are caught or even accused. Think
back to Bill Clinton in his deposition with Ken Starr. When he was
pinned down, he got mad, not because he was caught, but because he truly
felt he was being persecuted. What allows the grifter to operate is the
persecution complex. They think they are the righteous.

In the before times, society made an effort to police the con men. City
police departments had “bunco squads” that worked confidence swindles.
The point was to both tamp down these rackets, but also maintain public
confidence. Society is based in social trust and the confidence man
erodes social trust. We no longer have bunco squads and the grifters are
running wild on new media. One result of that is the sharp decline in
social trust. Carnies and con men rule the day.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
