---
title: "The New Narrative"
date: "2019-02-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16622"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16622"
---

Spend time in a small business that has stood the test of time, and you
will learn the origin myths of the company and the founders. These myths
will have plenty of truth content, but a lot will be fanciful or
exaggerated. One reason is the story is inevitably told by the founder
or his heirs, so it is self-serving. Another reason is the story is
intended to give meaning and purpose to the people in the company. For
an origin myth to work, it has to be inspirational and reflect well on
the people in the organization.

People always have origin myths, of course. The most famous of which is
the story of the Jews. The whole chosen people’s business is obvious
nonsense. The flight from Egypt is at least plausible in some areas, but
unless you are willing to accept that God is an indiscriminate child
killer, it is a story that only Jews can believe. Still, the origin myth
of the Jews has served them well for a very long time. These stories are
central to Jewish identity, and it is that strong identity that has
allowed Jews to prosper.

If a strong set of origin myths correlates to a strong sense of identity
and a strong people, then the reverse is probably true. The lack of
origin myths, or a declining interest in the origin myths, probably
suggests a weak identity. Perhaps the people have yet to come to
identify themselves as a people or they are going through some sort of
transition in terms of how they see themselves. The old myths no longer
work, because they do not fit the emerging narrative to explain how it
is that these people came to be.

[This longish
post](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/united-states/2019-02-05/new-americanism-nationalism-jill-lepore)
in Foreign Affairs by popular historian Jill Lepore is an interesting
read for a number of reasons, not related to this post. The endless name
dropping that torments writing in the humanities is a topic of its own.
That is mingled with self-promotion, in the form of references to the
author’s books. Of course, anything to do with American history has to
have a few paragraphs of the usual blather about slavery and Jim Crow.
That said, it is worth the time to read it and the related posts on the
site.

Lepore is one of those useful bellwethers in that she tends to write
what the intellectual side of the ruling class is thinking. A big part
of being a popular academic is to be in good standing with the ruling
elite. They like being told about their wonderfulness from academics, so
flattery is a big part of the game. That offers a window into the minds
of the people who rule over us. What posts like this suggest is that the
people in charge are concerned with the fracturing they see from their
position in the clouds.

That fracturing is predictable. [Peter
Brimelow](https://www.amazon.com/Alien-Nation-Americas-Immigration-Disaster/dp/0060976918)
predicted it two decades ago. Import tens of millions of strangers with
strange customs into America and you are going to get conflicts between
the locals and the newcomers. The fact that these strangers were
imported to replace the natives, who were not consuming and reproducing
at levels satisfactory to the rulers, certainly did not help. Add in the
rise of identity politics as a way to control the population and the
result was predictable. Pat Buchanan predicted this.

Lepore is correct that people need a narrative that binds them together
and explains why they are a people. America had an obvious one until the
Civil War. When New England conquered the rest of the nation, the
national story ended and was replaced by that new story that put New
England at the top, as the ruler of the rest. That held together into
the middle of last century, when Jews updated the tale to insinuate
themselves into the story and explain their new dominance in the ruling
class.

That American narrative worked until the people in charge decided they
needed a new people and flung open the gates to unlimited immigration. A
fascinating bit in that Lepore article is that she starts her essay in
1986 with the historian Carl Degler and his warning about the
abandonment of nationalism. That talk would have happened around the
time the ruling class was opening the borders. The implication that Mx.
Lepore does not seem to grasp is that the hostility to nationalism
preceded wholesale immigration.

On the other hand, she is a clever woman, so she could very well have
done this on purpose, as a way of injecting the idea into the
bloodstream of her peers. The academy is so narrow now, it looks like a
singularity from our perspective, but inside there is some room to
maneuver. It requires a heavy dose of esoteric language and triple bank
shot references to avoid detection. Perhaps that is what she is up to by
starting with that Degler speech and then ending with a piquant quote
from that same talk.

That said, if the intellectual class in the West, but particularly in
America, had not drawn all of the wrong lessons from the two great
industrial wars of the 20th century, the ruling class would not have set
about destroying the fabric of their countries. Perhaps the Frankfurt
School notions were a bad idea after all. There is no mention of this in
the Lepore essay, but that an obvious implication once you read to the
end. The finishing paragraph is a quote from Degler’s talk at that 19856
conference.

*“The history of the United States at the present time does not seek to
answer any significant questions,” Degler told his audience some three
decades ago. If American historians do not start asking and answering
those sorts of questions, other people will, he warned. They will echo
Calhoun and Douglas and Father Coughlin. They will lament “American
carnage.” They will call immigrants “animals” and other states “shithole
countries.” They will adopt the slogan “America first.” They will say
they can “make America great again.” They will call themselves
“nationalists.” Their history will be a fiction. They will say that they
alone love this country. They will be wrong.*

Again, there is no mention of open borders and the unprecedented levels
of immigration in this essay, as those things cannot be discussed openly
or rationally in the intellectual class. Still, the essay suggests that
there is some interest by cloud people in what is happening among the
dirt people. They cannot bring themselves to address the fact that you
cannot have a common story when everyone is a stranger. Instead, they
keep talking about Hitler and the other wrong lessons they drew from the
events of last century.

There is also the strange sense that these origin myths can simply be
conjured and then imposed upon a people. The implication of this essay
is that America needs a new one, so the people in charge better get busy
creating one. The trouble is that white people are not allowed to have
an identity, and the non-white ascendancy does not have much to point
to, as far as their contributions to the national story. Lepore offers
something from Frederick Douglas as a starting point for this new
national narrative.

*A Government founded upon justice, and recognizing the equal rights of
all men; claiming no higher authority for existence, or sanction for its
laws, than nature, reason, and the regularly ascertained will of the
people; steadily refusing to put its sword and purse in the service of
any religious creed or family, is a standing offense to most of the
Governments of the world, and to some narrow and bigoted people among
ourselves.*

That is no doubt inspiring to the cloud people, but it says more about
how they see themselves than with the facts on the ground. It is also a
negative identity, based on victories over demons that exist only in the
imaginations of the rulers. It also suggests she or her masters would
like to see whites written out of this new national story. In case it is
not clear, “bigoted people among ourselves” is you paleface. Perhaps
that can be a useful cri de guerre in the war with the dirt people, but
it is not binding narrative.

The fact is that the rise of nationalism, populism and white identity
politics is a result of decisions made long ago. The radicals killed the
national narrative, because they said nationalism is a dangerous
construct. Their solution was to destroy the nations of the West, which
has meant destroying the national identities of the West. That has now
devolved into a war on the native stock of the West. There can be no
unifying narrative that includes the both the destroyers and their
victims.

That brings us back to the start. That small business that gets gobbled
up by a multinational cannot maintain its origin myths. The people in
that firm can no longer identify with that story, because that story has
come to an end. If they stick around, it is because of new reasons, less
inspiring ones than those that bound them to that small business. That
is what we see today in modern America. The old narrative has come to an
end. It is time for a new one. The question is who will do the writing.

 
