---
title: "Spooky Stuff"
date: "2019-02-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16538"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16538"
---

One of the things that make dystopian science fiction fun for the
audience is the understanding that it will never happen. It could
happen, but only a long time in the future, when everyone seeing the
warning is dead. Worst case, the “boot stomping the face” stuff happens
when you are ready to kick the bucket, so you’ll live to see it, but
never really have to experience it. This adds a campfire quality to it,
allowing the creator to lay it on a bit thick to make his points. Horror
movies often work the same way.

The same is true about doom and gloom in public commentary. The market
predictor guy on TV, who thinks the market is about to tank, is not
getting much traction if he claims a mild downturn is coming. If he
warns that fire will rain down from the sky and Lucifer will rise from
his pit somewhere on Wall Street, then people pay attention. The people
consuming such content do so with an understanding that it is not really
going to be that bad, but it is kind of fun pretending it will be as you
stock up on MRE’s.

You see this with the bogeyman of AI and his posse called automation.
Any day now, so the story goes, the algorithms will come alive, enslave
the population, and replace every job with a robot. What usually
follows, depending upon your inclination, is either the libertarian
fantasy of a world where everyone smokes weed and plays hacky-sack or
the dystopian sci-fi vision of a world like *The Matrix* or *The
Terminator*. Most people assume it will not happen, but it is fun to
pretend it will happen.

Of course, the one thing that rarely gets mentioned is that the future
is never the nightmare people imagine. We know this because we are
currently living in the nightmarish future imagined in the past.
Orwell’s 1984 was nothing like our 1984. In fact, our 1984 was a lot
better than Orwell’s 1948. London was still in rubble at the point. Food
was still limited, and general living standards were poor. Relative to
life in 1984 London, life in 1948 was about as bad as Orwell imagined
forty years or so on the future.

Probably the most relevant test case we have for this is 20th century
Marxism. China and Russia underwent massive social experiments
attempting to usher in the Marxist future of a worker’s paradise. At
times, life was pretty awful for people in both countries. The purges of
Stalin and the Cultural Revolution of Mao were dystopian nightmares for
the people. Yet, most buggered their way through it. Their present was
not our future. Instead, our future and theirs were our present, which
is not so bad.

Still, the example of China and Russia show that even though things tend
to work out for humanity in the long run, the short run can be quite
terrible. It means were probably better off worrying about what is right
in front of us, rather than what lies far down the road. A good example
is what comes from behavioral science and genetics. The former is about
establishing statistical patterns of human behavior in order to model
it. The latter is about finding genes to explain the features of life,
including human life.

On the behavioral side, China’s [social credit
system](https://www.businessinsider.com/china-social-credit-system-punishments-and-rewards-explained-2018-4)
is a great example of the spooky future stuff happening in the present.
The same tools China is using are now being applied to social media and
public discourse in the West. The British cop sent out to investigate an
offensive tweet is applying the same techniques China is using when they
throttle internet access of dissidents. It is a combination of shame and
reduced access, intended to alter the behavior of people viewed as
disruptive.

The Twitter cops are not just people sitting around reading tweets. The
social media giants are using techniques from behavioral science to
narrow the focus to those most likely to be a problem. China’s social
credit system works the same way. It is not predictive in the narrow
sense, but more of a profile. When the cumulative score of someone’s
activity reaches a certain point, they gets [closer
examination](http://davedauthor.com/2019/02/20/social-media-and-politics-the-endgame/).
The social media giants use this same approach to throttle users with
the so-called shadow ban.

On the genetics side of the dystopian present,
[this](https://www.statnews.com/2019/02/12/embryo-profiling-iq-almost-here/)
will become increasingly common as the science gets better and cheaper.
Future parents will soon have a chance to increase their child’s
cognitive score, so to speak, rather than leave it to chance. What
parent would not want their child to be smart or tall or handsome? If
science can increase the odds of that happening, people will embrace it.
If science could tell you which fertilized egg was most likely to be the
best, which would you choose?

Of course, [Stephen Hsu](http://infoproc.blogspot.com/) cannot guarantee
your child will be a genius. In fact, he cannot guarantee anything as no
such guarantee is enforceable. His clients will not know if his
technique worked until their child is well along in development and no
one is going to enforce a return policy for children. That said, it is
not about guarantees. It is about probability. What these techniques
offer are better odds of getting the best genetic mix from the parents.
It is like moving closer to the target at the shooting range.

If that’s not enough, genetic research is slowing moving toward a time
when [minor
corrections](https://apnews.com/d728f86d70d94ce68dd4fedffe58d03f) after
the fact are possible. It is unlikely, highly unlikely, that science
will ever be able to rewrite the code of a living human, but they are
starting to tinker. These techniques will no doubt be applied to
artificial insemination, in combination with what Stephen Hsu is
offering. Pick the best embryo, make a few tweaks and the odds of your
child being a combination of the best his parents contributed goes way
up.

None of this is part of some dystopian future. It is spooky stuff
happening right now. The most worrisome is probably the stuff coming
from behavior science, as it allows for that dystopian future, where the
authorities act as puppet masters. The genetics stuff is less spooky and
less worrisome for now. Still, the point is we have plenty of monsters
walking around in the present. If we want to be worried or have a reason
to put away some more MRE’s, you just have to spend time on Twitter or
talk to Stephen Hsu.
