---
title: "The Debates"
date: "2019-08-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18221"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18221"
---

Watching the Democrats debate the last two nights, the unmistakable
impression is that the people turning America into a land of strangers
has not thought about how such a land can operate as a democracy. The
debate field has just about one from every category among the ascendant.
The only thing they are missing is a 65-IQ East African and a Muslim
wearing a dynamite vest. Otherwise, the field looks like the brochure
for multiculturalism the party likes to wave around.

The trouble is, the impression one gets while watching the parade of
strange faces and bizarre identities is that these people are not
capable of doing much of anything. The only thing they have going for
them is their intersectional claim to have been oppressed by Joe Biden
at some point. They spend all of their time talking about how they feel
about various things and how they have been made to suffer by the man,
but otherwise they have nothing to say about anything relevant to the
job.

That’s been the theme so far. In round one, the angry black women, who
used to sleep with Willie Brown, led the charge against Joe Biden.
Creepy Uncle Joe was a racist because 80 years ago when he started
running for office, he held normal opinions about stuff like most
everyone at the time. Everyone else then spent their time explaining how
they have never had normal thoughts about anything. It was a two-episode
explanation on why none of those people are like you.

Round two was much the same, except this time a Jewish mystic showed up
selling incense and dream catchers, while warning of dark forces.
Marianne Williamson stole the show on night one, by sounding like that
woman at the office, who likes to talk about your aura and her friend
the psychic. According the on-line polls, she was the clear winner and
she was the most searched name during the show. Looking at black
twitter, it was clear she was their favorite, as well.

The second night was billed as Angry Black Women versus Creepy Uncle
Joe, round two, but it was mostly just everyone feeling sorry for
themselves. The women who slept with Willy Brown reminded everyone of
those videos of black women going nuts in a fast food joint. The rest
took turns trying to explain why Biden’s racism made them feel bad for
some reason. The lone exception was Gabbard, who probably won the night
by sounding like an adult, rather than a toddler.

Normally, at least back when the word “normal” did not get you fired
from your job, watching the other side debate made a normal person a
little angry. The other side would characterize your side and your
issues in ways that seemed unfair. In the glorious future, watching “the
other side” is like watching the movie Jackass. You’re made
uncomfortable because you laugh at things that no adult should find
funny. Last night was two hours of
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r_4jrMwvZ2A"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ow My Balls!</a> in real time.

The one exception has been Gabbard, but she is the poster child for why
so many of us have thrown in the towel on America. She is a childless
women of mysterious origins, running on the basis of her military
service. Like the gay guy from Indiana, she likes reminding us that she
is a veteran. Unlike the gay guy, she regularly claims to be a combat
veteran. She has other positions, but the starting point of her career
is that she was a soldier that served in Afghanistan.

At the risk of sounding impolite, no decent man wants to live in a
society that sends its mothers and daughters into combat. If you want to
understand why so many of us harbor dark thoughts about the people who
rule over us, it’s right there. Tulsi Gabbard should be home raising her
children, not running for president. No women should be serving in the
military, outside of administrative and medical areas. There should
never be a discussion about putting girls in combat – ever.

Of course, the point of these ridiculous shows they are calling
political debates is to normalize the crap-fest heading our way. The
future is not going to be a boot stamping a human face. The future is
going to be a parade of formerly marginal people mewing about their
troubles, while a mysterious brown women tells war stories. What we saw
the last two nights is a society running on the capital built up over
generations, by people no longer allowed to be in charge of their
society.

The response from the civic nationalist types is that this freak show
will backfire on the Democrats, giving Trump an easy victory. That not
only misses the point, it assume a normal society should have someone
like Trump in the presidency. Just as the normalcy of the Happa Warrior
underscores the lunacy of the Democrat field, the relative normalcy of
Trump underscores the degeneracy of the modern age. If Trump is the best
we can do, then Kim Jong-un can’t nuke this place fast enough.

That brings us back to where we started. The billionaires and plutocrats
behind this circus have to wonder what they have done. They may be
without scruples, but they are not stupid. They have to see that no
society can function with fruitcakes like Gay Spartacus in positions of
authority. Maybe that’s why real authority is slowly being shifted from
the political class to the emerging power centers like Silicon Valley.
The over-class sees what we see and is acting accordingly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
