---
title: "The Citizen In A Democratic Empire"
date: "2019-01-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16230"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16230"
---

When most people think of citizenship, they think of their nation’s
constitution, or the rights guaranteed to them in the law. They will
think of their obligations to their country, like paying taxes, obeying
the law, and defending the nation. In the West, a citizen is pretty much
as the dictionary defines it, “a native or naturalized person who owes
allegiance to a government and is entitled to protection from it.” It is
a reciprocal set of obligations in the law, animated by a sense of duty
by both the rulers and the ruled.

Additionally, at least in America, citizenship comes with a belief in
equality between the people and the office holders. Every American grows
up hearing that anyone can be President. The House of Representatives is
known as the people’s house, because it was designed to not only
represent the people but be populated by representatives from the
people. In other words, the citizens are ruled by their fellow citizens,
not strangers or hired men paid by strangers. You can only be a citizen
in your nation.

In the post-national world, that old definition of citizen no longer
works. In a world where foreign people can just move in, claim the
benefits and protections from the government, citizenship loses all
value. At the same time, the state is increasingly alien to the people
over whom it rules. In the European Union, the people are no longer
ruled by their national governments, as all the big decisions are made
in Brussels. In America, political offices are increasingly being filled
by [exotic weirdos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CjzDF1MziNg) with no
connection to the natives.

The question then is what does it mean to be a citizen in a democratic
empire?

The most obvious thing about the new citizen in the new post-national
world is that the relationship between the citizen and the state is
transactional. The state looks at the people as assets and liabilities.
Theirs is a custodial role. The people that serve the interests of the
state are treated differently from the people who depend on the state
for their existence. It is a corporate relationship, except that people
cannot be fired, so the useless ones will be stashed away while the
productive are put to work.

Similarly, the citizen looks at his government in terms of what it can
provide to him. He owes the state no more than he owes the coffee shop.
The rules promulgated by the state are to be navigated around, rather
than respected. If the rules work for the citizen or his group, the law
is supported by the citizen or his group. On the other hand, if the law
is an obstacle, then the law is subverted or ignored. In a post-national
world, respect to the spirit of the law makes no more sense than having
loyalty to a country.

This means that patriotism has no role in the democratic empire. Loyalty
to your country only works if you have a country. The residue of
patriotism will last for a while, as people will still think of their
neighbors and friends as their countrymen, but in time, as those people
are replaced by strangers, patriotism will disappear. In a transactional
world populated by stranglers, your primary loyalty cannot be to the
state, as it is just as much a stranger to you as the new neighbors, who
just moved in from over the horizon.

The sterile transactionalism is already evident. Consider the change in
relationship between employers and their workers. Everywhere in America,
employment is at-will, which means an employee can be dismissed by an
employer for any reason. Further, local business is atrophying as global
enterprises monopolize the marketplace. It used to be local business was
a part of every community, sponsoring little leagues and charity drives.
You will never see your kid’s little league sponsored by Google or
Amazon.

Of course, this will have unforeseen consequences. For example, the
military will no longer be able to rely on patriotism for recruitment.
Since no one is a citizen in the old sense, the military stops being a
citizen military. Instead, it takes on the characteristics of a
mercenary army. The decision to join is no different than the decision
to take one job over another. This will also apply to the police. The
cops will no longer be citizens protecting and serving their community.
They become free range prison guards.

Humans are social animals so the loss of national and regional identity
means something will replace it. In a transactional world where everyone
is a civic stranger, the old-fashioned loyalties will become more
important. Family, community, and tribe will be the only identities that
have meaning. Again, we see the beginnings of this with the
administrative layer of the managerial class. Those FBI agents plotting
to overturn the 2016 elections were motivated by the emerging new
identity politics.

That is the thing that gets overstated in discussion of identity
politics. The old identities will surely play a role, like race,
ethnicity, and religion. New tribes resulting from the post-national
relationships will emerge. The managerial state will begin to fracture
and balkanize, as the rival power centers begin to jockey for power.
Again, this can be seen in the obstruction of the Trump agenda by career
bureaucrats in the government. They have become their own tribe, and
they have become class aware.

This paradise comes with a cost. Nations hold together for the same
reason communities hold together. The social capital, those invisible
bonds between people, breathe life into the organizing structure.
Patriotism and civic duty are what animate the republic. Duty to king
and the people is what animates a monarchy. This social capital is what
binds the rulers to the ruled. In a highly transactional world, where
social capital has been monetized or pushed to the margins, something
else must animate the system.

That something else must be force-driven by the self-interest of the
people occupying positions in the power centers. We see some of that
with the censorship campaigns by the tech giants and banks. This will
become more overt until everyone has a natural hostility to everyone
outside their social group. The cost of maintaining order will increase,
but the means for imposing order will increase the cost of imposing that
order. The empire will have no choice but to become more ruthless in its
dealings.

If one wants to a preview of the post-national world, look at Lebanon.
Every hill and every valley are its own nation, so to speak. Groups of
the same religious sect or political persuasion can form temporary
alliances, but Lebanon is not a coherent country with a common purpose.
It is just a place on the map with meaning only to those completely
removed from the realities of Lebanese life. The future citizens will be
highly local and covetous of the small benefits he and his group can
extract from the whole.
