---
title: "The Long Road"
date: "2019-06-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17824"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17824"
---

A familiar phenomenon in dissident circles is for the super-black-pilled
to come out of the woodwork, anytime someone suggests reforming the
system in any way. They will properly inform the reformists that the
current system is beyond hope. Either the problems are past the
point where reform can work, or the system is so corrupt reform is
impossible. There is a sense in some corners of the dissident right that
even talking about engaging politics is corrupting.
<a href="https://spandrell.com/2019/06/18/how-far-is-far-enough/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This Spandrell post</a> is an
example

Another spin on this is to write-off all political actors as
gatekeepers, assigned by the state to prevent dissidents from changing
minds. The alt-right boys tend to go down this road, finding a way to
describe figures like Nigel Farage as insufficiently authentic, because
they hold some positions they don’t like. These guys are
super-black-pilled on Trump right now, because he turned out to be a
politician. It is another way of rejecting engagement in politics, as a
pointless and possibly complicit activity.

This is an age old problem for outsider politics. Radicals in the past
argued that engagement in formal politics was an endorsement of those
politics and as a result, a sellout of the movement. There are still
some IRA-types holding out against the Good Friday Agreement. Various
communist movements in South America would suffer from schisms, because
one faction wanted to join the political process as a party, while the
other faction wanted nothing short of a communist revolution.

The salient question for modern dissidents is whether dissidents should
engage in formal politics. Was it a good thing for Nigel Farage to win
the EU elections, or did it prevent something better from happening? Is
it better for Trump to win in 2020 or will it just prevent progress on
dissident causes? In the case of Trump, since it is a future issue, is
it better for dissidents to back some other candidate, in order to
demonstrate to white voters that fake nationalism is a loser and can
never be tolerated?

The answer becomes even more complicated if you accept, as is the case
for most dissidents, that there is no electoral way out of the troubles
created by electoral politics. That is, the solution to liberal
democracy is not at the ballot box. The ballot box is the problem, so
its perpetuation is a continuation of the problem. Logically,
participating in the democratic process means perpetuating that which
you oppose. Even if that is not correct, and <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/July_1932_German_federal_election"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">it is not correct</a>, there
is that sense of hypocrisy hanging over it.

There’s also an unspoken truth that plays a big part in the debate.
Politics is a form of ritualized combat. The groups form up, lock
shields and do battle. For those in the groups, there is that sense of
shared suffering and shared triumph that can only be achieved in group
activity. For dissidents in America, for example, to participate in
Trump’s campaign, feels like a temptation. They are getting the short
term joy of that group activity, at the expense of the long term goals
of their movement.

The danger of disconnecting from conventional politics, whether in the
formal sense, as in elections, or the informal sense, as in
meta-politics, is self-ghettoization. This has always been the problem
with white identity politics in America. It has existed as a sub-culture
that is out of tune with the rest of white America. Whenever they pop up
in public, they seem weird and alien. In Europe, far-right politics
suffered the same problem, usually devolving into fascists cults without
a coherent reason to exist.

So, there is the dilemma. On the one hand, engaging in conventional
politics runs the risk of expending energy on pointless and discouraging
ventures that could possibly corrupt the movement and the dissidents. On
the other hand, not participating runs the risk of becoming a weird
sub-culture that has no impact on the culture war. Instead, it becomes a
reason to do nothing, but congratulate one another on their isolation
from the dominant political culture. Either road appears to be a dead
end.

The reason this dilemma exists, is dissident politics, at least in
America, has never matured beyond the juvenile state. In the post-war
years, Buckley-style conservatism started as a legitimate reaction to
radicalism, but never matured beyond a parlor game, so it was easily
co-opted. The reaction to it, paleo-conservatism, went down the
engagement path, but was always reactionary in nature. It never matured
past being a long critique of liberal democracy. It was commentary,
rather than a movement.

In contrast, the New Left that emerged in the 1960’s, from the remains
of communist movements in the prior generation, did mature past this
point. As a result, it was able to engage in politics, as the corrupter,
rather than the corrupted. At the same time, it was able to stand apart
from politics, providing a long running argument against it. The New
Left was successful as a political movement because it had a clear
agenda, taking over the institutions, and a clear purpose, to turn those
institutions into weapons.

Modern dissidents, of course, face a very different battle space than
the leftists of the past century. The New Left faced an establishment
that was more or less sympathetic to at least some of their goals. They
also could free-ride on other movements like black civil rights and the
anti-war movement. They were also working in an industrial state, not a
technological surveillance state. These are all critical differences
that make the New Left a bad example for modern dissidents.

Still, it is a starting point for dissidents. The movement has to mature
past the point of confusing activity with goals. A mature and self-aware
movement will instinctively understand that the agenda is fluid and
immediate, but also subservient to the larger goals of the movement. For
example, if supporting a particular candidate weakens the opposition or
advances some small part of the agenda, then engaging in politics is
correct. If there is nothing to be accomplished in a given cycle, then
sitting it out is correct.

The point being is that for a mature dissident movement, politics,
whether reformists or adversarial, are about the larger goals. Trump
winning election is not an end, but one of many opportunities to weaken
the resolve of the people in charge and rally those who oppose them.
Once that utility has been extracted, then the political activity of
supporting Trump loses its value. This is true of activism and
meta-politics. The goal is always to weaken the resolve of the other
side, while boosting the spirits of dissidents.

The radical’s long march through the institutions was not implacably
dogmatic. They compromised and adjusted, doing what they must to win
each small battle, often turning defeat into a bloody-shirt to rally the
faithful. Dissidents will need to make a long march through white
bourgeois culture. It is not about capturing the institutions, but about
capturing the foundation upon which they must rest. The New Left scaled
the walls to capture the city. Dissidents will need to tunnel underneath
it.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money
to destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z
Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I know have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!
