---
title: "Glory To The Pitchman"
date: "2019-10-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18829"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18829"
---

Like everyone reading this, you have no doubt been hit with an
advertisement for a food product, or perhaps a restaurant, and instantly
wanted the item. Maybe it was an internet ad or maybe a television ad
during your favorite program. You saw the ad or commercial and you just
had to have the product. Maybe it was for something you never
considered, but after seeing the ad, you changed your mind. Like all
people in the modern age, you are highly susceptible to commercial
advertisement.

Now, you are probably thinking, “I’ve never had this happen. I just
ignore advertisements on-line.” Of course, you would be right. There’s
little data to suggest advertisement drives consumer behavior all that
much, but the people producing the ads and selling their services to
business, are absolutely sure you are easily persuaded by their ads.
This is why all of us are bombarded by advertisements. It’s why internet
companies steal your information and sell it to marketers.

It is a central tenet of the modern economy, the tent pole that holds
the whole thing up, that advertisements increase sales. All of the major
global companies have big budgets for marketing. Those ad dollars
support radio and television. Those ad dollars make modern sports
entertainment possible. The internet, as it currently exists, is
dependent upon the belief that ads alter consumer behavior. If the world
suddenly stopped believing in the ad men, the world as we know it would
change overnight.

The funny thing though, is advertisements have little impact on human
behavior, at least not to  the degree everyone assumes. If you see an ad
for a new store opening in your area, that may cause you to check it
out. Similarly, notices for an event in your area could get you out to
the event. Awareness advertising, as the name implies, works, because it
does a simple thing. It makes people aware of something they would
otherwise not know or remember, like a new store or a special event.

Awareness ads are a tiny minority of advertising. Most ads are about
specific products and services. There is always an awareness component
to them, but for the most part the ads you see are intended to get you
to buy product. Beer ads expect you to buy more beer of the type being
advertised. Yet, not only is there no data to back up the assumption,
the data says it has no effect on behavior. Here’s
<a href="https://tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/02650487.2015.1019961"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a study</a> of ads for
alcoholic products over the last forty years. Ads have no impact on
sales.

Like democracy, the modern economy relies on people thinking important
things are true, even though they are not true. If people realized their
votes don’t count, then they would stop voting and resort of other means
to change government. It’s why the charade of democracy is so
profitable. Similarly, the modern economy relies on the fiction of human
suggestibility. Marketing is a lucrative career, because the modern
economy needs people to believe people are highly suggestible.

This is not to say that people are skeptics, of course. Fads have made a
lot of people rich in the modern economy. A fad is just a commonly held
belief that having or doing something increases one’s status or signals
belonging to a group. Apple is a trillion dollar company, largely due to
the ability of Steve Jobs to position his products as a bourgeois moral
signifier. The iPod was not a great leap forward in technology. It was
an example of the natural conformity within bourgeois society.

That is, of course, the perceived value of advertising. Global companies
that spend their money reinforcing public perceptions about their brand.
Dodge runs TV ads suggesting their customers are John Wayne from The Man
Who Shot Liberty Valence. They are the indispensable, yet never
appreciated foundation of society. Similarly, Apple marketed itself as
the product for the distinguishing, carefree member of upper
middle-class America, better that those proletarian zombies of the lower
classes.

This may sound like a mark in favor of advertising, but the reality
those public attitudes must exist for the ads to work. Every truck
maker, even the Japanese makers, pitch themselves the same way. They are
not creating a new identity group. They are attaching themselves to one
that exists. Trucks were associated with working men long before the ad
men thought of it. The term “Apple snob” was in circulation when Jobs
was still in the wilderness, during his hiatus from the company.

Nevertheless, people believe advertising works, which is why Facebook is
a gazillion dollar company. They sell your information to marketing
firms and place targeted ads on their platform. The fact that no one
looks at those ads or that the data Facebook sells is garbage is not
important. People see the billion eyeballs on the site and believe that
putting their product on the site will boost sales. They believe knowing
the internet habits of those users will make for more persuasive
advertising.

Steve Sailer, who started out in life doing quantitative research on
marketing has written about this over the years. Before the internet
existed, it was obvious to him that most marketing was a waste of money.
Of course, there’s no money in telling people this, so there is not a
lot of research done on advertising. It’s a good example of how belief
is very powerful magic. Lots of people believe in advertising, so there
is lots of money to be made in advertising. There’s no money to be made
in debunking it.

That said, while most companies would be better off burning the cash
they use for marketing and posting the video on YouTube, there are some
forms of marketing that do work and are cost effective. The pitchman has
been a staple of western society since the industrial revolution,
because a good pitchman can move product. Whether it is the company
sales team or the guy recommending product on his radio or TV show,
these guys are an indispensable part of a modern economy.

That’s because people are persuadable, by only by other people. If
someone you trust or someone whose judgement seems sound, recommends a
product to you, you will consider it. Those radio guys pitching various
items are monetizing the trust they have built up with their audience.
There are limits to this form of marketing, but it is a cost effective
way to identity a persuadable audience and have a trusted person
recommend the product to that audience. It’s what marketing analytics
pretends to be.

Despite the yawning gap in utility between the pitchman and the ad man,
the former is considered low-class, while the latter is glamorous.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willy_Loman"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Willy Loman</a> is probably
the most favorable portrayal of the salesman in popular culture.
Usually, salesmen are viewed as creepy liars. In contrast, ad men are
the slick, debonair types, living exciting lives in glamorous places
like Manhattan. The TV series Madmen, relied heavily on this image to
keep the audience. It looked cool to be an ad man in the 1960’s.

In reality, people in marketing are mostly shiftless sociopaths, while
the people in sales are hardworking and honest. If you are ever
evaluating a company for purchase, make sure to talk with the sales
guys. They will tell you the truth about their bosses. Be prepared to
put the marketing staff to sword. They will tell you whatever you need
to hear to increase their budget by five percent next year. The most
honest people in any company are the guys grinding through sales calls
every day.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
