---
title: "Battling The Lotus Eaters"
date: "2019-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17124"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17124"
---

Those who have tried to engage with hardcore civic nationalists or
evangelical patriots will have experienced a strange phenomenon where
they appear to be strangely blind to certain topics. For example, the
story about the black seeking out and throwing a white child over a
third floor railing at the Mall of America. These super-normies respond
to it by blaming communism or democrats. It’s as if the facts cause
their code to reboot and they start repeating whatever they saw on Sean
Hannity the prior evening.

If you press them on the obvious racial angle, they get flustered and
either change the subject or break into a different chant about how
America is an idea. It’s an odd thing that suggests these people have
some sort of shunt in their consciousness that prevents them from seeing
certain aspects of life. It’s not just a matter of self-censorship in
order to avoid taboo subjects. Something seems to have been altered in
their brains that prevents them from seeing anything that contradicts
the colorblind fantasy.

It is an important fact for dissidents to accept. A lifetime of
conditioning, perhaps generations of conditioning, have made it
impossible for some people to ever look up and see the great divide,
much less cross over to this side. Part of it is the normal desire of
most humans to belong to the pack. To stand outside the main, with
regards to biology, is a dangerous place. It is a form of self-exile.
Naturally, most people would not choose it, even if it meant degrading
themselves by repeating what they know to be untrue.

For others, the blank slate, egalitarian creed is a religion now. It is
what defines them, which is why Ben Shapiro and Jordan Peterson can have
cult-like followings. There’s plenty of evidence that both know what
they are telling their followers is false, but it provides them with a
lifestyle they believe they deserve. That and the normal confirmation
that comes from getting famous and building an audience begins to work
its magic on them as well. They are now getting high off their own
supply.

Outside of the grifters and hard cases, the inability to break free from
the conditioning is something you see all over the legacy Right. Browse
through the fashionably intellectual site Quillette and you see the same
phenomenon. If you want to get a sense of what it was like for
alchemists trying to turn base metals into gold, read some of the people
from the intellectual dark web. They are working their fingers raw
trying to create an alternative to Progressivism that accepts all of the
left-wing assumptions about the human condition.

<a
href="https://quillette.com/2019/04/07/in-the-culture-wars-be-a-sancho-panza-not-a-don-quixote/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> is
representative. The writer starts off by analyzing
<a href="https://datasociety.net/output/alternative-influence/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a report</a> from a left-wing
outfit calling itself
<a href="https://datasociety.net/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Data and Society</a>. The writer, someone calling
xerself Terry Newman, is baffled by the errors, but unable to come to
the obvious conclusion that those errors are intentional. In other
words, the fact that the Left does not argue in good faith and is
willing to lie in order to further an agenda is beyond her event
horizon. Read through her post and you keep waiting for her to notice
the obvious, but that never happens.

Instead, just as one would expect her to exclaim, “Wait a second. I
think these people are lying and doing so deliberately”, she veers off
into some weird masturbatory guilt trip about how all sides are guilty
of self-delusion. Her own thesis adviser calls her immoral for liking
Joe Rogan and she cannot bring herself to return the favor. Instead, she
apologizes for him and then spends the rest of the post trying to
explain why these otherwise good people keep trying to destroy people
like her. Battered women have more self-regard.

This inability to cope with reality shows up throughout the post as she,
on the one hand, attempts to defend free expression, but then
enthusiastically agrees that people like Richard Spencer are dangerous
and should be silenced. Again, this is the bizarre habit of these people
of fully embracing the principles of the Left, while trying to achieve
non-liberal or conservative ends. She is like an old alchemist driven
mad trying to turn lead into gold, not understanding that the rules in
which she is working prevent such a thing.

The question, of course, is whether a site like Quillette is just a
bunch of people blind to the reality of this life or is it a golden cage
designed to keep people from waking up to reality. Mx. Newman gets
published and gets the narcotic rush that comes from it, rather than
peering out from the bars into the surrounding reality. These sites
function as islands, tempting the intellectually curious to come along
and partake of the lotus fruit. Rather than confront the harsh seas of
reality, they can remain in the stupor of universal equality.

It’s why all successful revolutions offer an alternative to these
islands, rather than simply an assault on them. Given the choice between
the soothing answers of the lotus eaters and some hair on fire fanatic,
most people will choose the former. In a way, the revolutionary is like
a drug dealer, showing up with a better product. The choice on offer is
not between reality and fantasy, but between an old fantasy that no
longer works and new fantasy than has the kick the addict recalls from
the beginning.
