---
title: "The Growing Darkness"
date: "2019-10-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18858"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18858"
---

The term “dark age” came into popular usage among intellectuals during
the 18th century, but the term itself was actually coined by Petrarch.
He was an early Italian Renaissance scholar in the 14th century. It was
originally used to describe a certain period of time, but eventually
became synonymous with the period between the fall of the Roman Empire
and the Renaissance. The assumed lack of human progress, due to the lack
of records and demographic decline, was a dark time for humanity.

The term began to fall out of usage as scholars gained a better
understanding of the middle ages. The period described as dark, in terms
of human accomplishment began to recede, eventually covering just the
period immediately after Rome. Eventually the term fell out of fashion
altogether, first because it was not terribly accurate and then because
the usual suspects got involved. The image of dark versus light was seen
as problematic, so now using the term is a microaggression.

That’s a good point to wonder if the West has not already entered a new
dark age, in which superstition rules over rationality. The concept of
the microaggression is something superstitious people living in a dark
age would have understood. After all, a microaggression is the idea that
certain words and phrases, incantations, will cause a miasma to develop
around the people saying and hearing the words. This miasma or evil
spirit will cause those exposed to react involuntarily and
uncontrollably.

In fact, everything about political correctness and multiculturalism
relies on oogily-boogily that people in the dark age of Europe would
have found ridiculous. The people of Europe in the middle ages may not
have had a sophisticated understanding of the natural world, but they
did not think the dirt had magical qualities. Magic Dirt Theory would
have struck them as laughably ridiculous. They may not have understood
cognitive science, but they knew the apple does not fall far from the
tree.

This
<a href="https://twitter.com/CathrynTownsend/status/1178376436459167745"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">twitter thread</a> from last
month is a useful example. It is primitive howling at the moon, but the
source is someone claiming to be a scientist. Granted, anthropology is
now just a dumping ground for girls, who could not find a husband, but
the fact that such a thing exists in a college campus suggests a shadow
is now hanging over at least part of the West. If you look at the
twitter profile of that person, you’ll note she has her pronouns listed.
These are the talismans of the modern academy.

Mx. Townsend is not some isolated example. She is a milder form of what
is becoming quite common in academia. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Testosterone-Rex-Myths-Science-Society/dp/0393082083"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Cordelia Fine</a> wrote a
whole book denying that there are two sexes or even that sexes exist.
She was carried around from campus to campus, celebrated as a great
thinker. Her book is complete nonsense. It is now a race to see who can
most completely deny observable reality about humans, in order to please
some undefined spirits that will usher us into the age of equality.

It’s tempting to dismiss the madness we see in academia as trivial or
temporary, but this has been going on for several generations now.
Stephen J. Gould, for example, spent his life trying to shrink the stock
of human knowledge. While his motivations can be debated, his purpose
was not. This deliberate effort to pull down the shades and plunge the
intellectual space into darkness has been going on for generations. We
are just now seeing the shadows creep across the college campus.

A dark age is always imagined to be a period when the stock of human
knowledge stagnates or even declines. Another way to think of a dark age
is one in which the people are unable to manage the complexity
bequeathed to them. As a result, society goes through a period of
retrenchment. It devolves into something simpler that can be managed by
the available human capital. A dark age is one in which the people
rebuild the floor of their society, so future generations can build on
it

Somewhere in the last century or maybe the prior century, people in the
West began to lose the ability to control their institutions. By
control, it should be understood to mean the knowledge of how they work
and why they were created. It is one thing to know how to use the
toilet. It is another thing to understand public sanitation and the
reason it is a vital public service. People in the West no longer seem
to know why their institutions exist or how they must be maintained in
order to properly function.

That’s why the college campus is a good place to examine, when thinking
about the crisis in the West. In theory, the people running the society
of tomorrow are now being trained on the colleges of today. Yet, they
are being taught things that are laughably false by people who are often
suffering from mental illness. In other cases, they are taught by people
who hate them and hate the West. A people who understood why these
institutions were created would never have permitted this to happen.

There is another aspect of the term dark age. We often use it to
describe a time when it is unacceptable to be curious about things.
Everyone is forced into a conformity of thought and belief. It is
associated with primitive superstition. Of course, the usual suspects
always apply this to whites and Christians. Within living memory, they
would portray Christians as closed-minded bigots, who were obsessed with
stifling curiosity and free expression. The victims were always the
usual suspects.

That’s just another part of the blood libel against the Occident and it
is this blood libel that is steering the West into a dark age. In a
frenzy to eradicate all that is white, they are stamping out what it
means to be white. Since curiosity about the natural world is an
implicitly Western trait, enforced conformity around a body of
anti-knowledge is seen as the solution to whiteness. In this context,
the dark age is not the result of a natural process or an accident of
history, but the goal of the people who rule over us.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
