---
title: "A Darker Shade Of Pale"
date: "2019-07-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18063"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18063"
---

The coalition of the ascendant loves to talk about the glorious future
in which they are in complete control. They just assume that everything
will be like it is today in a material sense, except they will get to
divvy up the goods of the vanquished among themselves, like pirates
sharing out a captured treasure. America will just be a swarthier
version of what it was in the 1950’s. It is the assumption of people who
have fully consumed the multicultural propaganda used to create the
coalition of the ascendant.

This vision of the future is no doubt a driving force behind the race
radicalism of people like Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib and Ilhan Omar.
It assumes things about people that are not true. The old gag about
Magic Dirt Theory is a joke among dissidents, but people like Rashida
Tlaib think it is real. She thinks if her people move here, displacing
the heritage stock, nothing changes but the complexion. Her people will
suddenly stop acting like her people and take on the habits of our
people, but with more color.

This is nonsense, of course, because much of what we think of as
American society exists because heritage Americans support it. The
people who created this society would have done so wherever they landed.
We know this because it has happened in places like Australia and even
Africa. Despite it all, countries like Rhodesia and South Africa were
able to create first world societies. In the game of dirt, no place has
more tragic dirt than the Dark Continent. Yet Rhodesia existed. South
Africa existed.

Sports entertainment is a good place to start when thinking about how
America will change as it slips into its dark age. <a
href="https://www.dailypress.com/sports/dp-spt-richmond-nascar-popularity-0414-story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> about the
suffering of stock car racing is a good example. NASCAR was always a
regional thing, so when they went chasing a global audience, it was
always going to be trouble. When the demographic changes started to hit,
that’s when things turned ugly for them. Those old white guys are just
not turning up to drink beer, wear jorts and watch cars ride around in a
circle.

Another example is tennis. In the 70’s and 80’s, when Baby Boomers were
able to swing a tennis racket, the sport enjoyed great success. Big
matches on TV not only got big audiences, they were cultural phenomenon.
Once the Boomers got too old to play, tennis stopped being important.
Instead, golf started to boom as those same pasty Boomers took up the
sport in droves. Now that the Boomers are in the final turn, golf has
fallen into recession, as fewer people play the game.

Another area you can get a glimpse of the coming dark age is in
community activity like youth sports leagues. Those in Gen-X probably
remember in their youth how the youth leagues atrophied as their
generation was relatively tiny compared to those that preceded them.
Today, of course, you can drive around for days without seeing kids out
playing on a ball field. Youth sports have been in decline for a while
now. This will only accelerate as the people who make such things
possible are marginalized.

The decline of youth sports leagues are another great example of how the
decline is a process of gradually then all of a sudden. The decline in
youth sports leagues and community based activity has been going on for
decades, but people tended not to notice the decline. It’s when the high
school drops the football team or maybe all of their sports teams that
it becomes obvious. The decline was not noticed until the park where men
played youth baseball is suddenly turned into Starbucks.

Another part of the entertainment world offers a glimpse of the future.
A popular topic in certain circles is just how dumb and repetitive
movies and television have become. All of the big movies are based on
children’s comic books. The male leads are replaced by females or people
from the ascendant, done in such a way as to make that the point of the
movie. Television has always been for stupid people, but now it is just
endless screed against heritage America, like the recent Pride Month
nonsense.

The reason movies have managed to get dumber and duller is the audience
has dramatically changed. Hollywood no longer caters to heritage
America. Instead, it is focused on the ascendant that now fill the
domestic theaters and the theaters in their source countries. Television
has become exactly what was portrayed in the movie Idiocracy, but the
reason is not that people are getting dumber. The reason for the decline
is that the audience is getting darker.

None of this is novel to people into dissident politics. Much of what is
driving dissident politics in the West is demographics. The thing is
though, it is assumes that the current process will either lead to
America following the path of Detroit or heading down a path to Brazil.
Both of those scenarios are probably wrong. Instead, America as a whole
will follow the path we see in community activities and our
entertainments. Cultural inertial will carry us along until all of a
sudden we enter a dark age.

The reason for this is unlike Detroit, this process is gradual. White
people flooded out of cities like Detroit in a decade. Baltimore, for
example, went from being a working class white city to a majority black
city in two decades. Those fleeing whites took their human and social
capital with them to the suburbs. They recreated their institutions in
their new lands. Baltimore became an urban reservation system with some
centrally located facilities, still vital to the surrounding population.

The Brazil model does not work, as it was never a high-trust, fully
modern society operating along European rules. It never rose much above
what its human capital could support, so it evolved institutions that
fit the population. America’s institutions evolved for a different
population. Those cultural and political institutions in the hands of
the ascendant will be like handing out smart phones to the Sentinelese.
In time, the inhabitants will look around and wonder about the gods who
made the ruins in which they live.

That’s the nature of dark ages. Slowly, then suddenly the relatively
high-IQ population is swapped out for a lesser population. It’s not that
the new population has no one smart enough to work on an aqueduct or
understand how to maintain an electrical grid. It’s that there are not
enough of them. The population suddenly finds itself left with social,
economic and political tools it cannot use. A dark age descends as the
people have to start recreating tools suitable for the population.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
