---
title: "Travelogue: Nordic Newark"
date: "2019-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18842"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18842"
---

I was somewhere around Malmö on the edge of the tundra when the drugs
began to take hold. I’m not a drug taker, but drugs must have played
some role in the decision to turn this quaint Swedish city into the
Beirut of the north. A third of the city population is foreign born,
according to government reports. Given the nature of the Swedish
government, those numbers are most likely wrong. Malmö now has the
reputation for being the rape capital of the world, which is entirely
due to immigration.

My journey to Oslo takes me over the bridge from Denmark to Sweden. The
Øresund Bridge is a combined rail and motorway that is nearly five miles
long. I left at first light, so I got to take in the beauty of the
crossing. The signs for Malmö and the impressiveness of the bridge, had
me wondering what people a thousand years from now will make of it. They
will no doubt have grand theories for why a people capable of conquering
nature were unable to ward off a barbarian invasion.

According to official statistics, 20% of the population of Sweden is now
foreign born, but that is not the whole story. According to more [sober
minded
estimates](https://gefira.org/en/2018/07/27/sweden-will-remain-sweden-but-in-name/),
the demographic replacement is advancing quickly. Like America, the
white population will be a minority by mid-century or sooner. In that
regard, it will no longer be Sweden. Why the rulers of Sweden decided to
suicide their people in this way boggles the mind. America, can at least
blame slavery. The Swedes can only blame themselves…

The drive up is easy, a bit boring, but the coast line is magnificent,
if you get off the highway and hit some of the side roads. Once you pass
Malmö, Sweden gets rural in a hurry, as 85% of the population lives in
urban areas. That means a very low population density outside of cities.
Until you get to Gothenburg, which is a few hours up the cost from
Malmö, it is one farm after another, occasionally broken up by stands of
birch and pine. You’ll see plenty of Swedish cows, which muu, instead of
moo.

I think if I was from another planet, reporting back to my home planet,
I’d call this part of earth “the land of the steep roofs.” My first
thought is the steep roof is better for a snowy climate, but maybe they
just like the look. The roofs are also red, which has no obvious
meteorological utility. In fact, red is a very popular color, which
suggests something in the ground that was useful for paint, but only
comes in red. The color red is also good for soaking up UV rays, so
maybe that’s the reason for all the red…

It’s a long trip, so I decide to take a break. One of the fun things
about this part of the world is the ubiquity of the traffic circle. In
New England they call them rotaries. In other parts of America, they are
called roundabouts. Every exit off the main highway results in a traffic
circle. Inevitably, there are three options at the minimum. One option
takes you to food and fuel. One option puts you back on the road in the
direction you were headed and the other options always send you off in
the wrong direction…

To enter Oslo from the south, you go through a long series of tunnels,
which take you from the countryside to all of a sudden in the middle of
the city. This is my first trip to Oslo, so I was expecting it to be
like Copenhagen. Coming out of the tunnel, I instead found myself in
Newark New Jersey. It really was quite of shock. I’ll grant that the
overcast sky probably hurt the curb appeal of the place, but my first
impression is it is a city that has seen better days. It has the aging
industrial city vibe to it.

Once I check in, I go on a walkabout to see if maybe I was getting the
wrong impression of the place. The first thing I notice is the lack of
white people. There are whites on the street, but most people I see are
non-white. The number of sub-Saharan Africans is quite surprising, given
the environment. I’d say there are equal parts east and west Africans,
but that’s just a guess. I saw a lot of black women in Muslim headgear
pushing strollers, but I also saw a lot of round face black males.

The biggest slice of the diversity pie belongs to the North Africans.
Everywhere you look, you see young swarthy males. My guess is Morocco
exported a lot of its excess male population to Norway. For some reason,
the Nordic countries are a popular destination for Moroccans.
Regardless, they all have the look of North Africans, rather than
Mesopotamians or Levantines. Five minutes on the street and I see why
Mohamed is the most popular baby name every year in Oslo.

I ducked into what looked like a mall. A pretty good way to read the
local diversity in any western city is to check out the shopping mall.
This was full of Africans, Saharan and sub-Saharan. There were whites,
but I’d say they were a slim majority. Oddly, all of the workers in the
stores were white, but many were not Norwegian. I heard more than a few
British accents. Why someone would leave Britain to work in a Norwegian
shopping mall is a mystery, but there is no accounting for taste.

Back on the street, I hiked the city for a few hours. As in the rest of
the Nordic countries, the locals dress like goth Eskimos. The temp was
hovering around 50 Fahrenheit, so I was in a pullover and jeans. Plenty
warm for walking the city. I looked like the guy in the States, who
wears shorts in winter. People had on winter coats, scarfs, gloves. I
also saw quite a few race mixers. It was always a swarthy male with a
white female, but I did see a soy boy with a big fat African. He must
have a high social credit score.

Despite what it looks like on the street, Norway is only about nine
percent diverse, so it is not facing the same collapse as Sweden. Still,
something occurred to me as I was taking in the local color, so to
speak. At some point, the white population in these countries will not
be able to carry the non-white population. The social welfare system
will collapse. At that point, nature takes over. These people are not
built for living in the harsh north on their own. A great cull is
building toward the end of this century…

Watching some Norwegian television, I saw an ad for Choice Hotels. I’ve
never seen it before, but I don’t watch a lot of television. The ad
pitches Choice Hotels as the destination for homosexuals in Norway. Like
open borders, the fetish for homosexuality is like some were disease
that has infected the West. Maybe one day we’ll learn that it is the
result of a pathogen that only infects white people…

Part of the deal at the hotel is free breakfast and dinner. The Nordics
really like the self-serve buffet. Breakfast was the typical stuff we’d
see in America, along with fish and various peasant breads. The butter
in this part of the world taste like magic. For dinner, I had brunost,
which is a national food of Norway. It looks like brown cheese and
tastes like savory caramel. It’s made from whey and goat’s milk, then
boiled into a semi-hard cheese-like consistency. The brown color is the
worst kind of brown.

This weird food stuff came into being because a milkmaid got the idea to
use the leftover whey from cheese making to make something different.
Her creation was a hit and helped her region escape economic difficulty.
She got married and moved to a new area and created another version,
which was also wildly popular. Her cheese-food is credited with helping
the local dairy industry escape depression. The milkmaid’s name was
[Anne Hov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anne_Hov) and she is national
hero…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
