---
title: "The Only Equal End"
date: "2019-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18517"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18517"
---

Normal people look at the public performance of the Left and have the
reaction all normal people have to irrationality. First, they will laugh
or scoff at whatever the Left is doing, as both reactions come from the
same instinct. It is a dismissal of whatever is going on, as too
ridiculous to consider. A man in a sundress demanding to be called
“they” is absurd. The kinder souls will laugh at it, while the less kind
will dismiss it as vulgar degeneracy. Both reactions are justified, of
course.

Once we pass the initial rejection, the reaction of normal people to the
cultural lunacy we see on display falls into two buckets. One group will
continue to dismiss this stuff, as a sign that the Left is just a bunch
of crazy, middle-aged white women and their colored assistants, trying
to get attention. The cat-lady factor is so strong on the Left it’s hard
not to focus on it. Scan the crowd at an Elizabeth Warren event, for
example, and it looks like a clearance sale at the wine mart. Spinsters
everywhere.

Now, the other camp that forms up after the initial reaction is the
people, who suspect there is a deeper motive to what they are seeing.
The Left has been in control of the culture for several generations now,
so they cannot be all mad. Steve Sailer, for example, thinks these
displays are about keeping the Progressive coalition focused on the evil
white men so they don’t attack one another. The bad people suspect this
is all part of a plot by the nefarious forces to undermine white
society.

There is a third option. This insane behavior is not just performance
art, but an assault on rationality and order. It is an attack on the
very concept of truth. After all, if it is no longer possible to tell
boys from girls, then what is true? The very basics of human biology
start with the fact that humans come in two sexes. If the very axioms of
human reality are now up for debate, then everything is up for debate,
even the claims made by the Left. With no truth, nothing is false. The
world is narrative of opinion.

Take, for example, the assertion that race is a social construct. This
bit of biological denialism is popular with the Left. So much so they
are now demanding white historical figures be played by black actors, to
prove that race is imaginary. Now, the demand itself contradicts the
assertion. If race is not real, then there would be no reason to demand
a black guy play Henry VII or Queen Elizabeth. The demand itself is
proof that race is very real, so much so the past must be black-washed.

Even if you don’t accept that, let’s take the “race is not real”
argument forward and examine the implications. If race is a social
construct, then diversity must also be a social construct. In fact, it
is irrational, as what would be the point of decorating an organization
with things that do not exist? That also means so-called hate speech is
a social construct, as it is rooted in the belief in racial and ethnic
differences. If those differences are imaginary, then hate speech is
imaginary as well.

None of this matters, of course. What matters to the Left is that
observable reality cannot be trusted. They can live with their own
assertions falling prey to this logic, as their ultimate objective is a
world without objective truth. They seek to create the post-modern
world, where the only proper response to physical reality is skepticism,
because there is no possibility of reliable knowledge. The modern Left
is the political implementation of the academic movement called
post-modernism.

Post-modernism is the 20th century academic movement popular in
philosophy, the grievance studies and the humanities. It denies the
existence of a universal, stable reality, insisting everything is
arbitrary and subjective. It is a reaction to science and technology
that explains reality in objective terms. The post-modernist claims that
reality is constructed as the mind tries to understand its own personal
circumstances, within the social construct of society and the perceived
reality of others.

This is why the Left is now so vehemently anti-science. A generation ago
the proper leftists had a Darwin fish on her Volvo. This was supposed to
be a signal that the owner was a member of the “reality based community”
not a believer is magic, superstition or, of course, a religion. The
Left insisted they were the sober minded realists, rooting their
opinions in facts and reason. Their opponents were basing their opinion
in fear and the irrational belief in nonsense, like tradition and
religion.

In reality, the owner of that Volvo was signally a rejection of the very
idea of objective or transcendent truth. That is, after all, what
religion offers. It is a set of transcendent truths that define the
reality of mankind. The point of a religious text, like the Christian
Bible, is to have an objective set of rules that are not up to the whims
of a cleric or a religious institution. Scripture is God’s rule book and
not up to debate by man. The rejection of religion, is the rejection of
such an objective set of truths.

Fast forward to the current year and the Left has moved on from
rejecting religion and the reality of religion, onto the rejection of
science. Genetics and evolution are nature’s rule book. If you prefer,
they are the rule book of nature’s god. This biological reality is not
only the framework of life, but puts hard limits on human organization.
The rejection of science is the rejection of the possibility of reliable
knowledge about the natural world and the nature of man. The guy in the
sundress calling ximself “they” is the embodiment of this rejection of
knowable truth and factual reality.

Of course, the practical benefit of a world unbound from facts and
reasons is that the actors in such a world are unbound from the limits
of reason. It is the ultimate freedom, as everything is possible and
everything can be justified. It’s also why the Left insists their
opponents demonstrate that their objections match up with some set of
arbitrary standards selected by the Left. If their opponents are bound
to reality, while the Left is free to form whatever construct it needs,
the outcome is certain.

There can be only one form of post-modernist rule. The rejection of
founding truths, the axioms of the human condition, provides not
justification for political power, social status or even a social order.
The void of nihilism can only be filled by the will to power and the
necessary application of force to attain power and impose order. The
perpetual revolution of post-modernism, the endless questioning of
objective reality, is the only way for radicalism to attain power and
maintain it. The on-going insanity of the Left is the necessary
precursor to perpetual Progressive rule.

The endless cultural revolution is like rats gnawing at the support
ropes. If left unchecked, there can be only one result from such a
process. The endpoint of this perpetual social revolution, the
institutional skepticism of reality, is a world without any order at
all, even that imposed by the strongest. Even the reality of fear falls
away and we fall into a world where it is a war of all against all. In
this regard, what the Left has become is war on the very nature of man
and the reality that shapes him.

This is the logical endpoint of the Enlightenment. Post-modernism did
not spring from nothing. It is the continuation of political philosophy
starting with Rousseau, through Nietzsche and into the current age.
Western liberalism was born of the irrational belief that man comes into
the world as a blank slate and can be fashioned into anything through
the proper social structures. Ever since, the goal of liberal political
philosophy has been to build the right social structure to achieve
universal equality.

Since the utopian goal of universal equality is impossible, it leaves
only the equality of nihilistic chaos. A world without truth is a world
where noting is false. This is the ultimate equality, where everything
is opinion and all opinion is equally worthless. While the Left may seem
irrational, they are acting on that old Enlightenment impulse to achieve
universal equality. If we cannot be equal in the utopian paradise of our
own making, we can be equal in the utter and compete destruction of
society. After all, the one place where all men are equal is in the
cemetery.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
