---
title: "The Louder He Talked Of His Honor"
date: "2019-09-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18607"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18607"
---

Last week, Catholic University hosted a showdown, of sorts, between
David French and Sohrab Ahmari. Their dispute started when Ahmari posted
<a
href="https://www.firstthings.com/web-exclusives/2019/05/against-david-french-ism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this piece</a> on First
Things, declaring jihad against Frenchism, which he described as a
passive-aggressive approach to the culture war with the Left. It got a
lot of attention in conservative circles, mostly because they were happy
that anyone was talking about them at all. Here is
<a href="https://youtu.be/fAG28K0nGAU" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">the video</a> of the show down and here is <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/dreher/french-ahmari-a-report-from-the-scene/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a summary</a> from American
Conservative.

The event itself was typical of the pseudo-academic culture you see
around conservative politics at this level. There is the superficial
collegiality and the carrying on like this is a meeting of two
intellectual giants. An essential element of this culture is the
displaying of credentials, as well as the recognition of those
credentials. That’s why the opening was like dogs sniffing each other’s
butts at the park. Ahmari brought a gift to signal his submissiveness to
French, who he considers a superior.

This is, of course, why French agreed to the thing in the first place.
He was certainly told that Ahmari is a light weight, who could land a
few punches, but was incapable of delivering any hard blows. Ahmari
appears to be a guy, who has sampled dissident writing, but is not well
versed in the arguments against Buckley conservatism. As a result he was
left to flail around while French was able to safely keep the
conversation to theoretical topics, rather than the failings of Buckley
conservatism.

That is, of course, a game the Buckleyites learned from libertarians.
When the conversation is about practical issues, like fighting the Left
over cultural turf, they shift the focus to theory. When confronted on
theory, they take a deep dive into the weeds of some narrow policy
topic. That’s what French was doing with Ahmari. He kept shifting the
topics to legalism and constitutional theory, in order to avoid talking
about the fact that conservatism has been a colossal, multi-generational
failure.

That’s what was a bit disappointing about Ahmari’s performance. A better
equipped debater, a dissident for example, would have turned French’s
arguments back on him with relative ease. His claim that the Founders
wanted a neutral public space, for example, is laughable nonsense. The
Founders were white Christians, who assumed they were founding a white
Christian country. More important, they were practical men who
understood what was required to maintain their people.

Think about it. These were men who revolted against the prevailing
order, against centuries of tradition, in order to impose their way of
life on their lands. Not only were they willing to overthrow centuries
of tradition, they were willing to kill their countrymen in order to
found their nation. They were also quite explicit in their motives. They
founded a nation for their people and their posterity. By the
definitions of today, definitions David French supports, the Founders
were white nationalists.

Of course, the neutral public space argument is a justification for not
fighting the Left over cultural turf. By claiming a principled claim in
support of an open and neutral public space, it rules out doing anything
that could actually win the fight. After all, defending the public
square from complete domination by the Left, means pushing them out of
some portion of it. That would violate the sacred principles of
principled conservatives, so they not only refuse to do it, they prevent
others from doing it.

Something that never gets mentioned by dissidents is that this line of
reasoning contradicts basic Christian teaching. To cede the public space
on principle is to agree, in advance, to not proselytize. To preach and
proselytize means staking out space in the public square, regardless of
the consequences. The very founding of the Christian faith was on the
bones of those, who martyred themselves to spread the word of Jesus
Christ in the face of violent opposition.

That of course, raises the question as to just how sincere David French
is in his religious conviction. He waves his Christian faith around
almost as much as he waves around his military service, yet he is not
willing to risk much for it. The Gospels are pretty clear on this point.
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a
rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Jesus instructed the rich to give
away their riches and follow him. Surely, salvation is worth some
principles.

This is where dissident Christians can find a niche in dissident
politics. There is a long tradition of Christians preaching the gospel
of Jesus Christ in the face of fierce opposition from authority. To be a
dissident is to reject the authority of the prevailing orthodoxy. To be
a dissident Christian is to know the source of all authority. The way
forward to a society built around natural association is also the path
to a society where Christians can proselytize and lead their fellow man
to salvation.

This is what <a
href="https://thebulwark.com/david-french-destroys-sohrab-ahmari-and-the-idea-of-illiberal-conservatism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the backers of Frenchism</a>
fear. A militant, optimistic and aggressive Christianity would be wildly
attractive to disaffected white youth. Imagine young guys in camo flash
mobbing public events, while reading Scripture. Imagine them employing
the protest tactics of the Left, but in favor of faith. That’s why
millions are poured into Christian groups to advocate the surrender
model. Their leaders get very rich while leading their flocks away from
the public space.

None of this is new material, which is why David French has become the
clown nose of Buckley conservatism. It’s not about ideology or theology
with this guy. David Frenchism is about celebrating the choices of David
French. From his adoption of an African to his JAG service, it’s always
about his public acts of piety. That’s what jumps out from the video of
that event. Watching him in action, the line from Emerson comes to mind.
“The louder he talked of his honor, the faster we counted our spoons.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
