---
title: "A Call Up To The Bigs"
date: "2019-09-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18593"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18593"
---

I had the honor of guest hosting FTN this week. McFeels was off
attending to some personal issues, so I joined Ethnarch to discuss the
news of the day. It is hard to know for sure, but FTN could be the most
popular show in dissident media. Stefan Molyneux has a huge YouTube
audience, but it is hard to compare video to audio. The two mediums
attract different audiences. Just in terms of overall audience though,
FTN is in the conversation for the most popular dissident show.

I don’t do many guest appearances and I’ve never been the co-host in
this sort of format, so I was unsure how I would do. There is a skill to
being a guest, a skill I do not have in abundance. Working with a
partner not only requires guest skill, but it requires good chemistry
with the partner. Ethnarch and I worked together quite well, at least
from my perspective, so I think the show came out OK. Usually I’m tired
after doing a guest spot, as I have to be on edge the whole time. This
was rather relaxing.

One of the things Ethnarch and I discussed after recording is just how
much time is involved in producing these shows. I was curious as to what
was involved in putting together a three hour show about current events.
A general rule is it takes 10 hours to produce one hour and that’s the
case with FTN. Prep time has about ten hours of time to pull together
the news items and the show outline. Recording is between four and five
hours and then there is post-production to get the show up.

The prep time is what goes unnoticed by the consumer. For this week’s
show, Ethnarch collected fifty or sixty stories. He collated them into
categories and then organized them for easy transition from theme to
theme. He told me he usually has over 100 stories in the stack of stuff
for the show, but this was a light week. The listener just hears two guy
talking about the news, but to reach that point means reading hundreds
of stories and filtering them into a show outline. That’s a lot of work
each week.

Of course, this means FTN is close to a full time commitment for McFeels
and Ethnarch, as they do at least two shows a week. It’s why terrestrial
radio shows can have half a dozen people in the production side. Three
hours a day of airtime is 150 man hours a week in prep and production.
Throw in the logistics of operating a studio and the business side of
things and your drive time radio guy is a small business. A regular TV
show qualifies as a mid-sized business, in terms of people and expense.

That said, for a show to have any import, it has to be a professional
production. If it slapped together, the audience will just assume the
makers are not serious. It’s like a house with a poorly kept lawn.
People drive past and assume things about the owner based on the
exterior of the home. Inside could be an immaculate palace and the
shabby lawn is an exception, but people don’t think that way. The same
is true of a podcast of video show. Poor production implies poor
quality.

This is why livestream is never going to be serious. Two or three dudes
standing in their respective bedrooms, staring into a cheap camera looks
bad. The solo live streams often look like hostage videos. In contrast,
guys like RamZPaul and James Allsup produce high quality video, because
they know what they are doing. They understand how the viewer consumes
video and how they appear in their videos. That requires a skill few
live streamers possess. It’s a medium for amateurs right now.

There is a generational issues here, so I could be exhibiting a bias. A
Gen-X person grew up with limited video. Cable came on strong in our
teen years, but we did not grow up with our face pressed to a screen
like today’s youth. Young people love using face time. Someone my age
thinks it is weird. Why do I need to see the person I’m talking to on my
phone? For young people, the live stream may simply be a natural way of
consuming content, so I could be all wrong on the future of live
streaming.

I think there is a debate to be had about what is the real impact of
various media platforms, with regards to dissident politics. Social
media is a closed space. The influence of Twitter and Facebook is
entirely dependent on mass media picking up social media trends. That
makes them worthless for dissidents. On the other hand, how much impact
do YouTube creators or podcasters have? What is the impact of 50,000
views on YouTube versus the same number of readers?

If you look at some of the big YouTube guys, someone like Stefan
Molyneux, for example, the ratio of views to subs is interesting. He has
close to a million subs, but his videos rarely get 50,000 views. How
reliable are those numbers? Who is actually viewing those videos? If his
fan base is mostly libertarians, then his impact is negligible, as no
one cares about libertarians. I don’t have any answers on this, but it
is a topic worth exploring, so I’ll probably explore it at some point.

All that aside, the way forward in dissident media is to keep increasing
the quality and the quantity of dissident media. That means not only
bringing in new people, but also upgrading the skill base. Every time
someone in dissident media gets in trouble, it’s because they relied on
non-dissident talent. Laura Southern dropped out of the scene because
she was compromised by two video guys she hired. Spencer’s media efforts
have always blown up due, in part, to his relying on crazy people.

As far as the show this week, I think it came out pretty well, but I’m
not the best judge of these things. The main reason is I do a solo show
every week, so I don’t know how to measure myself as part of a duo. We
spent most of the first hour covering immigration related items. The
second hour we got into trade with China and how that relates to the
culture war. We also talked about Bloody Eye Biden and the democratic
primary. The link to the show is <a
href="https://therightstuff.biz/2019/09/08/ftn-246-drag-downspolitation/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">here</a> or you can listen to
it in the player below.

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
