---
title: "The Post-Citizen World"
date: "2019-01-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16153"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16153"
---

Steve Sailer likes to promote an idea he calls
[citizenism](https://openborders.info/citizenism/), which is the general
idea that a government should place the interests of its current
citizens ahead of the interests of non-citizens or potential future
citizens. It is pretty much what we call civic nationalism now, but a
dozen years ago that meme did not exist, even though the concept has
been with us since the founding of the country. The Founders certainly
thought the point of government was to serve the interests of the
current citizenry and their posterity.

Civic Nationalism is largely a reactionary idea today. Like various
forms of socialism, it lacks a root system in the soil of the current
culture. In a world in which people of European heritage are a tiny
minority and increasingly minorities in their own lands, bourgeois
notions of fair play and orderly debate are anachronism. We see that
whenever a populist candidate or party wins power. The rules go out the
window and the ruling elite goes to war with the rebels, using any means
necessary to stop them.

An orderly debate about what is best for the citizens of a country is
impossible because the people in the ruling elite of the West define
themselves in opposition to the notion of citizenship. That is what it
means to be a post-nationalist Progressive. The whole point of it is to
oppose those antiquated notions of citizenship. Those are exclusive and
the new global person is open. Worse yet, citizenship is hierarchical,
placing the interests of some over the interests of others. That is
probably racist.

You can get a sense of this in the response to Tulsi Gabbard’s decision
to run for the Democrat nomination in 2020. Civic nationalists are
programmed to think she is bad, because she makes unapproved noises
about economics. They will no doubt say she is a socialist. That is the
result of being trapped in a forgotten era. None of that will matter to
the people in charge, particularly those involved in Democrat politics.
They see her as a threat to their conception of the new global citizen.
Here’s an
[example](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2017/05/tulsi-gabbard-president-sanders-democratic-party).

*“But Gabbard’s almost singular focus on the damage these wars inflict
domestically, and her comparative lack of focus on the carnage they
wreak in the countries under attack, is troubling. It is nationalism in
antiwar garb, reinforcing instead of undercutting the toxic rhetoric
that treats foreigners as less deserving of dignity than Americans.”*

You will note two things that turn up in the Progressive criticism of
Gabbard. One is her roots are inauthentic, as far as they are concerned.
She does not have the appropriate struggle narrative. An essential
element of the left-wing mindset is the assertion that only the
oppressed have authenticity. Therefore, to assume a leadership position
in the forever revolution of the oppressed, the leaders must have
overcome oppression. Gabbard has lived the standard American
middle-class life, so she can never be trusted.

The salient issue lies in that highlighted section. Gabbard’s opposition
to fighting wars in the Middle East is pretty much the civic nationalist
view. Those wars are not good for America or Americans. They may have
some benefit to the ruling elite of the empire, but they have no benefit
to Americans. Further, the people being sent to fight these wars are
suffering for a cause that has no benefit to them. In other words,
sacrificing for your people is noble and heroic. To suffer for strangers
is pointless.

To the ideological core of the ruling elite, this is an abnegation of
who they are, which is why you will hear lots of “this is not who we
are” in response to her over the coming months. Just as the Left refused
to defend Sanders against attacks from the Buckley conservatives in
2016, the Left will stand silent as the warmongers of neoconservatism
hint that Gabbard is an alt-right antisemite. Her assumption that
citizenship is a real thing implies that nations are real things and
that is unacceptable in a post-nationalist world.

This is why civic nationalism is a dead-end movement. It is trying to
reanimate an Enlightenment concept that was killed off by the post-war
cultural revolution of the last fifty years. Reviving the old notions of
civic identity is about as promising as reviving the monarchy in
Germany. Thinking about it is a nice escape for those struggling to face
the reality of identity politics, but that is all it is, a fantasy. The
world created by the Left is a post-nationalist world and therefore a
post-citizen world.

In fairness to the cosmopolitan globalists, they are not wrong about
citizenship having no place in the future West. It can continue in the
Visegrad countries that have escaped the migrant invasion, but even
there it is more of a tribal response, an identity politics of an
ethno-state, than civic nationalism. Otherwise, citizenship makes no
sense in multicultural, multi-racial societies. Tribalism is not just
part of the human condition, it is part of our biological reality, and
therefore the future is some form of tribal politics.

Another glimpse of this will come from the alt-right, who will be
enthusiastic supporters of Gabbard this year. They see her anti-war
rhetoric as a sanitized version of their own opposition to Israel. In
other words, there remains a great shallowness to the alt-right in these
matters, but that shallowness is a glimpse of future politics. That is,
who you are will be as much about who you oppose as who you support.
Anyone familiar with the politics of Lebanon has a sense of what comes
next for the multicultural democratic empire.
