---
title: "The White Fright"
date: "2019-08-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18309"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18309"
---

One of the features of current year America is the occurrence of panics,
particularly among the managerial elite. The most recent is the White
Fright, where the media is hysterically reporting every disturbance as
the act of white supremacists. This panic appears to have been triggered
by the El Paso shooting, but it is a manifestation of a much longer
occurring paranoia among the managerial classes. It dates back to at
least the last presidential election and has roots in the Obama years.

The underlying assumption of the White Fright is a belief that whites
are secretly organizing to overthrow the current order and impose some
sort of pale patriarchy on the country. These white supremacists are
everywhere and look just like normal everyday white people, so any white
person could possibly be one of them. These people can, at any moment,
turn into a violent spree killer, if exposed to certain kinds of content
called “hate speech” which is found on-line.

The similarities to medieval witch hunting are too obvious not to
notice. The adversary is not something that appears in material form.
Like Old Scratch, white supremacy is an evil spirit that works through
the infected. Once under the control of white supremacy, the person no
longer has agency. Not surprisingly, like the accused witches in Salem,
the modern white supremacist is most likely to be someone that vexes the
moral authorities, either by their presence or by their actions.

Now, many on the Right have been conditioned to look at this stuff and
come up with an explanation that makes the Left seem less nutty. For
example, <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/pediatricians-warned-to-be-on-the-lookout-for-bad-juju/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer</a> will argue it
is a clever ploy to rally the coalition of the ascendant. The National
Review types will claim it is a ploy to conceal the fact that Democrats
are the real racists. These are conditioned responses that are not
intended to explain what’s going on with the Left, but to fit it into
the normal Left-Right dynamic that describes America politics.

A more nuanced explanation is that the White Fright is part of a great
fear that is sweeping the managerial classes. Like that which swept
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Fear"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">France in the summer of
1789</a>, this fear is rooted in both the economic and the social
problems of society. There’s also a paranoia about the ruling class.
These people are riddled with angst and fear of being dropped from the
managerial class. This causes them to be highly sensitive to any
disruption in society and as a result, they are prone to panics.

The media, internet censors, social justice warriors and corporate HR
departments are the servants of the ruling class. As such, they are
wholly dependent upon them for their status with regards to the rest of
us. Unlike the commoners, who are only vaguely aware that there are
powerful people behind the political theater, the managerial class is
much more aware of this reality. As a result, they live like the
peasants of France, keenly aware they are dependent upon people they
cannot trust.

This anxiety manifests itself as panics about imaginary villains
plotting to topple the existing order. The Russia hoax is a good
example. It is assumed that the people peddling it did so for cynical
reasons and that may be true. The people spreading and repeating it,
however, were motivated by a genuine fear of dark forces working in the
shadows against their interests. Marianne Williamson got a lot of
attention in the last debate by mentioning “dark psychic forces.” It
resonated with certain people.

Now, another possible explanation for the White Fright is that something
similar to what happened in Salem is going on in current year America.
At the end of the 17th century, what amounted to a Puritan theocracy,
had taken root in New England. Everything about social life was
controlled by the religious sensibilities of the people, mostly enforced
by a narrow theocratic elite. The form and purpose of New England towns
was based in the religious understanding of the people we now call
Puritans.

This model, when facing the challenge of witch panics, was unable to
adapt and cope with the phenomenon. The response from the religious
authorities decreased public trust and eroded their authority. The
trials themselves, instead of reducing fear among the panicked,
increased suspicions. Before long it became obvious that the religious
authorities were as much a part of the problem as the people making
accusations and spreading rumors. The witch trials discredited
Puritanism.

That could be what is happening in current year America. The
similarities between modern Progressivism and Puritanism, in its
manifestations, not theologically, is hard not to notice. Everything
from vinegar drinking scolds to their effeminate male enablers are
present in modern day Progressivism. Current year America is ruled by a
bizarre identity cult that is every bit as superstitious as the
Puritans. The White Fright may turn out to be the witch scares of late
empire America.

Those are all the amusing and gratuitous explanations for what we are
seeing. There is another possibility and that is a genuine fear rooted
in real danger. The response by the managerial class may seem hysterical
and irrational, but maybe that is just a byproduct of mass media
culture. Maybe there is a real threat. The people running from the
monster, shrieking like madmen, are not acting rationally, but their
fear is not irrational either. The monster is real and is a real danger
to them.

It should be noted that panic is not the default response to disasters
or dangers. In things like fires, natural disasters and combat, panic is
not typical. Instead, mutual aid is the most common response. An obvious
example is the response of the people in the World Trade Center
buildings during 9/11. Among the stories of great heroism were stories
of incredible cooperation. People came together and helped one another
get out of the buildings. Mutual aid and cooperation was the natural
response.

Rather than a panic or mass hysteria, the White Fright may be a call to
familiarity and mutual aid by the managerial class. The old political
order is breaking down, as the inevitable consequences of
multiculturalism manifest. What we could be seeing is a primal call for
social re-attachment. The primary purveyors of the White Fright are
white, or at least white presenting. The old good-white coalition is
rallying around the fear of white supremacy, in defense of what is
lurking outside the walls.

Of course, all of these possible explanations for the panics we are
seeing are rooted in the general sense that society is fragmenting.
That’s because current year America is fragile and possibly ready to
shatter. The old political order is in decline and the rise of identity
politics promises to replace it. These panics are as much about the fear
of what comes next as superstition or immediate threats. The White
Fright may one day be seen as the turning point in the rise of white
identity politics.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
