---
title: "The End Of The Line"
date: "2019-01-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16086"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16086"
---

[The Consumer Electronics
Show](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-46818797) happened this week
in Las Vegas. There was a time when this was an international event, as
everyone wanted to see the latest electronic gadgets that were about to
hit the market. The pace of change was so quick, every year featured
cool new ideas and concepts that promised to alter how we experience our
entertainments. There was also the futuristic factor, as companies would
preview what cool new technology they were about to bring from the lab
to your home.

That is no longer the case as the consumer electronics business seems to
have run out of road, as far as cool new ideas. This is apparent in the
troubles Apple is suddenly facing. It makes a cool looking toy, but
there is nothing unique about an iPhone. It does what all the phones do
now. The gap between it and the low-end brands is not enough to warrant
a premium. This is an issue turning up across the consumer electronics
space. There’s just no new technology to make any of it “must have” or
any brand unique.

The big new idea this year is 8K TV, which is just becoming a reality.
TV makers have made 4K the default now. Everyone hopes these super
high-resolution TV’s will spark a revolution in both accessory items and
the content itself. So far, 4K has not made much of an impact on
consumers. It turns out that better resolution does not improve the
quality of the content. That was true of HD, but at least those sets
looked cool, and they were much easier to move around the living room.
They also made 80-inch screens possible.

That is the tell with this stuff. If a new technology has an impact on
the consumer, it can first sell at a premium. That was the case with HD
television. Middle-class white guys in the suburbs built man caves
around their big screen. That did not happen with 4K television as
people just ignored it until the price dropped to normal levels. That
means the same will happen with 8K. The resolution and sound of the
television has reached the point where it is more than good enough for
most people.

Manufacturers have known this for a while, which is why they invested
heavily in virtual reality. Virtual reality or some other immersive
technology is assumed to be the next step, but people do not seem to
like the idea. VR headsets have been out for a while, and they have been
a big flop with the public. Part of it is you look like an idiot wearing
the things and no one wants to look ridiculous. The experience so far is
less virtual reality and more altered reality, like being on
hallucinogens.

There’s also the fact that virtual reality will probably not work
anything like the electronics makers imagine. Human perception is
something we know little about and what we think we know we have all
wrong. Much of our reality is probably generated by our brains from
stimuli that we get through our senses. We are not living in the matrix,
but we are living in a stripped-down version of reality. Our brains
consume just what is necessary to build a reality from information
stored in our brains that we accumulated in life.

Otherwise, the “new” stuff coming from electronics makers is
increasingly ridiculous implementations of things like voice activation.
A voice activated parasol was probably fun to design, but it is entirely
useless. In fact, voice activated stuff will most likely fail miserably
for two reasons. One is the idiocy of it. Just think of how annoying it
is to talk to a robot on the phone when dealing with the bank or
pharmacist. No matter how good technology gets, you will always know you
are talking to a thing and that feels dumb.

The other factor is privacy. You have to be close to retarded to invite
these devices into your home, given what we already know about the tech
firms. If the mobile carriers are willing to sell your location data in
real-time to anyone who wants to buy it, including criminals, then they
will sell your private conversations in real time too. Just as prisoners
figure out how to make their cells a private space, the future means the
home becomes a technology free area, so people can have an escape from
the panopticon.

The end of the road for consumer electronics will no doubt have an
impact on video content creation. Something that has gone unnoticed is
how the technological revolution transferred billions every year from
consumers to the entertainment business, without much change in the
content. If anything, the result was worse content and much more
propaganda. The selling of the poz is so over the top now, it is
intolerable. That suggests the content makers are ripe for “disruption”
as the cool kids say.

A hint of it is in the audio space. It took a while, but the mp3 altered
music and spoken word formats. People still listen to talk radio, for
example, but the switch to podcasts and live streams is happening
quickly. Like evening news shows, terrestrial radio is the thing that
appeals to older people. It has no future. Probably, we are on the cusp
of a similar revolution in video content. It will have different
contours, but the result will be a radical change in the economics of
entertainment.

Of course, the petering out of the consumer electronics revolution will
have economic consequences. The PC revolution ran its course, just as we
are seeing with home entertainment and mobile phones. At the end, we
quickly saw a consolidation and commoditization of the market. No one
thinks much about the big-name computer makers and in time no one will
care who makes their television or smart phone. These household names
will either move onto other things or go out of business.
