---
title: "The Lie Machine"
date: "2019-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17097"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17097"
---

On an August night in 2016, Russell Orlando Courtier got into a dispute
with Larnell Bruce Jr. in the parking lot of a convenience store in
Oregon. Authorities are unsure what caused the dispute or why it
escalated into a physical escalation. All they know is it ended when
Courtier drove over a machete wielding Bruce with his Jeep. Courtier was
eventually arrested and convicted of first degree murder. He was just
sentenced to life in prison, which in Oregon means he gets out in 30
years, assuming good behavior.

Now, <a
href="https://www.oregonlive.com/news/2019/04/race-fueled-hate-crime-murder-with-jeep-nets-russell-courtier-life-in-prison-with-28-year-minimum.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">according to the media</a>,
the attack was a hate crime. Russell Orlando Courtier is a 40-year old
white man and Larnell Bruce Jr. was a 19-year old black man, who is
dutifully described by the media as a teenager. They want you to get the
impression that he was an innocent 13-year old out riding his bike when
he was viciously attacked by this white supremacist. Larnell Bruce Jr.
is Emmett Till, another unfortunate black body destroyed by a society
that was built on and continues to promote white supremacy.

In realty Larnell Bruce Jr. was a hyper-violent serial criminal, with 16
convictions, including one for beating a child with a skateboard. At
just 19-years old, Larnell Bruce Jr. was well on his way to either life
in a cage or the local cemetery. In fairness, none of his crimes
warranted him getting killed by another lunatic in a parking lot, but
the arc of his life was leading to this end from the day he was born.
The fact is, some people are born bad and they come to bad ends. That
was the case for Larnell Bruce Jr.

For his part, Russell Orlando Courtier was not quite the public menace
as Mr. Bruce, but he has been convicted of four felonies and three
misdemeanors. One of his convictions was for beating the mother of his
child. Another was for attacking a man with a knife and another was for
attacking a man with broken glass. During his time in the prison system,
he joined a white prison gang. When he confronted Mr. Bruce, he was
sporting prison ink from that gang and reportedly a hat with a white
supremacist logo.

In other words, the real story here is that one of them miraculously
made it to 40 without killing someone and the other managed to make it
to adulthood. In a better managed society, the parents of Mr. Courtier
would have been sterilized before reproducing and the parents of Mr.
Bruce would not have been here. Eugenics gets a bad name, but it would
have prevented these two lunatics from terrorizing society. In the case
of Mr. Courtier, it would have prevented him from making another copy of
himself.

According to the media, this is another example of white supremacists
murdering innocent black people. The story will be entered into the
various databases kept by groups that the lie machine relies upon to
testify about these things. In ten years, no one will bother to look up
the facts of cases like this. Instead, <a
href="https://www.adl.org/sites/default/files/styles/cropped_img_md/public/2019-04/eileen_h_hearing.JPG?h=eabbc731&amp;itok=PITmrapz"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a ridiculous looking
representative</a> of an anti-white terror group will be allowed to
include it in their libel against whites. Your children will be guilty,
because two violent felons got into a beef in Oregon that ended in
murder.

That’s how the lie machine works. The mass media contorts and
manipulates events to fit into the narrative. The anti-white hate
groups, like the ADL, then cherry pick their best work to include in
their libel against white people. They are then invited by the media
onto the various platforms to repeat their libel against white people.
Other media platforms are assigned to cover these modern minstrel shows,
so the lies go through the megaphones once more. Like an echo, the lie
is repeated over and over and over.

This is highly orchestrated and coordinated propaganda by people who
know exactly what they are doing. At the bottom of that news story is a
video the news site put together. It has some clips of the family of the
slain man talking about how much they miss the victim. There are images
of the victim as a boy. The point of the video is to make you think the
convicted man killed a innocent little child, rather than another hyper
violent serial felon. Goebbels could not have imagined propaganda of
this scale.

This is not simply bias. The mass media is a highly coordinated lie
machine, purpose built to promote a blood libel against white people.
Russell Orlando Courtier is a monster who should be in a cage, but
people like Larnell Bruce Jr. are, according to the Obama
administration, three percent of the population, but responsible for 30%
of the homicides in this country. Yet, according to the lie machine,
outliers like Courtier are the great threat to democracy, while the far
more common and lethal people like Bruce are the victims.

It is a bit of trope now to point out that the anti-white bias in the
media. It is so pervasive and common, it is now the soundtrack of our
lives. That really does not get to the nature of the hatred these people
have for us. A dinky little publication like the Oregonian invested
hundreds of hours in order to promote this fake hate crime. You don’t do
that unless the hatred is so consuming that it is the focus of your
life. The fact is, these people are now defined by their hatred of white
America. It’s who they are. It’s all they are.
