---
title: "Post-Intellectual America"
date: "2019-08-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18513"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18513"
---

The sorry state of American conservatism is a regular topic in dissident
circles, mostly because the decaying carcass of Conservative Inc.
continues to stagger around politics and the media. Some parts continue
to do the best they can in their gatekeeper role, while others continue
to rationalize Progressive fanaticism. It staggers on mostly because of
donor money that keeps the various rackets going. For how long is
unknown, as the source of that money is now quite old.

An example is the recently dead David Koch. A long time libertarian
fanatic, he and his brother poured tens of millions into so-called
conservatism. They kept Reason Magazine afloat and helped set up its
finances so it will persist after the Koch brothers are gone. They also
played an active role in turning Buckley-style conservatism into
warmongering libertarianism. Neocon money on one side and Koch brother’s
money on the other defined post-Cold War conservatism.

The trouble with this structure is it operated like a vice, squeezing
everything useful out of the Right, leaving nothing but pens for hire,
career men and fanatics. What was squeezed from conservatism was any
reason to support it. On the one hand, it wished to turn men into moist
robots serving the economy. On the other it sought to convince Americans
they had to be cannon fodder in the national pursuits of Israel. Its
political pitch to white Americans was reduced to, “But the Left is much
worse.”

You see the emptiness of conservatism in this [Kevin Williamson
post](https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/08/david-koch-conservative-regard-high-culture/)
about how David Koch was supposedly on the Right. The post itself is
mostly about Williamson, who has taken to writing like a teenage girl of
late. Everything is about his feelings now. Putting that aside, his
claim for placing David Koch on the Right, and presumably libertarians
as a whole, is that he liked ballet. This is supposedly evidence of his
love for high culture, which according to Williamson is the exclusive
domain of the Right.

Of course, the question of *whose* high culture never enters the
discussion, as that treads on dangerous territory. For the modern
conservative, “culture” has come to mean a universal thing that anyone
can enjoy. More important, it has no origin. It just popped from the
void, fully formed. Koch’s alleged love for this mystical thing
supersedes his support for open borders and globalism, not to mention
his support for Progressive causes like homosexual marriage and abortion
on demand.

Another reason co-called conservatives were happy to call Koch a
right-winger is the Left was happy to call him a right-winger. The best
maneuver in the Progressive playbook is to select the leaders of their
opponents. They focus their attention on one soft target, making that
person the symbol of their cause. That person then becomes the easily
mocked and ridiculed leader of the opposition. For example, they turned
the alt-right into a joke by cultivating Richard Spencer as the face of
the movement.

In the case of the Koch brothers, the Left was happy to make them the
bad guys, as they were never going to be a threat. Instead, they would
pour millions into conservative operations, which would happily purge
themselves of social conservatives and skeptics of global capitalism.
That neocon – libertarian sandwich that was conservatism, became the
other slice of the Progressive sandwich that controls American politics.
The choice is a libertarian warmonger or a Progressive fanatic. That’s
democracy!

The end result of that neocon – libertarian vice is that so-called
conservatism was stripped of its intellectual core, as well as its
connection to its intellectual history. Rather than a defense of
tradition and the moral order, conservatism became a public relations
department for the plutocrats financing them. Like every racket, the
money is always what comes first. Conservative writers are just common
streetwalkers, going with whoever pulls up to the curb. They’ll do
anything for a buck.

In fairness, their dancing partner is no better. It largely goes
unremarked, but the Left is every bit as intellectually vacant as
conservatism. They are silent on global capitalism and silent on the
ramifications of the post-national order. They are entirely incoherent
on why they support the things they support. The conservative case for
men in dresses is ridiculous, but looks erudite compared to the
Progressive case. The modern Left is a toddler rolling on the floor,
sobbing out incoherent demands.

Of course, the purpose of the commentariat in current year America is to
operate as an endless distraction. The Left carries on so that their
side does not notice that politics is now controlled by a handful of
billionaires and their hired men in politics. The Right has the job of
keeping the white middle-class focused on punching at air, while those
billionaires tighten their grip on the economy and culture.
Conservatives and liberals are now just the entertainment portion of the
custodial state.

Perhaps this is just the natural transition from one historic cycle to
the next. We are arguably at the end of several long historic cycles.
The Enlightenment, the Industrial Age and the American Empire are all
reaching a denouement. The confluence of these three final acts is
responsible for the great tumult in the West. The lack of an
intellectual class is simply the result of these cycles having run their
course. What comes next is a new intellectual class for the demographic
and technological age.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
