---
title: "The Progressive Sandwich"
date: "2019-10-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18821"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18821"
---

If one were to summarize why Buckley-style conservatism failed, the
clearest answer is that it stopped being conservative. The central
tenets of conservatism are tradition, organic society, hierarchy,
authority, property rights and prudence. In the Anglo-Saxon model,
ordered liberty can also be included. The limits on authority are the
logic of a fixed and orderly legal system. Probably the most concise
[explanation](https://kirkcenter.org/conservatism/ten-conservative-principles/)
of American conservatism came from Russel Kirk seventy years ago.

Buckley conservatism, in contrast, was never deeply rooted in social
philosophy and this was a deliberate act. The Buckleyites wanted a
create a political movement that could compete with Progressives. In
order to do that it meant winning elections and that meant providing a
practical platform for governance. As a result, Buckley conservatism was
always a compromise. In order to fashion a practical political platform,
it meant deviating from conservative dogma as necessity required.

This lack of ideological moorings, however, led it to drift away from
conservatism toward something that is better described as marketism.
Libertarians see property as the key to individual liberty. All human
rights derive from ownership of self and property is the fruit of labor,
so absolute property rights safeguard individual liberty. Marketism, in
contrast, views liberty as the unfettered right to trade property and
labor. Therefore, liberty is maximized only through the free and
unregulated marketplace.

In both cases, the definition of individual liberty is at odds with
conservative conceptions of individual liberty, as well as the tenets of
conservatism. The Right has always understood that a man could only be
free within the context of society. To exist within a society, he must
gain control of his passions and master himself. Customs and traditions,
which habituated him to his duties as a member of society, also
channeled his energies to that which served the good of his society.

This conception of ordered liberty, in which man can only be free within
the context of his role in society, is the wellspring of conservative
thought. Respect for hierarchy, for example, is not just an observation
of man’s natural state, but an acceptance of the fundamental nature of
human society. Similarly, the right of property can only be a coherent
concept within a human society, not outside it. There can be no property
rights without society, so property rights must ultimately serve the
good of society.

For libertarians and market absolutists, any restraint on how you can
dispose of your property or how you trade property with others is seen
as a violation of your individual sovereignty. Inevitably, it means
taking the side of the market when it bumps up against custom or
tradition. It means siding with novelty that promises more market
freedom, even when it undermines the organic institutions of society.
Inevitably, conservatives became the defenders of the wrecking ball that
destroyed American culture.

It’s why a Kevin Williamson could gleefully cheer for the destruction of
small-town America and their customs, in the name of the free market.
From his perspective, the limitations of localism are a gross violation
of freedom, so destroying those local communities sets the residents
free to maximize their economic utility. Buckley conservatism has
drifted so far from its alleged starting position, it now stands in
opposition to that which defined its alleged starting position.

This [recent
piece](https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/10/california-college-sports-law-takes-aim-at-ncaa-cartel/)
by David French is another example. In it, he turns conservatism on its
head in order to promote marketism. The problems of college athletics,
however you wish to frame them, are not the result of too little
commercialism. Only a blithering idiot could come to such a conclusion.
The trouble with college sports, and the college system as a whole, is
it is now almost entirely free of the system of customs and traditions
that created it. Higher education is a market that strives to be a
racket.

David French, of course, has become the comical front man for Buckley
conservatism over the last few years. His blend of sanctimonious finger
wagging and principled mediocrity is the exaggerated version of the
dissident critique of conventional conservatism. He is the clown nose of
Conservative Inc. This is not solely due to his many personal defects.
His embrace of unconditional marketism has led him to adopt an entirely
transactional view of human existence.

There used to be a time when both sides of the Progressive orthodoxy
understood the limits and liabilities of the marketplace. The Left would
howl about consumerism at the expense of authenticity. The Right would
point out the dangers inherent in an unfettered marketplace. Buckley
famously said, “The trouble with socialism is socialism. The trouble
with capitalism is capitalists.” The modern conservative would not
understand that juxtaposition. For him, the marketplace is supreme.

The underlying truth of radicalism is that it not only seeks to free men
from the human condition, but it seeks to have them rise to the heavens
and become gods. For the modern conservative, something similar has
evolved. Whether it is a fetish for property or a fetish for markets,
the Buckley conservatives imagine men breaking free of their constraints
in order to become fully engaged market participants. For them, the
paradise at the end is a shopping mall full of atomized strangers.

That’s why Buckley conservatism has failed. It is a primal call for a
war of all against all, where atomized bugmen jostle to maximize their
utility in the market. To consume product is the end point of existence.
It is a crude and vulgar existence that celebrates man’s worst instincts
at the expense of his nobler aspirations. What is on offer from
so-called conservatives is a different type of hell than what is on
offer from their partners on the Left, but it is still the same
Progressive sandwich.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
