---
title: "Old Movies"
date: "2019-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16453"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16453"
---

When I was a kid, we did not have cable, mostly because it did not
exist, at least as we understand it. Cable TV existed as far back as the
1950’s, but it was not common, and the selection was no different from
over the air offerings. It has been a long time, but I recall we had two
network channels we could reliably receive over the air and two or three
minor channels. UHF channels were local and played mostly re-runs of old
shows and some local broadcasting. VHF channels had the national network
offerings.

From the vantage point of the 1970’s, “old” TV shows were mostly things
from the 1960’s, but old movies from the 40’s and 50’s were common too.
In other words, if you wanted to peak back in time to the previous eras
of American culture, you could reliably go back a decade and selectively
go back a few decades. Bad old TV shows like Get Smart and Star Trek
would go into syndication, but bad old movies were just forgotten. The
old movies that were shown on TV were usually the good ones that people
liked.

What that meant is if you wanted to know what it was like to live in
1945, you had to ask someone who was alive in 1945. You could get a
little taste from watching old movies on a Saturday afternoon, but that
was a stylish version. To really get a feel for the age before color
movies and television, you had to rely on the fading memories of grandma
and grandpa. Of course, this was true for all human history until
recently. It is why old people are good at telling stories about the old
days. They are built for it.

Today it is different. I watched [The Thomas Crown
Affair](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0063688/) the other night off the
Kodi machine. This was the 1968 version with Faye Dunaway and Steve
McQueen. There was a remake of this in 1999 with Pierce Bronson. I had
seen the remake a few times, but I never saw the original. In fact, I
did not know there was an original. That is a bit of interesting
cultural data right there. Just about every movie produced over the last
twenty-five years is either a remake or made from a children’s comic
book.

What I found remarkable about the movie is something I notice whenever I
watch old movies and that is the maturity. A movie about the cat and
mouse between a male and female today will have at least half an hour of
rutting and humping, along with some explosions and lots of vulgar
language. The modern presentation of male-female relations is so crude,
that porn makers of the past would have been offended. In the old days,
the film maker and audience expected a more sophisticated portrayal of
sexual relations.

That is the other thing that turns up in old movies and television.
Hollywood made assumptions about the cultural awareness of the audience
we do not see now.  In the Thomas Crown Affair, there is a long scene
around a chess game. It was supposed to be a stand in for the sexual
tension between McQueen and Dunaway. It is a bit ham-handed, but vastly
more sophisticated than anything you would see today. One reason is the
typical viewer today knows nothing about chess, so it would be lost on
them.

Part of that is due to Hollywood relying on international audiences to
make money. You cannot expect to make money in China or India when your
film is full of essential references to Anglo-Saxon cultural items. When
you make films for the universal culture, you make movies for a culture
that does not exist. That means the goal is to remove cultural
references, rather than rely on them to tell a story. There can be no
subtlety and nuance without common cultural reference points understood
by the audience.

The main thing that jumps out in old movies is the respect people had
for themselves. The reason Steve McQueen was a star was because he
played a role that was something men could aspire too. He would never
have played a homosexual junkie or some other type of degenerate. People
knew these sorts of people existed, but they expected them to be on the
fringe of their lives and therefore on the fringe of their stories.
Watch old movies and you see references to degeneracy, but it is always
oblique.

Again, this goes to that respect for the audience. Just as the audience
did not require thirty minutes of sex scenes to know the male and female
were intimate, the audience did not have to see the gritty details of
degeneracy to know it existed. The old movies assumed the viewers were
adults who knew about the reality of life. Today’s film makers have to
assume the viewers are retarded and need everything explained. Movies in
late empire America are made for the recently arrived, provincial
barbarians.

Finally, the thing that makes watching old movies worth the time is they
offer a window into that long-forgotten country of our ancestors. Unlike
when I was a kid, young people do not have to rely on old people telling
them stories of the old days. Today, you can watch anything and
everything ever made by Hollywood, even the bad stuff. Young people can
watch [YouTube
clips](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1siwMVrS0qE&start_radio=1&list=RD1siwMVrS0qE#t=0)
from that country where humor was still legal. Most of it is crap, just
as today, but it reveals what it was like in the bad old days.

More important, watching those old movies and TV shows, you cannot help
but notice the early signs of poz being introduced. The stuff from the
1970’s is much more degenerate than the stuff from the 1960’s. In the
1980’s, the dumbing down becomes obvious as the makers started courting
non-white audiences. It is a good way to see how where we are now did
not happen overnight. It was a long, deliberate war waged with patience
and purpose. The fight for freedom will be long and require patience
too.
