---
title: "Right-Wing Feminism"
date: "2019-12-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19293"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19293"
---

Feminism is a term that is exclusively associated with left-wing
activism and generally associated with the more radical elements of the
culture war. Modern feminists are the emotionally disturbed old maids in
the human resource department, stalking about, looking for unapproved
words and thoughts. These are the people purging social media of
anything funny or interesting. While true, it disguises the fact that
feminism is as much a part of the conventional Right as it is the Left.

At its core, feminism is the product of egalitarianism. If all men are
created equal, in the moral sense, then surely all women are equal.
Further, if all men are equal and all women are equal, in a moral sense,
then men and women must also be equal and should therefore be treated as
equals. It is this sense of moral equality that drove first wave
feminism to demand equal contract, marriage, parenting, and property
rights for women. Morally equal people should be legally equal.

From there, of course, feminism was transformed into a weapon to
undermine the mores of white society. Second wave feminism focused on
destroying family life through the promotion of divorce and sexual
degeneracy. Third wave feminism focused on destroying the very notion of
womanhood with the promotion of bizarre sexual fetishes and
homosexuality. Fourth wave feminism focuses on the promotion of
emotionally unstable women making a nuisance of themselves on-line.

The lurch into what amounts to the promotion of female psychosis
obscures the fact that feminism in a stock part of conventional
conservatism. It is not at the point of pushing weird sexual practices
and physical mutilation, but so-called conservatism fully embraces the
egalitarianism of first wave feminism and the moral license of second
wave feminism. You see that in social media characters targeting
conservative women, like [this one](https://twitter.com/iheartmindy)
that has 165,000 followers on twitter.

Note that [her
act](https://twitter.com/iheartmindy/status/1205547050802253824) is a
blend of pinup girl bimbo, outrageous gun advocacy and, of course, lots
of red, white and blue. That is the core of conservative feminism. It is
a blend of mostly male habits like shooting guns and riding motorcycles,
frosted with the vulgar sex appeal of Hollywood and over-the-top
patriotism. Go through that twitter feed and it is basically just 1990’s
Conservative Inc. packaged for what the people behind it assume is the
target audience, people they generally detest.

That is the important part of it. The people behind these accounts are
often nothing like the marketing. The Reagan Battalion, for example,
were left-wing Orthodox Jews, buddies of Ben Shapiro, by the way. One
guy was [Benny Polatseck](https://twitter.com/BPolatseck), public
relations consultant, and the other was [Yossi
Gestetner](https://twitter.com/YossiGestetner), a marketing guy. They
were also tied to the NeverTrump operation. The point being is that
Mindy Robinson probably looks more like Harvey Weinstein than the
pictures on that twitter account.

Even so, what is sold to conservative women is really just feminism with
lots of conventional conservative decorations. The “strong conservative
women” is independent, patriotic, shoots guns and so on. The idealized
conservative woman is now 1970’s Clint Eastwood with a vagina and some
tasteful nudes on her social media profile. Conservative women are
supposed to display all of the aggressive male attributes one used to
associate with action heroes.

More important, it is every bit as socially destructive as the left-wing
variant of feminism, because it denies the very essence of the sexes.
Men and women are complementary not just biologically, but socially.
What makes settled society possible is a division of labor that goes
beyond the physical. What distinguishes West from East is that in the
West, this division of labor maximizes the utility of both sexes. Women
are not just baby makers, but the glue that holds together local
community.

The promotion of women and men as equal in all things has had the
devastating effect of destroying the traditional role of women. With it
has gone the social capital that made western societies so resilient.
Promoting right-wing women with guns is every bit as damaging as
portraying them as a butch lesbian playing the traditional male roles in
television and film. It is a discrediting of the tradition in favor of
the novel, which is useless and unwanted.

You will note that fertility rates on the Left in America collapsed
before they did on the right side of the political spectrum. Into the
1980’s, conservatives were getting married and having families. This was
often mocked by the Left as being backward. As right-wing feminism began
to take hold, the same drop in fertility has happened in the more
conservative parts of society. The fact is, even assuming Mindy Robinson
looks anything like her pictures, no man would want to put up with that.

The promotion of right-wing feminism has not just perverted the females.
It has warped the minds of males now too. That cartoon version of a
woman you see pushed by the so-called conservatives is not a complement
to a normal male. That is the sort of girl you drink with at the pub. If
you are in a dry spell, well, maybe you take her for a spin, but you
will not be taking her home to mom. The adventuress has crowded out the
market for the sorts of female roles that make society possible.

An authentic alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy will have to
redefine the female role in society as something useful and appealing.
The response to Mindy Robinson posing with a gun should be demand she
pose with a sandwich or ironing a shirt. A bimbo on a Harley must first
be treated as grotesque before there can be room for an authentic
alternative to right-wing feminism. Of course, women have to be the lead
in such efforts, as wherever women go, men must follow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
