---
title: "Technology And Social Trust"
date: "2019-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16446"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16446"
---

People working in criminal law have been saying for years that
Hollywood’s portrayal of forensic evidence has made it more difficult to
prosecute criminals. They call it the “CSI Effect” named after a TV
police drama. It is where jurors demand comprehensive forensic evidence,
which effectively raises the burden of proof in criminal cases. Instead
of eyewitness testimony placing a suspect at the crime scene, jurors now
expect physical evidence and testimony from an expert on the use of DNA
to identify the suspect.

There is no data to support this observation, but it is something that
gets said a lot on TV, so everyone believes it. The increased
expectation of what science can do has effectively raised the standard
of proof. Another way to look at this is better technology has lowered
the standard of trust. It used to be that people could trust themselves
to judge the testimony of a witness. They could count on citizens being
honest to them. Now, they want physical proof before taking the word of
anyone in criminal court.

Of course, now that people in the legal system think this phenomenon is
true, they operate on the assumption that no one will take anyone’s word
for anything. That means the state invests in high tech forensic labs
and pays a lot of experts to testify to jurors in criminal trials about
the physical evidence. On the other side, the defense thinks simply
being innocent is not enough, so they require experts and private labs
to both provide an objective denial of guilt, as well as a counter to
the state’s battery of experts.

It is a great example of how new technology can have unexpected results
when introduced into a complex system like the criminal justice system.
The underlying assumption of our system is that regular citizens can
weigh the evidence and decide the guilt or innocence of the accused. Now
the assumption is no one can weigh the evidence, other than specially
trained experts. Technology has conjured into reality the idea of the
[fair
witness](http://dlkphotography.com/fair-witness/stranger-in-a-strange-land)
from Stranger in a Strange Land.

The courtroom is not the only place where technology is causing us to
lose faith in our senses. The advent of the hyperlink has made it so
that any controversial assertion on-line is assumed to be false if it
does not have a link to an authoritative source. In every on-line
community you see demands for links to authoritative sources, whenever
there is a dispute over something. These appeals to a neutral authority
correspond to a decline in the lack of trust between people. It is not
true unless you have a link.

Something similar may be happening in the news. Take the Jussie Smollett
incident in Chicago. Exactly no one believed him, because there was no
video and no corroboration from a neutral technology source, like a cell
phone camera. As soon as the cops revealed they could not find
confirmation on their surveillance cameras, everyone just assumed it
must be a hoax. There were plenty of doubters to begin with, given the
number of prior hoaxes, but even the gullible are now expecting proof
from technology.

The proliferation of cameras and now listening devices on public streets
means it is increasingly difficult to do anything without being seen.
Even if that is not true, it is assumed to be true. That means if there
is no video, it did not happen. It also means if there is no video,
there is no investigation, as the cops will soon figure out that it is
waste of time to investigate crimes unless you can get video. The
criminal mastermind of the future will be the guy who figures out how to
avoid being identified by CCTV.

Another way the proliferation of technology changes social trust is seen
on the college campus. In order to avoid being accused of rape, males
now tape their interactions with coeds. They may have a buddy record
audio so they can prove the encounter was consensual. Young people are
growing up to expect everything to be recorded and not to trust anyone
unless they can see video or hear audio. People mock the idea of getting
consent in writing, but that is probably better than everyone taping
their encounters.

The other side of this coin is the casual way in which people allow
themselves to be recorded by others. Every internet drama seems to
involve one party publishing chats, videos, or audio of another party.
Super villain Jeff Bezos is an obvious example. He broke the cardinal
rule of super villains. Never write when you can speak. Never speak when
you can nod. Most important, never send pics of your wiener to people.
He was cavalier about being recorded and now is the world’s silliest
supervillain.

The result of all this is two things. One is the total lack of privacy.
The only place that will be safe for anyone to imagine bad things is in
their own head. When the internet of things is quietly spying in every
home, car and public place, there will no longer be the concept of
privacy. Imagine a land where there are no walls and no clothes.
Everyone walks around naked and in full view of everyone else. It sounds
crazy, but people adapt. The citizens of the future custodial state will
get used to a word without privacy.

The other thing is no one will take anyone’s word for anything. This
will include people in authority. If you cannot trust your own senses,
you are unlikely to trust the senses of some guy on television claiming
to be your leader. Civic duty will have to be replaced with some form of
coercion. Perhaps [nudge
technology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nudge_theory) will reach a
point where the nudged will think they are acting of their own free
will. Maybe the people in charge will fit everyone with a Wi-Fi enabled
[technology collar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B6hGvRSQJaw) that
ties them into the internet of things.

It is assumed that technological advances always improve the material
world. It certainly seems that way. It is possible, however, that the
trade-off for technological advance is the decline in social trust,
maybe even a decline in empathy. In order for these new technologies to
thrive, people have to abandon their ability to share the feelings of
others and maybe even abandon their sense of self. The future will be a
world of indifferent automatons, living in glass houses, under the eye
of the state.
