---
title: "The Party Of Hate"
date: "2019-07-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18043"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18043"
---

The Left in America has always been adept at playing identity politics.
While it is a useful way to build coalitions, identity politics fits
naturally with radicalism. The Left in the West starts with the
assumption that human society is like a watch. Each component interacts
with other components to make the whole thing go. It is not a big leap
from there to seeing society as a collection of parts. Appealing to
those parts on narrow grounds is simply the logical way to go about
politics for the Left.

This worked pretty well after the Second World War, because America was
90% white, so the Left could sure up their numbers, without ceding power
to these auxiliary forces they bribed into their coalition. They could
promise blacks whatever was needed, as there was never a fear of blacks
taking over the party. If any of these auxiliary groups got mad the
people in charge, there was not much they could do about, other than
complain and ask for a better deal next time.

As America becomes majority-minority that old formula can no longer
work. In the current Democrat party, blacks make up a majority of
primary votes in some states. It’s not enough for candidates to promise
them free stuff. More important, the loyalty of those tribes to the
whole is transactional. Their first loyalty is to their tribe and their
loyalty to the cause of the party is conditional. That means identity
politics within the party is an endless negotiation to redress of past
grievances.

You see this in how poor old creepy Joe Biden is being treated by the
coalition of the ascendant. He made the rather valid and sensible point
that he has found a way to work with all sports of people in his career,
even segregationists. They were, for a long time, a key part of the
Democrat party. He is being pilloried for this, not because it is good
for the party in anyway, but it is good for the blacks. Kamala Harris is
running as a black, so calling Biden a bigot is good for her, as it
boosts her credibility with blacks.

That’s where the tribal loyalty comes in. Michelle Obama, who spent more
than eight years around Biden, <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/07/07/michelle-obama-silent-on-bidens-praise-for-segregationists/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">is also piling on</a> poor old
Joe. Even though Biden was a loyal toady to her husband, helping him get
into the White House, Michelle can’t come to his aid, because she’s
black and he’s white. Her tribal loyalty comes before her loyalty to the
party. This, despite the fact Harris is backed by the Clinton machine.
For blacks like Michelle Obama, hatred of white people is who she is,
above all else.

Within the domain of group identity, there are two types of identity.
One is the positive identity that is rooted in the attributes of the
group. The other is a negative identity that is rooted in some outside
force or group. Icelandic, for example, is a positive identity as it is
rooted in genetic qualities of the people of Iceland. African-American,
in contrast, is a negative identity, because it is based entirely on the
negative relationship between the decedents of America slaves and white
people in America.

In the case of the people of Iceland, they would continue to be
Icelandic, even if every other type of human on earth died tomorrow. If
those people then migrated off their island and took up residence in
what is now England, they would still be Icelandic, at least until
evolution worked its magic on them. Given enough time, the people living
on what is now England, would develop traits that are unique to them.
They would create a shared history that is different from their
ancestors in Iceland.

On the other hand, African-Americans are entirely dependent upon white
people for their identity. If every white person moved to Canada, blacks
would move to Canada, as they need to be near whites in order to
maintain their sense of identity. If all other humans on earth died
tomorrow, the African-American population would lose its identity and
devolve into some new identity or identities. Evolution and their innate
qualities would no doubt make them into tribes of hunter-gatherers.

This is the problem Democrats will face as they elevate blacks and other
non-whites in their party. When you’re defined by your hatreds, there
can be no limit placed on that hatred, as it is the celebration of self.
That’s why the anti-white campaign is rapidly accelerating on the Left.
In the quest to reach a new limit of self-affirmation, they must find
some new way to hate white people. The result will be something like
then ANC, where the only white faces will be Jews and some females.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
