---
title: "House of Cards"
date: "2019-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18332"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18332"
---

One of the things that was revealed in the 2008 mortgage crisis was the
fragility of the global financial system. The system that was born of
the Louvre Accords was supposed to be robust and resilient, unlike the
previous arrangements. The masters of finance would be able to keep a
steady hand on the tiller, guiding the world economy through each storm,
rather than have a free-for-all ever time there was a little turmoil. Up
until 2008, everyone knew something like the mortgage crisis was
impossible.

A credit based financial system was supposed to get around the problem
of currency devaluation to solve political problems. That’s been a
problem since the advent of coinage. When the state gets in trouble, the
easiest ways to solve it is to spend money on the public. Whether it was
debasing the coinage or printing paper money, the solution to spending
money that did not exist was the create it. That always created new and
bigger problems for the society down the line.

One way of looking at the mortgage crisis is as a form of currency
devaluation. The global financial system is based in credit. That’s the
base unit of value. Government debt and to a slightly lesser degree,
corporate debt, is the foundation of the global financial system.
Government issues debt, which increases the supply of money in the
system, as that debt is used as collateral in the system. Central banks
can buy and sell debt to control the supply of money in the system.

What no one thought much about, it seems, is how players in the system
could devalue credit, in the same way governments devalued currency.
That’s exactly what the mortgage brokers were doing. By lowering credit
standards for borrowing, they were debasing a fundamental unit of
currency in the system. This went unnoticed for a long time until
everyone started noticing at the same time. The panic to unload the
debased currency – those bad mortgages – set off the mortgage crisis of
2008.

That’s something to keep in mind as the next crisis appears on the
horizon. The Wall Street Journal ran <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/ge-is-new-target-of-madoff-whistleblower-11565866617"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a story</a> on General
Electric’s financial issues. It’s based on
<a href="https://www.gefraud.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">a report</a> by independent watchdog Harry Markopolos,
who got famous sounding the alarm over Bernie Madoff’s scheme. For those
familiar with global corporate finance, it is an interesting read, as GE
is the exemplar of corporate legerdemain. It is not unreasonable to say
that GE exists to exploit gaps in the regulatory system.

General Electric is one of those companies that looks like one thing,
but in reality is just a financial scheme masquerading as a legitimate
business. For example, their stunning growth in the 1990’s was not due
to great manufacturing innovation. It was the result of GE Capital, a
banking arm of the company. This arm not only financed their clients,
who bought GE products, it financed GE’s expansion through acquisition.
Without GE Capital as its credit creation vehicle, there would be no
General Electric.

When you dig through the report, there are the familiar signs from the
2008 crisis. The allegation is GE is exaggerating one side of the
balance sheet and minimizing the other, in order to make its liquidity
appear much higher than reality. The whole point of this is to maintain
a credit rating that allows it to borrow at competitive rates. Those
lenders are not all that interested in the facts behind those numbers,
as they have no incentive to examine the credit worthiness of General
Electric.

Now, GE is one firm and maybe this is both exaggerated and isolated.
That’s not the way to bet though. One of the ignored aspects of global
business is that even tech oligopolies rely on a financing arm to exist.
Apple, for example, is really a <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/apple-is-a-hedge-fund-that-makes-phones-1535063375"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">hedge fund</a> that makes
phones. Braeburn Capital is a wholly owned asset management company
based in Reno, Nevada. Other tech giants are far less transparent, but
every bit as wedded to the credit system to maintain their positions.

In theory, having global corporations as nodes in the global credit
system is not a bad thing, because it makes them easier to regulate. In
reality, as we saw with the mortgage crisis and now with General
Electric, it also encourages everyone to overstate their credit
worthiness. It also encourages opacity. The more complex and opaque the
financial statement, the more costly the audit. Again as we saw with the
credit agencies in 2008, the simple answer it to take the statements at
face value.

That was the other thing revealed in the mortgage crisis. The system was
a black box, even to the people inside it. The decisions makers in the
big banks were unaware of what was happening upstream to pollute their
asset pools. Of course, they had no incentive to care, so they never
looked. Those people upstream had no way of knowing what they were
creating downstream, but they had no reason to care. Regulators, of
course, had no skill to examine the system and they did not care either.

Global debt, which includes government, corporate and household, is now
50% higher than it was at the time of the 2008 financial crisis. Due to
the massive expansion of government debt, the stated quality of the
overall debt is higher than in 2008, but this assumes government never
runs out of money. Given that government solvency is tied to corporate
and household solvency, that’s not an indisputable assumption. All
anyone can really know is the world is awash in debt at all levels.

One read of the 2008 crisis was that it was a proof of concept. Instead
of the system collapsing the world into depression and war, it withstood
a huge blow and slowly eased the world out of the crises. The other read
is that it was a warning about the internal logic of the system. A
credit based economy is a house of cards. If the wrong card falls, the
whole system collapses. It could be that the warning over GE is like the
warning over mortgage lending. A warning to the house of cards.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
