---
title: "The Value Of Dumb Ideas"
date: "2019-12-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19411"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19411"
---

Dumb ideas are a feature of democracy. The main reason for this is the
majority of people trusted with a vote are average or below average.
Democracy works on the assumption that people work in series. Connect
enough of them, no matter their intellectual capacity, and you get
enough brain power. In reality, people work in parallel, so the more you
connect, the faster dumb ideas flow through society. Democracy is the
form of government with the lowest resistance to dumb ideas.

Another aspect of this is that dumb ideas never die. At the risk of
mixing science and superstition, dumb ideas are like demons from Hell.
They are never killed. They can be exorcised and sent back to the pit,
but they always find a way out. Like a demon, they inhabit a new body
and employ new tricks, so the dumb idea often looks like an entirely new
dumb idea. That’s what you see with the universal basic income. It is an
old dumb idea that has come back in a new disguise.

Dumb ideas are not without their utility. Until they are revealed to be
dumb, people debate them and that debate says something about the
people. The homosexual marriage debate, which feels like a lifetime ago,
revealed that the left side of the political class was going insane,
while the right side had quit on its stool. In the fullness of time, the
surrender on homosexual marriage will be seen as the point where
conservatism entered the death spiral. That’s the power of dumb ideas.

In the case of the UBI, Andrew Yang becoming a household name based on
his promotion of the idea underscores the bankruptcy of the Left. The
reason Yang got so much attention is he is the only guy talking about
policy. His idea may be silly, but at least it is an idea. People can
hear the proposal and think about what it would mean to them if it was
enacted. The rest of the candidates emote about intersectional
grievances and social justice. They may as well be speaking in tongues.

Of course, the intellectual bankruptcy of the Left is not a new idea. In
the 1990’s it became clear that the American Left had run out of
practical road and was veering into the side roads of the bizarre.
Conservatives used to crow about how they had many more plans for having
the government do stuff. The thing is, the American Right was always
just the straight man for the Left. It was never intended to be the
star. Their job was to respond to the hijinks of their Progressive
partners.

Another side benefit of the UBI is that it resonated with young people
on the Right, who tweeted Yang onto the big stage. They were attracted
to that promised allowance of a thousand bucks a month. It was mostly a
joke, but it revealed a truth about the people moving from conventional
politics. That is, there is a slow re-discovery of the fact that the
point of government is to serve the people. Public policy is not about
pleasing the economy, but about improving the life of the people.

The UBI debate has also leaked into adult conversation. The
paleoconservatives are coming around to the idea that the economy is a
false god. That wing of conservatism never went down the libertarian
dead end, but they did get lost in the wilderness of foreign policy
fanaticism. For a long time, they have focused solely on the endless
wars and to a lesser extent the slobbering obedience to Israel. [This
post](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/universal-basic-income-an-idea-whose-time-has-come/)
in the American Conservative suggests that is changing.

Again, the UBI is a dumb idea. Giving everyone an allowance of some
figure simply makes that allowance the [new
zero](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12507). Whatever initial benefit
people experience will soon be gobbled up by retail inflation as the new
money hits the streets. You don’t fix massive inequality by dropping
cash into the ghetto. What matters here is that people are starting to
think again about government playing an active role in defending
society, rather than acting as the great paladin of the economy.

Probably the most important observation that comes from the UBI
discussion is that it has no impact on elite opinion. The Democrat
candidates on stage look at Andrew Yang and fail to connect his presence
with his ideas. Instead, they continue to pose in bizarre ways about
intersectional politics and grandiose reform schemes. You would think
that at least one of them would notice that a simple idea took an
unknown Jackie Chan body double and elevated him to the big stage.

What this reveals, maybe underscores is the right way to put it, is that
the political class, particular the inner party political class, is
beyond reform. It is just a collection of carny folk hired to perform by
the oligarchs. Those oligarchs look at America society in the same way
raiders look at a coastal village. They are focused on looting as much
as they can as fast as they can. If there is going to be reform, it will
come after the current ruling class is wiped out and replaced by
natives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
