---
title: "Woke Justice"
date: "2019-08-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18250"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18250"
---

Usually, when people think of corruption, they imagine government
officials taking bribes, selling access or self-dealing at the expense
of the people. It is the politician doing favors for someone, who is
secretly giving the politician money. It’s not that the act of taking
cash for access, for example, is illegal. It is that this sort of
self-dealing happens outside of public view. The constituents don’t know
that their representative is taking bribes or cutting secret deals at
their expense.

That’s why people take offense at this sort of corruption. It makes a
mockery of the whole democratic process. The point of representative
self-government is for the people to select representatives, who will
speak for them. Those representatives then populate government with
people, who have the duty to carry out government functions for the good
of the people. If the representatives or bureaucrats are taking bribes
and selling favors, it undermines the point of the democratic system.

This sort of corruption, regardless of scale, is petty corruption. The
people doing it acknowledge the reason for the political order and they
accept that their actions are in violation of that order. They know they
are violating the trust placed in them by their fellow citizens. They
are simply motivated by the same things that are always behind these
sorts of personal failures. They either give in to temptation or they
are of low character. Petty corruption is a part of the human condition.

There is another sort of corruption that is far worse. This is when the
people in positions of authority no longer respect the spirit of the
law. They see the law as nothing but an obstacle course, which they must
navigate in order to get what they want. Whether it is the process or
the limits, the law is just a puzzle they must defeat. This sort of
corruption is a rejection of the spirit of the law and the process
created to write and execute the laws. <a
href="https://americanmilitarynews.com/2019/07/ca-judge-rules-semi-auto-rifles-not-protected-under-2nd-amendment/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is the corruption</a> we
see in the courts.

There can be no reading of court precedents that would lead this judge
to rule that long guns are not protected by the Bill of Rights. The
Supreme Court has made that clear and legal scholars agree about the
intent of the Second Amendment. This women does not care about the law
or the spirit of the law. She is a political fanatic, who sees the law
and the political system as obstacles. She stands in opposition to the
political order, yet she is allowed to serve as a judge, rotting the
system from the inside.

Throughout the system, we see judges make rulings that fly in the face
of black letter law and prior precedents. It’s become such a common
occurrence, it is just assumed that every consequential case will end up
in the Supreme Court, as no one respects the rulings of lower courts.
The Ninth Circuit, for example, has been a punchline for decades,
because that court is stocked with fanatics and imbeciles, unable to
perform their basic duties. All of its rulings are assumed to be flawed.

This situation with the federal courts has become particularly acute
after Trump won the 2016 election. No matter what the administration
does, a federal judge somewhere rules it is unconstitutional. The
reasoning is often so bizarre, it suggests they are intentionally
mocking the spirit of the law. These judges are trying to discredit the
basis of the system that allows them to be judges. The court no longer
respects the spirit of the laws or the political system that creates
them

Most Americans, using the old definition of the term, still see the
courts as the backstop for democracy. While the courts often make
mistakes or give in to the fads of the day, the courts are still seen as
the safety valve. It’s why legacy Americans still talk about rights and
the rule of law. Despite what they see on their televisions every day,
they still think the people on the bench respect the spirit of the
constitutional system. That is no longer the case, as the courts are
thoroughly and irredeemably corrupt.

Of course, the problem with the courts did not happen overnight. The new
elite that coalesced in the middle of the last century lacked an
historical attachment to the Anglo-Saxon form of jurisprudence. Instead,
they either explicitly rejected that as bourgeois, and therefore
illegitimate. Or, they came from a different legal tradition in which
judges made and interpreted the law. Either way, the new elite that
formed after the war was at odds with the spirit of the American legal
and political system.

This corruption became clear in cases like
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Griswold_v._Connecticut"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Griswold v. Connecticut</a>
and more famously in <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roe_v._Wade"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Roe v. Wade</a>. In both
cases, the courts manufactured new law, based in nothing but the whims
of the court, but also corrupted the very basis of the legal system.
Ever since, the courts have been the most important branch of
government. The political class now fights for the power to stock the
courts with people, who promise to pervert the law in favor of their
side at the expense of the other.

We have reached the point now where the judges no longer feel that have
any need to respect the spirit of the laws and the system that created
them. Every case that goes to the Supreme Court has four votes for or
against it, regardless of the issue. The four Progressive fanatics are
so predictable, it is just assumed they will rule in favor of their
tribe’s wishes. The only question is which “conservative” judge will be
selected to fink on his team and side with the orientalists on the
bench.

Now we see that the lower courts are in full revolt. U.S. District Judge
Josephine Staton, the one who ruled that long guns are not protected by
the Second Amendment, no longer cares about the law. She is fully woke,
by which is meant fully politicized. She has no respect for the law or
the process that form and uphold the law. She and her fellows on the
bench are in full spiritual revolt against the system that makes it
possible for her to be a federal judge. She is the face of spiritual
corruption.

Petty corruption, like a judge taking a bribe, is no threat to the
system. A crooked judge can be exposed and his punishment can serve as a
reinforcement of the spirit behind the system. Every system needs a rule
breaker once in a while to test the resolve and be an example to
everyone. The corruption we see today is a sign that the system has
broken down completely. Our elites no longer have any respect for the
spirit of the law or the intellectual traditions that are supposedly its
foundation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
