---
title: "AmRen Journal I"
date: "2019-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17469"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17469"
---

In order to get to American Renaissance, I have to rent a car and drive
about an hour west to the secret location in the forest. It’s not a
terrible drive, so I don’t mind it, but I have come to hate dealing with
car rental places. For some reason, the Nashville car rental counters
are staffed by the worst people they can find. This time I was served by
a black guy named Abdul with a strange accent that I could not place.

Abdul had a very bad attitude, but the sort of thing that you see from a
sub-Saharan government worker. He carried on like I was disturbing him.
He also stopped doing what needed doing every few minutes to stare at
women walking past. The weird thing is the whole thing could be
automated at this point. Most of it is, but they still have guys like
Abdul working the counter for some reason.

The car was not where it was supposed to be, so with the help of guys
who looked like extras from a documentary on Hernán Cortés I found the
car. It turns out that Abdul is not good with his letters, so he
transposed some of them on the paperwork.  I get why many Americans are
not troubled by machines taking over these jobs. The machines are more
polite and make fewer mistakes…

I took a detour to see the Parthenon, which is a weird landmark in
Nashville that I have never seen, despite being here many times. It’s a
fun park and I highly recommend it if you are ever in Nashville and want
a nice relaxing afternoon. It’s still weird to have a copy of the
Parthenon in an Appalachian city, but it is quintessentially American.
The answer to “why build a Parthenon in Nashville” is “why not build
one?”

The rental car is Hyundai of some sort. It has all of the usual
electronics, plus the collision avoidance stuff. Man is that annoying.
Every truck that passed too close set of the buzzer. At some point, the
car decided I needed to take a break and started beeping, suggesting I
pull over for coffee. No kidding. I politely told the car to go screw,
but it kept making that suggestion every ten minutes.

I think one reason the word seems like it is going mad, is that it is
increasingly becoming idiot proof or at least trying to be idiot proof.
Our cars now treat us like children. To a normal person able to navigate
the world without help, this is awful. To the dummies, it is manna from
heaven, I’m guessing. Still, I’d like to get my hands on the engineer
who came up with the idea for the car to recommend coffee breaks…

The first time I attended American Renaissance, I was surprised by the
quality of the people, which was most due to my ignorance. It was more
like an academic conference than a political event. The point was the
attendees were educated, professional and representative of the sort
that keep the wheels of this society turning, which was what I found so
striking about my first time here.

This time, I’m struck by the youth. I’m 53 so I’m probably a bit more
aware of the age in the room these day, but correcting for that, the
room is much younger this year. There is a new generation coming into
focus here and that is encouraging. Interestingly, there were some
father and son attendees. In some cases, it is the father bringing the
son along and in others the son bringing the father. That’s another one
of those green shoots.

There are more women here than in the past. That’s probably a good
thing, but I’m not going to carve that into stone just yet. The Yoko Ono
problem is a universal that transcends time and place. Still, the women
I met here last night all seem level headed.  Now that Heartiste is in
internet gaol, I feel I have to pick up the slack on the wammin issue,
so consider this my contribution to the cause. Speedy return Heartiste…

In years past, the socializing has been about the journey to this side
of the great divide, with people trading stories about when they were
red pilled. This year, at least so far, the talk is all about how to get
more people to our side. It’s anecdotal, but it fits in with what I see
elsewhere, so maybe there is a trend here. My first guess is that the
number of people with their eyes wide open has reached a point where it
is no longer seen as unusual…

One last note before I head off to the morning sessions. Coming in
yesterday I bumped into Jared Taylor and his fiancée having a walk
around the grounds. We chatted for fifteen minutes or so. They wanted to
know if I have had any trouble traveling in Europe. I think Jared is
still pissed about his banning, which is understandable. It’s not so
much the banning, but the slimy way it was done. He expects better from
his adversaries.

The fact is though, we are being treated like dangerous revolutionaries
for simply wanting what people have taken for granted since the dawn of
human settlement. We’re not going to get better adversaries. We’re stuck
with the shabby, ruthless and vulgar people who take pleasure in
harassing normal people. We have to adjust to that. If we’re going to be
treated like revolutionizes, then we best start acting like them…

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">subscribe here</a>.
