---
title: "Mencken Day Two"
date: "2019-11-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19025"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19025"
---

At an event like Mencken, you can see why conservatism failed. Way back
when the founders of Buckley conservatism were plotting their way
forward, they started with the assumption that the majority of Americans
agreed with them. The two problems they faced were that the Left would
claim the intellectual high ground, thus bullying enough people into
going along with liberal reform ideas. They also faced the problem of
getting their people out to vote. They needed to mobilize the majority.

The solution was an effort to build a movement that would do three
things. One it would raise money from wealthy white people. Then it
would use that money to build out an intellectual framework from which
to confront the Left on intellectual terms. Then it would use the ideas
cooked up by those think tanks to rally conservative people in support
of those policies. The Right would have better ideas and better
mobilization.

This strategy always had an internal conflict. On the one hand, the
Right was going to cut through the Left’s heated rhetoric with facts and
reason. You still see that today when Ben Shapiro puts on his Spock ears
and tries to sound like an intellectual. The central claim of his act is
that you must put aside your passion. The trouble is, that directly
conflicts with mobilization efforts, which are always going to be an
emotional appeal for people to put aside reason and act on their
passions.

The resolution to this conflict was to sublimate emotional appeals to
the intellectual arguments of the Right. At a conference like Mencken,
which is still rooted in the conservative habits, the speeches are all
recitations of facts, empirical examinations of the Left’s arguments and
appeals to the reason of the audience. The only place you see emotion is
outrage at the excesses of the Left. There’s a pride in not allowing
that outrage to infiltrate the arguments made on behalf of conservative
issues.

That was an effective approach, in a country that was close to 90%
white, which was America in the 20th century. The conservative movement
turned the GOP from a minority party into the majority. By the 1990’s,
even Democrats like Bill Clinton were ready to declare big government
dead. Then the effects of demographic replacement started to show up at
the ballot box. That overwhelmingly white majority began to decline, so
those appeals to reason had a shrinking audience.

That is why Buckley conservatism is dead. It turns out that there are no
sound empirical reasons to defend your homeland, at least not ones that
will cause men to sacrifice for the effort. Those arguments need
passion, not four color graphs with supporting tables and citations. The
answer to the Left’s demand for immigration was not a tweedy
intellectual, but a man with passion for his people and his way of life,
willing to rally his people to do what must be done to defend those
lands…

An odd thing I just noticed this weekend is the difference in how
academics do public speaking versus the private sector. Academics read
their prepared remarks, usually looking down at the lectern. In the
corporate world, speakers memorize their speeches, maybe using some
notes to jog the memory, but otherwise look at the audience as they are
speaking. You’re taught to scan the audience to match the cadence of you
speech, so it looks like you are talking to each person directly.

Now, the issue may simply be that in the corporate world, speakers
tended to be trained to speak by professional public speakers. In my
time in that world, I went to plenty of classes on speaking,
interviewing, presenting and so on. My guess is few academic take a
public speaking course. Instead they just do what all the other
academics do, so it has become the custom. Maybe the audience drives it.
Academics may prefer to hear speeches read from text, so that’s why it
is done…

At the after-party, I was reminded why right-wing resistance to the Left
has always fallen to pieces on contact with the Left. Even in a crusty
fringe crowd like at Mencken, there is a weird pride in no one toeing
the company line. The Left never tolerates free thinkers, which is why
they can maintain disciple. The Right has always assumed that the
ideological discipline of the Left is a vice, so they have made sure to
have a diversity of opinion. The sperg army will never be a match for
the Left.

This is, of course, the result of generations of conditioning as to what
it means to be right-wing. Instead of being a stand-alone, positive set
of beliefs and aspirations, it is a laundry list of complaints about the
Left and a determination to be the mirror image of what is understood to
be left-wing at the moment. To be a right-winger is to never impose
discipline on the ranks, so everyone is free to be an army of one. The
Left, of course, is then free to pick them off one by one…

The main reason to go to these events is the social aspects. In my case,
it is an opportunity for readers and listeners to meet me. Given the
interactive nature of this form of media, I’m just as curious to meet
readers, as I have interacted with many of them for years now. The thing
I was thinking about on the way home is that I’ve never met a reader who
is less interesting in person than their on-line character. It speaks to
the superficiality of internet culture. On-line, we’re two-dimensional.

That is why the Left works so hard to keep us from meeting in real life.
When like-minded people get together, socialize and talk about the
issues, it raises morale and it builds social capital. That’s the force
multiplier the Left fears most, because they lack it in their own ranks.
Their discipline is fueled by rage and self-abnegation. Social capital
is like a fuel that creates more of itself as it burns. That’s why they
work so hard to keep us as atomized strangers living in our bespoke
silos on-line…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
