---
title: "Repo Men"
date: "2019-12-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19311"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19311"
---

There used to be a time when the mass media covered the Federal Reserve
as if it was Hollywood or a professional sports league. Whenever the Fed
acted or the Fed chairman made a statement, it was big news. That has
not been the case for a long time, mostly due to the mortgage meltdown.
Worshiping the money men was no longer good copy after they came close
to blowing up the world. Halfway through the Trump tenure, the media
barely mentions the Fed or Fed policy.

Still, the central banks remain the most important government
institutions on earth and this is particularly true of the Federal
Reserve. They control the global economy, because they control the
supply of money and credit. This is why the massive intervention into
the credit markets by the Federal Reserve recently should be front page
news. Something very big is happening and no one seems to know why, but
the Fed is responding to it with <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/its-d-day-repo-market-monday-100-billion-liquidity-will-be-drained-what-happens-next"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">$500 billion in new money</a>.

Now, they are not just printing up cash and throwing it out the window.
Instead, they are intervening in the repo market to head-off a market
crash. For those who don’t know, the repo market is not where
repossessed items are sold. The word “repo” is slang for repurchase
agreement¹. A repurchase agreement is a short-term funding mechanism
where one party needing cash, sells an asset to a party for cash, with
an agreement to repurchase the asset at an agreed upon price.

A repurchase agreement functions in effect as a short-term,
collateral-backed, interest-bearing loan. Much of what happens in the
world of investment banks is reliant on the repo market. In order for
these entitles to function, there has to be enough cash available in the
system for these transactions to occur. Otherwise, borrowing rates go
up, which means the cost of doing business goes up. Taken to the
extreme, no cash available means the credit markets lock up.

Since the financial system is like a watch with gears interlocking with
gears, one gear seizing up has the potential to seize up all the other
gears. A frozen repo market could result in a cash crunch for banks,
which locks up business and retail lending. That locks up the Main
Street economy and we’re looking at bread lines. The economy, as we
understand it, relies on a steady supply of money and credit freely
flowing through the system according to the rules established by central
banks.

As an aside, if the repo market probably sounds a lot like a pawnshop to
you. A pawn shop offers short-term, collateral based loans. You take the
family silver into the pawnshop and they give you cash. You agree to
come back with the cash, plus interest, to get the family silver out of
hock. If you blow the cash on a sure thing and are unable to pay the
pawnshop, they take ownership of your item and sell it for cash. So yes,
the financial system is built on the logic of the pawnshop.

Now, this move by the Fed is very curious. Clearly, something has caused
this problem in the repo market, but no one seems to know the cause.
It’s serious enough that the Fed’s balance sheet, currently at $4.1
trillion, will surpass its all-time high of $4.5 trillion. For several
years now the Fed has made clear its intent to shrink its balance sheet.
Therefore, this problem is serious enough to cause the Federal Reserve
to change course and blow up its balance sheet.

The question is, what’s going on?

One possible answer is bad rule making over the last decade that has
rewarded banks for hoarding cash. Instead of lending to one another,
they are sitting on cash reserves. The risk-reward is better than short
term lending. This could be due to a combination of market factors
created by Fed policy and regulations on banks regarding their cash
reserves. In other words, the government has created a distorted
short-term lending market, through regulation and Fed policy that
discourages short-term lending.

Another, more worrisome cause is that central banks have built a
low-interest rate trap for themselves that they cannot escape. In
lowering rates and intervening so aggressively in the market to stave
off collapse a decade ago, they have created a system that cannot exist
without low rates and aggressive intervention. Efforts to restore rates
to historic norms or attempts to shrink the balance sheets of central
banks threatens the very existence of the global financial system.

In such a scenario, the system controlled by the central banks becomes
increasing complex with every intervention. Currently, the Fed does not
know why the repo market is broken. They are simply reacting to the
short-term effects. Their actions, however, will be part of the problem
to be solved, a problem they don’t fully grasp. By the time they do
understand the issue, they may have been forced to make additional
interventions that further change the complexity of the problem.

Of course, a world of permanently low interest rates and unlimited
intervention by the central bank is not a world controlled by the
central bank. Rather, the central bank is now controlled by the system
it created. The main weapons the central bank has used in the past to
address systemic failure are no longer available. Taken to its logical
conclusion, the financial system is a run-a-way train. The Feds do what
they can to keep it on the tracks, but eventually, the inevitable
happens.

In the long run, the story of credit money may be that it is simply a
complex way to pull forward the benefits of economic activity, for the
benefit of a few. Eventually, all of the pain avoidance with low
interest rates and central bank intervention consume all of the economy
to pull forward. Those accrued costs are reversed out all at once and
system collapse in the result. The resulting political fallout then
topples over the liberal democratic order and we enter an entirely new
age.

That may sound overly apocalyptic, but consider how political
institutions must weather a crisis. The people must not only want to
preserve those institutions, they must trust the people running them. A
great systemic collapse of the economic order would need a lot of trust
in the political order to avoid revolts. At no time in the West has the
current political order be less trusted. It needs the good economy to
survive. That sound a lot like a house of cards waiting for the wrong
decision.

¹Short <a href="https://youtu.be/BbHheJwOiPQ" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">primer</a> on repurchase agreements.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
