---
title: "Contempt Of The People"
date: "2019-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17169"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17169"
---

Outside of the various hives on the modern Left, it is generally assumed
that the natural progression of democracy is toward some form of
dictatorship. What starts as a sensible idea by sensible people leads to
an expansion of the franchise to include a majority of people, who are
not sensible. This inevitably leads to instability. The system first
breaks down into factionalism and then becomes both corrupt and inept.
The solution is the man of will, who will cut through the process and
impose order on the chaos.

This is why the Founders were steadfastly opposed to democracy. They
knew their history and their political philosophy. They also understood
human nature. It is also why both sides of the Progressive order have
[rewritten history](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15363) to have the
Civil War as the second founding. Ben Shapiro cannot sing the praises of
democracy if the authority to which he is appealing was opposed to it
and to him. It turns out that democracy not only corrupts the present it
must corrupt the past in order to legitimize itself.

One the problems with social cycle theory is it seems to blinker people
into thinking that history not only repeats itself, but does so exactly.
In the case of modern America, people think we are far away from
Caesarism, because we have yet to have a Sulla. In other words, they
assume the ascent into authoritarianism will follow the exact same path
as past shifts from republic to empire. If present events don’t exactly
fit the old template, then American has yet to enter that cycle, so
there is no fear for an America Caesar.

This is a mistake, of course, as history does not repeat itself like a
reboot of an old television franchise. Instead, the general pattern is
repeated, but within the context of the age, along a different timeline.
In the case of America, Lincoln was the Marius phase while the New Deal
was the Sulla phase. Instead of a social war between the two, one phase
ran its course, setting the ground work for the other, which in turn set
off the process leading to where we are now. There’s no Caesar, but we
see the signs of Caesarism.

For example, look at the general uselessness of the Congress. One party,
the Republicans, are the sock puppets of global interests. In theory
they represent the white middle class, the only people willing to vote
Republican, but they are wholly owned by global enterprise. The
Democrats, on the other hand, represent the spiritual aspirations of the
global class. They feed at the same trough as the Republicans, but serve
the female side of the global elite. They are the yin to the GOP yang.

This collapse of legitimacy results in a Congress that does very little.
Instead, it relies on the Executive to do what it asks. The vast federal
bureaucracy that Trump is struggling to operate is the real government
of America. The FBI sedition scandal is a good example of the contempt
with which the New Class holds the political class. They have no fear of
either party in Congress, as they know they are powerless. Proof of that
is the parade of people lying to Congress and never facing the
consequences.

It used to be that defying the will of Congress had serious risk.
[Contempt of
Congress](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contempt_of_Congress) was a
weapon that could be used to put someone in prison. The last person that
angered the Congress enough with their lying was Rita Lavelle. That was
back in the 1980’s and she served six months in prison for contempt.
Since then, Congress has been noticeably less willing to throw its
weight around, to the point where the oligarchs feel free to lie in
extravagant ways in front of House committees. They hold Congress in
contempt.

What we have today is rule by a surprisingly small number of people. At
the top is the global pirate class that owns the media, technology and
finance. Under them are the lesser elites that rule over the academy,
mass media, politics and foreign policy. This is the New Class, an elite
within the bureaucracy that has a free hand in running the state, as
long as they don’t anger their paymasters. At most there are a few
thousand people controlling a few million person bureaucracy that runs
the global empire.

Further evidence of this is what has been happening with Trump. The real
power, the New Class, operating the executive bureaucracy, has no
respect for him, so they happily do what they must to undermine his
agenda. Instead of begging Congress to its job, he needs to figure out
how to use the weapon that is the vast executive branch. Perhaps he is
figuring it out, but thus far he has been unable to come to terms with
this reality. The next Democrat president will not make the same
mistake.

The Bolshevik Revolution was supposed to end up in a dictatorship of the
proletariat, but instead resulted in a largely urban dictatorship of the
*nomenklatura*, a term, derived from the Latin *nomenclatura*, meaning a
list of names. The suggestion was that it was hereditary, rather than
meritorious. Trotsky referred to it as a caste, rather than a class, as
it looked more like the old Tsarist order, rather than something new.
The managerial state described by James Burnham, has evolved into a
similar sort of ruling caste.

This may be why we are now seeing similar displays of power that were
seen in the old Soviet Union. The banning of books, the suppression of
speech, the use of internal exile to intimidate dissidents, these are
all features of the Soviet system now present in modern America. It
could also be the result of minoritarianism, as both the Soviets and
modern American see a disproportionate number of people in this ruling
caste that are not part of the majority population. Therefore, they rule
in fear of demographics.

Another point of comparison is how authoritarian rule that comes after
some form of popular political system, whether communism or liberal
democracy, is that it has firm control of the cities, but far less
control of the hinterlands. Despite the mythology, the Soviet system was
never able to fully control its territory. The Bolsheviks were reduced
to weaponizing neglect, in order to keep the rural areas pacified. The
American opioid epidemic is serving a similar function for the American
New Class.

Again, historical analogies are never precise. The patterns we are
seeing in modern America could also compare to a number of other
historical examples. What matters is the macro pattern, where democracy
inevitably leads to some form of authoritarian rule, based in the urban
areas. That’s where we are now in modern America. The illusion of
democracy has disguised the deep contempt the ruling elite has for the
people, but that contempt is becoming more obvious. At some point, they
will simply stop pretending.
