---
title: "Affirming The Alternative"
date: "2019-09-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18772"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18772"
---

Something everyone outside of conventional politics agrees upon is that
the establishment conservatives are no longer useful or relevant.
Whatever you want to call the super set of groups making a claim to
right-wing politics, but outside of conventional politics, the one thing
that ties them together is an antipathy to Conservative Inc. The
criticisms vary in tone and specificity, but everyone agrees that the
starting place for a new opposition to the Left is replacing the current
Right with something new.

In fact, it is the failure of so-called conservatives that has fueled
the rise of populism, neo-nationalism and various dissident movements.
If you look around at the various tribes milling around the right-wing
fringe, all of them are a response to some failure of conventional
conservatism. The alt-right grew out of libertarianism, for example. The
identitarians and race realist passed through paleo-conservatism. The
paleocons, of course, have been around since their purging decades ago.

The absolute failure of conservatism needs to be more than a rallying
point for a loose coalition of the dispossessed. This is not an age
calling for a longer list of people purged by Conservative Inc. What is
required is a replacement for so-called conservatism that will provide a
true alternative to what is offered by the Left. This is something many
among the dispossessed have suggested. Paul Gottfried, who gets credit
for coining the term alternative Right, has been arguing this for years.

While more and more people are flowing into outsider politics, looking
for an alternative to conventional conservatism, there is no agreement
as what should come next. The paleocons have gone further than anyone,
but their imagined replacement is mostly just a reset to the time before
the neocons outmaneuvered them in the 70’s and 80’s. It is a
conservatism of yore that is free of the baggage train of failure and
perfidy that has come to define modern conservatism. It’s what
conservatism should have been.

Other groups are far less sober minded. The alt-right never got around
to thinking up a new metaphysics. They spent their time recreating an
aesthetic from a bygone age that was intended to shock, rather than
celebrate a new ideological movement. The closest they came to imagining
an alternative Right was borrowing the idea of an ethnostate from fringe
Russian thinkers. Otherwise, the alt-right was just a collection of
complaints decorated with some racist and fascist language and imagery.

Other groups among the dispossessed are even less coherent in what they
want than the alt-right. The neo-reactionaries want to return to the age
of kings, but with the modern material items produced by liberalism. The
neo-nationalists and populists, like the paleocons, mostly want to
return to a convenient starting point in the past. Theirs is not a
critique of liberal democracy, but of its constant companion radicalism.
Like Marxists, they argue that real liberal democracy has not been tried
yet.

The truth is, none of these approaches can get very far, because at
their core they accept the base assumptions of liberal democracy. That
means they embrace the core principles of the Left. Those being
egalitarianism and the blank slate. They may place some qualifiers on
these, but ultimately, they start with the assumption that there is a
universally preferable form of human organization. That form of human
organization assumes people are all the same with the same human
potential.

In this regard, this age is not calling for an alternative Right.
There’s no need to rally the guerrilla forces, aged and withered, having
hidden out in the ideological and political jungles for generations, in
order to reclaim the high ground of liberal democracy. Even if they were
able to fight, that fight has been long over. The reason the Left holds
the high ground, controls the institutions, is they won the moral
argument. They now get to control the moral paradigm, altering it in
order to win each fight.

When thinking about what replaces conventional conservatism, the
starting point must be this dynamic. The Left controls the moral
framework. This allows them to alter every political battlefield by
manipulating the shared reality that is the public space. Since
democracy is about persuasion, rather than truth, they can easily tilt
the battle field to make their job easy. They win because the Right
keeps charging up the hill to attack the institutions controlled by the
Left, who always enjoy the moral high ground.

For there to be an alternative to conservatism, it must therefore be a
genuine alternative to the Left. In other words, what is needed is not
so much an alternative Right, but an alternative Left. What’s needed is
a new radicalism that starts first with the understanding that we are
entering a new age. The ideologies and moralities of the past age, the
Industrial Age, are not relevant to the technological age and they are
impotent and impractical for the demographic age.

The reactionary and violent multiculturalism on the Left is, in part, a
response to this looming reality. The prevailing orthodoxy of today, is
the result of the radicalism in later-stage liberal democracy that
reached its peak in the last century. Peak liberal democracy, was also
peak industrial society. The so-called radicals of today, are just the
established order, kitted out in the outfits of yesteryear’s
avant-garde. There is nothing radical about the modern Left. They are
all reactionaries now.

The anger expressed by the Left toward various challenges, real and
imagined, is like a child throwing a tantrum, frustrated at a toy. Their
anger starts from the secret sense that their moral framework is no
longer relevant. They are unable to quantify or even comprehend it. They
just sense it, like an ill wind. Like primitives confronted with some
natural mystery, the men and women defending the established order are
in a defensive panic at the shadow of change falling on the West.

The new alternative must start where all radicals start, as a rejection
of the founding principles of the prevailing order. There is no
universally preferable form of human organization, morally, ethically or
practically. Human beings are not all the same, born with the same stock
of natural talent. Further, humans are not infinitely malleable, able to
be shaped into whatever society designs.  These values may have had
utility in the prior age, but in this age, they are a liability that
must be abandoned.

Whether one chooses to call what comes next an alternative Right or
something else, it must be a genuine alternative. The main reason
conventional conservatism failed in its opposition to the Left is that
it was not an alternative to liberalism. It was a slightly different
implementation of it. What replaces conservatism cannot start from the
same error, but must be a radical departure from both Left and Right, as
commonly understood. It must be a radical alternative to the prevailing
morality.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
