---
title: "Alienation And Its Discontents"
date: "2019-07-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18161"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18161"
---

If you were to transport into this age, someone from a prior age, say
the 19th century, that person would certainly be amazed at what he saw.
From the perspective of this age, the assumption is he would be most
impressed with the technological advances relative to his time. The
ability to easily communicate with people, from all over the globe,
would probably be the most dazzling. Instead of waiting weeks for a
letter from a friend, we exchange e-mails and texts instantly from
wherever we happen to be standing.

People in the modern West tend to think of progress in purely material
terms, so that would be the thing most people think of in this thought
experiment. Our communication systems are better. Our transportation
systems are better. Our food and entertainments are vastly more
plentiful, if not necessarily better. It’s not unreasonable to think
that 19th century man would marvel at a fast food drive through. To him,
at least in a material sense, this age is beyond the world of fantasy.

Something else would probably stun 19th century man. That is the lack of
human interaction compared to his time. This is one of those
counter-intuitive things for people in this age, because this age is
awash in communications. Everywhere you turn, the rulers are sending
messages to you about the latest products you must consume or the most
recently approved thoughts you should promote. Humans in this age are
awash in mass media, which bombards us wherever we go.

When you look past that top layer, however, what you see is people
“interfacing” with one another, but very few people bonding and
interacting. Look at the typical customer service experience. You call
and someone, from somewhere, responds to your prompts, using a script
provided to them by the software in the call center. Increasingly, the
customer service agent is a robot. Most people order their
prescriptions, for example, from a robot, not a pharmacist. It is purely
transactional.

This sterilization of human interaction is not limited to the impersonal
contact we make with global corporations. Inside the corporation,
relationships are increasingly automated and systematized. Managers are
trained to use management systems to interface with their direct
reports. Staff is no longer encouraged to be loyal to a manager, as that
is as sensible as being loyal to the coffee machine. The manager is just
an entity that inputs data into the management system.

The argument in favor of automation in the work place is it reduces
errors and lowers costs, but often the driving force is to limit human
interaction. The shift supervisor, so used to dealing with systems in
his life, is unequipped to actually manage human beings on a personal
level. Instead of monitoring their work and correcting their errors,
adjusting for personality, he posts their efficiency reports in the
break room, along with all of the other management metrics that come
from the quality control system.

This is something people in the process management world have come to
understand about the modern workplace. It’s not as much about efficiency
as about the fact that young people no longer possess the social skills
that were an assumed part of society just a couple of generations ago.
The young manager does not have the social skills to confront an
underling over an error or the intuition to encourage someone who needs
a little motivation to get through a difficulty.

The general reputation of millennials in the work place is that they are
self-absorbed, needy and entitled. Companies have responded to this with
tighter structures that remove the need for initiative and adaptability.
In reality, the cause of the problem is a generation of people raised by
robots. The well-adapted millennials are those who played sports or
served in the military. In those environments, stripped of automation,
they learned how to be leaders, teammates and adapt to new conditions.

This is not just a workplace phenomenon. [This
post](https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/businessreview/2016/01/18/there-may-be-some-truth-to-the-gay-jobs-stereotype/)
from the London School of Economics is amusing in many ways, but one
line jumps out. “Occupational segregation matters because it can lead to
inequality between workers and limit the talent pool for employers
trying to fill a position.” The sterility of language will remind anyone
over the age of 40 of the jokes made about communism. That’s a line that
would seem at home in a provincial report on the latest five year plan.

This is something you see all over the social sciences. It’s why the
author of the post claims, with a straight face, that economists are
baffled as to why homosexuals are clustered into certain fields. Within
living memory, people just knew why this was and did not think much
about it. It was so obvious, it was assumed everyone knew it. In the
atomized transactional world of today, humans are the most baffling
thing to their fellow humans. No one knows anything about themselves
now.

Part of this is the result of multiculturalism. That man brought here
from a century ago would have been snatched from a world in which
everyone was like him. If he was a city dweller, he may have bumped up
against other tribes of immigrants or natives, but his daily life was
spent around his people. What he knew about those other people was
through the lens of his understanding of himself and his people. It was
not through a description in a textbook or from a class on human
development.

Today we live in a world of strangers. White communities have been
shattered, along with the sense of community. In fact, whites are no
longer permitted to have a sense of community. Since most of what makes
the modern world possible is still run by whites, the result is a world
run by deracinated strangers in a sea of alienation. Those management
systems are simply a response to this reality. It’s a solution to slow
what is the inexorable process of multiculturalism and cosmopolitanism.

There’s also the fact that technology has not just made stuff cheaper.
It has changed how humans interact with the world. This shows up in
standardized testing. Young people are better at taking tests, because
they live in a world of tests. Their games are structured along the same
lines as a standardized test. Instead of a free form world of play, it
is the range of options available in the video game. Instead of problem
solving, it is leaning the combination of available inputs.

This transactional existence is not without its consequences. The
alienation that is a daily part of modern life manifests as nostalgia
throughout the culture. Hollywood movies are either based on childhood
items, like super heroes, or remakes of shows from when America was not
this way. The rising tide of populism and ethno-nationalism,
particularly among the youth, is a romantic response to a modern world
that offers plenty of ways to use your time, but no answer for how to
live.

That’s what would most shock and horrify 19th century man about this
age. He could live without the instant communications, but he could not
live a life in which no one had anything to say or a reason to say it.
He could live without modern transportation, but he could not live
without a place to a go or a people to visit. He could not live alone in
a world full of strangers. It’s all those close, smelly, sweaty
connections with your people that makes you human. He could not live
without that and in a probability, neither can we.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
