---
title: "Too Corrupt To Fail"
date: "2019-09-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18736"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18736"
---

In all of the big institutional scandals, there is always a question
that rarely gets addressed and that is, how did it go on for so long? By
the time the thing starts to become public, the number of people
involved, either actively or passively, has reached a point where it
became impossible to hide. In some cases, the issue at the heart of the
scandal just became a normal thing to the people inside the institution.
For some mysterious reason, no one raised the alarm until much too late.

The best example of this is the Catholic Church scandal. By the time the
story of the homosexual priests was public, the Church was infested with
them. The lavender mafia had taken over whole orders. The number of
pederasts had reached a point where moving them around the system was
just a part of the administration. As people started asking questions
and making claims, the system rallied to defend itself, without much
thought about what it was defending. The corruption was systemic.

Something similar protected Jewish perverts like Harvey Weinstein and
Jeffrey Epstein from being exposed. In both cases, lots of people knew
these men were involved in degenerate activities, but no one dared say
it publicly. In the case of Weinstein, the excuse was that outing him
would be bad for the career. In the case of Epstein, the excuse was he
had dirt on powerful people. No one knows if that is true. It’s one of
those just-so answers to avoid having to think much about it.

It seems that corruption has a dynamic that starts with the first
flexing of the rules that are supposed to control the institution.
Somewhere along the line, it becomes expedient to overlook some minor
infraction. Like a cancer, the exception making starts to spread through
the system. At first, a small number of people are breaking rules and
tolerating the rule breaking. As each new person learns of the practice,
he is a smaller minority relative to the set of rule breakers. Thus he
is less inclined to oppose it.

At first it is a handful of senior people, for example, involved in some
sort of minor shenanigans that violates the spirit of the rules. The
first person to learn of it is faced with taking on that cabal of senior
people. Alternatively, the rule breakers are junior people, but their
bosses look the other way, because they have other political interests
or they are just too lazy to address it. Either way, the potential
whistle blower is always outnumbered. That alone is often enough of a
discouragement.

At some point, another dynamic kicks in. Those who cannot tolerate the
corruption, but lack the courage to do anything about it, are boiled
off. They move on, leaving behind a mix of cowards and corrupt. Of
course, the corrupt flock to corruption, so the institution becomes a
magnate for the type who like rule breaking. Before long, you go from a
system where rule breaking is not tolerated and the rule breakers fear
exposure, to a system where rule breaking is normalized and rule
enforcers fear exposure.

The best example of this is the rotten police precinct. In every case,
the corruption begins with a small number of cops. The good cops try to
do something about it, but run into lazy or fearful superiors, who
refuse to address the issue. Those cops either move on or find a way to
justify their silence. Other cops either tacitly support the bad cops or
justify their willful blindness in some way. Before long, the rotten
precinct becomes an organism with its own immune system and defense
mechanisms.

Put another way, the corrupt organization or system becomes too corrupt
to fail, as everyone has some reason to protect it. For some at the
heart of the corruption, the reason is obvious, but all around them are
people who fear being shamed for having said nothing or fear being
implicated for having looked the other way. The fallacy of the sunk cost
becomes an operating principle. Everyone assumes there can be no turning
back, so the corruption accelerates until eventually it does collapse.

This dynamic of corruption is something to consider when trying to sort
out the many scandals engulfing Washington. For eight years, the media
was celebrating the fact that there were no major scandals under Obama.
They never said it, but there were no big scandals under Bush. The
Scooter Libby stuff was the only thing that approached major scandal
status and that was only because the press was bored. Otherwise, it was
just eight years of partisan howling about trivial matters.

Yet, Trump hits town and the city is hit with a tsunami of front page
scandals. The fact that most are hoaxes and the rest are scandals those
hoaxes are intend to obscure, suggests something about the system. It
sees Trump as not only a foreign body, but a threat by reason of being a
foreign body. He’s the new precinct captain taking over a rotten
precinct or the new bishop with a reputation for piety. The defense
mechanism of the corrupt organization just assumes virtue is a vice that
must be expelled.

This would explain why the whole system seems to have reorganized itself
to defend even the pipsqueaks in the system. Andrew McCabe should be a
perfect fall guy, as he is high profile enough to be a nice trophy, but
not so high up as to be important to anyone in politics. Yet, he has
been funneled millions of dollars by the system, through jobs and
speaking fees. His legal defense fund quickly filled up with millions of
dollars from Washington lobbyists. The system wants him safe.

Something similar is happening with the fake whistle blower story. The
system saw that Trump people were looking into the Biden stuff.
Instinctively the system responds with the fake whistle blower, so the
democrats can bellow about impeachment, rather than defend Joe Biden.
Why not just let this very corrupt old man go down in flames so Warren
can be the nominee? The thoroughly corrupt organization lacks the
ability to sacrifice any part of itself, so it instinctively defends the
whole.

[This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pPsiSM4H8ZY) of Rudy
Giuliani talking about the Biden corruption is interesting for a number
of reasons. One is the level of corruption. It does appear [China bought
Joe
Biden](https://nypost.com/2019/05/11/the-troubling-reason-why-biden-is-so-soft-on-china/),
while he was Vice President. Putting that aside, Giuliani seems to be
realizing, as he is talking, that Washington is just like the organized
crime he prosecuted back when he was making a name for himself in New
York. It is an organism whose purpose, in addition to the corruption, is
to defend itself against exposure.

Back during the mortgage crisis, the expression “too big to fail” became
a catchphrase for justifying government support for the banks. Something
similar is at work in Washington, in that it is too corrupt to fail.
It’s not that so many people depend on politics as usual. It’s that the
graft and corruption is so wide spread, no one thinks they can afford
even a little exposure. The business of Washington is now concealing the
fact it is thoroughly rotten. The business of the empire is organized
crime.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
