---
title: "Civic Anti-Racism"
date: "2019-08-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Libertarians
  - Politics
  - Progressives
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18389"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18389"
---

In modern America, there are two things that are on display
simultaneously in the realm of public debate. One is the celebration of
the fact that white people and the interests of white people are in
sharp decline. The other is a growing fear of white people. It is a
strange combination at first glance, as this should be a time for the
coalition of the ascendant to celebrate their looming hegemony. Instead,
they endlessly talk about themselves, but in the context of a
prophesized white backlash.

The root of this is the strange obsession with racism that has become a
religion of its own over the last two decades. The anointing of Obama as
the completion of the Second Founding, the event that was supposed to
wash the stains of slavery, segregation and racism from America, instead
ushered in an era of race panic. The Left is in a near frenzy over
racism, which they now see everywhere. It is an obsession to the point
where even the so-called Right is infected by it.

The recent outbreak of hysteria over white supremacists allegedly
plotting a violent revolution is a good starting point. <a
href="https://reason.com/2019/08/07/white-supremacy-is-alien-to-liberal-and-libertarians-ideals/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> at Reason
Magazine, after the El Paso shooting, is a good example. The
libertarians used to take a pass on the race issue, preferring instead
to obsess over weed and sexual deviance. They avoided it because
preaching about free association regarding race would get them in
trouble. Today, they are right there with Left hooting about white
supremacy.

Now, libertarianism was always just a Progressive heresy, but it
attracted a lot of conservatives. Operations like Reason had to pretend
to be on the Right. That’s no longer the case, as actual conservatives
have abandoned libertarianism for dissident politics. Perhaps they now
feel free to let their guard down. The Koch Brothers have abandoned the
GOP and are now backing left-wing candidates, so maybe this is part of
their scheme. Still, the turn to berserk anti-racism is notable.

The so-called conservatives are not being left out of the panic.
Right-wing goblin Ben Shapiro has been all over the white supremacy
scare. <a
href="https://www.dailywire.com/news/50522/shapiro-nyt-trying-link-mainstream-conservatism-daily-wire"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">He is working his tiny little
fingers</a> raw explaining why his grift has nothing in common with
those really bad people to his Right. As is always the case with this
guy, he takes the latest Progressive bogeyman and assigns it to his
competition on the Right, so his motives always suspect. Even so, it
feeds into the general hysteria over race.

Confidence men like Shapiro may not be the best examples, but it is
clear that unhinged anti-racism is becoming a conservative principle. A
rising star among conservatives is a guy calling himself
<a href="https://history.unc.edu/graduate-student/joshua-tait/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Joshua Tait</a>, a doctoral
candidate at North Carolina, who is fashioning himself as a historian of
conservatism. He turns up all over posting articles about various
aspects of conservative intellectual history. Of course, he is an
enthusiastic anti-racist and obsessed with those bad people to his
Right.

That’s the remarkable thing about his writing. It is infected with a
weird obsession about race that used to be cringe inducing when done on
the Left.
<a href="https://arcdigital.media/american-immigrant-7efefbef411"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> reads like a
panic attack over Amy Wax noticing the realities of immigration at the
National Conservatism conference. <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/2018/10/05/conservatives-self-delusion-race/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> reads like a
sobbing apology for the fact that people on the Right used to hold
sensible opinions about race. The fact they have been proved correct
over the last few generations goes unnoticed.

Now, to most readers, Joshua Tait is an unknown, but he is being groomed
to be the next generation of so-called conservative intellectuals. Like
we see with the more pedestrian stuff from Ben Shapiro, the so-called
smart conservatives will be every bit as hysterical about race. The
religion of anti-racism will be a core conservative value. Put another
way, a rhetorical trick to rally the tribes of the Democrat coalition is
quickly being turned into the organizing ethos of the new political
class.

An interesting aspect of this new civic religion of anti-racism is it is
mostly built on the assumption that whites, at any minute, will go
bonkers and start attacking black bodies, while erecting old statues.
The anti-racism of Joshua Tait is not rooted in something practical like
greed, as in the case of Ben Shapiro. It’s not the product of cowardice,
as you see with the Reason Magazine crowd. It’s a genuine sense that
whites are a ticking time bomb that have to be monitored.

In this sense, the new anti-racism is like the old communist obsession
with opponents of the revolution. With commies, the opponents of the
revolution did not have to exist, but they must be made to exist. That
is, if they could not find real counter-revolutionaries, they invented
them. Something similar is going on with the anti-racists. They can’t
find actual white supremacists, at least not in quantity, so they hunt
for signs of it, like an evil spirit lurking on the fringes. The price
of anti-racism is eternal vigilance.

It is tempting to think that this all about rallying the tribes of the
Left, but it is probably the symptom of a different problem. What’s
happening is white people are disengaging from the ruling Left. The old
game of Team Blue fighting Team Red, where whites cheered for Team Red,
is falling part. The cheering section of Team Red is shrinking. The
over-the-top anti-racism is an effort to draw those disaffected fans of
Team Red back into the game in order to maintain the old dynamic.

The problem, of course, is that Team Red has been designed to keep as
little space between themselves and Team Blue as possible. They are
children that can never be out of sight of their mother. As Team Blue
races shrieking into the darkness of multicultural fanaticism, Team Red
is racing after them. The old political arrangements, animated by
hyper-anti-racism is a civic religion of the ruling class that is based
on a hatred of sixty percent of the people over whom they rule.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
