---
title: "The Dissident Right"
date: "2019-04-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17155"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17155"
---

Labels are important in social discourse, as they are shorthand for a
collection of ideas, arguments and images. It’s why the Left always
makes its first assault on something by corrupting its labels. If they
can anathematize the label, then they effectively discredit the people
and ideas associated with it. It is a form of the aphorism often
mistakenly credited to Stalin, “No man, no problem.” Similarly, social
movements often first try to establish their name and symbols, before
fully explaining what it is they are championing.

One reason the alt-right was easily smashed by the Progressive
establishment is that they chose symbols that had already been
anathematized by the Left and their team name had no intrinsic meaning.
They would have been better off dressing as circus clowns, rather than
prep school Nazis. They thought they could break the taboos against
fascism by irreverently breaking the taboo, but instead they simply
ended up playing a well-known role in the Left’s morality play. From
there it became easy to demonize the name “alt-right.”

That said, if the term alt-right had a better definition, one that was
both positive and intrinsically respectable, there efforts to break the
fascist taboo by irreverently mocking it could have worked. The reason
is the public would have identified them with a label having an
established meaning that was separate from the cartoon version of
fascism the Left has promoted for generations. Instead, alt-right had no
obvious meaning, other than an association with Richard Spencer, who was
quickly turned into the bogeyman.

It is why “dissident right” has a better chance as a label for an
authentic alternative to the Progressive orthodoxy. The word “dissident”
has both a literal meaning and an historic meaning. In fact, the idea of
the dissident has emotional resonance in the West, as it is associated
with resistance to authoritarianism. While “alt” is that key on your
keyboard you use when things go wrong, a dissident is a heroic figure,
stoically refusing to buckle to the authoritarian. It’s a word the Left
cannot demonize without revealing themselves.

The trouble is, the label does not have a literal definition that is
known to most people who use it for themselves or the larger movement.
You see that in <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2019/04/what-is-the-philosophy-of-the-dissident-right/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post</a> over at
Counter-Currents by someone using the name
<a href="https://www.counter-currents.com/author/eordred/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Eordred</a>. He runs through
the various tribes that continue to operate outside of mainstream public
discourse, but he struggles to arrive at a definition. It is only at the
end that he makes a passing reference to the actual source of the term,
coined by John Derbyshire a couple of decades ago.

The dissident right is, to some degree, a reaction to the shift on the
Right, among the Buckleyites mostly, to embrace the blank slate and
egalitarianism. This was mostly due to the infestation of
neoconservatives and libertarians. The neocons brought with them that
old Marxist belief that society can be willed into any shape you like,
regardless of the people in it. Libertarians, like Marxist, simply
refuse to accept the reality of the human condition. As a result, the
mainstream Right implicitly embraced the blank slate.

The dissidents were those who first dissented from the prevailing
orthodoxy on human nature and human organization. Drawing on science,
rather than tradition or religion, the dissidents made the correct point
that human diversity is real. People, as we see them today, are not the
result of historical forces, but the result of evolutionary forces. It
turns out, and the evidence continues to pour in support of this, that
human evolution is local, copious and recent. The observable differences
are rooted in biology, not culture.

While the dissident right is, to some degree, a reaction to the drift
into blank slate mysticism by the establishment Right, it is not
reactionary. To be a reactionary is to be entirely controlled by the
Left, which is why reaction has never been able to sustain itself as an
authentic organizing philosophy. It is the cleanup crew after a spasm of
radicalism has made a mess of things. The dissident right is not a
reaction to radicalism. It is a promotion of biological reality. It
offers an alternative foundation for political philosophy.

As far as being on the Right, it is because biological realism reaches
the most of the same conclusions of the traditional Right, with regards
to human nature and the human organization. The difference is that the
traditional Right assumes those traditions, customs and institutions are
the result of accumulated wisdom. The dissident right, in contrast,
thinks of traditions, customs and institutions as evolved solutions to
human organization that are peculiar to a people, because of their
peculiar evolutionary arc.

In other words, go into any high school cafeteria and you will see the
students self-segregating along academic class, social class, sex and
race. This is not the result of accumulated wisdom in the form of custom
or the result of tradition. It is not the result of mystical forces like
white privilege or social constructs. It is the nature of humans to
attract to those with whom they share fundamental connections, which are
rooted in biology. Their hierarchical relationships are similarly rooted
in their biology.

This difference in starting premise is what distinguishes the dissident
right from the traditional Right and puts it at odds with some elements
on the Right. Instead of defending tradition on philosophical grounds,
it challenges the status quo on empirical grounds. It is why the Left is
so frightened of what is coming from the human sciences. Their effort to
anathematize these ideas by calling them “scientific racism” inevitably
makes them look like vinegar drinking scolds, condemning Galileo in
defense of superstition.

That said, this radical starting point could very well be why it cannot
coexist with the traditional Right. There is a noticeable gap in
perspective between those with an empirical world view versus those
steeped in tradition and philosophy. When your starting point is an
<a href="https://www.britannica.com/biography/William-Donald-Hamilton"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">English biologist</a>, rather
than a
<a href="https://www.iep.utm.edu/nietzsch/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">German philosopher</a>, the cultural differences are
quite noticeable to both parties. The rationality of the dissident right
may make it unsuited for political conflict, which is not about the
right answer, but the right weapon.
