---
title: "Mencken Day One"
date: "2019-11-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19022"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19022"
---

The Mencken Club is a different sort of affair than most of the
dissident events you will attend, as it is older and more academic than
most. The host, Paul Gottfried, a retired college professor and current
editor of Chronicles, runs it like an academic conference you would have
experienced a generation ago. That is, it is speeches and presentations
around a topic, about which the speakers do not all agree. The idea is
to give the attendees a range of opinions on the topic that is the theme
of the event.

Of course, it is an older crowd. Most of the people involved in
organizing are seniors, who were in the paleoconservative movement a
generation ago. The event tends to focus on what went wrong with
conservatism, as many of the people involved were purged by Buckley at
some point. It is fair to say that they would like to see Conservative
Inc. burn to the ground. As a result, there is a nostalgic quality to
the event, as they tend to talk a lot about people and events from the
past.

At dinner on Friday night. Paul Gottfried gave the opening talk and he
was followed by someone calling himself
<a href="https://www.phyllisschlafly.com/staff/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ed Martin</a>. He is President
of the Eagle Forum Education & Legal Defense Fund. He is also something
of a curator of the life and times Phyllis Schlafly. His talk was mostly
about Schlafly, but he also got into current politics a bit and it was
an interesting reminder of just how detached the old conservative
movement is from current reality. The word delusional kept coming to
mind.

He kept insisting that the way forward was to keep pressing the old
conservative agenda and that would overcome demographic reality. He
thinks there are lots of votes out there just waiting for someone
pitching conservatism. During the Q&A I was tempted to “groyper” him
with a tough question about demographic reality, but I thought better of
it. I realized that those nodding along were never going to face up to
reality, so there would be no point in pressing the guy on the issue.

Sitting there as he talked about the conservative message, I realized
that where “our thing” is going is out there beyond where the
conservatives ran out of road. Every day, more and more people are
realizing that the future in this land is never going to be like the
past, so it is time to find an approach that fits the times. Guys like
Ed Martin are sincere people, who mean well, but they are yesterday men
who prefer to think about the past so they don’t have to think about the
future…

The way these things work is there is a registration and cocktail
reception then the dinner around 7:00 PM. I got my name tag and was
chatting with Paul, when a very lovely young woman walked past. These
affairs tend to be almost all male and this one is all older males, so
it was good to see an attractive young woman. This is true of the more
dissident events as well. There are plenty of women on this side of the
great divide, but they don’t turn up at these events for whatever
reason.

Anyway, a few minutes later she came up to us and introduced herself as
a reader. I’m always flattered when people tell me they are fan. She is
a very smart and interesting, so we chatted for a while. One of the
things she brought up was how people she knows have the one exception to
biology in their life. These people would join our team, but they have
that one exception to the rule that keeps them tethered to the normie
side of the great divide. It’s the old NAXALT problem.

NAXALT stands for “**N**ot **A**ll (**X**) **A**re **L**ike **T**hat”
with X being some natural demographic grouping of people. It is the
mistaken belief that because you can find one exception to the rule,
that the general rule is invalid. For example, not all immigrants vote
Democrat, so the observation that immigrants overwhelmingly support
Democrats is somehow not true, despite the data. This is, of course,
most commonly found when talking about the complexion of crime
statistics. Ben Carson is more powerful that <a
href="https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2017/crime-in-the-u.s.-2017/tables/table-43"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Table 43</a>.

One suggestion I made was to explain the NAXALT fallacy in a different
context that does not have the same emotional baggage. Instead of taking
the issue head on, approach it from the direction of other non-political
stuff. Re-condition their minds to accepting that exceptions don’t
change the general rule. More important, we tend to live by the general
rule. Once your normie friend is used to accepting the general rule in
all other issues, they will be more prepared to accept it in our issues…

The event is smaller this year. I suspect the actuarial tables are more
to blame than anything else. There’s also the fact that the paleos never
did a good job courting young people into their ideas. In the 1980’s,
when the great schism on the Right became obvious, the Buckley side was
the cool and hip side, which naturally attracted the young people, while
the paleo side was for our parents. It is a lesson that dissidents need
to accept when it comes to organizing ourselves. We have to be
intergenerational.

In fact, I’m increasingly convinced that we have to make an effort to
tamp down the generational politics. I like a good Boomer joke as much
as the next guy, but generational squabbling is just another form of
brother war. The young guys in this thing are the future, but they
cannot have a future without older generations to offer up advice and
honest appraisals of their own past efforts. My generation was never
going to amount to much, but we can be a cautionary tale for the next
generation…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
