---
title: "Dear Candidates: Here Is What White Men Want"
date: "2019-05-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17584"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17584"
---

*During election season, I always cringe when I see candidates visiting
a factory in the Midwest or taking staged photos with “regular white
people” so they can look like they are one of us. These shallow symbolic
gestures are not a substitute for meaningful engagement with white
voters. And candidates should know that we see right through these
campaign stunts.*

*Candidates and their campaigns are comfortable talking at white people,
but few want to talk to us. This limits our ability to influence their
decisions and policies. And it’s a bad strategy at a time when white
people, white men in particular, form the base of the Republican Party,
are its most loyal voters and mobilize other people to go to the polls.*

That is a very slightly reworked version of [this
piece](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/28/opinion/black-census-alicia-garza.html),
which was posted in the opinion section of the New York Times.
Obviously, no mainstream publication would ever publish a column that
makes the explicit case on behalf of white men, as that would be racist
and racism is very bad. So bad, in fact, that the major newspapers
publish explicitly anti-white columns and articles every day. In fact,
they regularly publish hate hoaxes, as the number of actual “hate
crimes” in America falls well below demand.

The funny thing is though, the major news sites regularly post the
demands of increasingly narrow identity groups, without putting much
thought into whether they are harming their own cause. For example, that
NY Times column starts with the claim, “We set out to prove that black
people are not a monolith”, but then goes on to present evidence that
black people are pretty much a monolith. In fact, the first chart
confirms everything dissidents say about black identity and culture in
America.

Let’s assume for a second that the Progressive narrative has some
validity and that white men control society with their white privilege
and refuse to share. Presumably, the point of this endless proselytizing
in favor of ending white male privilege is to convince white men to let
everyone else into power. If that is the intent, then it would make
sense to know something about white men, other than the angry fantasies
cooked up by bitter university feminists. Perhaps a poll of white men
would be useful?

Even if that is a bridge too far, just assuming white men are not stupid
would be a good starting people. For example, the NY Times piece has the
claim, “For every dollar white men earn, black women, for example, earn
65 cents, whereas white women earn 82 cents.” Every white man knows why
this statistic is nonsense and he knows the implication is a lie. The
writer of that piece is probably too dumb to grasp multivariate
analysis, but most white men do understand it.

In fact, it is long past time for the people in charge to just assume
white people in general, male and female, are wise to this whole game.
The whole point of that NY Times piece is to demand more gibs for black
activists. It’s right there in the last few paragraphs. The writer moans
about the Democrats not spending more money on black voters than white
voters. [Most white
people](https://thehill.com/hilltv/what-americas-thinking/433270-poll-republicans-and-democrats-differ-strongly-on-whether-white)
know the reality of race in America, even if no one is allowed to talk
about it in public. We get it. We know.

While we’re on the topic of the gibs, here’s a suggestion for how the
usual suspects can better engage with white people. Just put a number on
it. We know you are working up to the reparations stuff. Whites know and
are increasingly prepared to do it. The thing is, there has to be a
number that puts an end to the blood libel. We’ll write the check, but
you have to stop complaining about how good we made it for you. We also
know you’ll never agree to that condition. It’s all about the blood
libel. We know. We all know.

Another reason this will never happen is the people in charge need to
believe the fantasy they have created to explain modern America. That’s
something dissidents often fail to appreciate. They go down the rabbit
hole of reductionism, assuming this stuff is part of a plot by the usual
suspects. In reality, the people in charge have embraced anti-racism as
a fundamental part of their identity. Opposing white people, but
particularly white people like us, is what gets them out of bed in the
morning.

You can be sure that after the team of NY Times interns, mostly Jewish
and Asian women from Columbia and NYU, finished writing this essay for
the alleged writer, the editorial staff hugged and cried, while it was
read out loud. They really believe there are the new abolitionists
fighting the evil white man. This ridiculous post and the hate hoaxes
are not an evil plot to gaslight us. They are part of the endless
revival meeting that is modern American Progressivism. These posts are
sermons, not agit-prop.

Since the title of this post suggests white men have a list of
suggestions for politicians, we may as well finish with some ideas. The
most obvious suggestion is the office holders start talking about white
people. President Trump, the alleged white nationalist, tweets endlessly
about everyone except white people. He will go on at length about the
employment numbers for one-legged ginger Mexicans or how he has let
thousands of black criminals out of prison. He has yet to mention white
people in a tweet.

That will never happen, of course, but while we’re working on the
fantasy list, how about the rest of you accept the fact that without
white men, you’re back in the Stone Age. It sounds harsh, but the hard
truth is, without white people, the NY Times editorial board is either
back in the Levant begging Mohamed for mercy or back in their home
country wondering if the hunt was successful. Black people would revert
to the Neolithic if white men suddenly went away. A little gratitude
would be nice.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">please contribute here</a>.
