---
title: "The Gay Debate"
date: "2019-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18923"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18923"
---

For the longest time, it was assumed by science that there was not a
single gene that caused homosexuality. The reason is a gay gene would
make the person less sexually fit and therefore less likely to reproduce
and pass on the gene. It does not take much of a disadvantage for a
trait to disappear from the pool over enough time. If such a gene did
exist, so it was thought, it would have disappeared from the human gene
pool a long time ago and homosexuality with it. Therefore, something
else must be at work.

Human societies have, for the most part, assumed homosexuality was to
some degree a choice. Like an excessive desire for drink or criminality,
that natural inclination could be controlled with enough determination.
Like alcoholism or criminality, homosexuality came to be seen as a moral
failing. On the other hand, there was always that sense that like
alcoholism or criminality, some people are born bad. For whatever
reason, they lacked the mechanisms to control their passions or the will
to do so.

The source of this divide is the philosophical argument that there are
facts that can be tested and values that are purely opinion. A
scientific theory is one that can be tested, while an ethical
proposition cannot. If something cannot be tested and possibly
falsified, it is not science. In the case of something like human
traits, it means there is either a biological mechanism to explain it
completely or it is purely a social construct with no biological root.
Traits fell on either side of the fact-value divide.

As in moral philosophy, the fact-value divide with regards to human
traits is starting to come apart, as science gives us a greater
understanding of human genetics. For example, complex human traits like
intelligence are not the result of a single gene, but the result of many
genes. In the case of intelligence, science has identified 55 alleles
that influence general intelligence. How these switches are set
influences intelligence, but the combinations are also an important
factor.

In the case of homosexuality, it is starting to look like it may be the
result of both a combination of genetics and environmental factors.
<a href="https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2019/09/23/gay-genes/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">A recent study</a> has found
two SNPs that influenced both male and female homosexuality. These are
not the “gay genes” some thought existed, but two “switches” that have a
strong association with homosexuality in men and women. That means
homosexuals tend to have these two markers, but it does not mean all
people with them are gay.

As with intelligence, something as complex as human sexuality probably
has many genes that influence the trait. It could also mean other traits
come along with the ride, as they are also associated with the set of
genes that cause homosexuality. It’s entirely possible that this set of
genes is responsible for a range of behaviors that are often associated
with homosexuals. In other words, the attraction to the same sex is just
one result of many from a set of genes turned on or off in the person.

A useful way of thinking about this is to imagine genes that cause
someone to become an alcoholic. Let’s say ten genes positively or
negatively influence a person’s propensity to alcoholism. If all ten
switches are on, you will be a serious drunk. If all ten switches are
off, you will be a teetotaler. Then there are the combinations in
between. Alcoholism is therefore a spectrum. The person’s ability to
control their drinking will depend upon where they fall on the spectrum
and their access to alcohol.

That last part is where the either/or way of thinking falls apart.
Someone with a lot of the drunk switches set to on, but living in a
society without alcohol or one with severe repression of it, like Saudi
Arabia, is less likely to be a drunk than the same person living in
Ireland. In fact, that person with the high genetic propensity to
alcoholism may never express those traits, because they are never
exposed to alcohol. At the extremes, at least, environment can overcome
nature with regards to behavior.

Now, bringing this back to a behavior like homosexuality, it is
plausible that it is a spectrum, like the alcoholism example. Anyone who
has been out in the world long enough knows that gays come in many
varieties. At the one end are the flamboyant Milo Yiannopoulos types,
while at the other end of the spectrum are the prudish Lindsey Graham
types. In reality, homosexuality probably has more complexity than a
linear range. Those switches result in a variety of manifestations.

What it means is that the trait is probably not purely biological.
There’s
<a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1010243318426"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a lot of evidence</a> that
homosexual males share more than two SNP’s. They also seem to share
grooming stories in their youth. Homosexuals report a significantly
higher rate of childhood molestation than do heterosexual men and women.
This may simply be a downstream result of genetic factors, but it has
been something <a
href="https://www.fathersforlife.org/dale/childhood_of_homosexual_men_2.htm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">science has observed</a> for a
long time, going back to when homosexuality was treated as a mental
disorder.

This is where the fact-value divide closes. If it is a fact that some
human traits fall along a range of propensity, based on genetics, then
environment plays some role in how those traits are expressed. Put in
terms of this topic, if homosexuality is a propensity, then cultural
logic that discourages the activity will reduce the amount of homosexual
activity in the society. This is the same logic behind banning alcohol.
If it is hard to get alcohol, many people prone to alcoholism will never
become drunks.

We may be seeing this put to the test with the youngest generation.
There have been quite a few surveys indicating young people are the
gayest generation. <a
href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2018/07/05/two-thirds-generation-z-identify-exclusively-heterosexual/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s a story</a> from last
year on a survey of young people and sexual identity.
<a href="http://www.unz.com/anepigone/alt-youth/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here is a post</a> from the
Progressive-adjacent blogger Audacious Epigone using recent survey data.
According to that study, nearly 1-in-5 people under the age of thirty
identify as something other than heterosexual. It appears that Gen-Z is
[super
gay](https://s17-us2.startpage.com/cgi-bin/serveimage?url=http%3A%2F%2Fliverampup.com%2Fuploads%2Fcelebrity%2Fcharlie-kirk.jpg&sp=f0f115f3e4df22c450078a40981ee7a1&anticache=148147).

Now, such surveys should be treated with some skepticism. Young people
are dumb and most are prone to repeating what they see in the media.
Because the usual suspects tell them homosexuality is the best, many
will claim to be some exotic sexuality as a moral signifier. The problem
with surveys is respondents tend to tell the survey taker what they
think is right. What these surveys may be picking up is the public
reaction to the new morality being imposed on them by the usual
suspects.

Even so, if sexuality, particularly homosexuality, is purely genetic,
independent of environmental factors, then we should not see a real
shift in homosexual activity when the culture changes. A study of
venereal disease rates would probably be a good proxy to measure
homosexual activity. If what the survey data suggests is true and we are
seeing a real increase in homosexual activity, then it is not
unreasonable to conclude that culture plays some role in the frequency
of homosexuality.

That means debating these cultural issues is not only valid, but a
necessary thing for every society. After all, if sexuality is purely
natural, then debating the culture issues surrounding it is a waste of
time. On the other hand, if culture matters a lot, then debating the
morality surrounding sexuality is a primary concern. Do we want more
homosexuals or fewer homosexuals becomes a valid topic of debate.
Leaving it up to nature is no longer a justifiable response.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
