---
title: "Better Beliefs"
date: "2019-10-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18905"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18905"
---

The one universal quality of left-wing politics that is true in every
time and place is the need for an external enemy. It is onto this enemy
the movement focuses its attention, making it a rallying point and a
rallying cry. Ideally, the enemy is mysterious, maybe even a bit
supernatural. A supernatural enemy supports the idea of the movement
being in a decisive battle for the future of humanity. An important
element of left-wing politics is a sense of urgency. There’s no time to
wait, as the final battle is at hand.

Orwell, of course, understood this well and created two the great
left-wing bogeymen in English literature. Emmanuel Goldstein is the
“enemy of the people” during the two minutes of hate at the beginning of
the novel 1984. In Animal Farm, Snowball is the blame for all the farm’s
troubles, after he disappear. In both cases, the bogeyman is a traitor,
who willingly turned on the cause. In both cases, the bogeyman is
mysteriously absent, thus can be amplified as an almost supernatural
villain.

Eric Hoffer said, “Mass movements can rise and spread without belief in
a God, but never without belief in a devil.” This is certainly true, but
it has a peculiar application on the Left, as the positive beliefs of
left-wing politics are most often the least understood by the adherents.
A feature of left-wing politics is a vague understanding of what they
are for, but a detailed understanding of what they oppose. In fact, it
is what they oppose that gets the attention. The bogeyman becomes an
obsession.

For example, the modern Left in pretty much just a collection of
incoherent bellows and yelps with no real purpose, other than opposition
to white people. Last week the Left was anti-war and now this week they
love war. Their position on foreign policy is dependent on whatever
Trump has to say about the issue. The American Left is purely
reactionary, tethered to Donald Trump like a slave being taken to
market. Their politics are devoid of practical meaning It’s just ways to
point and sputter.

[This Rolling Stone
article](https://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-news/bowl-cut-white-supremacist-symbol-890888/)
in the latest ways to spot an evil doer is a great example of how the
Left invests everything in its bogeymen. The ADL, a left-wing terrorist
organization, maintains a [database](https://www.adl.org/hate-symbols)
of symbols they claim are used by the supernatural members of their even
more mysterious enemies. Putting aside the absurdity of the bowl cut or
the OK sign being secret symbols, think about the sort of person who
thinks this way. It is a person obsessed with what they imagine is in
the shadows.

That is why the Left invests all of its energy into inventing and
describing various aspects of the Eternal Enemy. It’s not that they need
the bogeyman as a rallying point for their coalition. That’s a mistake
paleocons like Steve Sailer make. He’s a practical guy so he projects
practical reasons onto the actions of the Left. If they were sober
minded enough to reason through these things, they would not be on the
Left. To be on the Left is to abandon all reason in favor of a set of
beliefs.

Belief is powerful magic. Because the Left controls the high ground of
the American empire, their beliefs are imposed on the rest of the world
in a million little ways. For example, Neo-Nazis are the [most hated
group](https://inductivist.blogspot.com/2006/12/neo-nazis-are-most-hated-group-in-world.html)
in the world. People from around the empire hate Nazis more than they
hate criminals. The fact that Neo-Nazis really don’t exist, while
criminals are a daily part of life is important. People have been
convinced to hate an imaginary enemy more than the enemy at their door.

Of course, democracy is the most fertile ground for left-wing magic,
because democracy provides no mechanism for uniting people. In fact,
democracy is all about creating divisions, over which the public argues
and comes to some compromise. Short of an official religion and extreme
intolerance of alternative beliefs, a secular religion fills the void as
a unifying set of beliefs. Democracy makes a people crazy, emptying
their heads of reason in order to fill it with the nonsense of civic
religion.

It is the desperate need for bogeymen that must be the focus of any
successful dissident movement, because it is the spirit of the ruling
class. The reason the Left advertises those lists of “hate symbols” is
to encourage stupid people to adopt them as some form of rebellion.
Again, the Left needs enemies to exist, so when none exist, it
manufactures them. As the saying goes, the demand for Nazis long ago
exhausted the supply, so the business of the Left is in creating new
Nazis to meet demand.

Therefore, the successful resistance to the Left in a democracy is one
that avoids playing the role cast for it by the Left. The battle for the
shared reality of the public culture is a war of attrition. The winner
is the one that is most efficient in the use of resources, but best at
driving up the cost to the other side. Whatever comes after liberal
democracy, the people who replace the Left, will fill a void created
when the Left collapses after having exhausted itself maintaining its
control of society.

This is a lesson of right-wing failure in its fight with the Left. The
Right in American always countered left-wing belief with empiricism.
Facts and logic would prevail over the emotions of the Left. Ben Shapiro
chirping “facts don’t care about your feelings” is a rallying call for
the Left. The reason is it turns the resistance to the Left into an
easily demonized opponent. The alternative to left-wing belief is not
the lack of any belief whatsoever. The alternative is a different, more
appealing set of beliefs.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
