---
title: "First Lies"
date: "2019-12-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19184"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19184"
---

One of the defining features of the managerial class is how it uses
rhetoric to shape the debate in order to eliminate the need for debate.
They are not in the habit of debating their ideas and fads, mostly
because they don’t want to debate those things. It is a
soft-authoritarianism where they seek to shame and cajole their
opposition out of the public square, so they don’t have to debate them.
A good example of this is [a
piece](https://catholicherald.co.uk/commentandblogs/2019/11/26/how-classical-liberals-paved-the-way-for-white-nationalists/)
on the debate between young activists and the racketeers.

The author of the piece is an editor of First Things, a publication that
used to [bill itself](https://www.firstthings.com/masthead) as a
conservative religious journal aimed at “advancing a religiously
informed public philosophy for the ordering of society.” As in the case
of Buckley conservatism, establishment Christian organization set as
their goal to fit themselves into the Progressive moral order. As a
result, First Things is a thoroughly house-trained operation that offers
no threat to the prevailing moral order.

Putting that aside, it is a great example of how the establishment,
broadly defined here to include all the subgroups on the other side of
the great divide, first seeks to shape the debate so as to exclude those
seeking to debate them. In this case, the writer has no interest in
addressing the actual core of the fight between the groypers and the
racketeers of Conservative Inc. Instead, he claims the debate is between
white nationalists and classical liberals over the issue of free speech.

There is a word for what he is doing here. It’s called lying. For
starters, there is no definition of “white nationalist” that includes
Nick Fuentes that would not also include the founders of Buckley
conservatism or the Founders of the United States. If that is what the
author intends, then he is the extreme radical here, claiming that the
very founding of the nation is immoral. After all, the term “white
nationalist” is currently defined to mean immoral, as in a heretic or
blasphemer.

Calling Charlie Kirk and the other racketeers of Conservative Inc.
“classical liberals” is a revealing bit of rhetoric. Within living
memory, Buckley conservatives would have avoided such a description.
Religious conservatives certainly would not have used the term
positively. Up until the last generation or so, no right-winger would
claim that society is no more than the sum of its individual members.
After all, the Buckleyites called themselves Burkeans, not Hobbesians.

Once he redefines the sides in the dispute, he then gratuitously
characterizes the nature of the dispute. On the one hand, he claims the
sides disagree on Israel and homosexuality. On the other hand, he claims
both sides agree on the value of free speech and debate. At best, this
is a superficial analysis that suggests the author is unfamiliar with
both sides of this battle. At worst it is an effort to frame the issue
in such a way as to make it easy to defend Conservative Inc.

The claim is that Nick Fuentes is the bad guy, a white nationalist, who
is not a real Christian, while Kirk is just a secular libertarian. The
reason the “white nationalists” are attacking the classical liberal is
Kirk foolishly embraced free speech. The writer spends the rest of his
post on a rant about the dangers of white nationalism, a rant that is
part of the stock rhetoric of the Left. In other words, in typical
Progressive style, it’s all about the good guys and bad guys, the white
hats and black hats.

Of course, you never debate the bad guys. To do so, as the Left always
reminds us, is to legitimize them. Giving white nationalists a platform
could lead people to think that their claims have legitimacy. In order
to avoid that, the bad guys must be destroyed, which in this case means
anathematized as social pariahs. Mr. Schmitz is doing exactly what
dissidents have been accusing Conservative Inc. of doing for generations
now, acting as a gate-keeper for the establishment.

To be more accurate, they are not just gate-keepers in a passive sense.
That’s another lie they like to promote, as if they are just defending
the status quo. In reality, so-called conservatives like Mr. Schmitz are
skirmishers, running ahead of the main battle line in the culture war.
In this case, the job is to anathematize the critics, so they can be
more easily dismissed by the main army of the Left. The whole setup of
the post is as a vehicle for pointing and shrieking at the dissidents.

It is rather ironic that the groyper’s actual complaint, the real
dispute between them and the racketeers, is exactly what Schmitz is
doing in this post. It is not a dispute over speech or individual
liberty. Those things play an ancillary role, but they are not the
primary issues. The issue is that allegedly conservative outfits like
First Things have conserved nothing but their position within the
Progressive establishment. They spend all of their time defending their
alleged adversaries.

That is why Conservative Inc. has embraced left-wing rhetoric to defend
itself against the dissidents. They have no choice. They cannot defend
their behavior morally and they cannot defend [their
record](https://www.propublica.org/article/inside-purdue-pharma-media-playbook-how-it-planted-the-opioid-anti-story).
Like common street walkers, conservatives have been willing to jump into
whatever car pulls up to the curb. In order to avoid admitting this,
they have to shift the focus from themselves onto some bad guy. After
many long years getting into lefty’s car, they have taken on his habits.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
