---
title: "Winter Comes To Lagos"
date: "2019-01-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16118"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16118"
---

Winter finally arrived in Lagos, with cold temperatures and snow last
night. It was not a big snowstorm, but it is still snowing as I type
this. The local weather people say we will get 5-8 inches of snow today,
in addition to the four or five that came last night. It is hard to know
with weather forecasts these days, as they exaggerate everything. They
name every storm so they can talk about it like it is a monster from a
1960’s Japanese monster movie, “Mothra is attacking Lagos with snow and
freezing temps!”

I am a big fan of winter, and I like snow, so I look forward to it
snowing. I had some errands to run this morning, so I was out at sunup
to shovel the truck out and clear the walk. I am one of those people who
enjoys shoveling snow. There is a limit to my enjoyment, but if the snow
is not three feet deep or super-heavy, I enjoy the exercise and the
satisfaction of seeing a clean walk. So, I was out first thing to shovel
and then I ran some errands. I did not see anyone else out and about, so
it was quieter than usual.

That is something I have observed in different parts of the world. When
I lived in New Hampshire, the locals all seemed to love shoveling snow,
almost as much as they loved complaining. The distinguishing feature of
the New England Yankee is complaining about the weather. I recall the
first snowstorm when I moved to Manchester. I went out at first light to
see all my neighbors out shoveling their walks and driveways. By
breakfast, all the walks were clear on my block and most drives were
clear as well.

In contrast, Lagos may never clear the snow. My first snowstorm here was
my first year, so I was unfamiliar with the local customs. We got a big
snowstorm, over 30-inches, and the city was shut down for a week. I
drove to the office to shovel the walk and found I was the only person
out shoveling his walk. In fact, that whole winter the sidewalks were an
obstacle course of frozen boot-prints, patches of ice and snow boulders.
In theory, there is a fine for not shoveling your walk, but I never
heard anyone mention it.

That explains a weird thing you see here in Lagos, as well as other
vibrant areas. When it snows, the locals walk in the streets. They will
do this even when the walks are clear. I think it is just years of
conditioning that has turned into a custom. You will see this in the
county when it snows. People go out and walk in the streets. Here in
Lagos, it means driving gets even more adventurous, as the locals could
very well attack you while you are trying to navigate around them on the
snow-covered streets.

The other thing you see in places like this is how differences in time
preference turn up in city planning efforts. My first storm here I
learned that no one had bothered to service the city’s snow removal
equipment. In fact, much of it was either disabled or missing. I recall
that half the plows were either broken or unaccounted for, so snow
removal was a comical failure. When your focus is on today, that is you
have a high time preference, planning for even predictable eventualities
is beyond your scope of interest.

This, of course, is a great way to introduce people to evolutionary
concepts regarding human diversity. A thousand generations in a place
without snow and inevitably humans will adapt to life without snow. It
is not just learned behavior at work. Nature is always tinkering with
her creations. As Nick Wade put it, evolution is local, recent, and
copious. Put people from the real Lagos in a place with variability in
the environmental conditions and their biological limitations will be
exposed.

Of course, something that seems near universal is the panic that comes
before every snowstorm, even in the snowiest places. I went to the
market this morning and it was stone silent. The reason is everyone
piled in yesterday. I saw this in New England when I lived there, so it
is not just an unfamiliarity with snow. This seems to happen everywhere,
so maybe the sense of something happening triggers the preparedness
instinct in people with low time preference. The itch to prepare always
needs to be scratched.

That said, there seems to be a strong desire among some pale folk to
never have to deal with winter. I have friends who talk every winter
about their desire to move south and never see another snowflake in
person. The number of pale retirees in the Sun Belt says a large portion
of pale people may be built for winter, but they really hate it. I have
always found this baffling. I love winter and love the snow. It is
peaceful and beautiful. There is a simplicity to it that appeals to me.
Even in Lagos, I welcome old man winter.
