---
title: "Poor Rich People"
date: "2019-11-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19040"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19040"
---

One of the great challenges of the demographic age will be
re-conditioning people to think culturally, rather than materially. This
is particularly true of conservative white people, who have been trained
their whole lives to define their existence by the amount of stuff their
heirs will throw away when they die. Theirs is an entirely materialist
existence, so the transition to cultural thinking is going to be
difficult. An example of this is in <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/what-was-the-first-10000-seat-sports-stadium-or-theater-built-after-roman-times"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post</a> by Steve Sailer
regarding public venues.

He starts with the observation that the ancients built a lot of very
sturdy stone theaters and arenas, while those who came immediately after
the fall of Rome did not built anything of significance. It was not
until the Middle Ages that we see the building of large public
structures, but those were cathedrals and churches. He notes that it
took until modernity to build large public arenas. Sailer then jumps to
the conclusion that the Greeks and Romans must have a lot of money
relative to the Middle Ages.

Now, it certainly required a great deal of money to hire men to build
amphitheaters and arenas in the ancient world. Reallocating thousands of
people from farming and military service can only be done by a wealthy
society. The early medieval period in Europe was not a time of great
prosperity. Wealth is not enough, however. Those theaters and arenas
were not just the toys of rich people. They were not built by rich
people, at least not in the way in which our sports arenas are built
today.

In fact, the more apt comparison is between the arenas and theaters of
the ancient world and the cathedrals and churches of the Middle Ages.
The theaters built by the Greeks were an important part of their
cultural life. The plays and festivals reinforced the cultural values
that made Greek life possible. The arenas built by the Romans were not
just for sport. They also had strong cultural importance. The
reenactment of great battles tied the Roman to his past and to his
ancestors.

For most modern white people, Sailer’s instincts on this seem natural.
After all, we live in an age without any sense of culture, other than
the endless war on what is left of white culture by the brown tide
sweeping the land. For most Americans, the point of life has been to
stuff their pockets with as much stuff as they can. The measure of life
is your pile of stuff. The super-successful at getting stuff build
really large buldings where you can buy stuff, like sports jerseys to
remember buying stuff.

It is a good example of how the white people who came along after the
Second World War became entirely materialistic in their thinking. This
is not a Baby Boomer issue, but more about the legacy of their parents.
That cohort went through the Great Depression and then the privations of
the war. In the ensuing boom times of the early days of the empire, they
justifiably enjoyed the fruits of their labor. It was a golden age,
relative what came before, so they quickly learned to value material
prosperity.

The so-called greatest generation gets credit for weathering the
grinding depression, without embracing communism. They get credit for
fighting two industrial wars on two continents, winning both and
ushering in the Pax Americana. They also should get credit, and blame,
for ushering in the material age, where all things are measured in
material terms. The generation that built the American empire, also
built a society in which everyone knows the price of everything, but the
value of nothing.

It has become a meme to mock the Baby Boomers for their obsession with
stuff, but it is a society-wide phenomenon. Modern America functions
like a ghetto riot, in which the culture is a liquor store. Everyone is
just smashing and grabbing what they can, not because they need it or
want it, but because that’s what they do. This is particularly true with
conservatives. All of their arguments, particularly those that fall into
the cultural and spiritual, have been reduced to economic appeals.

In the long scope of things, the American empire will be seen as an
entirely artificial construct, built on the wreckage of Western
civilization. The two great industrial wars that opened the 20th century
exhausted the people spiritually. This includes the people who claimed
to have saved the West. The cultural achievements of the American
empire, such as they are, reflect that lack of spirit. The American
empire and the culture around it is a lifeless zombie shuffling through
time and space.

A simple way of seeing this is the fact that Los Angeles, the home of
Hollywood and the center of American popular culture, has a homeless
camp in the center. Estimates say it contains 70,000 of our fellow
citizens. Yet, the super-rich who run the city are not concerned in the
least. After all, they have their stuff. Even the most callous of Roman
emperor had compassion for the poor of Rome. The modern American
oligarch has nothing but contempt for those who cannot consume product.

The current ructions are not a response to the <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/12/how-america-ends/600757/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">changing demographics</a> as
the suicidal wreckers like to claim. It’s not about the transition to a
post-national order. The reason for the growing unhappiness is that
modern American society offers no purpose, no beauty and no reason to
celebrate life. It’s an ugly age with a sterile ascetic that reflects
the transactional nature of the age. This is an unnatural state for
people, so the people are increasingly unhappy with life in the material
age.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
