---
title: "Immigration Agitation"
date: "2019-06-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17813"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17813"
---

According to news reports, the Trump administration is preparing a big
sweep of illegal immigrants. Trump was supposedly tweeting about it.
[According to the
news](https://www.dispatch.com/zz/news/20190617/trump-vows-removal-of-millions-of-illegal-aliens-starting-next-week),
the plan is to “round up thousands of migrant parents and children in a
blitz operation across major U.S. cities.” Most likely, the plan is to
include lots of tips to local media in an effort to get maximum
attention for the effort. Of course, when the problem involves tens of
millions, using the term “mass arrests” when rounding up thousands is a
bit of a stretch.

Those on the patriotic immigration beat will no doubt look at this with
skepticism, as it is mostly a show. These people, once arrested, will
have to go through the normal deportation process. Since that has been
bogged down by corrupt judges and lawyers, that process will take years.
Meanwhile, the people arrested will be set free, so the effect will have
been to take these people to a field trip to a federal building. The
illegal invaders themselves will lose whatever fear they have of being
deported.

That’s the age old problem with bluffing. Once the bluff is called, all
future bluffs are worthless. In fact, they become a tell, of sorts. The
person prone to empty threats can be manipulated, as everyone knows what
they won’t do once they start making threats about what they will do
unless something happens. A threat is only useful if the person making
it has credibility. In the minds of billions of people, the threat of
deportation from America is no longer credible. They know it is a bluff.

Team Trump and maybe even Trump himself, thinks this is a great way to
mollify the base on the immigration issue. The usual rage heads in
conservative media will play along, calling this some great move by
Trump to address the issue. No doubt, the types of people still wearing
MAGA caps will fall for it. They are mostly older voters, conditioned to
go along with whatever the television tells them. The more jaded,
however, are likely to react the opposite way, seeing it as another
Trump con.

That said, political theater is always aimed at the gullible. Most white
people calling themselves Progressives don’t watch MSNBC, for example.
They will read the NY Times and the Washington Post, but they look at
the cable airheads the same way most dissidents look at the Fox News
rage heads. Political theater is aimed at the dullards, because the
dullards need it. Otherwise, they will stop paying attention and wander
off somewhere. No doubt, Trump gets that, so he does a lot of political
theater.

All that said, the skeptics should probably not get carried away. The
main issue with immigration is ignorance. The people in charge and their
media organs have done an amazing job of hiding the problem in plain
sight. Most white people in America have noticed the invasion in their
cities and towns. They notice the complexion of their kid’s school
changing. Yet, the mass media has done an amazing job of keeping them
from *really* noticing it. In fact, people have been conditioned to
embrace it.

When Trump talks about immigration or when he stages one of these public
relations ventures, it chips away at that conditioning. Immigration, not
just the invaders, but all immigration, is one of those subjects that is
best never discussed, if you are the people in charge. It is one of
those topics that the more people understand, the angrier they get about
it. There is no good way to sell open borders to normal people, so the
media is instructed to cover it up, by preventing any debate about it.

Additionally, any discussion of immigration opens the door to other
taboo subjects, like the guest worker scams. As much as people get mad
about Trump bellowing about how we need unlimited guest workers, what he
is doing, in effect, is the agree and amplify response popular with
dissidents on-line. His exaggerated enthusiasm is so incongruous, it
breaks the normal pattern of discourse. Whether this is intentional or
not, his meandering on immigration keeps the issue front and center.

Probably the best thing about these public relations stunts, however, is
it opens the door to some obvious questions patriots can ask their Trump
loving friends. For example, why is it legal for landlords to rent to
foreign invaders? Why is it legal for Americans to help foreign invaders
come into the country? Why are churches so excited to help invaders, but
can’t be bothered to help poor blacks? Immigration opens the door for
lots of jimmy rustling questions you can spring on your normie friends.

The Civil Rights Movement created many more racists than it cured,
because it brought many whites into contact with blacks for the first
time. All those middle-class white people who had to flee their
neighborhoods for the suburbs took with them a hard lesson, even if
there was no way to turn back the clock. The same is true with open
borders. There could be no such thing as white identity politics without
mass immigration. It exists due to this demographic catastrophe
inflicted upon us.

That’s probably the hardest part about this for dissidents, as well as
the immigration patriots in the civic nationalist sphere. There’s no
“winning” in the conventional sense when it comes to immigration. The
die is cast, as far as the demographics of the North America. The future
is majority-minority, with large swaths of the continent off-limits, for
all practical purposes, to white people. Debating immigration is an
entry point for discussing an ideology built for what comes next, not
what has already happened.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask.
Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to destroy
your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I know have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!
