---
title: "Over Stimulated"
date: "2020-03-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Pandemic
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20130"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20130"
---

The news brings word that Washington has agreed to an <a
href="https://nypost.com/2020/03/24/coronavirus-stimulus-package-to-exceed-6t-larry-kudlow-says/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">unprecedented economic
package</a>, estimated to top $6 trillion. This includes the $4 trillion
in money the Federal Reserve will hand to rich people through various
ways. The other money will go to different rich people in the form of
tax rebates and cash payments. Some very small amount will go to
everyone else in the form of unemployment checks, loans to small
business and one time crazy checks randomly mailed to people.

The money in the stimulus bill is not all a waste. Bailing out the
airline industry has a real benefit. Airlines are like a hybrid utility
these days. They are technically private companies, but almost all of
their actions are controlled by government. They operate through state
owned airports and every aspect of their operations must be agreed to in
advance by the federal government. We need the airlines to function, so
bailing them out has some actual value to the rest of us.

As an aside, you’ll note what is not in this bill. If we are throwing
trillions around, it would make sense to build a wall along the border
or maybe fix up some roads. Perhaps we could draw back some overseas
commitments and put those funds to work rebuilding the homeland. While
the checkbook is open, maybe Trump could get something for his voters
this time. Instead, you can be sure, tucked away in the details, will be
money for more dirty barbarians to be settled in your town.

The stimulus bill is just the show. Its main purpose is to show the
public that the actors and actresses hired by rich people to play the
role of congressmen and senators really care about the people. The other
carny folk <a
href="https://ew.com/celebrity/famous-people-coronavirus-quarantine-videos/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">post videos of themselves</a>
enjoying quarantine in their mansions. The carnies in DC pass stimulus
bills. That may sound very cynical, but everyone in small business knows
the score with these rescue packages passed by Washington during a
crisis show.

The real mischief, however, is in the other money being handed to the
nation’s desperate rich people. This is the stuff being done by the
Federal Reserve, away from the TV cameras. Trillions of dollars will be
poured into the financial markets, much of it through the direct
purchase of assets, like bad debt, stocks, corporate bonds and the
synthetic stuff no one really understands. The central bank is coming
close to turning the global financial system into a palace economy.

A palace economy is a form of economic organization that was common in
the Bronze Age societies of Mesopotamia and the Mediterranean. This is a
system where a substantial share of the wealth flows to the rulers and
is then distributed to the general population. The proceeds of farms,
less what the farmers feed their families, goes to the king, who then
feeds the people. The same holds for booty gained from conquest of
neighbors or the mining of precious metals.

Now, the Federal Reserve is not taking these assets against the will of
the current holders and then giving them to the rest of us. Instead,
they are paying face value for assets that may or may not be worth what
is claimed. The plan is to flood the system with cash in order to
prevent cash hoarding. Theoretically, this keeps the banks lending and
the credit system moving. In a system entirely based on leverage, any
interruption in the credit system threatens the life of the system.

This reveals the big lie about modern economics. Small and mid-sized
business are exposed to the dangers of the marketplace. If they make a
mistake, they pay for it and possibly go under. In the major leagues,
where the big boys play, there is no threat from market forces, as the
Federal Reserve backstops everything. It is not a marketplace, but
rather a highly complex casino, where the house stakes all of the
players. Those that lose are simply given a loan from the house to keep
playing.

A good example of this is something that started happening last fall,
before anyone cared about the Chinese virus. This was back when the Fed
mysteriously began to intervene in the
<a href="https://www.investopedia.com/terms/r/repurchaseagreement.asp"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">repo market</a>. No one had a
good answer for why this was happening and the financial media was told
not to ask too many questions. It turns out that it was a quiet rescue
of hedge funds. They had over-leveraged themselves working a popular
skim called the basis trade. The Fed jumped in to <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-03-19/before-fed-acted-leverage-burned-hedge-funds-in-treasury-trade"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">save them</a>.

Just as democracy is a farce to conceal who is really calling the shots,
free market capitalism is just a show to conceal the reality of the
economic system. The response to the panic they have created shows just
how little of the economy is actually a marketplace at all. The $6
trillion in stimulus is a quarter of the economy, on top of the mountain
of regulations and trillions in normal government spending. In America,
the “free market” is a fringe activity reserved for the little people.

It is tempting to think that this reality is some sort of perversion of
our ancient economic traditions, but that’s just another pretty lie. In
reality, the normal state of things is for the rulers to tightly control
the economy of their territory. In was true in the palace economies of
the ancient world. It was true throughout the middle ages. It has been
true in the modern world since there has been a modern world. Like
libertarianism and communism, the free market exists only in the mind.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
