---
title: "Our House Of Cards"
date: "2020-07-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20970"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20970"
---

Adolf Hitler once said, “There is nothing new under the sun. There are
just new ways of expressing the same ideas.” There is some truth to
this, which is why we have so many ways of saying that history repeats
itself. At least we like to think it repeats itself, as that’s a
comforting thought. It means the answers to today’s problems, no matter
how vexing, exist in the past. All we have to do is rummage around in
the past for a similar time and take a look at the solutions from that
period.

There are exceptions. The French Revolution is one of those novel
happenings that had no precedent in the known past. The Bolshevik
Revolution looked a bit like the French Revolution, but turned out to be
something different, mostly because the Bolsheviks were students of the
French Revolution. Sometimes things are different enough to be treated
as totally new. We may be experiencing one of those times where the
conditions are unique enough to feel as if there is no precedent.

Older pundits are fond of comparing the current cultural revolution to
the cultural revolution of the 1960’s and 1970’s. They make the
comparison because they were around for the first one and they go in for
nostalgia. They also see that the people cheering it on in the halls of
power are often people who participated in the cultural revolution of
the past. You can be sure that many oldsters on the Left think what is
happening today confirms their forever youth.

There are some big differences though. For one, the rebels of the past
were actually rebelling against something. They did not have unlimited
corporate and institutional support. The cops were told to beat the crap
out of the rioters in the 1960’s by the political class, both Democrat
and Republican. Today, the political class, both Democrat and
Republican, is on the side of the rioters. We saw that in New York,
Washington and now Portland and Seattle.

There’s also the fact that the rebels of the past had an agenda. It may
have been childish and silly, in a college sophomore sort of way, but it
was an agenda they could talk about in public. They wanted more personal
freedom. They wanted the war in Vietnam to end. They wanted public aid
for poor people and blacks. The current rebels talk about nonsense like
social justice and privilege. All they can muster is pointless slogans
they heard on-line.

A couple generations ago, the Silent Majority could look at the
situation and imagine an end game. For example, they could connect
ending the Vietnam War with ending the anti-war protests. That meant
voting for Nixon in 1968. They could see a connection between loosening
social mores and clearing the streets of hippies. On the other hand,
they could imagine law and order politicians instructing the cops to
clear the streets of the hippies and protesting students too.

Today, there is no silent majority. The great demographic changes that
have been wrought by those ascendant rebels of the 1960’s has reduced
the white population to about 60% now. About 20% of that population is
on the side of the rioters, just as long as they stay away from their
mansions. Some portion has walked away from politics entirely, due to
the aforementioned changes wrought by the rebels. The Silent Majority is
just a bitter minority now.

That’s an aspect to this that gets little attention and makes this very
different from the cultural revolution of the 1960’s. The geezers
cheering their grandchildren burning Starbucks keep expecting the
jackboots of the Silent Majority to show up like they did the last time,
but those jackboots are now on golf courses in Boca. No matter how much
they provoke their imaginary enemy, there is no response. This reboot of
the 1960’s is missing the thing that made it possible, that Silent
Majority.

Another novel item is that the now silent minority has nowhere to turn
for the solution to this cultural revolution. What is it that they can
give to the people burning and looting the cities to make them go home?
How does one answer the call for social justice or the end of systemic
racism? What would those things look like? These chants and incantations
have no practical meaning. They are moral signifiers borrowed from the
grievance studies programs on the college campus.

More important, there is no electoral option either. The Democrat party
is actively cheering on this lunacy. Joe Biden is running an extortion
campaign, where a vote for him means an end to the violence and Covid
lock downs. How realistic is that when his party is cheering for the
mayhem, promising to take it to a new level after they win the final
election. It is not hyperbole to say that a Democrat sweep in November
means the end of elections. What would be the point?

Of course, the Republicans are revealing themselves to be entirely
bankrupt. Their response to the unrest is nothing. They are too busy
crafting yet another giveaway to their corporate paymasters. Trump is
nowhere to be found. He occasionally tweets something stupid, but
otherwise he looks like a beaten man. In fairness, he is a beaten man,
beaten by a political class that is corrupt beyond reform. For that
silent minority, there is no political option to end the current
madness.

This is a novel problem for Americans. If you are a white person in a
place like Seattle, what are your options? If you abide by the law, you
have your property destroyed and possibly your life threatened. People
are being shot in their cars now as they try to go about their business.
Gun sales are booming, but the people buying the guns imagine themselves
defending their life and property within a system of laws. What happens
when they realize there is no system of laws?

If you read about the deliberations of the decision-makers in the 1960’s
and 1970’s, the thing that stands out is their sober mindedness. They
were very worried that America was on the cusp of social collapse. The
decision makers of today, that means political and corporate leaders,
seem to think American society is an indestructible object they can
abuse without consequence. They are carrying on like reckless children,
incapable of imagining any consequences to their behavior.

Social collapse comes when the majority stops accepting the legitimacy
of the system and the authority of those in charge of it. The one result
of the street rioters and their corporate and political sponsors is they
may get what they want. The majority may stop accepting the legitimacy
of the system. That silent minority may lose all faith in the system and
the people running it. That would be us one step from the edge, when all
respect for authority collapses and takes society with it.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
