---
title: "The Nitwits Of The ‘Narcissus’"
date: "2020-03-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19981"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19981"
---

It has long been known that certain types of jobs and professions
attract certain personality types. The entertainment business attracts
shallow people, who crave attention and adulation. Cops tend to be
belligerent bullies. It does not mean all entertainers are shallow
airheads or that all cops are jerks, just that these fields tend to
attract those types. In fact, shallow airheads and belligerent bullies
may have some advantages in these fields over average people.

Modern mass democracy seems to attract a certain personality type as
well. The person we tend to see in politics and the associated media,
large and small, is someone, who takes great pleasure in admiring
himself. His vanity is not rooted in accomplishment or even proven
skill, but rather in an idealized version of himself, which is often
quite different from his actual self. The world of mass democracy,
especially the media, is a world dominated by narcissistic nitwits.

Just look at some of the people that were in the Democratic primary
field. Pete Buttigieg is a man of no accomplishments. In fact, given all
the advantages he has had compared to most people, he has been a
failure. Yet, he spent a year sashaying around the country, carrying on
like he was doing the world a favor. Think about the level of
self-regard it takes for a small-town mayor to think he can be
President. You have to like yourself a whole lot to do what he did this
last year.

The political media is where this is most obvious. David French is a
great example of the narcissistic nitwit. The only reason to notice him
at all is due his many idiotic things he has posted on-line over the
last decade. <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2019/12/tucker-carlson-fox-news/603595/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Tucker Carlson</a> called him
a buffoon and “one of the least impressive people he has met.” Carlson
is in showbiz now, which means he is around feckless airheads all day.
That means he ranks French below the bubbly weather girls and the addle
minded jocks he meets.

French is a pretty good example of what has come to dominate the world
of non-profit conservatism over the last couple of decades. This is guy,
who exaggerates his own trivial accomplishments and spends an enormous
amount of time telling the world about his wonderfulness. He is a moral
nullity that spends his time on line lecturing us about the
<a href="https://twitter.com/DavidAFrench/status/1231802918434746368"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">moral failings</a> of public
figures. How is it possible for such a nothing person to have so much
self-regard? It should be impossible.

Another good example of the narcissistic nitwit is Tom Nichols. That
would be “Five Time Jeopardy Champion” Tom Nichols for you commoners. He
is fond of telling everyone he meets that he is really good at
remembering pointless trivia. He is also fond of being wrong about
everything, but carrying on as if he is an expert on everything. He is,
of course,
<a href="https://twitter.com/RadioFreeTom/status/1234208135138725888"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">always disappointed</a> in the
rest of us. So much so he writes <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/10/tom-nichols-why-im-leaving-republican-party/572419/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">long essays</a> explaining why
the world does not deserve Tom Nichols.

The thing is, guys like David French and Tom Nichols are not unusual.
The political media is full of people posing in front of empty trophy
cases, grinning like they are the champions of everything. Their careers
are a mix of pointless credentials, timely obsequiousness and idiotic
public pronouncements. Yet, they strut around as if they are doing the
rest of us a favor by remaining on the planet. The gap between
self-perception and reality is breath taking.

It is not just the mainstream either. Mass media, especially low-barrier
to entry stuff like video streaming, has loaded minor politics with
narcissists too. Look at the e-celebs that have become a staple of the
dissident scene. Many are dumb girls, who flash their boobs on camera,
but there are plenty of men that think they are Tom Nichols. Think about
some of the fringe people, who have been born on third base, but ended
up on first base, yet carry on as if they are world changing figures in
history.

Again, it is not the self-regard. Lots of men are cocky, especially when
young, thinking they are all that and a bag of chips. It’s a form of
peacocking. Women, of course, naturally seek attention. The difference
between normal vanity and what we see with these narcissistic nitwits is
the massive gap between their self-perception and the reality of their
resumes. They are so delusional that they may as well be imagining
themselves to be entirely different people. Their life is a larp.

Now, the most likely explanation for this is mass media. Nowhere has
mass media had a greater impact than politics. Turning it into a game of
attention seeking, like the entertainment rackets, means it will attract
the attention seekers. That’s certainly true, as politics at all levels
has been turned into entertainment. Politics, especially fringe
politics, is as much of a hobby as a real effort to change things. The
general lack of seriousness means the un-serious can run wild.

That said, this seems to be a feature of modern democracy. Since the
game is winning the crowd, at any cost, people willing to do anything,
even humiliate themselves, to win the crowd become major figures. Two
types of people are willing to humiliate themselves for the pleasure of
others: those with no self-regard and those with infinite self-regard.
The former has no pride and the latter has no shame. Shameless is the
word that best describes people like David French.

There have been many technical explanations for why democracy is a
system that eventually destroys itself. Those explanations are sound,
but one reason seldom mentioned is that democracy selects for the worst
people. You cannot run anything with feckless airheads and narcissistic
nitwits. That’s democracy though. It elevates the vain and stupid into
positions of authority. It elevates narcissism and boasting over
prudence and caution. It makes the people reckless and stupid.

There is another aspect to this that helps explain the dominance of
narcissistic nitwits in modern liberal democracy. Empathy and compassion
are rooted in self-interest. When done so publicly, they become a form
of status seeking. The narcissist is bets equipped to display what
appears to be a heightened sensitivity to suffering of others. They are
willing to rend their garments and sob in public on behalf of everyone.
They put on a great show, that allows the public to vicariously
empathize with the suffering of man.

Self-preservation is the natural limit on compassion. In a healthy
society, this limit scales up to be the limit tolerable to maintain
social order and continuity. Democracy not only unleashes the
narcissistic nitwits; it crumbles the limits on compassion that these
narcissists feed on like maggots. Democracy murders itself not just
because of the low-quality people it attracts, but because it indulges
in limitless compassion to the point where it can no longer defend
itself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
