---
title: "Dimensionality"
date: "2020-03-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19971"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19971"
---

Politics is often described as a dispute over a set of issues or maybe a
dispute between groups with some stake in an issue. This is the simplest
and crudest form of politics, the sort you get at the town meeting or a
social club. In reality, political divides are much more complex, often
tangential to the issues. Trump, for example, would love to spend a
trillion dollars on roads and bridges. The Democrats have talked about
it for years, but now they oppose it, because they hate Trump.

That’s one of the dimensions to politics. The opposition to Trump is
entirely personal, often stemming from class identity. The more candid
anti-Trump people come right out and admit that they oppose him because
they don’t like his style. The personal dimension to politics plays a
much larger role that it should, but democratic politics always attracts
small-minded narcissists. The system itself rewards this sort of
behavior, so even the more mature fall into the trap of personal
politics.

This gets into another dimension of politics, one where you begin to see
the divide between the camps. One side thinks people are the problem
that politics must fix and the other side thinks the system is what
needs fixing.
<a href="https://slatestarcodex.com/2018/01/24/conflict-vs-mistake/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Scott Alexander</a> did a post
on this a couple of years ago. One side sees politics as a war between
groups, while the other side sees politics as a result of systemic
failure. The left blames Trump or Putin for their woes, while the Right
blames “the swamp” for everything.

The interesting thing about this is the two sides will flip when it
comes to specific topics like crime or regulation. The Left thinks crime
is the result of defects in society like racism, while the Right pins
the blame on criminals or maybe judges, who allow criminals to walk
free. This conflict versus mistake dimension of politics has a
situational dimension to it as well. When it is convenient to blame the
system, both types will blame the system. The same is true with
personalizing issues.

Of course, on this side of the great divide, people tend to look at
politics as war and focus on specific people as the trouble. That’s the
nature of outsider politics, as it by definition opposes the system and
the people in it. There’s also the fact that dissident politics is
immature at this time. There’s not a lot of theory to hold it all
together or even a common set of definitions. People call themselves
dissidents, in some cases, because they think it sounds cool.

This gets into another set of dimensions that <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2019/07/principles-are-more-important-than-people/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Greg Johnson</a> has covered.
Politics involves ideas, events, and people. Small-minded people focus
on the people, while average minded people focus on events. The higher
minded will talk about ideas, but at the top, all three are part of the
political discussion. The cable chat shows are not going to spend time
discussion theory, for example. Instead they cover the events of the day
and the people involved in those events.

This is another reason why dissident politics remains focused on people.
It is not that dissidents are stupid or ignorant. The issue at this
stage is that most dissidents are politically immature. For generations,
Americans have been conditioned to operate within that very narrow space
of official politics. One side wants tyranny by government, while the
other side wants a tyranny of corporate power centers. You get to choose
who rules over you, but not how they rule over you.

One sign that dissident politics is beginning to grow up is the
appearance of books and articles looking at events and ideas from
outside the system. Chris Caldwell’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Age-Entitlement-America-Since-Sixties/dp/1501106899"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">recent book</a>, for example,
is a serious treatment of the forces unleashed by the Civil Rights
Movement in the 1960’s. Caldwell is not a dissident, although he could
probably feel at home on this side, but he is clearly aware of what’s
happening on this side. When intellectuals take dissidents seriously,
the movement is maturing.

That’s another dimension to politics. There is a lifecycle to all
political movements, whether they are driven by events or ideas. We live
in an age in which the ideas of the Enlightenment have largely run their
course. We are also at a point where the American Empire is coming to an
end. Then there is the political order within America that co-evolved
with the empire. The current turmoil is due to the confluence of several
cycles coming to an end at the same time and place.

That’s why dissident politics remains immature. The start of the new
must wait for the old to reach a stage when it can no longer retrain its
replacement. For several decades now, the old system could keep
dissident politics bottled up, but the cracks in the walls are obvious
to everyone now. Like a landslide waiting to happen, there is a lot of
energy stored up in the status quo. What will cause that energy to be
released cannot be known, but it is just a matter of time.

That may be the most important dimension to politics. Time is not a
constant in the political world. Often events move quickly and
uncontrollably, while at other periods, time feels like it stops. Right
now, we are in an interregnum, where stuff happens, but not much has
changed. We are in the period between when the old falls away and the
new rushes into replace it. Time stands still, but at some point, it is
going to take off like rocket and things will change quickly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
