---
title: "Springtime For Joggers"
date: "2020-05-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20485"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20485"
---

Thanks to the relentless anti-white animus, America and the world now
has a new colorful euphemism for a certain element of society. The word
“jogger” is now the preferred word of choice to describe the young black
male creeping around in the neighborhood, looking for trouble. Over the
weekend, the funnymen and meme makers had fun with the story of Ahmaud
Arbery, the black male shot and killed by two white men in Georgia
during a confrontation.

The “jogger” phenomenon is interesting, because it suggests white people
in America have turned a critical corner. When this well-orchestrated
media campaign was unleashed last week, the first reaction by most
whites was to assume it was yet another hoax to libel white people.
Instead of the public acts of piety, whites took to social media to
laugh at the absurdity of the case. The first instinct was to call it
Trayvon Martin 2.0 and mock the ham-fisted propaganda campaign.

Now, not all white people reacted this way. Some older white people in
the northeast, conditioned to hate white people from the South, fell for
the hype, but they were quickly brought around by others. A lifetime of
being told you are a good white, even after you realize you are not, is
hard to ignore. Of course, there were plenty of “fellow whites” on
social media working their usual scams. Then there were the professional
grovelers, who are whites paid to amplify anti-white propaganda.

The most amusing of the bunch was a soy-faced sad-sack calling himself
Matt Walsh, who unironically works for Ben Shapiro. In response to new
video showing Ahmaud Arbery prowling through unattended building sites
in the neighborhood just prior to the confrontation, he made the
laughable claim that it is perfectly normal to wander through unattended
building sites. In fact, it is one of his favorite pastimes! He went so
far as to say that men do this all the time. It’s a “guy thing.”

Within minutes every soft-handed, anti-white bigot was echoing the claim
on social media, claiming they spend their free time prowling around
work sites. Like the jogger claim, this was met with a deluge of
mockery. Maybe if Mr. Walsh was not a prissy little pansy, he could have
got away with it, but the image of that guy walking around a building
site was too much for most people. The army of sissies that came forth
to echo his claims made the whole thing easy to lampoon.

Unremarked thus far is just how quickly this crew came up with this
ridiculous rationalization in support of the narrative. Certain people
will claim they received instructions from the usual suspects, but in
reality, it was as natural a response as pulling away from a hot stove.
These organ grinder’s monkeys for the anti-white rage heads in charge of
America are so thoroughly conditioned, rationalizing the blood libel is
as natural to them as breathing or blinking.

In this time of government-imposed misery, it was a nice bit of fun. The
fact that the propagandists have had to retreat from the story is the
real story. Unlike prior hoaxes, this one appears to have crashed into a
new wall of white skepticism. The police have arrested the two men
involved, but the lynch mob that was expected to pressure the
authorities into railroading these two men has suddenly gone quiet. All
of a sudden, white people are pushing back against the Jim Snow laws.

Of course, the story was greatly enhanced by the fact that as the blood
libel machine was cranking up, a black was literally hunting white
people in a Delaware veterans cemetery, killing an elderly couple. A
jogger named <a
href="https://nypost.com/2020/05/10/married-couple-85-and-86-shot-dead-at-delaware-veterans-cemetery/?utm_source=NYPTwitter&amp;utm_campaign=SocialFlow&amp;utm_medium=SocialFlow&amp;__twitter_impression=true"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Sheldon C. Francis</a>
executed an 80-year old couple as they honored their ancestors. It was a
stark reminder that while the Ahmaud Arbery story is entirely fake, the
jogger threat is real. White people in America have spent generations
trying to avoid joggers.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but generations of white people have
had to pay the tax, the jogger tax, for sins they never committed and in
fact, we never committed. Baltimore would go from Lagos on the
Chesapeake to Hong Kong on the Chesapeake if the local joggers all
decamped to another land. If not for the jogger phenomenon, alarm
companies would go out of business and cars would have normal keys
again. Everyone knows this. The jogger tax is the cost of being white.

Another nuance to this is that there has not been much outrage from
whites about yet another libel against white people. Instead, it seems
as if whites, at least with regards to joggers, have moved past outrage
onto mockery. The usual suspects can manipulate the righteous anger of
the victims to their ends, but they are powerless to do much in the face
of mockery. Odious carbuncles like Matt Walsh will continue to put on
their self-righteous face, but it just makes the mockery more powerful.

The elephant in the room, of course, is the race problem. Blacks still
think OJ Simpson was innocent, they think Trayvon was executed and they
think Michael Brown was the victim of police abuse. They think the
father and son at the center of this jogger hoax hunted and killed
Ahmaud Arbery. They are absolute sure gangs of whites roam the
countryside hunting innocent black bodies. They are sure everyone who
voted for Donald Trump is a racist for supporting the racist-in-chief.

Similarly, the usual suspects share most of these beliefs. Two standard
deviations to the right of blacks are a class of people whose identity
is rooted in the blood libel against white America. Matt Walsh did not
rush forth to condemn white people because he is being paid by Ben
Shapiro. David French and his goofy old lady did not kidnap an African
child as a trophy for career advancement. These self-loathing whites are
not just paid flaks for the orthodoxy. This is who they are now.

This means there is no reconciliation possible between the self-loathing
whites, American blacks and the rest of white America. No amount of
mockery will dampen the enthusiasm for these hoaxes and libels. No
matter how many are revealed to be fake and no matter how many joggers
roam white neighborhood looking for victims, the people behind this
latest hoax will keep at it. Who they are depends on it. Like the
oxpecker, they exist to live off the rest of us.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
