---
title: "The End Of A Story"
date: "2020-11-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21730"
---

Note: I have a <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/213317"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">new post up behind the green
door</a>. This is a review of the next film on the top-100 greatest
movies, *Unforgiven*. I’m a fan of Eastwood, so I’ll probably be doing
more posts on his work.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the things that was debated on the fringes of politics the last
few years is whether this period was a replay of the late-60’s and early
70’s or a replay of the early and mid-60’s. Were we heading to some new
and much worse phase of radicalism or was this a rear guard action as
this spasm of radicalism burned itself out? Put another way, was this
the dawning of the age of Jonquarius or the sunset of the radical
awakening that was kicked off in the 2000 election?

The outright theft of the 2020 election tells us that we are probably
witnessing the end point of a radical phase, rather than a beginning.
The reason, to stick with the historical comparison, is that Trump is
clearly Nixon in this drama. The Left, which controls both the aesthetic
and the cultural norms of official Washington, reacted to Trump just as
their analogs reacted to Nixon a half century ago. They were willing to
break every rule to get rid of him and finally did it.

The way they have rid themselves of Trump is interesting for a few
reasons. One is that they did it in reverse order this time. For a
backward age, in which everything is a deliberate attempt to reboot old
franchises, running the old Nixon playbook in reverse suggests the
cosmic forces have a sense of style. Instead of rigging an election to
keep Nixon out and then impeaching him after he got into Washington,
they impeached Trump first and then rigged the election to throw him
out.

Those old enough to remember Nixon will recall that long after Nixon was
gone, the Left still groused about the man. They made movies trying to
portray him as worse than they painted him while in office. They used
him as a pejorative when assaulting Republican political opponents.
Everything that made lefty sad in the 1980’s was called Nixonian, as if
Nixon was the face of evil in the world. Nixon was a great enemy that
served them so well, they could not bear to let him go.

You can be sure this will be true of Trump. In order to keep their
conservative toadies in line they will be calling them “Trumpian”
whenever they dare speak out of turn or show any signs of life.
Republicans, of course, will fully embrace the term to police their
ranks for anyone that questions the oligarchs. For the political
industrial complex, the Trump era will be like a brush with death. It
will color their perspective on everything and modify their politics
long after Trump has left their midst.

To further bolster the analogy is the fact that Biden is a vegetable.
Carter came in after Nixon, but exactly no one in Washington respected
carter. They laughed at him to his face and treated him like a servant.
They were slightly embarrassed by him, but he was a necessary place
holder, so he was tolerated. That’s Biden. He was installed as the
nominee and now president because the political class does not know
where they go from here, so they put in a place holder.

With Carter, the promise was that all the professional hacks would get
their jobs back and begin to rebuild an activist foreign policy and
continue remaking the post-industrial economy, while the establishment
found some better front men. This is why the neocons were all on the
Mumbly Joe bandwagon. They expect to slither back into the foreign
policy side and begin preparing for war with Iran next decade. The
bankers will get their men back in to restart the globalism process.

The thing to keep in mind with historical analogies is they are never
perfect and only a fool gets hung up on that fact. They’re comparisons,
not replications. The reason they are useful is people don’t change all
that much from generation to generation. The people who pushed out Nixon
in the 1970’s are not all that different from the people involved in the
coup against Trump. Many were around back then. That means they will
react to the aftermath in a similar way.

That said, the differences are important. There is no conservative
movement brewing this time to be a useful gatekeeper for the
establishment. Conservatism has been so discredited; few Trump
supporters will be fooled by their efforts to legitimize the shenanigans
that have gone on during Trump. They will try, of course, but the result
will be a further discrediting of themselves. Too many people are wise
to that game now for it to work on anyone but the extremely stupid.

Further, there is no new thing on the horizon this time. The reason
Buckley-style conservatism got off the ground is the people in charge
immediately saw it would be a useful foil for them in the charade of
democracy. Buckley’s over-the-top Brahman act legitimized conservatism.
A vulgar little dwarf like Ben Shapiro is never going to be able to pull
that off. The fact is, the bench of Conservative Inc. is full of misfits
and mediocrities, best suited for parody, not legitimacy.

The point here is this era is probably not the beginning of the end as
many disappointed dissidents would have you believe. There will be no
internment camps for racists or truth and reconciliation commissions.
Instead of the beginning of the end it is just the end of a cycle of
radicalism. Just as the New Left spent their last bit of fervor ejecting
Nixon from Washington, our woke crazies of this age have spent
themselves now. Their reason to exist is about to leave town.

Further, this may signal the end of another story. That story is the
tale of the American Empire that began in the middle of the last
century. After conquering Western Europe and much of Asia, the American
Empire engaged in a long face-off with the Soviet Empire. Just as the
Peloponnesian was a multi-generational affair, the Cold War spanned
close to three generations. It changed the culture of America and cast a
long shadow after it was over.

The first truly imperial generation rose up in the middle of the last
century too. They remade the culture and economy in their image. The
story of the last 70 years has been the story of that generation, but
just as the empire is in decline, so is that generation. The weird
backward-looking nature of modern politics, the endless cycle of reboots
and remakes in Hollywood, the stalling of technological advance, all
suggest we have reached an end point.

The multi-generational cycle that was kicked off with the start of the
Cold War and the struggle between two global empires may be reaching its
end. All the old purposes that drove that cycle are gone now. There are
no communists. There are no Nazis to hunt as a reminder to remain
vigilant. Every battle in the culture war has been won. There is nothing
left to do, so the imperial generation has been replaying old fights in
a politics of nostalgia, but now their time has come to an end.

That is probably what we are witnessing. The generation that made a
fetish of free speech, good government and democracy, is now closing the
show with censorship, corruption and now the undermining of democratic
legitimacy. They are not doing this because of Trump or what he
represents, but as one last replay of a drama that has outlived its
reason to exist. It’s fitting that the capstone of this generation’s
nostalgia politics will be a man who cannot remember yesterday.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3QJyBOfotTZ+9PzReplzXQ==cb7jih3CBfkTl2rb+DKzejXjZdPahBxLZ3blQHNCsqRuyKmTkunHWpV94mF6IhpLB6Z"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="/UZRV+IPArDf8/C9jBoYJw==cb7dmtpdZECkmoZEETx+VV3AOe9VGYTmKFYsyN6xHlaQsJH+HIzoQdvck5ZR3TBy5e5"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
