---
title: "Just Walk Away"
date: "2020-12-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22092"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22092"
---

If you are over the age of forty, you have been hearing, in one form or
another, the argument that you must vote Republican to keep the Left
from turning America into a socialist country. The pitch gets punched up
with promises on certain issues, depending upon the audience, but the
basic argument has never changed. The reason to vote for the Republicans
is to prevent the Left from doing socialisms. About half the time, this
is enough to win elections and keep the parties equal.

It is hard to pinpoint when this argument became the standard pitch for
conservatives and the GOP, but the 1990’s is a good guess. After 12
years of Republican presidents, the degenerate Bill Clinton took the
helm promising all sorts of Great Society style programs, like
socialized medicine. Newt Gingrich responded with the Contract with
America and the GOP took the House for the first time in generations.
The reason is people wanted to stop those socialisms!

In fairness, from the perspective of the standard issue conservative,
the Clinton years were a golden age. Clinton started no pointless wars
of choice on behalf of unnamed people working for an unnamed country. <a
href="https://www.mercatus.org/publications/government-spending/rise-capita-federal-spending"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Inflation adjusted per capita
spending</a> was flat for the first time in forever. The deficit
declined and there were a few years in which there was a budget surplus.
Clinton even signed off on welfare reform, a long-standing conservative
goal going back to the 1960’s.

Then the conservatives told everyone that Bush was a slightly retarded
Reagan, who would usher in a new conservative resolution. In the Bush
years the Republicans had the House, Senate and White House. Spending
skyrocketed, we got two pointless wars of choice on behalf of unnamed
people working for an unnamed country and they added the foundations of
a police state for good measure. From the perspective of the standard
issue conservative, Bush was a disaster.

In 2006 and 2008, many sensible white people did the sensible thing and
walked away from the Republicans. In 2006 and 2008, the Democrats had
huge electoral victories, winning the House, Senate and White House.
People forget that they had veto and filibuster proof majorities in both
chambers in 2008. Again, we heard the cry from Republicans that the only
way to stop the bogeyman from putting socialisms on you was to vote for
them so they could stop the socialisms.

Sometimes the worst thing that can happen is you get what you want. This
has been the case with both standard issue conservatives and the GOP.
That old pitch about voting Republican worked and it kept working, but
in the process, it hollowed out both conservatism and the Republican
Party. They went from being a movement with a laundry list of reforms
and goals to being a collection of <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/732749-a-conservative-is-someone-who-stands-athwart-history-yelling-stop"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">mediocrities at the
railyard</a> yelling “stop” for some reason.

There are a many useful lessons for dissidents in the Trump era, but one
of them is that the Republican Party is no longer a plausible agent of
change. They have become a negative identity, that publicly opposes
whatever their good friends in the other party are pitching at the
moment, but
<a href="https://twitter.com/MillerStream/status/1334912324373602304"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">privately despises</a> the
people they represent. Thirty years ago, the call to vote Republican to
stop the rollback of the Reagan years was possibly sincere, but since
then it has become just another grift.

In the comments of <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/2020-election/2020/12/04/vice-president-mike-pence-warns-at-georgia-rally-if-you-dont-vote-they-win/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">these stories</a> at
Breitbart, we are seeing regular people wake up and begin to look
forward, rather than backward. That old plea to stick with the
Republicans because socialism seems to be failing. After all, they ask,
if the vote will be stolen and the Republicans do nothing, what is the
point of voting? What is the point of the Republican Party if they
cannot be bothered to defend the very system that allows them to exist
as a political party?

Republicans and Conservatives have no answer for these questions. It is
why they are carrying on as if concerns about election fraud are wild
conspiracy theories. Their instinct is always to repeat what the Left is
saying when they are in a jam. That alone should be enough to cause
people to walk away from the party, but that is not always easy to
notice. Conservatives have been conditioned for generations to embrace
Progressive morality, so they don’t notice it.

Regardless, the only way forward is for people to abandon the GOP
entirely and let them sink into obscurity. Georgia will be the big test.
The comments on conservative sites like Breitbart suggest something has
snapped. These people did everything they were told, and victory was
stolen from them. Now they see the party that claims to represent them
defending the theft. The 2020 election may have broken the civic
nationalist spell, leading to a break with the GOP.

As risky as it may sound, it is the only way forward within the rules of
the current electoral system. Consider it the Flight 93 option or
perhaps the denouement to the <a
href="https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/digital/the-flight-93-election/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Flight 93 election</a>. With
no other options available within the rules, this is a last effort to
preserve the rules by forcing the parties to defend the rules.
Otherwise, we are left with John F. Kennedy’s admonition. “Those who
make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution
inevitable.”

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="e2/IC8yFaxs+SX9K3BcFIQ==cb7ss275QPzqwGyCOiY3Tt1UotErhASzDYgKMEKazLKvpadWtAbKDWasH//9fS5s3ys"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="clBPNvSkPCX+L+NSE1oVyw==cb7pNVwvGyhx58ckrRULUOFidifG2Prz7mQqlhpZJY9oJ/alQZH4QJRCTN4bktTuRwI"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
