---
title: "The Power Of Bad Ideas"
date: "2020-12-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22200"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22200"
---

Dissidents tend to think of politics as the driver of social change.
Elections have consequences, as the winners get to shape public policy,
which guides the cultural evolution of society. There is some truth to
it, but in reality, politics, as in elections and campaigns, are the
product of social change. The real action is upstream where attitudes
are formed and morality is structured. Convince people that something is
morally wrong and this belief will turn up at the ballot box.

This is why the ruling class maintains a death grip on mass media. This
is their primary vehicle for shaping public attitudes. [Convince
70%](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2020/12/14/poll-71-percent-confident-theyre-protecting-themselves-from-coronavirus-by-wearing-masks/)
of the public that wearing a rag over their face is a good idea and
suddenly they are open to a wide range of claims by the politicians in
the next election. They will support the side pushing for more
restrictions and mandatory vaccines. It is the art of the nudge, which
is the primary weapon in a modern liberal democracy. It’s rule by
suggestion.

This is why success in dissident politics lies in getting people to
question their assumptions about politics. The current example is the
assumption that the only way to effect change is through voting. Lots of
people who agree with dissidents on most things keep voting harder
thinking that will get the result they want. These people are so
convinced of this they often get angry when the truth is pointed out to
them. The power of bad ideas is a wildly underestimated force in
politics.

Another bad idea that has haunted the Right for generations now is the
idea that the media should be independent. For as long as anyone reading
this has been alive, conservatives have been moaning about liberal bias
in the media. They are not wrong about this observation. Even media that
positions itself on the Right tends to parrot the party line on
important issues. Go on Fox News and suggest the restoration of free
association and they have you arrested.

The thing is though, the issue is not bias. The real issue is the nutty
idea that the media could or should ever be independent and neutral.
This has never happened since the printing press and it never should
happen. In liberal democratic politics, all participants are partisans,
which means all media must be partisan as well. Therefore, independent
and neutral media is media that does not exist. This is why right-wing
media tends not to exist, as it is trying to be neutral and independent.

A similar problem exists with the courts. For generations the normal
people in America have been lectured by conservatives that the courts
must be independent of politics and be neutral in the application of the
law. How an explicitly political institution, one defined by our
politics and maintained by the political system, could be independent of
our politics is never explained. The fact that the court has never been
independent is an important fact often ignored by dissidents.

The truth is, what we really want as dissidents is a court packed by
people who think we don’t go far enough in beating back the darkness of
liberalism. The same is especially true of the mass media. This is one
reason the Left has won every battle with conventional conservatism.
They convinced their opponents to hold up independence as an ideal for
media and the law, while they wage a savage partisan fight. A good bad
idea is one that the other side accepts and you ignore.

Of course, this is the key bad idea that has been at the heart of
American cultural decline for generations. The Left fully embraces
partisan politics, while decorating it with the frosting of objectivity.
The Right, in contrast, embraces objectivity while decorating it with
the manure of righteous contempt for partisanship. One side appeals to
reason, while promoting superstition. The other side works hard to make
the reasonable side feel like a trip down to the local solid waste
disposal plant.

Being right about things should matter, but what should always matter
more in politics is advancing your interests at the expense of the other
side. The ultimate goal of politics is to wipe them from the field. If
that means being wrong, deliberately wrong, then that is the cost of
being right in the end. This is how all right-wing politics should
function, but instead it obsesses over minutiae and squabbles about how
many angels can dance on the head of the free market utopia.

A simple mental exercise is to imagine what would happen if tomorrow 90%
of white people saw freedom of association as a sacred and inviolable
right. Your right to decide with whom you associate and with whom you do
not associate is so important that speaking against it is a
disqualifier. All of a sudden, racial set asides take on the morality of
pederasty. Anti-racism sounds like mental illness. Simply correcting one
terrible idea would radically alter our politics.

This is the power of bad ideas. One terrible idea, like anathematizing
free association, can have enormous downstream consequences. It is why
effective politics needs to aim further upstream and attack those bad
ideas at the source. Getting people to question their assumptions about
voting, for example, rattles the system at its foundation, because the
foundation of the system is bad ideas. Start to erode the power of those
bad ideas then suddenly politics becomes a different game.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="5lwq1VSAp0UZsEMy2sclNg==cb7z5QqmxQAgSusjzYSIAAO2q6VqMaMvw+Z58XjuSS2y29wFrsDCXNDayeqbJnPPXqX"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="j7p1Sp7iOdX6wrUZJwjuVA==cb77IANZikCSxYZLm2YxVEnEeCwesO9HPaxMYGwSvftNs7TBjFS1hYiESmN14LTKENj"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
