---
title: "The New Economy"
date: "2020-08-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21000"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21000"
---

Something that has been brought to the surface by the recent economic
shutdown is that classical economics seems to have run out of answers.
More precisely, we are seeing things today that classical and
neoclassical economics said were not possible, at least not in the long
term. All over the West, but particularly in the United States, we are
seeing contradictions for which there are no explanations. It’s as if we
have crossed into a new world that operates by different economic rules.

The best example of this is the debt carried by governments. For a long
time, it was assumed that debt levels approaching GDP were
unsustainable. In war time or a national crisis, a nation could run up
huge debts, but must immediately address those debts after the crisis
had passed. This meant austerity or inflation. Today, Japan has debt
over 200% of GDP. Greece is at 170% and Italy at 130%. The United States
was at 110% before the recent economic calamity.

Those who cling to the old economics keep predicting that sovereign debt
will be the downfall of the West, but that’s like predicting rain in
Arizona. Eventually, the prediction comes true, but when is what
matters. As the John Maynard Keynes famously said, “In the long run
we’re all dead.” Maybe there is some point where these debt levels have
to be addressed, but everyone used to know this was not possible. Within
living memory, trillion-dollar Federal deficits were said to be
impossible.

All around the modern economy we see things that should not be
happening. America has seen 50 million people file for unemployment. The
streets are empty during work days in most cities. It has been an
article of faith that wide-scale unemployment would lead to unrest.
Instead of marches by unemployed workers, we have riots by the
delinquent children of the ruling class. They are not demanding jobs.
Instead, the jobless are watching the shenanigans on television.

Similarly, the stock markets are doing the opposite of what economics
has said should happen on the cusp of a long depression. Apple became
the world’s first trillion-dollar public company on Thursday, as a rise
in its share price pushed it past the previously unthinkable valuation.
This is a company that makes luxury goods financed on retail debt. Their
core market is now unemployed. How is it possible for a “Good Time
Charlie” business to boom in a depression?

There may be ways to explain these and other phenomena within the old
rules of economics, but those patches to the old theory just create new
contradictions that have to be addressed with new patches. It may simply
be that the West, having moved past scarcity, has entered into a new
world of economics. Just as quantum physics takes over for classical
physics at the atomic level, the new economics takes over for the old
economics at the post-scarcity barrier.

An example brought up in <a
href="https://myth20c.wordpress.com/2020/07/31/the-money-game-zman-on-financialization-of-the-economy/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this brilliant discussion</a>
(<a
href="https://d.tube/#!/v/myth20century/QmRuKMc6BrkFn61jnbrez9PWtvPyt6zZNzHt8vmUFdE3AH"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Video</a> and <a
href="https://theamericansun.files.wordpress.com/2020/07/myth-of-the-20th-century-episode-180-the-money-game-zman-on-financialization-of-the-economy.mp3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">MP3</a>) on modern finance is
the elevation of transaction-creation over capital formation. A company
like Tesla has a ridiculously high valuation, despite its many problems,
because it creates lots of transactions and creates potential
transactions. Everything from government credits to complex financial
instruments are spun off by the activity of the firm. As a result, it
creates lots of downstream financial activity.

Compared to an old school car maker, Tesla makes little sense. The old
school car maker was focused on building cars, which meant they focused
on all of the processes to building a car, like supply chains and
managing factories. As a result, they had massive balance sheets. The
real value of the company was the massive array of assets it owned to
build and sell cars. Tesla, in contrast, has a tiny balance sheet, as it
is focused on generating economic activity.

The elevation of the transaction over capital formation is one of the
unremarked aspects of the new economy. Wealth is now generated by either
creating new ways to move information around the system or maintaining a
gate through which information must flow to some other part of the
system. In the new economy, information can be knowledge about some
future transaction or the store of old information in a wealth
containment vehicle, like money, assets, credit and so forth.

In the new economics, the demand for genuine innovation, the overcoming
of scarcity in some way, is in low demand. Instead, the economy is
dominated by middlemen who benefit from each transaction. Therefore, the
innovator is one who comes up with a new way to accelerate the movement
of information in the system, thus increasing the number of
transactions. Facebook is worth billions not because it has a great
product or service. Its value is in its ability to generate
transactions.

Another aspect of the new economics that seems to contradict the old
rules is the rise of credit as an asset. All over the global financial
system credit sits on the books of banks, hedge funds and companies as
an asset. The asset is taken at face value and often the nature of it is
unknown. This was obvious in the mortgage crisis when debt holders had
no idea what was in those mortgage pools. Credit is now just another
store of information in the financial system.

In fact, certain types of debt are the preferred store of information.
The financial system has an unquenchable thirst for US treasuries.
Federal debt is now over 26 trillion, a number thought unimaginable just
a few decades ago. When you add in unfunded Social Security and Medicare
liability, the debt is multiples of that total. Despite this staggering
debt load, United States treasuries remain the preferred collateral in
the financial system. They are better than actual money.

An irony of this new post-scarcity economic order is that it seems to be
evolving toward something closer to the old palace economies of the
Bronze Age. All over the economy we see a great consolidation. Amazon is
close to half the retail economy now. Five big banks control more than
90% of the financial system. The tech oligarchs are close to having a
monopoly on the public square. In their respected spheres, everything
flows into them and is distributed out as they see fit.

We have quickly moved from a situation where these new economic models
were too fragile to regulate to a situation where they are too big to
regulate. In fact, the phrase “too big to fail” is now just an accepted
truth of the current age. Like the palace economies, these institutions
are not here to serve society. American society now exists to serve
these new institutions. As a result, these institutions are actively
shaping our behavior to create transactions that serve their needs.

Whether or not this is sustainable is unknown. People who want to the
think it cannot go on will find reasons to believe that. The answer
though lies in whether this model can last in a world of informational
symmetry. As automation takes over the economic system, will there be a
way to create more transactions. After all, the robots will reach a
point where they know the market value of all items before the market is
set. No robot will be able to fool the other robots.

That is another aspect of the new economy that goes unexamined. It is
just assumed that automation will idle the human assets the ruling class
does not like. In realty, it will be the information class that suffers
the most. In a world where financial transactions are conducted among
algorithms on the block-chain, what is the need for guys working the
phones in a brokerage? How would trades even happen if both sides know
the future price of the item being traded?

As with anything new, there are more unknown things than known things.
The new field of
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_economics"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">quantum economics</a> is an
effort to take methods and ideas from quantum physics to model economic
activity. It starts from the observation that something like the
efficient market theory contradicts the assumption that humans are
rational and will attempt to maximize their utility. People know the
odds, but they keep going to the casino anyway, buying sports cars and
following new trends.

There’s also the possibility that reality has simply gone on holiday and
will return to put all of this back in order. Some unknown crisis will
reveal the massive cracks in the foundation of the current economic
model. Everyone will suddenly snap out of the fog of plenty and rush for
the exits. After all, the Bronze Age economic model was unable to hold
up under the pressure of the Sea People. The current economic model may
simply collapse under the weight of a billion Africans.

**Media Update:** The guys at
<a href="https://myth20c.wordpress.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Myth of the 20th Century</a> had me on as a guest to
talk about various things related to economics. I appreciate them having
me on. They do a lot of interesting stuff, so I hope everyone will check
out their material. Like so many, they have been condemned to the valley
of the damned. That means no YouTube of Twitter, but you can download
the latest episode <a
href="https://theamericansun.files.wordpress.com/2020/07/myth-of-the-20th-century-episode-180-the-money-game-zman-on-financialization-of-the-economy.mp3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">here</a>. They also have a
<a href="https://www.bitchute.com/channel/oQ1J6mxz3JAo/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Bitchute channel</a> and a <a
href="https://d.tube/#!/v/myth20century/QmRuKMc6BrkFn61jnbrez9PWtvPyt6zZNzHt8vmUFdE3AH"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">D-Tube channel</a>.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
