---
title: "The Plague"
date: "2020-01-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19642"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19642"
---

The zombie apocalypse is upon us. It is time to load up on ammunition,
potable water and the dehydrated food they say will last generations. Of
course, it also means cutting yourself off from the rest of humanity, as
you can’t be sure when they will catch the virus and turn into a zombie.
You might have to use the ax on the guy next door, who just moved in, so
there’s no point in getting know him. It also ensures that whatever is
turning people into zombies will not get to you.

We may not be on the verge of a zombie apocalypse, but there is a <a
href="https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/china-coronavirus-wuhan-travel-warning-advice-death-toll-symptoms-a9295956.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">cornavirus outbreak</a> in
China that has spread to several other countries. The Chinese are taking
it very seriously, warning people to limit travel and avoid the outbreak
zone. They are saying the virus has mutated, but what exactly that means
is unclear. There has been at least <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/health/first-case-coronavirus-us-seattle"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">one case</a> in the United
States. The infected person had recently traveled to the outbreak region
of China and developed the symptoms.

Now, it is highly unlikely that this will turn into a pandemic that
wipes out a large swath of humanity, like the Black Death. It’s not
impossible, but the odds are low because of modern technology. One
reason the plague spread so easily is the poor sanitation in urban
areas. People were exposed to all sorts of unhealthy things. They also
lacked the medical care we take for granted. Mortality rates for plague
today are about 10%, while they were as high as 60% in the Middle Ages.

Even as recent as a century ago, doctors were still blaming miasmas, bad
odors, for various diseases. One reason the Spanish Flu spread so far is
the general understanding of germ theory was in its infancy. Rather than
isolating infected people and quarantining infected areas, people
traveled as normal, spreading the virus all over the world in a short
period. The Great War had millions of people moving from their homelands
to foreign areas and the virus went with them.

That is the one connection between the last great pandemic and this new
coronavirus outbreak in China. Every day millions of people leave their
home area and travel to some new area for business, crime, tourism and
so on. Humanity is probably more mobile today than at any time in
history. Maybe there was more net mobility in the great industrial wars
of the last century, but it is close call. The possibility of something
really bad being spread by people is therefore at a peak.

Modernity may be the reason we are much more vulnerable to a
civilization-wrecking pandemic than at any time in the past. A century
ago, most humans lived in rural areas and farming was the number one
employer in most of the world. Even industrialized nations still had
close to half the workforce engaged in agriculture. Most men still had
the wherewithal to maintain themselves in a pinch. The cities would be
crippled by a plague, but the rural areas could carry on,

Today, 90% of western populations are dependent on the system to provide
the basics of life, like food, water and heat. If enough people die from
plague or even get really sick, the supply chain will break down. Given
how near run all modern business is these days, the margin for failure
is pretty low. A few weeks of failed logistics in the food business
would leave whole communities starving. One water main break could cut
off water to an entire city, if the work force has fallen ill.

Modern society could be like Jenga, the kid’s game where players take
turns removing one block at a time from a tower of blocks. When
everything is running as designed, removing one item does not cause
collapse. If a few items stop working, then maybe it just takes one
wrong failure for the whole thing to come down. For example, a pandemic
plus a series of bad weather events leads to widespread food shortages,
which in turn lead to civil unrest in major cities.

There’s also another angle to the risk analysis of modern society. Much
of the infrastructure in America has been neglected for generations.
Drive around an East Coast city and the roads are like the surface of
the moon. Under those roads lie generations-old sewer, gas and water
pipes that have been neglected. It takes a lot of manpower to keep them
running. The same applies to lots of other basic infrastructure around
the country. Manpower is needed to keep it functioning.

One reason for this is simple corruption. The ruling class no longer
feels a duty to the societies over which they rule. They are extractive
in nature, seeking only to skim and pilfer what they can from the people
they rule. Another reason though is the collapse of social capital from
mass migration and financialization. Most of the public stuff we rely
upon is maintained by local communities. The obliteration of those over
the last few generations is showing up in the infrastructure.

In a serious crisis, like a deadly pandemic, survival will depend upon
communities voluntarily working together to provide the basics and care
for the weak. For much of America, this is now impossible. In Europe,
where 80-90% of people live in urban areas now dominated by foreigners,
it would also be impossible. The point being, the cost of responding to
a serious pandemic like the Spanish Flu is now much higher. In fact, we
may not be able to react to such a threat.

Now, it is possible that like scarcity, humanity has overcome the threat
of pandemic, through medicine and technology. The SARS outbreak killed
800 people, but in a world of billions of people, that is a trivial
event. It’s three airliners crashing in a year. Just as we no longer
prepare for famines in the West, we may no longer need to plan for
another round of the Black Death or similar. Of course, people had
similar thoughts before the outbreak of the Spanish Flu a century ago.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
