---
title: "Anger Management"
date: "2020-06-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20625"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20625"
---

Watching the events of the last few days, it is impossible for a
sensible white person to not get angry. Blacks and now Antifa are
running wild in the streets, looting and now killing people. Meanwhile,
the cops stand around doing nothing, while the politicians stumble all
over themselves trying to excuse what’s happening. Worse yet, they are
now blaming white supremacists. It is, as the great man [once
said](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/31549-every-normal-man-must-be-tempted-at-times-to-spit),
enough to cause a normal man to hoist the black flag and start slitting
throats.

The people responsible for this, of course, want you angry. Angry people
lose focus and pin their anger on convenient targets. Angry people say
and do things that make them easy to dismiss. No matter how much they
think they are “owning the libs” right now, those angry BoomerCons on
Facebook posting
[boogaloo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boogaloo_movement) rants are
just playing a role laid out for them by the usual suspects. Their anger
is confirmation to those leftists who define themselves in opposition to
normal white people.

Instead, now is a good time to think about excluding from your life
those anti-whites who you would like to punch in the face right now.
Just as blacks need to be around whites, those anti-whites trying to
explain why this nonsense is justified need to be around you and people
like you. They need to see you unhappy in order to feel the closest
thing to happy their dead souls can experience. If you really want to
“own the libs” in your life right now, calmly and clearly disassociate
yourself from them.

That’s hard for a lot of people to do. Generations of conditioning have
designed the right-wing American to think their purpose in life is to
squander their time trying to convince lefty of the errors in his ways.
Just as every Mormon dreams of bringing a Jew or Muslim into the church
as a convert, every conservative dreams of the day when that lefty in
their life says, “You know what? You are right.” Even if that epiphany
does not lead to conversion, to be right just once is the dream.

If that instinct is still with you, now is the time to put down the
needle and begin the journey to political sobriety. The white people who
instinctively side with the blacks against the whites, are not your
people. They can never be your people, because they hate your people.
Granted, what drives them is hatred of self, but it is not your job to
heal them. These people are driven by the thought of your people living
as hated minorities in their own lands. They cannot be saved.

That’s the thing the modern dissident must keep in the front of his
mind. Every event, every crisis, every great disappointment, is a chance
to bring one person on the journey this way. Wasting a second of your
life trying to “own the libs” is time you could be using to help a
fellow traveler on his journey over to this side of the great divide.
They are just as angry as you, maybe more so, because they have not yet
come to understand the reality of the great struggle that lies before
us.

That may be the greatest challenge for the dissident in times like
these. Those normal conservative types in your life are now feverishly
trying to explain why this is not about race, despite the images and
rhetoric in the media. Maybe they are focused on the how the cop should
not have been so rough with the Gentle Giant. Maybe they are focusing on
the white people the media so carefully shows in their coverage. Worse
yet, they are now doing the “Democrats are the real racists” chant.

It’s frustrating, because they are like people who clearly see the
problem, but somehow the cause of it is invisible to them, while it is
brightly illuminated for you. The frustration is the same as when they
tell you how Israel is our greatest ally, while at the same time
condemning the neocons and the forever wars. The natural frustration you
feel with these people is probably more enraging than what you feel with
lefty. You know lefty is an idiot, but these people should know better.

Succumbing to that anger and calling them a stupid Boomer is just as
self-defeating as yelling at that idiot liberal in your life. There’s no
point in it. Instead, now is the time to shift the focus, break form and
knock them off-balance. If you have read this far, those BoomerCons in
your life already know where you are coming from on this and they are
expecting a certain response. They may even be looking for some
fellowship by letting a few racist comments slip in their discussion
with you.

The thing you can’t forget is these people have spent their entire lives
being trained to be the respectable conservative. It is instinct with
them. If you let loose with an unvarnished explanation for what’s
happening, that programming will be triggered and they will close down.
Their sense of righteousness will lie between those terrible liberals
they hate so much and you, the right-wing extremist they have been
trained their whole life to avoid. Don’t make the mistake of playing
that role.

Instead, now is a good time to use the most powerful weapon in the
dissident arsenal when dealing with normie whites. That is the fact that
whites will soon be a minority in this country and that their children
and grandchildren will be minorities. This fact unnerves the normal
white person in the same way that seeing signs for Martin Luther King
Boulevard frightens the white driver. It touches them at the deepest
part of who they are, the part the Left can never take away from them.

For example, now is a good time to send them an old VDare column like
[this
one](https://vdare.com/articles/pat-buchanan-s-suicide-of-a-superpower-the-suicide-of-liberty)
that talks about Pat Buchanan. “If we had only listened to Buchanan” and
a link to something like this is the sort of thing that nudges that
person onto the path that eventually leads to here. Alternatively, “Pat
Buchanan was right, but everyone was worried he was a racist” is another
subtle way to undermine the conditioning, by creating a contradiction in
the mind of the target.

The goal of the dissident in these times is not to find fellowship in
anger or offer fellowship in anger. The goal is to use scenes of blacks
pulling down statues and setting fire to historic America, in order to
undermine the prevailing morality. Find a way to make that normie friend
in your life struggle with his anti-racism and the images he is seeing
on his television. Make him think about his children and grandchildren
living at the mercy of those mobs. Do him that favor.

It is a long struggle and not everyone can be saved. That angry normie
in your life who has maybe let fly with a few colorful metaphors may not
be ready to hear the Good News about white people just yet. Until you
are sure, keep calm and keep nudging him along the path. Being angry at
avatars on the television and internet does nothing to change what’s
happening. As the old saying goes, think racially, act sensibly. That
means being the calm voice converting one soul at a time.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
