---
title: "The Managerial Man"
date: "2020-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19824"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19824"
---

Every era produces men, who come to symbolize the age or at least some
important aspect of the age. Otto von Bismarck, for example, is the
embodiment of 19th century European empire building and national
conservatism. Ronald Reagan was the full expression of the New Deal
ideal that launched the American empire and reordered America in the
20th century. It was not an accident that he was the president to close
the Cold War era and start the age of cosmopolitan globalism.

Similarly, a person can come to symbolize some movement or feature of a
particular historical epoch. Ernest Hemingway, for example, is the face
of the Lost Generation, the cohort of writers and artists who lived
through the Great War as young people. Jean-Paul Sartre is what people
think of when they hear about existentialism. Whether or not the person
is the full embodiment of that movement is not important. They simply
possess the important qualities associated with it.

What we may be seeing in the Democratic primary is the pushing aside of
the old ideal that still rattles on in the form of Sanders and Biden.
Both men are artifacts of the late New Deal period that came to a close
in the 1980’s. Sanders still talks about politics as if most men work in
factories and coal mines. Joe Biden is running like the friend of the
working class, even though his party now hates the working class. These
are men of the bygone era, not men of today.

They are being pushed aside by what may be the fullest expression
managerial capitalism that accelerated into dominance forty years ago.
Pete Buttigieg is both symbolic of his generation and of the class he
inhabits. At 38, he is the quintessential millennial, having come of age
at the turn of the century. He was 18 years old when everyone was
wondering if the Y2K people were right. Of course, he is also a product
of the managerial system that now runs society,

Like all managerial types, Buttigieg is a box ticker. He is not a man
who actually does things in the world. Rather, he participates in
things, gains a credential for having participated in them and uses the
credential to advance his career. He was valedictorian of his high
school and “won first prize in the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library
and Museum’s *Profiles in Courage* essay contest.” Then it was off to
Harvard and then Oxford for a Rhodes scholarship in Philosophy.

After accumulating all of the credentials he could from his college
experience, he went off to work entry level positions in politics and
the media, in order to build his resume and network of contacts. Then it
was off to McKinsey & Company, one of the major training centers for
managerial class strivers. In anticipation of a political career, he
joined the Navy reserve for an uneventful turn as an intelligence
officer. He finally landed as the mayor of South Bend Indiana.

Buttigieg has the nearly perfect managerial man resume. The only thing
that tarnishes it is he may have accidentally done something useful
while in the service, like empty a trash barrel or remember to turn off
the coffee pot. Otherwise, his is a resume littered with participation
medals. From youth to middle age, Pete Buttigieg has avoided doing
anything that involves risk or sacrifice. Instead, his life has been
like ascending a gentle slope to a position he has always known is
waiting for him.

He exists because a system that has evolved over the last half century
now selects for men like him. That system’s only purpose is to
perpetuate itself, so it selects for people who will never challenge it
or even question it. Instead, it populates itself with people, who have
internalized the logic of the system to the point where it is habit. The
hive mind of the managerial class is the sum of these automatons
incapable of existing outside the managerial system.

He is also symbolic of his generation. The generation of Americans, who
grew up in the Clinton years and reached adulthood at the turn of the
century, are probably the most entitled and effete cohort ever produced.
They grew up in the easy years after the Cold War and never faced
anything resembling hard times. They came into the world expecting
things to turn out well for them. They were also raised by women in a
highly feminized educational system and took on those qualities.

The fact that Pete Buttigieg is a genetic dead end is probably the most
symbolic aspect of his character. The oriental empires of the ancient
age liked to employ eunuchs in sensitive roles. These were men without
ambition, as it were, so they were never going to be a threat to the
people at the top. The promotion of and popularity of homosexuals in the
managerial empire adds a touch of Orientalism and irony to a system that
is otherwise sterile and pointless.

It is easy for normal people to dismiss Buttigieg, but he is both a
symbol of his age and the system that produced him. He is the full
expression of the managerial class that has come to dominate the
American empire. His rise is the polls at the expense of the yesterday
men like Biden and Sanders is an important moment. The fact that he is
every bit as sterile and pointless as the system that produced him could
perhaps make him the fullest expression of the Managerial Man.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
