---
title: "The Mule’s Work"
date: "2020-04-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20288"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20288"
---

When Trump miraculously won the election in 2016, the smarter observers
saw that he was not going to be a reform agent, but a chaos agent.
Through the ballot, the public had injected a foreign body into the
political system. How the system would react to that foreign body was
unknown, but after three plus years the results of the experiment are
coming into focus. What we are getting is chaos. Everything about the
old order is suddenly in question, as everything about it is breaking
down.

The most obvious example of the chaos is the old political order. For
almost a generation, national politics was Red Team versus Blue Team.
Both sides agreed on most everything as they were financed by the same
people. Red Team wanted to be more naked in its slobbering than Blue
Team over the men behind the curtain, while Blue Team wanted to be more
hysterical than Red Team. Otherwise, no matter which way the people
voted, the policies never changed.

Three plus years of Trump and we have prominent national politicians
calling for a moratorium on immigration. Trump just claimed he signed an
executive order temporarily halting all immigration. Whether or not this
is true is entirely unknown, as Trump says all sorts of things that mean
nothing. That’s not the point. What matters is that things that were
forbidden just a few years ago are now being said in public by people
who care very deeply about the taboos of modern society.

Of course, the chaos that will soon matter most to people is the chaos
in the economy, which is beginning to get real and real fast. When oil
futures hit levels never seen in our lifetime, we are in a different
world than existed a few years ago. The nonsense about oil trading below
zero is just news hype, but there is no avoiding the fact that the world
is suddenly awash in BTU’s. What’s just as significant about this event
is that according to the experts, it was not supposed to happen.

That’s the thing to keep in mind about the chaos that is raging all
around us. The emerging liberal democratic order promised stability and
predictability. Instead of booms and bust in the economy, it was
supposed to be gentle slopes up and down as the central bankers steered
the ship. Oil markets would no longer be the victim of forces beyond the
control of suppliers. Instead, prices would be steady as producers
coordinated with world government to temper supply.

What happens in a world suddenly awash in BTU’s? No one knows.
Similarly, no one knows what happens when world government tries to turn
the economy back on after they have had enough of the pandemic. In fact,
no one knows if they will actually try to do it voluntarily. Local
officials have gotten the whiff of authoritarianism in their nostrils
and they like it. They may find out they like suppressing the minor
protests that have been flaring up the past week. We are in uncharted
territory.

What we are seeing is the work of
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9770"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Mule</a>. In the Asimov
novels. The Mule is a special character, so special in fact that he is
assumed to not exist. In fact, according to the known rules of the
universe, he cannot exist. Because he does exist, thus invalidating the
rules of the universe, he is the ultimate destroyer of worlds. <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Foundation_series_characters#The_Mule"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">His ability</a> “is to reach
into the minds of others and “adjust” their emotions, individually or en
masse, using this capability to conscript individuals to his cause.”

This is Trump. In the primary, he won mostly by causing the Republican
Party to go insane and destroy itself. In the general, the media went
nuts and convinced the Democrats they had nothing to fear. In
Washington, the establishment has taken every opportunity to discredit
itself in a mad quest to deny the reality of Trump. In this pandemic,
the masters of the universe seem to be determined to do everything they
can to <a href="https://twitter.com/parscale/status/1252369647338319878"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">invalidate themselves</a> and
<a
href="https://thehill.com/policy/finance/493759-anger-mounts-after-corporations-tap-small-business-relief-funds"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">legitimize their enemies</a>.

The madness of self-invalidation is probably just starting. Due to the
crack down on economic activity, things like advertising buys have
halted. So much of the internet economy, particularly the media, depends
on the belief that money spent on ads and marketing is money well-spent.
It was never true, but the new reality will suddenly bring that into
focus. In whatever comes next, spending lavishly on ads and marketing
data harvested by social media companies <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/03/business/media/ads-commercials-coronavirus.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">will be minimized</a>.

To date, no one has figured out how to make a large-scale media
enterprise work on subscriptions alone. Small-scale operations can make
it work for the same reason small business can make it work. They have
low overheads and focus only on providing the customer with what they
seek. Mass media is mass propaganda, financed by corporate ad dollars.
In other words, it is not just the political establishment finding
itself in a new chaotic world of uncertainty. Its media arm is there as
well.

Obviously, the biggest bit of chaos that the people in charge have yet
to confront is the world after the crackdown is lifted. We have about
30% unemployment at the moment and the signs of increased economic
slowdown. People forget that in the early weeks of the crack down, there
was a rush of economic activity. That has subsided and firms are now
starting to hear crickets. The curve benders fear a second virus wave,
but wait until they get a look at the second layoff wave.

At the various lemon parties, the sobbing and moaning about Trump was
understandable, as they never understood what Trump meant. Their
politics are immature and based solely on what is presented to them in
the media. Like children, they giggle when happy and cry when sad.
Similarly, the “Orange Man Bad!” loons could never get past their hurt
feelings to grasp the significance of Trump. As the chaos rages, these
two camps now cheer like toddlers at someone shaking keys.

For the simple minded, the rising chaos brings to mind their preferred
result, which they imagine is right around the corner. In reality, we
are just entering the interregnum described by Guillaume Faye, in which
the West lurches from crisis to crisis as it tries to reconcile the
incoherence and contradictions of liberal democracy. In other words,
Trump is not just the end of the old order, but the starting point for a
period of chaos, as the world tries to create a new “logic of the
universe.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
