---
title: "The Arc Of White"
date: "2020-09-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21231"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21231"
---

One of the distinguishing features of politics in the American Empire is
the phenomenon of white populism. This is something that emerged in the
middle of the last century with the establishment of the American Empire
after World War II. Every generation has experienced a wave of populist
unrest, always in reaction to some reform movement initiated by the
white elites. The elites act and the white working and middle classes
react.

The first example of this was the white populist revolts in reaction to
the Civil Rights Movement and the 1960’s Cultural Revolution. Whites in
the South reacted to the destruction of segregation. This was followed
by a revolt by northern whites over things like forced busing and the
cultural upheaval. This set off the great political realignment where
southern whites and northern ethnics migrated from the Democrat Party to
the Republican Party in the 60’s and 70’s.

Another white populist revolt started with the de-industrialization of
the country starting in the 70’s and accelerating into the 80’s. The
rapid conversion of the economy from manufacturing to retail and
services continued the political realignment that started in the 60’s.
The so-called Reagan Democrats were mostly the people who had voted for
Nixon, but this time they moved the GOP for good. This was also the
start of the gap between the knowledge economy and the labor economy.

The current crisis is another wave of white populism. This time it is in
reaction to the continued looting of the middle-class economy by the
global elites, but also the betrayals of the Bush years and the
Kulturkampf of the Obama years. Large numbers of whites in American have
come to the conclusion that the political and economic elites are at war
with them. The election of Trump in 2016 is one obvious result, but the
hysterical and now violent reaction of the elites is another.

The thing about these waves of white populism is they follow the same
pattern; despite the fact the triggering events are different and the
times are different. There are some obvious parallels between what is
happening now and what happened in the 1960’s and 1970’s, but modern
America is nothing like the America of the 60’s. In fact, the people of
that age would not recognize this age as America. Despite the enormous
differences in culture and demographics, the pattern is the same.

One aspect of every white populist spasm has been that it gets funneled
into a form of legitimate politics. The conservative movement of Bill
Buckley, for example, tapped into white populism in order to get
professional conservatives into office. Nixon’s so-called Southern
Strategy was an explicit attempt to get disaffected white voters in the
South to abandon their allegiance to the Democrat Party. Legitimate
politics promised these voters a remedy to the assault on their culture.

The rise of Evangelical conservatism in the 70’s and 80’s was another
effort to funnel white unrest into legitimate politics. Christians
logically figured that if they organized politically, politicians would
seek their vote. They would get the vote by addressing their concerns
about things like abortion, family law and education. Of course, the Tea
Party Movement and now the MAGA stuff are more efforts by whites to
defend themselves through the legitimate political process.

Another thing all of these right-wing populist movements have in common
is they failed to get anything for their efforts. Nixon did nothing to
address the concerns of Southern whites over desegregation. He was happy
to let them think he was on their side, but Nixon was more focused on
gaining acceptance from official Washington. Reagan delivered for
corporate interests and the military industrial complex, but never got
around to doing anything for social conservatives.

Today we are seeing the same thing with Trump. His reelection depends
entirely on whites coming out to vote for him for symbolic reasons. He
will not deliver anything useful to white voters, but he will be a
constant irritant to the elites. In fact, the only practical reason to
vote for Trump in November is his reelection will send the elites into
orbit and they could harm their own efforts. Otherwise, like Nixon and
Reagan, Trump will deliver nothing for white populists.

The one new wrinkle to this process is that after the Cold War, many
Republicans became hostile to white populists. The purging of the
paleocons by the neocons in the 1990’s realigned the party away from
populism. Most Republicans, for example, were openly hostile to the Tea
Party movement. Trump’s biggest problem in Washington is his own party,
which hates him as much as the Left hates him. So-called conservatives
are fully onboard with multiculturalism now.

Of course, white populism has always had another outlet. That is the
path of what can loosely be called white nationalism. In the 1960’s,
people like George Lincoln Rockwell and William Pierce tried to tap into
white populism to promote racial awareness among disaffected whites.
Theirs was an anti-politics, in that it rejected the political system
itself as illegitimate. Rather than try to mobilize people to elect
better politicians, they wanted to organize people to create a new
system.

In the case of Rockwell, it got nutty and then it got bloody. He tried
selling Nazism to a country still proud of defeating the Nazis in WWII.
The absurdity of his presentation got him plenty of attention, but that
did more harm than good. He attracted a lot of weirdos and lunatics to
his banner. He ended up taking two in the hat outside a laundromat, but
even all these years later, the Left finds him to be [a useful
example](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/retropolis/wp/2017/08/21/the-shadow-of-an-assassinated-american-nazi-commander-hangs-over-charlottesville/)
to wave in front of bourgeois whites as a warning about white
nationalism.

This is a pattern that has repeated in every spasm of white populism.
The white nationalist lane is divided into one sober minded track and
one eccentric and often dangerous track. William Pierce was a genuine
intellect who understood the larger problems facing white people in
America. He could never figure out how to break free of the eccentrics
like Rockwell in order to attract a broader audience. The result was
white nationalism became an insulated subculture.

This pattern repeated in the 1980’s. People like David Duke and Don
Black came out of the Rockwell experience with the hope of breaking out
of the white nationalism trap and addressing a general audience.
Instead, Duke ended up being a less bizarre version of Rockwell and his
movement was plagued by criminals and weirdos. After some national
attention in the 1980’s, as well as some white nationalist violence,
this phase of white nationalism faded into an insulated subculture.

In this current wave, the pattern has held. The alt-right started as a
genuine populist revolt on-line among younger white males. The anonymity
and irreverence of on-line culture gave them a way to express their
unhappiness with modernity. The alt-right tapped into that, but like
prior white nationalist spasms, this one was overrun by eccentrics and
criminals. This time, the preppy airhead, Richard Spencer, was the clown
prince used by the Left in their presentations.

As an aside, white nationalism in America has tracked the technological
changes in the country over the last fifty years. The first iteration
was banned from conventional media platforms, so it relied on things
like newsletters and shortwave radio. The second iteration was the first
to use the internet to build an on-line culture. Stormfront really was
an innovation in political organizing. This last phase is confined to
private internet channels, podcasts and live-streams.

Taken as a whole, the pattern is clear. These spasms of white populism
in reaction to social experimentation by elites or changes in the
economic order always end up going down two dead end paths. One is
conventional politics, always through existing political channels, like
the GOP. The other is white nationalism, which always ends up in a
circus of attention seeking eccentrics, who are easily exploited by the
Left. It is two roads that lead to the same dead end.

Interestingly, these two tracks always end up convinced that the other
track is a dead end populated by losers. Today, many of the MAGA people
invest as much time in rejecting the bad whites as they do supporting
their cause. The remnants of the alt-right, in the name of white people,
invest much of their time attacking white people, their history and
their customs. Many of them sound anti-American to most people. Their
rhetoric is decidedly leftist and hostile to American traditions.

The logical way out of this trap is something William Pierce recognized,
but was never able to implement. That is, white populism needs to be
channeled into a bourgeois politics that attracts high quality people
who understand the problem is the system itself, rather than the office
holders. In other words, it borrows the central insights of white
nationalism, but provides it with a cultural and historical framework
that appeals to the mass of middle-class white people.

Whether such a movement can get going is open to debate. The history of
white populism is now a nightmare from which we cannot awake. Any effort
to speak of white interests brings all of the usual suspects from past
failed efforts into the mix. It’s as if all the parties enjoy playing
the roles that have been created for them. The arc of white politics in
America is looking like an immutable law of nature. It may require
whites reaching minority status for the pattern to break.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
