---
title: "The Pretender’s Dilemma"
date: "2020-12-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22120"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22120"
---

**Note:** I have <a
href="https://www.takimag.com/article/setting-the-stage-for-revolution/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a new post up at Taki Mag</a>.
This is a regular Monday thing until the end of the year. Perhaps I
should forgo the usual post here and cross post the Taki post on Monday
so people can comment upon it. Let me know.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Critics of modern liberal democracy often repeat Juvenal’s line about
the populace being pacified with bread and circuses. In the modern usage
it means the public is easily bought off with free stuff and mindless
entertainment. While the average guy is watching television sports and
adding to his waistline, he does not care that the political class is
looting the country. Just as long as he has a steady stream of new
products, he is happy to abandon his duties as a citizen.

Juvenal had a different meaning, as he was writing in the second
century. He was criticizing the Roman political class for their lack of
heroism and virtue. They cared more for holding office than tackling the
challenges of the day. They would corrupt the people with free grain and
elaborate public spectacles, if that is what it took to win favor and
gain power. The ruling class was mortgaging the civic virtue of Rome in
order to get short term profit from the political system.

Of course, the culture of liberal democracy forbids the idea of a ruling
class, so the blame must always fall on the people for the problems with
the rulers. After all, the people picked the office holders. If they are
unhappy with the choices, they should find new ones that they prefer.
The civic religion of liberal democracy is like a spell cast on even the
most jaded. It prevents them from accepting that there is not a
democratic solution to the inherent defects of liberal democracy.

The irony is the cynical will often quote de Maistre and say that the
people get the government they deserve. This is ironic in several ways.
One is that de Maistre was no fan of democracy or popular government. He
also meant that a people, as in a biologically connected people, will
get the ruling class that reflects their temperament and talents,
regardless of the system. This is something that no modern liberal
democratic could possibly accept and remain a liberal democrat.

Putting that aside, the problem with the Juvenal quote is that bread and
circuses is the only peaceful and predictable solution to the large
society problem. Bringing large numbers of people together under a
single ruler, whether it is the farce of democracy or the force of a
despot, goes against man’s nature. Humans can only know and trust about
150 people at one time. Once a group breaks what is called the Dunbar
number, no one person can know everyone well enough to trust them.

The solution long ago was a code, a set of rules for the group. A set of
rules to govern relations between all people within the group solved
this problem. The members did not have to trust one another or even know
one another very well. They just had to trust that the rules made sense
for the group and that the people enforcing the rules could be trusted
to predictably enforce the rules. The proof of these two pillars of
society would be the peace and prosperity of the group.

Of course, once you get to very large groups, like city-states and
countries, you end up with lots of dissimilar people in the same
society. A large group of related people will come with the habits of
mind to make cooperation natural. Have a large diverse group of people
and those habits of mind will inevitably conflict. This is the large
society problem and we have just two solutions. One is a great mission
to focus the public’s attention and the other is bread and circuses.

The great mission or crusade, like a war, comes with an expiry date. You
can rally the most diverse and uncooperating people against some crisis.
In a war, for example, people put aside their grievances to fight the
common enemy. Yankee New England dropped their secession drive, for
example, because of the War of 1812. The trouble is, people tire of war
and every crisis losses its sense of urgency. Even the communists
figured this out eventually.

This is the fork in the road the American ruling class faces now. The
pretender Biden also adds the complication of being seen as illegitimate
by most people. Many of those people may be glad Trump is gone, at least
for now, but they also know that Biden has no business on the throne. He
is just a shuffling corpse, animated by players operating in the
shadows. Like all pretenders, Biden will be limited by the fact that the
rest of the ruling class is looking to exploit him, rather than support
him.

Compounding his dilemma is that the people who engineered his ascent to
the throne want to start a new cold war with Russia and start a war with
Iran. They also seek to impose the Chinese social model on Americans.
Speech and movement will be sharply curtailed with the help of the
corporate oligarchs. In other words, the new regime tilts heavily toward
a holy crusade to rally the people, like a war against the virus and a
war against Iran, rather than a new round of bread and circuses.

This is something that was overlooked in the Trump years. After eight
years of the dreary preaching of Obama, Trump’s antics were a relief.
His style was not everyone’s cup of tea, but he kept things lively. He
also focused on the economy, which did rather well until the Covid
panic. The stock market doubled in value during his time in office,
which is something that matters a lot to people. In other words, Trump
gave the people four years of bread and circuses.

Finally, the other dilemma for the Pretender Biden is that he will have
Trump out there reminding people of how Biden got on the throne. In the
old days, Biden’s first order of business would be to have Trump
assassinated. By removing the old ruler, there was no chance for him to
return to power. That’s unlikely to happen with Trump, although one
cannot rule it out, so Biden will have to operate in the shadow of what
many will view as the rightful President.

This is the dilemma facing the Pretender Biden. He cannot go for the
bread and circuses route, as that would be a concession to the hated
Trump. That means going along with the warmongers and scaremongers. The
trouble there is that requires trust and exactly no one trusts a
pretender. The only solution may be to forge ahead with a manufactured
crisis like a war with Iran and hope the people are gullible enough to
fall for it like they did in the Bush years.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Um7QMtnD85KErYkHbJZ4qg==cb7yXkRPMFKUamIYDkeaF6SMZyLzaCkS4Plueg1jWvwAj+ZKF+BOIUtkNffsbWN2eU4"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="GDqdg+OyFu06GkgTXSyIaA==cb75jv78XVRoowSOL1tYJNzXas8e5CWIResqk6Hm9ogLEutnSvcx1kRyyShOoFsw/nt"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
