---
title: "The Road To Divorce"
date: "2020-08-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21109"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21109"
---

For obvious reasons, 2020 will go down in the history books as one of
the strangest years in American history. The virus response alone would
make it a very strange year, probably an inflection point. It will be
the year when the post-normal period in America society started. What
may make it the most historically significant year in history is it will
be known as the year when partisanship tipped into madness. This is the
year when the ruling class went insane and took the rest of us with
them.

The latest bout of insanity is over the United States Postal Service
conspiracy to subvert the upcoming election. The Left is on their social
media platforms warning that Big Stamp is part of a silent coup to award
the election to Trump. Fevered lefties are posting pictures of
themselves guarding mailboxes. The actress Jaimie Lee Curtis
<a href="https://twitter.com/jamieleecurtis/status/1293246051772588032"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">posted this</a> on her Twitter
account. The invasion of the mailbox snatchers has become a very real
thing for the people on the Left.

How exactly anyone can think the post office is going to rig an election
is a lot like the Russian collusion hoax. It is best understood if you
don’t think about very much. The ballots go into the mailbox, something
magical happens and then Donald Trump steals the election! Instead of
the Russians using mind control to alter voter behavior in the voting
booth, it is the postmaster using special powers to alter ballots inside
the box themselves or perhaps making them disappear.

Of course, given the universality of the Opposite Rule of Liberalism,
this means the Left is already hard at work with a plan to spoil ballots
in the postal system. Their push for vote by mail is part of an existing
scheme to trash votes from Republican areas, while <a
href="https://www.inquirer.com/news/ozzie-myers-indicted-voter-fraud-philadelphia-domenick-demuro-abscam-20200723.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">stuffing the mailboxes</a> in
<a
href="https://nypost.com/2020/05/21/ex-philly-election-official-pleads-guilty-to-voter-fraud/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Democratic areas</a>. Of
course, their street thugs will be justified in burning mailboxes in
white areas now. You can be sure Antifa will be staking out the post
offices in white areas of the country too.

The legacy Right argues that these antics are just part of the Left’s
scheme to gain power and impose their Marxisms on us. This is a
recurring theme of Tucker Carlson’s nightly monologues. The Left just
wants power! Of course, the Left has power, near absolute power, in
fact. They have shut down large swaths of the country just because they
are sad about Donald Trump. They now <a
href="https://www.fredericknewspost.com/news/crime_and_justice/teen-charged-in-deadly-great-frederick-fair-assault-to-serve-probation/article_41b07e8c-e97c-56f7-96bb-7da5be46de9d.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">let blacks murder white
people</a> without facing real consequences. That’s real power.

Like conservatism itself, this sort of bourgeois objectivism is just a
carry-over from the olden thymes when it was assumed reason ruled the
day. There must be a reason for why people act a certain way in
politics. Money, power and sex were assumed to be the set of plausible
reasons for all political corruption. Despite the evidence to the
contrary, the legacy Right clings to this mode of thought, mostly
because they think to do otherwise opens the door to this sort of
analysis.

We are at the point with the virus and now the post office conspiracy to
conclude that madness is what lies behind all of this. Partisanship is
the heart of liberal democracy, which means it must keep beating to
exist. It also requires an antagonist, some group or some concept that
it must oppose. It is the enemy that gives the partisan purpose and
defines his life. Partisanship is a war against the other. Without the
other, the partisan has no object onto which he can aim his fury.

That is where we find ourselves at the end of history. There are no more
worlds for the America Left to conquer. They own every square inch of
real estate in the high ground of America power. The so-called
opposition from the so-called conservatives mostly consists of bowing
and scraping. Conservative Inc. is a room full of broken men, crying and
groveling for relief. The invisible bogeymen of fascism exist only as
avatars on the internet and snarky comments on Twitter.

Without a real enemy, the partisans are left to invent them. It turns
out that the Russian collusion hoax just one manifestation. What drove
that conspiracy was the belief in secret forces aligned with the evil
Donald Trump. Then it was the Ukrainian hoax and now we are dealing with
a postal service conspiracy. Even the virus response is explained by
this need for an enemy. What should have been a minor inconvenience, was
turned into a cultural revolution.

You see the madness in their everyday language. The Left demand “safe
spaces” where they get to say what they like, within the confines of
current dogma, and they are free of contrary facts or opinions. Note it
is not just contrary opinion. The safe space is free of any bits of
reality that contradict the faith. That’s why they say language is
violence or that silence is violence. The need for an enemy is so strong
they are willing to create imaginary ones to play the role.

What will probably set this year apart from all others is that this is
the year when the madness reached a point where the majority of white
people decided that there is no dealing with these people. How does one
even talk to someone who thinks the post office is out to get them? How
can you even have a conversation with someone that is sure the Russians
rigged the last election? Within living memory people like this were
involuntarily committed to lunatic asylums.

Barring a great reversal of current trends, it will become clear to a
growing number of white people that the course of events has once again
made it necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which
connect them with another. There is no way to reach any sort of
accommodation with people who think the mailbox is out to get them, so
there is no longer any point in trying. Like all busted relationships,
the end begins when one party no longer wants to fix it.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
