---
title: "Trade-Offs"
date: "2020-11-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21849"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21849"
---

Back in the Cold War, one of the unanswered questions that came up from
time to time was why did the people in the Soviet Union put up with it?
American propaganda said that the living conditions were terrible. They
had to stand in line for essentials like toilet paper and meat. The
secret police regularly hauled people away, sending them into exile in
Siberia or worse. Despite it all, the people, including those in the
captive nations never revolted against the state or the communist party.

It is a useful question to ponder now as America and the West slip into
the abyss of soft totalitarianism. We don’t have cops busting down doors
and hauling away dissidents, at least not yet. We do have ideologues
armed with the power of the state pushing people around because they
can. The Covid hassles are the result of petty pipsqueaks in government
offices dreaming up new ways to torment us. Curfews and bans on alcohol
are punitive measures, not palliative ones.

It brings up that old question. Why are people tolerating this? There
were some flickers of resistance during the early stages of the lock
downs, but governments sent out the cops to harass dissenters and the
media revved up the fear campaign. Here we are in a second wave of
pointless lock downs, more petty and stupid than the first, but no one
is raising hell about it. Back in the Cold War, stories like this
elicited oaths about how the tree of liberty needed to be fertilized
with the blood of tyrants.

A popular answer, for why people willingly allow themselves to be
stripped of their liberty and dignity, is our material prosperity. The
Boomers care more about their stock portfolios and their kids care more
about the game consoles. The reason everyone goes along with this stuff,
according to popular thinking, is everyone feels like they have too much
to lose. That material prosperity has made everyone lazy and cautious,
so they are easily pushed around by the petty tyrants.

While there is some truth to it, that can’t be the answer for why the
people living under communism never revolted. The stories about people
waiting in line for bread were no doubt exaggerated by Western media,
but there is no doubting that the people in the Soviet Union lived well
below Western standards. The Soviets may have had great military gear,
but their consumer goods were terrible. Only party members had access to
the small luxuries taken for granted in the West at the time.

In retrospect, we now know that life for most people in the Soviet
Empire was not the dystopian nightmare portrayed in the West. Once
Stalin died, there was a brief period of reform and then communism fell
into a long period of conservatism. That is, it was more about
maintaining a set of rules and enforcing them. Ideological
experimentation came to an end and the focus was on the basics of life.
For most people this meant a predictable life, where they had the
necessities.

There’s no doubt that material standards of living for people in
communism were far below that of the West, but this was not something
they saw everyday. They just knew that life was better under communism
than in the past. They were also free of crime, disorder and the great
uncertainty of the first half of the 20th century. In other words,
lacking a plausible alternative that was clearly better, most people
were willing to knuckle under to the ideologues in order to get on with
life.

We see that in America now. An under appreciated subplot to the Trump
phenomenon is that Trump represented disorder and uncertainty, while his
establishment opponents became stability and order. They selected the
Pretender Biden because no one could possibly see him as a
revolutionary. To use the old movie concept, the election was about the
blue bill of Biden or the red pill of Trump. Note that the old alt-right
greedily gobbled down the blue pill of Biden.

Another historical parallel is important. The captive people of the
Soviet Empire were not all willing to go along to get along. The
Hungarians revolted in October of 1956 against the party and the Soviet
occupation. In November the Soviets sent in the Red Army to crush the
revolt. The Politburo was initially open to dealing with the leaders of
the rebellion, but changed their mind and crushed the revolt. The reason
was they did not want to encourage more rebellions.

In January 1968, the reformer, Alexander Dubček, was elected First
Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. This set off what is
known as the Prague Spring, which was an effort to liberalize Czech
politics and economics. This reform effort did not go over well with the
Soviets who sent in half a million Warsaw Pact troops to suppress the
reform movement and restore the old order. The
<a href="https://youtu.be/n24ggkCGZ6k" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">scenes</a> from Freedom Plaza last Saturday had a Prague
Spring vibe to them.

What the Hungarian Revolt and the Prague Spring showed is that raw power
has an appeal that can never be underestimated. There is no question
that the people of the captive nations were in support of their
independence, but the raw power of the Soviet Empire was more than
enough to counter popular support. When the rebels had no answer for the
Soviet tanks, the people did what Osama bin Laden observed many years
ago. They chose the strong horse.

This is a lesson the Poles learned and put to good use in the 1980’s.
The Solidarity Movement was as much about making the Polish communist
party look weak as it was about organizing the people. Instead of hoping
the party would yield to popular will, they played a game of chess with
the party, putting them in positions where they looked weak and
indecisive. This allowed the people to trust that the cure for communism
was not worse than the disease of communism.

This brings us back to the current time. One obvious failing of the
populist movement that put Trump in the White House is it was never able
to create a plausible alternative in the mind of the people. Was the
goal a return to the past or was the goal the present with specific
modifications? Was it some undefined future? Trump was not skilled
enough to grasp this and lacked the imagination to articulate a
plausible alternative, even if he recognized the historical moment.

This is something that the reformers and rebels in the late Soviet
Empire did not fail to grasp when their time came. When the party tried
to oust Yeltsin, for example, the public rallied to his side because he
represented a clear alternative. The Solidarity movement in Poland had a
clear set of goals, rather than a list of complaints. When the party
tried to muscle them, they were opposing more than just a rebellious
rabble, but a set of specific reforms popular with the people.

Getting back to the central question as to why people throughout the
ages have been wiling to submit to the most terrible crimes against
their liberty and dignity, the answer is that life is about trade-offs.
Instinctively, people make their choices based on the options put before
them. They do not rebel against the present arrangements because they
fall short of some ideal. They rebel, either because the alternative is
misery and death or they see some better option on the table.

This has been the magic of the two-party democracy, which is explicit in
America and implicit in Europe. The options before the people are always
the two faces of the establishment, Republican and Democrat, Liberal and
Conservative. Unless and until that dynamic is broken, either with a
third option or the discrediting of the two option system, the status
quo remains the strong horse. Nothing will change until the trade-offs
presented to the people change.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="FBaX8bsK3vib+31GQTnVXQ==cb7bQd0ypLlzkEyeY7XJ8p9i8HOqrJMt214tC+OI4Hu5bdw3+zNOlTvdt3r9ePYfrXH"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="hgzL2/OzSGPy1s4xjtG0+w==cb7UlDyoZiEgEKQidStR3DmqsUqXKqNst21qj/gAIfvxkSCMwpSxKKrkMaECQXRzjnF"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
