---
title: "Attention Rather Than Merit"
date: "2020-01-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19664"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19664"
---

Attention, as in other people noticing someone, is a necessary part of
status, which itself is an integral part of the human condition. Human
organization is hierarchical, with the most successful males at the top
and the least successful at the bottom. In order for a male to gain
status, he must get attention for whatever deeds are rewarded by the
community in which he exists. Status seeking therefore requires
attention seeking to the extent that others notice the status
establishing act.

For most of human history, the causal relationship was pretty simple.
The man did something that was important for the community in a way that
was better than the average man of the community. Hunting for example.
He may parade his success around before the rest of the tribe as a way
to show off his skill. This got the attention of the tribe and he was
recognized for his skill. This recognition of his achievement increased
his status within the tribe.

As people settled into communities, the types of skills rewarded by the
community increased along with the customs for celebrating them. The
Roman triumph was nothing more than a way to give attention to the
triumphant general, in order to celebrate his victories and therefore
increase or secure his status. The American habit of having a daylong
celebration for installing a new President is really just the modern
equivalent of the Roman triumph. We celebrate the man for his victory.

Spin this telescope around and it is fair to say that attention is a
normal human trait that is expressed in all times and places. This male
desire for attention is rooted in the desire for status. This is, of
course, entangled with the female desire for the attention of high
status males. That in turn leads men to find new challenges in order to
show off their prowess. Even the most extreme example of sacrificial
piety may simply be the manifestation of status seeking.

Whether it is conquering new lands or increasing the prosperity of the
people, the need for attention and status is the main driver of human
history. The need to be better than those who came before you, in order
to get attention and therefore status, naturally leads to increasing the
stock of human accomplishment. Each generation seeks to surpass their
ancestors in the things important to their people. The young are always
in competition with the shadows of their ancestors.

If we just focus on attention seeking in the modern age, it reveals a
lot about what is valued in this age, what will provide status. For
example, in modern sporting events, the players are always looking to
draw attention to themselves in various ways. The most popular way is to
perform some form of boogie dance after a play. In American football,
the boogie dance now accounts for a large amount of the player’s
attention, as they practice these routines for hours.

Outside of sports entertainment, social media provides the best
opportunity for one to gain attention. Males will post outrageous things
in order to offend what they believe to be convention. Alternatively,
they will post exaggerated versions of some ideal with which they want
to be associated. The Bronze Age Pervert cultivated a cult following by
posting exaggerated claims about himself and his lifestyle on Twitter.
He got lots of attention to a virtual version of himself.

A recent example of this phenomenon is <a
href="https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/criminal-justice/ct-chicago-sports-gambler-fraud-charges-20200122-uruvy3ao4jf7xeeumtrg4jp4su-story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the story of a guy</a>, who
created a fictional version of himself as a high stakes sports gambler.
A young male calling himself Robert Gorodetsky, made a name for himself
pretending to be a big time gambler. His status was first cultivated by
using Instagram to get attention to his outlandish behavior in and
around the professional gambling scene. This gained him attention and
status, as well as some suckers willing to give him money.

It is tempting to say this was just a swindle, but the evidence suggests
his primary motivation was attention. The money he got was all used to
promote his image on-line. He wanted to be known as this high stakes
gambler, but he really had no desire to be an actual gambler. It appears
he just burned through the cash like any other idiot. The purpose of it
all was to be a big deal on Instagram.

By just looking at how males today seek attention, what we see is that
they are mostly empty gestures. There is no merit at the core of the
act. Rather than parade around the village with their kill, they are
parading around empty handed, making wild claims about what they did on
the hunt. Status in this age is now gained by telling increasingly
bizarre and outrageous fishing tales. It is a desire to seek attention,
and therefore status, without first doing anything of merit.

This is not just a phenomenon among the proletariat on-line. In fact, it
is a habit learned by watching the elites. Status in areas like politics
or entertainment is often just the result of clever attention seeking.
In the music business, attention seeking has been industrialized and
monetized. In politics, the people running for office take pride in
having never accomplished anything. In fact, never have tried to
accomplish anything is the badge of honor. A man of deeds is wholly
unwelcome.

Of course, this is further evidence of the feminization of society.
Attention without merit is an entirely female trait. Males take great
risks to accomplish things for which they will get acclaim and status.
Females use their natural charms to gain the attention of the high
status males. For the female, the accomplishment is in gaining
attention, rather than in doing something that results in attention.
Today’s male social media stars are highly feminized males performing
female roles.

One possible reason for this is that the avenues for gaining male status
have been cut off by modernity. Richard Spencer cleverly played on this
to attract an audience of young males on-line. His “Faustian man” stuff
was an appeal to the natural desire of males to accomplish great things.
Ironically, it was just an attention seeking act by someone with no
accomplishments. Even so, it is another bit of evidence to suggest there
is an unrealized desire at the core of this new attention seeking.

Another possible reason is we have quickly evolved into a state where
high-testosterone males are marginalized, in favor of more compliant and
less threatening low-testosterone males. The defense mechanism of the
neoliberal order is to flip the normal status system on its head. The
new world order is a matriarchal structure that rewards empty gestures
and attention seeking. This would also explain the whole tranny thing. 
Males now compete to be women.

Whatever the reason, we now live in an age in which genuine merit has no
value, while pointless attention seeking is the coin of the realm. A
young male would rather invest his time building his YouTube platform
than acquiring practical skills that allow him to accomplish practical
deeds. Because attention is disconnected from accomplishment, all
attention is the same. This would be why young males have turned the
movie Joker into an instant cult classic.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
