---
title: "Nashville"
date: "2020-12-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22288"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22288"
---

It appears that 2020 will go out with one last bit of madness in the
form of what appears to be a random bombing in Nashville. On Christmas
morning, according to the police and media, a camper van exploded on an
empty downtown street. Supposedly, the police were warned there was a
bomb in the area, so they cleared the streets and nearby buildings
before the bomb went off. As unlikely as that sounds, it is the story
they are currently pushing through the official media organs.

Obviously, the point of the bombing is the story. In a case like this,
you have several possible motivations. One is political. The bomber is
trying to make a political point that will eventually be revealed. Given
the location, it seems unlikely. There is no government facility at the
bombing sight. Nashville has not been a hotbed of radical unrest like
Portland or Seattle. There has been little in the way of BLM activity or
any made-up claims of right-wing activity.

That does not rule out politics, but it probably means the bomber or
bombers are well outside the mainstream. In other words, they are
crazies who found a reason to be crazy in this way. A lot of what gets
classified as terrorism is in fact crazy people acting on something they
picked up from the media. Dylann Roof is the media’s favorite terrorist,
but in reality, he is a kid with severe psychological problems. Ted
Kaczynski is probably the most famous case of crazy man politics.

You also have the more mundane explanations. The bomber could have been
in a dispute with the owner of the building. He may have been
romantically involved with someone that works in the building. The man
responsible for the worst school shooting in American history was a guy
who snapped after a local election. Andrew Kehoe went bonkers, killed
his wife, burned down his farm and then went to the local school and
killed 38 people before blowing himself up in a truck bomb.

Of course, the usual suspects will be flooding the internet with claims
that the bomber is part of some wide-ranging secret conspiracy. He was
sent by the deep state or maybe he was sent by Q to attack the deep
state. This type of event is catnip for the sorts of people into
conspiracy theories. Since it fits in well with the Q-grift and the
plan-trusting grift, it will draw in the usual crowd. In fairness, the
constant lying by people in authority is driving the rise in conspiracy
mongering.

That is not to say there is no conspiracy behind this event. We still
have no idea what really happened with the Las Vegas shooting. The
assassination of Seth Rich on the streets of DC has never been
explained. The truth of the FBI conspiracy to overturn the 2016 election
has never been explained. You can make a long list of events over the
last decade that have been covered up by the government or explained in
a way that strains credulity. People are right to be skeptical.

This is the fruit of ruling class corruption. They refuse to abide by
the rules and adequately enforce the rules. This lowers public trust.
Then the ruling class tolerates an army of incompetents in the
bureaucracy, which only makes the public more skeptical of their
institutions. To remedy that problem, the media manufactures lies to
explain it all, but those lies are rather easy to disprove. Our
authoritarian overclass is a toxic blend of mendacity and mediocrity.
They can no longer be trusted on anything.

The thing is it could very well be a sign of things to come. Make enough
of the people miserable and some of them will respond. Unlike the old
Soviet Union or modern China, the American ruling class is fully
exposed. They do not live in guarded compounds surrounded by armed
guards. They also rely on a managerial class to implement their rules
and policies. Those credentialed managers live in easily accessed
neighborhoods and travel around in public, totally unprotected.

Then you have the fact that America has tens of millions of people
capable of making a decent truck bomb with common materials. How many
people walking around in America have been trained by the military on
the basics of this stuff? Think about how many guys saw how IED’s and
car bombs were used in the Middle East. You do not even have to have had
direct experience with these tactics. The use of car bombs and IED’s has
been a staple of the mass media for a generation now.

It may seem farfetched but think about what has been normalized this
year that was considered crazy talk in 2019. We have widescale lock
downs of the population and official talk of internal passports and
social credit systems. As America lurches into a high-tech prison state,
expect the inmates to respond accordingly. The IRA made war on the
support system of the British occupation this way. They used bombs to
tell those people that the British could not protect them. It could
happen here.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4KSoQtRvbAzM8dGQ1jwVtw==cb7txLQo02iYMcMFnU2EfD2HJzVMBV3SpBwSC5oOLpsKmqomOPcznmK4Jr+/vGE9aTJ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="/LUpPKtwZoCFeK6QgYC2gg==cb7Wn9V0mvOPM8eXCF7g4/HmsmywvMp35GmDdOCM9EedanM+Qj7ySQJ+zvvb4TbLJ1o"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
