---
title: "The Age Of Covidian"
date: "2020-10-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21646"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21646"
---

**Note:** I have <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/208752"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a new post</a> up behind the
green door on the fourth season of the television series Fargo. I
suspect it will be my last post on the series.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

An old Ronald Reagan joke from the 1980’s was that the closest thing to
immortality was a government program. The first time he said it was in
his 1964 speech,
<a href="https://youtu.be/qXBswFfh6AY" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank"><em>A Time for Choosing</em></a> and it was not intended
as a joke. By the 1980’s he had mellowed and the line was so obviously
true it made a great punchline. In one of life’s great ironies, the
conservative movement actually proved the maxim correct, by never
cutting a single program in their time in control of government.

It is a good thing to keep in mind when thinking about the end game for
the Covid-19 panic that is entering the ninth month, depending upon who
is counting. The great and the good are telling us the prophesied second
wave is upon us. Britain is back in lock down, even though all the
evidence says it does not work. <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8885385/English-police-Welsh-border-stop-20-drivers-day-fire-break-lockdown.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Welsh</a> are banned from
buying clothes and snacks. <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2020/oct/08/scottish-pubs-lash-out-at-catastrophic-covid-crackdown"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Scots</a> saw their pubs
closed. It’s all a big drama to prove that the prophesy was true.

You’ll note in all of this that the thing driving it is the health care
industry complex and the army of armchair generals it has spawned. The
politicians are simply responding to what the self-proclaimed experts
have said. The fact that these experts have been wrong at every turn
does not matter. In a modern liberal democracy, expertise is not about
factual accuracy or respect earned through hard experience. It is having
the right credentials and, most important, having the right friends in
government.

There is another old-time expression that applies in this Covid drama.
This one is from Eric Hoffer. “What starts out here as a mass movement
ends up as a racket, a cult, or a corporation.” In the case of Covid,
the panic is becoming all three. It has turned into a mystery cult for
many, a jobs racket for others and a money maker for global capital,
which has not allowed this crisis go to waste. Rather than a plague from
the gods, Covid-19 is manna from heaven for the ruling class.

The cult side of it obvious now. The Covidians are the next turn of the
wheel for the people we used to call Gaia worshipers. The whole “earth
is about to burn or freeze because you refuse to walk to work” stuff
never really worked as hoped. They could inflict small miseries on
people, like the use of grimy canvas sacks to tote groceries home, but
the cult could be safely ignored. It was also becoming a bit of joke,
like being a vegan or a libertarian.

<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21358"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Church of Covid</a> is a
real breakthrough for the sorts of people who need the rest of us to
believe they are sacrificing for society. They get to decorate
themselves like Star Bellied Sneetches with their masks and endless hand
rubbing. Even better, they get to be public scolds, telling the rest of
us to be safe. The best part is they get to push people around for their
lack of enthusiasm for the rules. In fact, that is quickly becoming an
<a
href="https://boston.cbslocal.com/2020/10/20/winthrop-hires-covid-inspector-enforce-coronavirus-restrictions/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">official government
position</a>.

The communists were fond of inserting ideological enforcers into the
nooks and crannies of life, to keep the rank and file in line. It was a
weird admission that most people really did not believe the nonsense
from the party, but people would go along with it if they thought they
were being watched. Today’s ideological enforcers will be dressed up
like surgeons, prowling the streets looking for anyone not sufficiently
enthusiastic for the Church of Covid.

Of course, this brings us back to that old maxim about government. All
of these people making money from state enforcement of Covid laws are
not going to kill the job by calling off the panic. You see, <a
href="https://gizmodo.com/false-hope-that-will-predictably-backfire-scientists-c-1845381179"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Covid will be with us
forever</a> and you will be required to <a
href="https://summit.news/2020/10/26/health-expert-mask-wearing-will-remain-mandatory-even-after-a-covid-vaccine/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">cover your face forever</a>.
The same people who say Amy Coney Barrett will force women to <a
href="https://www.newsweek.com/handmaids-tale-cloaks-protest-amy-coney-barrett-supreme-court-nomination-1542118"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">wear cloaks in public</a> are
demanding everyone cover their face in public. No one will ever accuse
the Covidians of being sophisticated.

This brings us to the business side of things. For global capital and
government dependent industries, Covid promises nothing but boom times.
Small business has been eliminated in much of the country due to the
lock downs. Those that have not be crushed will be forced to comply with
a thicket of Covid rules. After all, we’re all in this together and
regulatory capture is just the price we must pay to be safe.

The public health excuse has allowed the tech firms to justify their
takeover of the public space. The popular YouTuber, Paul Ramsey, was
suspended for <a href="https://www.bitchute.com/video/D6c5Xhjfqis6/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">questioning the one true
faith</a>. Even mild criticism of official policy is now forbidden
on-line. The tech oligarchs have quickly moved from suppressing
“disinformation” to crushing even mild dissent from orthodoxy. More
important, censorship on-line by anonymous and unaccountable commissars
is now completely normal.

This normalization of censorship has been a long-term goal of the tech
oligarchs and the Church of Covid now legitimizes it. Another goal of
our oligarchs has been to force science to comply with their beliefs.
They gained some ground with the Gaia stuff, but Covid is proving to be
the kill shot. Researchers are learning that even mild questioning of
these bizarre edicts is forbidden. <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2020/10/27/top-medical-journals-refuse-to-publish-landmark-danish-mask-study/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">These researchers</a> should
investigate a career in food service, as their science careers are now
done.

In retrospect, fear of carbon taxes and green initiatives seems kind of
quaint compared to what has quickly become the norm in the Age of
Covidian. Toting around grimy canvas sacks seems pretty nice compared to
masks. Just as facts and observation had no effect on the Gaia
worshipers, facts and reason will have no impact on the Covidians, so it
means this will be with us until they find a new fear. We’re all
Covidians now, whether we like it or not. It the religion of our rulers.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="8bfzEMzBptjBNIxMlMWSSg==cb7vCYAEYhImcXn7k5Tk7dLFhZFIt1IfHAH7AwiglDI4EtUrGF7MkjLTHadWiCZCFcR"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="14ywFnWvORtsBvkvwRlV0g==cb7+riZlC3AXcg3Q+Zaw2XMmj1MobK8dKG7H8T0fDP0l+hsdxwpDv/em2A2v97jiQUH"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
