---
title: "Strategy, Tactics & Discipline"
date: "2020-05-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20541"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20541"
---

One of the longest running debates on this side of the great divide is
about how best to work through the thicket of taboos created and
maintained by the ruling class. Because so much of observable reality is
now off limits, it is nearly impossible to contradict the prevailing
orthodoxy and maintain a position in the public square. For example,
there can be nothing interesting said about crime, because no one is
allowed to discuss the demographic reality of crime. The facts
themselves are taboo.

One side of the debate argues that the only way to break a taboo is to
break a taboo, so the only way forward to is to talk frankly about these
things. In the case of crime, for example, the dissident must always
interject the demographic facts about crime into the debate, even if it
makes the beautiful people shriek. Since most people know the facts, the
shrieking by the beautiful people actually advances the cause. This line
of reasoning is extended to all taboo subjects universally.

The other side of the debate points out that the taboo breakers always
end up in exile or condemned to some ghetto. In fact, their deliberate
breaking of taboos ends up reinforcing the taboo, as no one wants to end
up like the heretics. Instead, this camp argues the dissident must come
up with clever language that subtly mocks the taboos, but narrowly
adheres to the rules. The recent use of the word “jogger’ is an example
of complying with the taboo, while undermining it.

The taboo breakers counter that this just results in an endless search
for approved language to hint at unapproved things. It is just a form of
self-deception, where the clever think they are in revolt when in
reality they are just asking permission. The optics guys counter this by
pointing out the obvious. The taboo breakers are removed from the
process, so in reality their tactic is just quitting the game. Rather
than take on the system in a meaningful way, they mutter epithets in
their ghetto.

The heart of this debate is the paradox of the marketplace. Contrary to
popular mythology, markets eventually end up with a limited number of
choices, unless some external agent, like the government, intervenes to
maintain a balance of options on both the supply side and the demand
side. In the case of the marketplace of ideas, it means the range of
acceptable opinion eventually collapses into a narrow range. Inevitably,
what the market decides is who will control the market.

Anyone alive in the early years of the personal computer will recall
that a walk through the computer section of a department store meant a
dizzying array of options. There were dozens of computer makers. It was
not just different labels for the same hardware and hardware standards
either. The technology was different from one maker to the other, with
different operating systems and peripherals. Many companies were
searching for the right solution for the home computer.

Eventually, the marketplace “decided” that Microsoft and Intel would
control the market place for personal computers. They colluded with one
another to drive most everyone out the business. The government did not
step in to prevent their collusion, preferring to let the market work
its magic. Today, all personal computers are the same. Sure, you can be
a weirdo running Linux or Apple, but that is a tiny fraction of the
marketplace that is tolerated because they are no threat to the dominant
players.

Political opinion in western liberal democracies works the same way.
Over time, a few parties have come to dominate, becoming the mainstream.
They are not identical with one another and they do have real fights for
power. They have simply agreed to a set of rules that will regulate
their fights for power. Put another way, they have come to define the
marketplace of politics in such a way that ensures they will be the
dominant players in that marketplace. Democracy put them in charge –
forever.

Now, this is usually when a certain type of critic jumps in and claims
this group or that group secretly controls things behind the scenes.
Personalizing a process is like anthropomorphizing your pets. It is
satisfying because it takes something complex and makes it simple. In
the case of pets, the owner gets the satisfaction of thinking his dog
loves him for how he treats the dog. In the case of politics,
personalizing the process avoids thinking about the systemic issues,
which can be complex.

A good example of how the marketplace of ideas operates in a liberal
democracy is in <a
href="https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-populist-afd-party-boots-far-right-leader-kalbitz/a-53458896"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story</a> from Germany.
The AfD has been forced to purge one of the leaders of the radical wing,
because of his associations with a taboo group. Technically, he is being
forced out over not being honest in his statements about those past
associations, but in reality, it is about acceptability. The moderate
wing wants to engage in respectable politics and that means following
the rules.

This is exactly the problem conservatives in America faced in the 20th
century when they sought to participate in politics. In order to
participate in the marketplace of ideas, they had to follow the rules
and remain respectable. In the case of the Buckley crowd, respectable
meant agreeing to the prevailing moral orthodoxy. They had to embrace
the open society, egalitarianism and the blank slate. Any of their
members who refused had to be tossed out in order to maintain
respectability.

The taboo breakers look at the optics guys and say, “See, when you agree
to the rules you eventually come to defend them against the rest of us.”
That AfD story is a pretty good example. In time, the system will
eliminate one member after another from AfD until the party is
indistinguishable from the main parties. At some point, the party will
become respectable. The paradox of democracy will result in the
“alternative” for Germany being indistinguishable from the status quo.

The optics side will note that the reason the radicals get purged is
they almost always lack the necessary discipline to participate in much
of anything. They say and do things impulsively and fight stupid
pointless battles. In the case of the AfD guy, if he was as smart as he
imagines himself to be, he would understand how this works and be
prepared for it, but instead he refused to comport with reality. This is
the story of taboo breakers everywhere. They always lose site of the
goal.

In reality, there is no voting your way out of the inherent defects of
liberal democracy, so the taboo breakers are right to reject
conventional politics. On the other hand, politics is always about
persuasion. You can only persuade people by addressing them where they
are, not where you hope them to be. That means maintaining enough
respectability to be able to address them in the public square, even if
it is in the shadows. In fact, the edge of the public square can be an
attraction, as people like intrigue.

The key to any alternative politics in liberal democracy is that it must
be both a critique of the system and operate on the moral high ground.
This requires the discipline to sublimate tactics to strategy. It also
means policing the ranks to weed out those who simply refuse to place
the strategy before their own personal desires. Strategically breaking
taboos, in anticipation of the response, can be good outsider politics.
Similarly, maintaining enough respectability to remain viable is
essential.

In the end, alternative politics in a liberal democracy comes down to
attracting high quality people, disaffected by the short comings of the
system. If there is a genuine alternative, then there is a genuine
choice. This has always been the defect of outsider politics in western
liberal democracies. The alternatives are unreasonable and therefore
attract the marginal and the unstable. A real alternative will maintain
discipline and sublimate tactics to the strategy of being an authentic
alternative.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
