---
title: "Identity And Eugenics"
date: "2020-02-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19912"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19912"
---

Last week, famous biologist and atheist Richard Dawkins outraged all of
the rage heads on Twitter by tweeting out, “It’s one thing to deplore
eugenics on ideological, political, moral grounds. It’s quite another to
conclude that it wouldn’t work in practice. Of course it would. It works
for cows, horses, pigs, dogs & roses. Why on earth wouldn’t it work for
humans? Facts ignore ideology” The rage heads responded with outrage and
demands that he be thrown into a well for bad think.

It was one of those events where people revealed things about themselves
that they probably wish they had kept private. The “world’s foremost
philosopher” managed to step on
<a href="https://twitter.com/ramzpaul/status/1229858019598573568"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a series of rakes</a>
responding to Paul Ramsey. Not satisfied with his twitter performance,
he did <a href="https://youtu.be/J8a1ruVxVv4" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">a full hour</a> on YouTube, where he must have broken a
record for the number of logical fallacies committed in one sitting.
Apparently he has yet to reach the chapter on Hume’s law or the
masked-man fallacy.

Molyneux’s response was fairly typical, so it is a useful, if
unfortunate, example to use when discussing the issue raised by Dawkins.
Eugenics, however one defines it, can be both immoral and effective. The
morality of it has nothing to do with whether it would work, however one
defines that. They are separate issues. Slavery “worked” for a long
time, but then we decided it was immoral and it was eliminated. Slavery
was not eliminated because it was unworkable or impractical.

His blunders are not surprising, as we live in an age in which morality
has been anathematized and made illegitimate. We are no longer allowed
to oppose something on moral grounds. Instead we’re required to make
economic arguments or make appeals to science. Simply not wanting
something, because you don’t like it is no longer a legitimate position.
We see this here. Molyneux could not simply say eugenics is immoral, so
he claimed it would not work.

The narrow definition of eugenics, according to Webster’s, is “the
practice or advocacy of controlled selective breeding of human
populations to improve the population’s genetic composition.” Of course,
the term is loaded with historical significance and has a strong
negative connotation. It brings to mind evil doctors experimenting on
children or the state sterilizing people they deem unfit. Of course, you
know who looms over any discussion about human fitness these days.

That said, Western societies have been putting a thumb on the scale, as
far as the mating habits of the people, for a long time. A great example
of this is the laws against consanguineous marriage. In the Middle Ages,
the Church and then secular rulers enforced rules against marrying close
relatives. This had a huge impact on the human capital of Europe. Cousin
marriage leads to lower intelligence and most likely amplifies normal
kinship into clannishness.

Henry Harpending and Peter Frost <a
href="https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/147470491501300114"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">argued</a> that the prolific
use of the death penalty in Western Europe, starting in the late Middle
Ages, pacified the population. Young men, who committed crimes, were
hanged, thus eliminating them from the breeding pool at an early age. Do
this long enough and the genes of violent men are slowly reduced. As
interpersonal violence declined, men prone to it declined in status,
thus reducing their value in the sexual marketplace. That’s eugenics.

That’s also a great example of how the moral arguments about eugenics
are mostly based on a cartoon version of the past. Few would deny that
the reduction in interpersonal violence was a good thing for the West.
Similarly, no one would argue that a society has no right to defend
itself against the violent. Like everything else, morality is about
trade-offs. Reducing the amount mayhem and violence with the prolific
use of the death penalty looks like a pretty good trade-off.

Now, Frost and Harpending could be wrong about the impact of the death
penalty, but their theory is not wrong. We can make rules that reduce
the reproductive success of those possessing undesirable traits. Those
rules, given enough time, will reduce that undesirable trait. If we
wanted, we can use force to eliminate those people from the breeding
pool. East Asia has been using soft coercion for generations to alter
the breeding habits of their people.

Of course, a big part of the hysteria is the implications. If eugenics
is a real thing, it means people are not amorphous blobs that can be
molded into any shape. To give an inch on the eugenics question is to
give up entirely on the blank slate theology. Instead the true believers
argue against reality by denying it or avoiding it. You see that in the
Dawkins thread, where various people, mostly women, offered ridiculous
claims against the reality of animal husbandry and agriculture.

Ultimately, the topic of eugenics brings us back to that point about
discussing morality and collective agency in the modern age. A eugenic
policy would mean legitimizing the collective will. It would also mean
accepting that people collectively have an identity that is rooted in
their nature. The war on our collective humanity starts with denying us
a right to say who we are and what makes us who we are. It means denying
us the legitimacy to want what we want for no other reason than we want
it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
