---
title: "Incorporated America"
date: "2020-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21506"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21506"
---

**Media Note:** I have
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/the-absurdity-of-steve/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a column</a> up at Taki. This
will be a regular thing, but how regular is unknown at this point. We’ll
see how it goes. I will be on the
<a href="https://dlive.tv/theralphretort" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Killstream</a> this Wednesday to celebrate the life and
times of Abraham Lincoln. The show starts somewhere around nine eastern
and runs for a couple of hours.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The old left-wing critique of post-war America was that it was rampant
consumerism resulting from the embrace of unfettered capitalism.
Everything is commercialized and that which cannot be turned into a
reason to buy stuff is discarded. The old right-wing criticism is that
America is not free enough. Everywhere the tentacles of the state invade
the normal activity of society. Both are correct in that America now
operates like a giant corporate entity, rather than a country.

A country in the modern sense is a collection of nations. France is not
a unified nation, as its regions are quite distinct with unique
histories. Those nations are held together by a shared history and a
common interest in being French. The same was always true of the United
States, hence the name. The states reflected the nations of the country,
held together by a common origin story and common interest. Those
regional differences turned up in the language and culture.

The distinguishing characteristic of the America that emerged from the
Cold War is that it is losing its regional variety in favor of a bland,
corporate sameness. Everywhere you go you see the same corporate brands,
which are often owned by the same corporate parent, providing the
illusion of choice. Housing developments are all based on the same
styles and patterns, because the builders are all the same. A new
development in North Carolina looks just like one in Dallas or
Cleveland.

America is often described by critics as nothing more than a shopping
mall, where the only connection the people have to one another is the
choice of product. This is not a right-wing critique, even though the
dissident right has embraced it. This is more of an old [left-wing
critique](https://www.amazon.com/Land-Desire-Merchants-American-Culture/dp/0679754113)
of America. Capitalism is to blame for transforming America into a giant
open-air marketplace. Instead of a culture based on organic institutions
and a shared experience, it is based on buying stuff.

There is truth to it, but it misses what is really going on. America is
now a corporation, rather than a country. It is why the public space is
being transformed into something that looks like a corporate training
center. You don’t go there to express an opinion or advance your
interests, but to learn the latest policies. The person in charge sees
herself as a facilitator, using behavioral techniques she learned in
graduate school, in order to help you reach your potential an employee.

Just look at how the big social media platforms censure people. It is
not traditional censorship we would see in an ideological state.
Instead, the first violation gets you a day off to think about what you
have done. The next violation gets you a longer bit of time off, which
everyone knows means you’re on the list. The next downsizing means you
get let go, regardless of your performance. Finally, like an employee
that never fit into the corporate culture, you’re fired from the
platform.

Note too that the enforcers at these firms clearly share information
with one another about violators. One day the problematic user wakes up
and his Twitter has been suspended, his Facebook is deleted and his
YouTube channel nuked. This happens for the same reason the HR
department ticks the box “Not eligible for rehire” when you’re riffed
out of the place. It is not about you. You’re dead to them now. It is a
service to their peers, so they can avoid hiring the same mistake.

This is why our radicals now sound like every human resource department
and our politicians look like everyone at a corporate retreat. The
managerial elite is imposing its corporate sensibilities on the country.
The dreary sameness we see all around us is what you see inside every
corporation. Everything must serve the point of the enterprise, even the
aesthetic. Everything is subject to the quest for efficiency, so
everything that makes life interesting is removed.

The regions of the country are no longer unique cultures with unique
histories, but subsidiaries that must be normalized into the cooperate
culture. Movies and television are repetitive and shallow, because
corporate culture eschews creativity as risky and embraces banality
because it is predictable and safe. Sports are drenched in identity
politics because cross-marketing says the way to promote a new product
is to attach it to the most successful product in the catalog.

Corporations travel a well-known arc. They start with a frontier
mentality, in which the creative and daring control the enterprise. They
are trying to develop a new market or subvert an existing market, so
they can’t follow old rules. This attracts people who are goal oriented,
not process oriented. This is the culture of every start-up, which is
why they can find new ways to attack the market and maneuver the company
around larger, better established competitors.

That success eventually outgrows the capacity of the start-up culture.
Eventually, the people being hired to do the things the enterprise needs
doing need to be managed and that means managers and rules. A new type
of employee is brought in, the sort who enjoys the process. They enjoy
creating employee manuals. Soon they are joined by another type of
employee, who values conformity. Her job is to make sure everyone
follows the rules and does so with enthusiasm.

This is the current phase of Corporate America. The thing that matters
most to the managers is not ideology. In the corporate state, ideology
is about as authentic and meaningful as corporate culture. It is just a
veneer to decorate the latest HR effort to boost morale. What matters to
them is the quest to assimilate the wide range of assets now under
corporate control. If you step back and look at the current crisis, it
is not an ideological battle, but a war on variety and exception.

This is, in part, why the elites hate Trump. It’s not his politics, as
his politics, stripped of the carny act, are rather conventional. They
hate Trump because he is the guy who laughed at the white diversity
trainer when she shared her painful experiences of oppression at
Princeton. They hate him because he just wants to do his job and have a
life and an identity outside the company. For the champions of the
corporate state, nothing can exist outside the state.

You see this corporate mentality most strongly in foreign policy. Russia
is the arch enemy, not because they are a genuine competitor, but
because they refuse to embrace the latest fads from HR. If the issue was
the alleged authoritarianism, then America would invade China, but
that’s an important vendor relationship, so their tyrannical system is
no problem. In the corporate state, values and principles are just
pretty lies to justify executive bonus packages.

Modern America is now an incorporated entity, run by a managerial elite,
policed by the human resource departments of the corporate nodes within
it. As the assimilation of all the corporate assets continues, it is
increasingly difficult to see the divisions within the managerial class.
The media, corporations, the academy and the state are blending into one
amorphous blob that sits over us like a dome. Everything is in the
corporate state, nothing is outside it and nothing can be against it.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Imy1O21gnHXoM107gcdlBw==cb7zRHAv7kh6dV3xILcuNxCfMXHcbJV0jDCrMEJPDchMTCBa1nZUk+77NDFe4HvBo6o"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="haUc8Q4beGSafxx+zcsaOQ==cb7/FT9RqT6+D7cb/NQPefqXhUoN3DvThuGiMhi50y4m2tpZxZVwuxUltJlkmryNY7L"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
