---
title: "What Comes Next"
date: "2020-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21016"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21016"
---

In July 1936, Grigory Zinoviev and Lev Kamenev were brought to Moscow to
be interrogated for being part of Trotsky-led conspiracy. The pair had
been part of the ruling triumvirate, along with Stalin, after Lenin was
incapacitated with a stroke, but they had sided with Trotsky in the
power struggle that followed Lenin’s death. As a result. their status
had declined in the party. In 1932, they were found to be complicit in
the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ryutin_Affair"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ryutin Affair</a> and were
expelled from the Communist Party.

Stalin ordered Nikolai Yezhov, who later was head of the NKVD during the
purges, to interrogate the two as part of a larger conspiracy involving
Trotsky loyalists. Yezhov appealed to their devotion to the Soviet
Union. They were, of course, subjected to physical and psychological
pressure. Yezhov told Kamenev he had evidence against his son, which
could result in his execution. Inevitably, they agreed to participate in
what would be the first of many show trials against Stalin’s enemies.

The bargain Zinoviev and Kamenev struck with the Politburo was that they
would testify against their comrades in exchange for their lives and
their family’s lives. Stalin himself agreed to the deal in person, on
behalf of the Politburo. They were tried with fourteen other defendants
in the House of the Unions, which still stands today. All sixteen were
found guilty of plotting to kill Stalin and other Soviet officials. They
were promptly executed in the basement of Lubyanka Prison.

This would be the pattern throughout the Great Purge. Political enemies
would be turned against one another through a combination of terror,
torture and the promise of forgiveness if they cooperated. The real
purpose of forcing friends to denounce friends and family members to
denounce other family members was to create an atmosphere in which no
one could trust anyone. As Montesquieu noted, the motor that powers
every despotic regime is a general fear of the ruler.

In the West, of course, the Left defended the trials as proper and
necessary. In America, Progressive big shots signed onto <a
href="https://www.marxists.org/history/usa/pubs/new-masses/1938/v27n06-may-03-1938-NM.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a statement</a> celebrating
the trials. “The measures taken by the Soviet Union to preserve and
extend its gains and its strength therefore find their echoes here,
where we are staking the future of the American people on the
preservation of progressive democracy and the unification of our efforts
to prevent the fascists from strangling the rights of the people.”

You’ll note the familiarity of those words. Despite being written 82
years ago, the sentiments are the same as those of the modern Left.
Other than the reference to the Soviet Union, those words would sound
familiar on the college campus on in the halls of the New York Times.
Modern Progressives see themselves as the defenders of the people
against the enemies of democracy, by which they don’t mean elections,
but rather the cooperative society of equals they imagine.

It is therefore no surprise that as the woke revolutions rolls on, the
Left is now dreaming of <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/arts/television/the-moment-racism-tv.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">show trials of their own</a>.
Instead of forcing their opponents to confess to imaginary crimes
against the revolution, they want to drag their victims in front of the
television cameras and force them to confront their racism. Undoubtedly,
they will want to force these people to denounce their ancestors too.
For good measure, maybe denounce some friends and family members as
racists.

It may all seem ridiculous, but that is the way it goes with ideological
movements running unchecked through a society. The original Bolsheviks
who were eventually murdered by Stalin never saw it coming until it was
too late. The Ukrainian farmers who supported the revolution never
imagined the Holodomor. The Girondins, who had been the radicals of the
French Legislative Assembly in 1791, became the conservatives of the
Convention in 1792. They were purged and executed in 1793.

In this revolutionary moment, we went from protesting the police to
toppling statues within weeks. Words like “plantation” have been erased
from the language and companies are demanding employees submit what
amount to loyalty oaths to the new woke religion. If corporate
monopolies feel free to <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-07-17/cisco-fires-workers-for-racial-comments-during-diversity-forum"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">fire those deemed
insufficiently enthusiastic</a>, how long before they are demanding
employees rat out fellow employees for speaking against anti-racism?

Revolutions are not just the violent replacement of the old with the
new. They quickly become purification rituals. As Joseph de Maistre
noted, “The whole earth, perpetually steeped in blood, is nothing but a
vast altar upon which all that is living must be sacrificed without end,
without measure, without pause, until the consummation of things, until
evil is extinct, until the death of death.” This is what leads the
radical to go from revolutionary to executioner.

Make no mistake. The New York Times to did not commission that demand
for show trials because they needed to fill space. They have gone
through their own form of the Ryutin affair, along with the rest of
elite media. The Bari Weiss
<a href="https://www.bariweiss.com/resignation-letter"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">resignation letter</a> and
Andrew Sullivan’s <a
href="https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/07/andrew-sullivan-see-you-next-friday.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">final column</a> are repeats
of the Boris Nicolaevsky’s *Letter of an Old Bolshevik*, in which a
loser in the great struggle for the revolution describes the divisions
that formed in the revolution.

Take the time to read that New York Times piece. The writer is barely
literate. The text reads like something from a hip-hop performer or
maybe a slam poet. The words are not intended to convey literal meaning.
Instead, the column should be read out loud to the sound of jungle
rhythms. It is a call to war by the savages of the revolution, who can
only be satisfied by the sight of blood. It’s the woke revolution’s
declaration of war against western civilization.

This being a feminized age, even the vulgar revolutionaries lack the
stomach to follow through on their desires. The woke women of the
revolution can bully the soft men off the stage, but they will not be
hanging anyone. Instead, this revolution will be satisfied to humiliate
and harass. Women are much more vicious than men, so they will not have
the decency to execute their enemies. Instead, ritual humiliation will
be the end point of the coming show trials.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!;
