---
title: "Covid Capitalism"
date: "2020-07-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Pandemic
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20902"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20902"
---

For most people, buying a car is not a pleasant experience. Getting a
new car is always nice, even if you are not a car person, but the
process of getting it is almost always a hassle due to how cars are sold
in America. Getting a used car can eliminate the hassle of the
dealership, but then you have to worry about getting hustled by someone
trying to unload their lemon onto a sucker. The car market is extreme
capitalism, where no one gives a sucker an even break or smartens up a
chump.

Strangely, this makes it the ideal place to understand what has happened
to our society over the last six months. For example, every car
dealership website now has a prominent banner informing the visitor just
how much the car dealer cares about the health and safety of their
customers. There’s usually a link to their page detailing just how much
they care about you, the sap they hope will buy a car from them. All of
these mission statements are titled, “Our Response to COVID-19.”

In case it is not obvious, a business built around the phrase *caveat
emptor* is not concerned about the safety of anyone, even the employees.
Like every business in extreme capitalist America, the car dealers see
an angle in presenting themselves as guardians of public health. At the
far end of capitalism, the business must be both rapacious and
patronizing. Telling you how much they care about your welfare while
stripping you of what they can is the standard business model.

The thing about all of this that goes unnoticed is how predatory
economics has not just been normalized, it is now celebrated. Forty
years ago, soulless money grasping was seen as immoral. The movie Wall
Street presented a morality tale about how extreme capitalism was soul
destroying. Today, the ruthless businessman is in the morally superior
position, while the person doubting the ethics of his behavior is
portrayed as a naive and stupid person, possibly even dangerous.

Maybe it is just a case of monkey see, monkey do with these dealers, but
all of their steps to show just how much they care are the same across
the board. They have “contactless” car buying, which is a very strange
thing, when you consider it. How much physical contact would one
normally have with the the car salesman under normal conditions? Of
course, since their goal is to screw the customer, maybe this is a
strange inside joke or possibly a cry for help.

Of course, all of this is just a racket and everyone gets it, except for
the people firmly in the panic camp. They see it as confirmation. In
fact, that’s the point of all these ads from giant corporations telling
us how much they care about us and the communities they are destroying.
It is pure partisanship. On one side there are the people sure this
pandemic is punishment for Trump. On the other side are people who are
sure the other side is using the virus to advance their ideological
goals.

This is the world of today. There are now two camps of people. One camp
consumes every event and metabolizes it into fuel for their ideological
war. As soon as the virus became news their chief concern was in how to
turn it into another weapon in their social war to control society. As
soon as the hated Trump declared his side on the virus issue, the Left
immediately embraced a set of positions on the virus. Every left-wing
and adjacent governor blew up his state to spite Trump.

The second camp are the people who realize that the new issue is
becoming politicized and they form up an opposition to the Left. In the
case of the virus, they started as curious or maybe mildly skeptical.
These were the people who said it was just going to be a very bad flu
most likely, but we needed more information. Now they are the people who
say the face muffler is the six pointed star of totalitarianism. For
them, the facts of the virus no longer matter anymore.

In this environment, there’s no truth or even the desire for truth, as
all truth is determined by which side of the line you stand. The car
dealers, for example, would have lepers selling cars if it moved more
product. It is in their interest to go along with the safety campaign,
so they go along with the safety campaign. They would have their people
in hazmat suits putting the buyer through a delousing station if that’s
what it takes to sell cars. They care, because they don’t care.

Everywhere else, the caring capitalists are either proof that the plague
is real and a punishment for the Orange Man or it is just part of the
fraud perpetrated by people obsessed with hating the Orange Man. Not
only does this make everything extremely simple, it means the simpletons
rule the day. If you’re inclined to automatically take one side or the
other based entirely on your feelings toward the people on each side of
the line, this is a glorious time to be alive.

The car dealership is now the metaphor of our age. The people running it
engage in the most extreme form of ruthless transactionalism. They do so
while pretending they care deeply about the people they will gladly
fleece. Meanwhile, on the lot, one group of buyers is misty-eyed over
how much the dealer cares about this plague sent to spite the Trump
people. The other group grits its teeth behind its face mufflers,
fantasizing about the revolution and that sports car in the showroom.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
