---
title: "Conventional Reality"
date: "2020-08-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21142"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21142"
---

The Republicans kicked off their 2020 convention promising to do a
better job than the Democrats in this age of panic driven virtual
reality. Instead of disembodied heads floating on screens it would look
more like a convention. They even had some people gathering in a
physical place in North Carolina. The Democrats tried to make themselves
look cool by relying on Zoom sessions for all of their activity. The
result was it looked like something a YouTube grifter would put
together.

To make that point early, they had Charlie Kirk open the show for them.
While he is pretty much just an enormous empty head attached to a stick
figure, he was standing behind a podium giving a normal speech like a
normal person. The fact that he was selected to open the show should
remind the Fuentes – Casey crowd that modern politics is entirely
disconnected from popular opinion now. They effectively exposed Kirk as
a fraud, but his backers still like him and that is what matters.

In fact, the whole TP-USA operation is a good entry point for people
coming to this side of the great divide in understanding the reality of
democracy. The rich people sponsoring Kirk and his operation are like
the people who back boy bands. The record companies assume the kids have
to listen to something, so if they flood the zone with their material,
they get the sales. In the case of Kirk, they know the political kids
will join something, so they control the options they can join.

After Kirk, it was the usual parade of diversity we have come to expect
from our ruling class propaganda events. There was a woman then a black
football player and then a black Democrat politician. Both from the
South. In diverse America, blacks and women can identify as “southern”
but it can never be a white guy. Then it was some Hispanics of various
types and then the <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQPG0Bmo7D8"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">girlfriend</a> of one of
Trump’s kids gave an impressively weird speech about something. It was
just weird.

After appealing to all of the constituencies that will never vote for
Republicans, they had Jared Taylor come out and give the case for white
people. He made the case that even though the GOP is full of <a
href="https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-falwell-relationship/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">actual cuckolds</a>, white
people have to vote for someone, so it may as well be the party that
occasionally supports their interests. While Trump is not a white
nationalist or an even a racist, he is the embodiment of implicit
whiteness, while Biden is the manifestation of the current anti-White
pogrom.

Obviously, that never happened and will never happen. The diversity crap
irritates everyone on this side of the great divide and many on the
other side as well, but the sad truth is most GOP voters lap that stuff
up. It is why Trump does it. Generations of Americans have been
indoctrinated into this cult of diversity. White people get misty-eyed
when they see a black or brown endorse “their side.” It is both
validation and flattery, a one-two punch that still works on normal
whites.

There have been many ways of describing the established politics. The
inner party – outer party construct makes the Republicans the colorful
paint job on the Progressive vehicle at the heart of our politics. The
kosher sandwich is a phrase popular with the anti-Semites to describe
the false dichotomy of democracy. People get to vote who they like as
long as that person supports the system. The NRx guys used the term
cathedral, while neo-liberal critics used the term motte-and-bailey.

Another way to think of it is the Republicans and conservatives operate
like an invisible fence that rings what is acceptable political
discourse. The people are wearing shock collars, so when if cross the
line they get the jolt. If they stay over the line, the juice is shut
off, but if they try to cross back, they get the full blast. The result
of this is the zone of acceptable politics is ringed by those who
wandered beyond the barrier and now look in wishing they could return.

It is why the alt-right scared the Left so much five years ago. When
they were just suburban white guys making jokes about diversity,
feminism and multiculturalism, they threatened this construct. People
could look outside the barrier and see normal people having fun, not
wearing their shock collars. Then the alt-right put on funny costumes,
strapped on their collars and marched right into the barrier. Their
conditioning was too much and they played the role the Left needed them
to play.

It is one of the paradoxes of dissident politics. The Left bans
dissidents from the parts of the public square they control. Dissident
then demand to be allowed back onto these platforms, often destroying
themselves doing it. This serves the interest of the Left, by
reestablishing that barrier in the minds of the people. If the damned
just go off and enjoy their life outside the barrier, indifferent to
being excluded, it undermines the logic of the system and the legitimacy
of the gatekeepers.

That is easier said than done, which is why the old regime staggers on.
Trump won because he is the most unconventional politicians in forever
and he will be re-nominated at a thoroughly conventional convention.
It’s not that the people organizing it are deliberately trying to
undermine him. It’s just that like everyone inside the system, they only
know the system. They have been immersed in it their whole life. It is
their reality. They are just parts of a whole they do not fully
comprehend.

That is the dissident project, when you think about it. It is not about
injecting heretical nanites into the existing system in order to
transform it from within. It is not about launching an assault against
it, like it is a city to be sacked. Those both serve to validate the
system. It is about contradicting the underlying reality of the system,
by constructing an independent reality. Dissident politics must exist
outside the current construct as a genuine alternative.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
