---
title: "Partisans and Objectivists"
date: "2020-10-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21660"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21660"
---

One way to describe the great divide within mainstream politics is that
one side is the partisans and the other side objectivists. The partisans
are focused on their objectives and what they think is good for their
side. They just want to win and don’t worry too much about how they win.
The objectivists are focused on facts and think that truth will prevail
eventually. The partisans are what we call the Left and the objectivists
are what we call the Right in America.

The partisans are an ends justifies the means mode of thought. They are
unconstrained by rules or convention. In fact, they are not limited by
what they said last week, as last week was a different time with
different goals. In a world where winning is the only thing that
matters, everything else bends to serve that end. If being seen as on
the science is useful in the moment, they love science. If treating
science like magic is useful next week, then next week they will mock
science.

Objectivists, of course, find this mind boggling. They look at these
contradictions as the Achilles’s heel of their opponents. They spend a
lot of time pointing out how the partisans are contradicting what they
said last week. Often this is effective, as the public tends to side
with the objectivists in most things. The climate change stuff is a good
example of how the partisans harm their own cause. Their flexibility
with the truth is a liability when asking the public to take their word
on science.

For the most part, though, this willingness to transcend facts, and even
reality in some cases, is a great advantage in a democracy. Politics in
a democracy is immediate, rather than deliberative, so that first
impression counts for a lot. If in the fullness of time those initial
arguments are found to be full of lies or simply wrong, it does not
matter as everyone is onto the next thing. It is rare in a democracy for
the debate to circle back and address an old argument or have a do-over.

A good example of how this works is the term “gun show loophole.” This
remains a popular catchphrase on the Left. They know gun control is
wildly unpopular, so they talk about ending gun show loopholes. The fact
that there is no such thing as a gun show loophole does not matter. It
sounds good. People don’t like loopholes of any sort as they seem
dishonest, so they support ending gun show loopholes. The Left can
appear reasonable, despite perpetrating a fraud on the public.

Of course, this summer we got to experience another example of how the
truth is no constraint to the partisan. The people burning, looting and
attacking people in the streets have been labeled peaceful protesters.
Just this week, as video comes out of massive looting and pillaging in
Philadelphia, [the
governor](https://thepostmillennial.com/pennsylvania-governor-has-a-hope-that-philadelphia-riots-dont-escalate-into-anything-other-than-the-peaceful-protests)
of the state called it a mostly peaceful protest. That strikes the
objectivists as insane, but from the point of view of the partisan, it
helps their cause and that’s all that matters.

As violence spread around the country this summer, the chant from the
rioters was often something like “silence is violence.” In other words,
if you did not vocally support them, they could rightfully assume you
were plotting violence or supported violence against them, so they were
justified in using violence. In other words, to the partisan, their
violence is speech, while your speech is violence. The objectivists are
stymied by this sleight of hand, so they have remained dumbstruck by it.

This willingness to transcend the rules of language was on display this
week as democrats threw a choreographed tantrum over Judge Barrett. They
claimed that Trump was packing the court, a term that goes back a
century to when FDR tried to increase the number of judges, so he could
get his guys on the bench. The fact that Trump was not actually doing
anything like that was not a constraint on the Democrats bleating about
court packing all week.

Just as their violence is speech, while your speech is violence, the
logic of the situation is being turned on its head. They now claim that
their plans to pack the court are a justified response to Trump packing
the court. You see, when their enemy scrupulously follows the rules it
is a gross violation of procedure, but when they overturn procedure it
is restoring order and balance. This is not mere hypocrisy. This is the
natural detachment from objectivity that is a predicate for the
partisan.

This is why the partisans tend to prevail in a democracy. They have a
wider range of options because they are not limited by facts and reason.
Additionally, the objectivists are self-limiting, often ceding the field
because they think the rules require it. One side gets to play dirty,
while the other side tries to talk them out of it. The truth is, there
is no reasoning with a partisan. There is no way to reason with someone
who will not stipulate to the basic facts of life. They exist beyond
reason.

This is the story of the last 30 years. As the partisans have become
increasingly partisan, which means less constrained by reality, the
objectivists have become more certain that reality will step and do the
job they refuse to do. They imagine a time when the partisan suddenly
realizes the truth of his situation, throws down his weapons and
embraces the objectivist as a brother in logic. For the objectivist,
reason has become escapism in order to avoid what must be done.

A byproduct of this dynamic is that most people have no voice in the
media, government or any other area of public life. The partisans
advance their positions on behalf of their cause, while the objectivists
fret about factual accuracy. In a democracy, objectivity is not a
constituency, so the objectivists end up representing the interests of
abstract concepts, rather than genuine people, which means the bulk of
the people have no representative.

Another old saying relevant here is that in war, truth is the first
casualty. The reason for this is war is a conflict between two sides,
neither of which has a reason to see things from the point of view of
the other side. It is the ultimate partisan conflict. If there is ever
going to be a force to topple the current Left, their first task will be
to eliminate those more concerned about truth and reason than the
welfare of genuine people.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="jiHnPzL6ViD2Qf3kQoexbw==cb7L7ijZeywIMYUUp794p/y6THUnY83/4MSH/WNKScZZumEdRYkWHWbuwp9onsSg/u7"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="WgslULqed5N7yGchg38gNg==cb7o5KV1ls4h+Z0WLQcC6S4kMoYomT3snHBlyf1W6pW/CWD2OzbDJG1yzAy+Oo0rqIm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
