---
title: "The Rule Of Knaves"
date: "2020-10-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21613"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21613"
---

**Note:** I have a
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/the-myth-of-build-back-better/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">new post</a> up at Taki this
week. I think that will be a regular Monday thing for a while. I also
have a <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/207819"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">SubscribeStar post</a> on the
\#100 movie of all time, Yankee Doodle Dandy. I’ll be doing a few movie
and TV posts there every week, just as a change of pace. I’m going to
work on the top-100 list of great movies and the long list of terrible
movies, plus other stuff.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is an axiom of liberal democracy that the best way to distribute
anything is through the mechanism of the marketplace. Everything from
consumer electronics to pollution credits are subjected to the power of
the market, under the belief that this is the best way to determine
value. Of course, if everything is subjected to the marketplace it means
everything has a price. That means something only has value if that
thing can be turned into money in the marketplace.

While it may not seem like it at first, this is a very radical idea. For
most of human history it was assumed that the most valuable things were
those that could not be purchased at any price. Loyalty, honor, virtue,
patriotism are just a few examples of things that have value, but you
can’t put a price on them. You cannot put a price in your good name, for
example, but you defend your good name, because it has value so dear
that it cannot be purchased. It can only be given away.

The implication to this axiom of liberal democracy is that something
*only* has value if you can put a price on it. Taken to its logical
conclusion, it means those things that we used to assume you could not
put a price on either lose all of their value or they get cheapened so
they can be bought like any other item. This is the subtext to the
Hunter Biden laptop from Hell. It’s not about the salacious material
being dumped on the internet, but about what is says about the political
class.

There’s no need to pretend there is a mystery here. Hunter Biden was
selling influence and access to foreign players. He was hired into a
no-show job by a Ukrainian oligarch so that oligarch could get special
treatment from the Obama administration. He cut deals with Chinese
Communist Party front men for the same reason. More important, there was
nothing all that secret about his dealings. It was well known in
Washington that he was trading on the family name. It was expected.

What the Biden story reveals, or maybe underscores, is that in
Washington, everything has been for sale for a long time now. Those
things that could not be sold to the Chinese or the Saudis or the
Israelis simply had no value. This is something the Chinese have
understood since [Charlie
Trie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1996_United_States_campaign_finance_controversy)
was a bagman for the Clintons. They have been buying up everything
Washington has to sell ever since. [This
post](https://blog.libertasbella.com/chinese-influence-and-investing/)
on how the Chinese are buying up America details many of the lesser
known deals.

The temptation is to write this off to normal human failings. After all,
political corruption is the second oldest profession. That satisfies the
need to reduce things to the personal and avoid looking at the larger
picture. In this case, Hunter Biden is a degenerate grifter who traded
on the family name and his father went along with it. If this were an
isolated example, that may even be the right answer, but this is not an
isolated case. It is just another example of a long running phenomenon.

For example, when Hillary Clinton was at the State Department, millions
of foreign dollars flowed into the Clinton Foundation. No one ever asked
about this or thought it was an odd thing. Even after she setup that
e-mail server in the family toilet, no one questioned what was
happening. It was just how things were done. Note that nothing happened
to the [Senators who made
millions](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/488593-four-senators-sold-stocks-before-coronavirus-threat-crashed-market)
trading on Covid information that was not available to the public. It’s
just the way Washington works.

Circling back to the Hunter Biden story, what has been revealed thus far
is that the political class did not think it odd for the son of the Vice
President to be cutting deals with shady Chinese nationals. That raises
the question. Who else has been willing to make a deal with the Chinese?
It’s quite obvious that Hollywood sold out to them and Silicon Valley,
but what about Washington? If the Chinese will give crack head Biden
millions, what will they give someone important?

Again, it is tempting to reduce this to personal corruption, but a guy
like Joe Biden was not always this corrupt. He was a blowhard and a
braggart, who often made a fool of himself, but he was not a crook.
Nancy Pelosi, who is [getting
implicated](https://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2020/10/forget_the_hunter_biden_sex_tapes_the_real_news_is_much_bigger_than_that.html)
in this Hunter Biden scandal, was not a crook. She was an ideological
berserker, but not the sort to sell her office for a quick buck. Over
the last three decades, even the ideologues have come to believe that
everything should have a price, even them.

What is becoming clear is this is beyond personal corruption or even a
culture of corruption in the political class. It is a new moral order
that has arisen. Since the market decides value, that means everything
has a price and those things that cannot be monetized no longer have
value. All of those things that are required to make popular government
work, like loyalty, honor, virtue, patriotism, have seen their stock
collapse and they have no value to the political elite.

Montesquieu argued that the force that made aristocratic government
possible was the love of honor. In despotic states, it was fear. In
republics it was virtue. Modern theorists argue that morality is the
spring of democracy. It may be that the driving force of liberal
democracy is the absence of any moral code. The liberal democratic
ruling class is one without scruples. The heart of the empire is an open
air market where everything is for sale.

The question that naturally follows is how a society can function when
it is rooted in perfidious treachery and the rule of knaves. What reason
would anyone have in remaining loyal to a system where the people at the
top of it are willing to sell your loyalty? Worse yet, they are willing
to use their power to crush anyone that questions the propriety of
putting everything on the auction block. Rule by knave quickly begins to
look like the worst form of despotism.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="BzBd44pADaFQBKVUhkfLwg==cb7mLsuaUbegSm6/6UTy5xXPKoPGzk7PAtkI/KFo3lMf3xfdfohXvTKZUQUwKf3L44F"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="blzKax5POi+UtGL1XngK6w==cb7bEgESCRHiMC8zCSBqHp9rjGxLDjkkBmsCIkK+w0/Yz3xJKEMieAJ0lPIOXpraZ0F"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
