---
title: "The Plague Of Heroes"
date: "2020-04-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20328"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20328"
---

Given the facts emerging about the Chinese flu virus, the panic should
be subsiding, but too many people are too invested in the panic, for
personal and political reasons, to let this thing go away quietly.
Instead we have a new round of drama as the heroic politicians listen to
the heroic TikTok workers about when they can safely stop tormenting
people over what is looking like a real life example of this <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/124952-in-my-study-of-communist-societies-i-came-to-the"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">famous quote</a>. If it ever
was, it is no longer about public safety. Instead it is about the drama
queens.

Here in Lagos, the local dictator has issued an edict requiring everyone
to wear their underwear over their heads if they go outside. That’s a
slight exaggeration, but not that much of one. The requirement to wear
masks, something unavailable for months, means people are wearing all
sorts of outlandish get-ups. More than a few times I have seen women
with what looks like feminine napkins on their face. There have
undoubtedly been men wearing briefs on their heads just to go outside.

At this stage, demanding that people wear masks is nothing more than a
punitive measure to humiliate the public. That move may have made some
sense two months ago, but at this point there is no health reason for
it. Instead, the politicians and TikTok heroes have got to justify what
is turning out to be something closer to the infamous War of the Worlds
panic than a legitimate public emergency. To admit reality at this point
risks bruising their tender psyches, so we suffer on.

The plague of heroes is just not limited to crooked politicians and
portly women in hospital scrubs. Corporate America has decided to remind
us that they are not there to make money selling product. That’s crazy
talk. No, they are here as a good steward of the community, because they
care. They really care. You see, we’re in this together and in this time
of crisis, nothing is more inspiring than videos of corporate commissars
looking concerned while wearing masks and standing six feet apart.

At the retail end, it appears there is a race to see which company can
come up with the most ridiculous ways to torment their customers. At the
market I normally solicit, they now require people to line up outside,
like the Soviets were fond of doing. That means an hour wait to enter
the store, not because it is busy, but because only if we are united can
we beat the virus. That’s on a sign outside the store. There’s a good
bet the senior management is not heroically standing in any such lines.

I can’t help but think that is part of what’s happening. By turning the
nation into a weird form of North Korea. the new class gets new perks.
Instead of standing in long lines dressed like idiots, they will soon
have private shops where they can shop like normal people in a normal
society. The next phase of liberal democracy is concierge shopping to go
along with concierge health care. You see, who we are is a nation of
equals with one set of rules for the Cloud People and another for the
Dirt People.

The hero nonsense does not stop with the boot to the masked face. Just
as happened in communist societies, fanatics are now rising up among us
to hector the rest of us about our adherence to the new rules. This
plague first started on-line with the “Cucks and Karens”, as one
commenter called them, tone policing anyone questioning the mass idiocy
we see all around us. Now they have spilled into the real world,
furiously looking to heroically tell people to keep their distance.

Since I will not stand in the idiot line for the market I usually
solicit, I went to another market that is not as heroic. They have a fat
broad making sure everyone entering is dressed like a train robber. The
greeter has not become the enforcer, but you don’t have to stand outside
like a moron. This store serves the working and middle-class, while the
really heroic store serves managerial types. There is a strong
correlation between class and the willingness to suspend the sense of
disbelief.

Inside the store they have arrows on the floor, meaning you have to walk
up and down every aisle in a specific order. Apparently, heroism now
means having to examine every product on every shelf before you leave
the store. This is actually dumber than the Soviet-style lines to enter
the store. No one is going to traverse the whole store because they
forget to get something in aisle one. As a result, people are violating
the edicts and going about their business like sane people used to do.

I was one of those sane people, going against an arrow to get something
when a Cuck and Karen in their TikTok costumes said something to me
about the arrows. The Cuck did the “Sir! Sir!” bit, but I just ignored
him. After I got what I wanted, I turned around and he was saying
something, but I could not hear it because my hearing is not good and he
was talking through his sissy rag. I was ready to ignore him, but then
he did the same “Sir! Sir!” bit to an old guy who was violating arrow
policy.

Having reached the age where I no longer bite my tongue in public, I
said to the guy, “It is bad enough we have to put up with nonsense, we
don’t need idiots like you pretending to be the police of us.” He then
heroically said something about it “being about all of us” and I
reminded him that the most likely way for him to end up in the hospital
was to keep talking. The old guy, heroically chimed in with a vigorous
“Fuck you, asshole” and a middle-finger at Cuck and Karen.

The Boomers get a lot of grief from certain people and some of it is
surely justified, but the only rebels I see in my travels these days are
old-timers. This was not the first time I’ve seen an old person tell one
of these prissy heroes to do an unnatural act when confronted about a
mask or other dumb stuff. All the butch young guys are sheltering in
place, heroically self-isolating while whining about the Boomers. The
growing protests we see are almost all old people. Zoomers ain’t our
heroes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
