---
title: "The Impersonal Partisan"
date: "2020-08-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20846"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20846"
---

One the distinguishing features of modern liberal democracy is the
personal nature of political fights. Disputes are no longer
disagreements over policy or clashes between interest groups over the
spoils of government. Instead they are highly personal matters, in which
both sides are defined by their unwillingness to compromise. In fact,
the unwillingness to find any compromise with the other side is what
comes to define the partisans. Everyone is defined by their enemies.

The term “partisan” in the way it is used in modern politics was coined
by Lenin as a counter to bourgeois objectivity. The Marxists argued that
since class interests determine ideology, there is no point in thinking
about non-partisans politics. The partisan should fight for the
interests of his class, or in the modern sense, his identity group, even
if that contradicts the interests of society as a whole. The modern
partisan is supposed to care only about winning for the good of his
group.

Obviously, the partisan has a personal stake in his politics, in that he
is fighting for his class, tribe, identity group and so on. The partisan
stands to benefit personally if his class carries the day, but that’s
not the point of politics. The union activist, fighting to unionize a
shop, benefits from the spread of unions, but his reason for unionizing
is it is good for his class. Similarly, the member of a minority group
would advocate for his people, because it is good for his tribe.

That is another strange aspect of modern politics. There is a disconnect
between the partisan and the cause he champions. Affluent white female
liberals, for example, have no practical connection to the issues they
champion, other than the nonsensical concept of intersectionality. In
the partisan sense, they should be on the side of those defending the
cultural hegemony of bourgeois white people. Instead, they champion
causes that threaten their lifestyle.

This combination of deeply personal politics and disconnected
partisanship results in a highly emotional, disembodied politics. The
upper middle-class female who is overly officious with the lazy sales
clerk is mocked as a “Karen” by the sorts of people who should be the
defenders of order. The epithet is liberally tossed around by people
claiming to be conservatives. The result is two sides defining
themselves by their hatred of the other, despite their shared interests.

One reason for this is partisan politics only makes sense when the
stakes are high for the partisans in the fight. A century ago, when
union activists were fighting for worker rights, the workers had a lot
to gain. The employers had a lot to lose in the practical sense, but
also in terms of their political position. In a post-scarcity world, the
stakes are low, often non-existent. Black Lives Matter has nothing to
gain or lose. The most they can hope for is a temporary trophy on social
media.

Another reason for the highly personal partisanship is the long shadow
of second wave feminism on our politics. Feminism in the second half of
the last century not only came to exert greater influence on the
culture, but it became highly personal. Just as ideological partisanship
triumphed over objectivity, [personal
politics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_personal_is_political)
triumphed over dispassionate issue advocacy. Feminism not only feminized
our politics, it turned into an emotional hair-pulling contest. It’s
always personal.

Personal partisanship is highly negative. The modern partisan no longer
is defined internally by his class, tribe or identity. He is defined by
his enemies. Modern political identity is a dynamic between adversaries.
The woke are defined by their opposition to imaginary racists. Because
they are imaginary, they end up attacking normal people, who respond by
attacking imaginary communists. Everyone must be defined by who they
oppose, making them a slave to their enemies.

The reason the political class has been silent on the urban unrest this
summer is from their perspective, they have no dog in the fight. The
woke warriors pulling down statues are not threatening the ruling class.
They are threatening the invisible Nazis. The BLM people pulling people
out of their cars and killing them are not threatening to attack the
ruling class this way. In a world where political action can only occur
in the face of an enemy, the ruling class has no reason to stop the
madness.

The irony of liberal democracy is that it is supposed to result in the
public will being expressed in the laws passed and enforced by the
state. Instead, it results in the general will being sublimated to petty
squabbles and negative identity. The people in power are free to act
without fear of public disapproval. Even if the voters are unhappy with
the politicians, they are going to spend all of their time attacking
imaginary adversaries, because that is the source of their identity.

In theory, the way out of this is an impersonal partisanship. A return
to the old style politics where activists work on behave of the
interests of their group, indifferent to the interests of others, unless
there is conflict. The point of conflict always being the advancement of
group interests. In reality, the attraction of personal politics is
probably too great to overcome. It is simply natural to respond in a
personal way to personal assaults from those who stand in the way of
your cause.

Impersonal partisanship, therefore, must start with the disengagement
from the political, both formal and informal. The successful groups in
the future will be those who have organized outside the system, defined
their interests and seek to advance them without regards to the
interests of other partisans. That will mean successful outsider
politics habituates an indifference to other identity groups. They
simply become objects to overcome or navigate around, but otherwise
uninteresting.

The impersonal partisan will be one who invests his time in building the
strength of his own group, without regards to the actions of others.
Instead of reacting to the actions of other tribes, he acts only in the
interest of his group. The healthy identity group does not have friends
or enemies, only interests, so the partisan is one who has no investment
in personal politics, only the interests of his group. By resisting the
main weapon of liberal democracy, the impersonal partisan can
effectively fight for his cause.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
