---
title: "The Rewind"
date: "2020-04-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20278"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20278"
---

In his book
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/End-History-Last-Man/dp/0743284550"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The End of History and the
Last Man</a>, Francis Fukyama argued that humanity has reached the
end-point of mankind’s ideological evolution and the triumph of Western
liberal democracy. This does not mean stuff stopped happening, just that
the evolution of political thought had reached an end-point, where
liberal democracy was the best we could muster. All the alternatives had
been explored and tried only to fall short of what liberal democracy
could provide materially and morally.

There is a lot to be said for and against Fukyama’s claims and whether
he is even the first person to make this argument. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Reading-Hegel-Lectures-Phenomenology/dp/0801492033"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Alexandre Kojève</a> made
similar arguments from a Marxist perspective in the middle of the last
century. Given the trajectory of liberal democracy since Fukyama’s book,
Kojève has the better claim. Regardless, there is no doubting that the
West has gone a down a cul-de-sac of sorts intellectually. Whatever
comes after liberal democracy, we cannot imagine it.

This dead end is most obvious in fringe politics.
<a href="https://youtu.be/_TOkR5NjM54" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">This debate</a> the other day between an anarchist, a
Marxist, and some flavors of fascism is a good example. The debate
itself is puerile and stupid, but it is illustrative of the state of the
fringe. Rather than debating novel ideas as alternatives to the current
orthodoxy, they shout at one another about archaic ideas that have no
salience in the modern age. The far Left and far Right these days just
engage in a form of live action role playing.

Fascism and Marxism are as relevant as the free silver movement, but for
people unhappy with the status quo, and hoping to seem edgy and
dangerous, they are the only options. Classical liberalism is what
suburban dads embrace when they are unhappy with the status quo, while
mom can throw in with the gynocracy. The middle-class radicals are left
to embrace old ideas that never had much purchase in America and have
not been popular in Europe for close to a century now.

One common item to both sides of this fringe debate is the unspoken
agreement that the current order is unacceptable. Their critiques of
liberal democracy fall into one of two categories. On the one side, the
claim is the system does not adequately provide for the material comfort
of the people and the wrong people benefit. The other side mostly
focuses on the wrong people benefiting, but largely agree that the
system does not adequately provide for the materially well-being of the
people.

Strangely, the race angle is mostly a prop, a fig leaf to disguise the
fact that both sides largely agree with one another. Both sides agree
that socialism is the right economic model and both sides agree that the
bankers and corporate executives are the bogeyman in this drama. The
neo-Marxists, however, make a big deal of being anti-racist, despite all
of them being white, while the neo-Fascist make a big deal of being
racist and anti-Semitic. Race is mostly a costume for both sides.

There is another element to this neo-revanchism we see in fringe
politics and that is the strong desire to start over. Having reached the
end of the tournament and being relegated to the loser bracket, the
various teams in fringe politics now seek to start the tournament over
again. It’s why the Left side calls themselves anti-Fascists and the
Right side embraces the Fascist aesthetic. It allows both sides to
believe they can start the process over again and this time, get a
better result.

That’s why both sides were hoping the virus panic would destroy the
economy and usher in a great depression. The Right-side imagines people
taking wheelbarrows full of cash to buy food. The Left side imagines
working men being entertained by folk singers after they hear a speech
by the local communist cadre. There is the assumption that if the whole
liberal democratic order fails, we just rewind the clock and begin the
process over again, but this time with a different result.

Another angle to this neo-revanchism is a new romanticism among younger
white males for a return to a what they imagine was a more honorable and
possibly heroic way of living as political actors. They want to be
poet-warriors, who read political philosophy and fight the enemies of
their cause. The neo-Marxists kit themselves out as beatniks and repeat
lines they picked up movies about prior left-wing movements. The
neo-fascists embrace Nazi iconography and language.

Richard Spencer tapped into this romanticism with his Faustian man act.
Prior to his ascension as the face of the alt-right, he busied himself
writing banal paleocon essays about current events. Then he started
doing videos and speeches about how it was the destiny of European man
to conquer and rule. He threw in enough literary references to pass
himself off as a philosopher. A lot of young white men fell for it,
because they dreamed of going back to a more honorable and heroic age.

Of course, this type of fringe politics is almost exclusively male. In
fact, the reason for so much interest and energy in fringe politics in
general is that mainstream politics is almost completely feminine now.
Both sides of the liberal democratic order are dominated by harpies and
schoolmarms. There’s simply no place for a normal male in conventional
politics, so normal males are filtering into antiquarian politics. For
many, this is just a better version of the video game of life.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
