---
title: "Optical Delusions"
date: "2020-02-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19861"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19861"
---

<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19494"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> from last month
drew a lot of responses, mostly from people who did not want to go along
with the conclusions. Someone made a
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oj5BdDEQOdo&amp;t=1s"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">20-minute response</a> to it
on YouTube, making what they call the defense of the big tent. In light
of the recent controversy over Nick Fuentes getting banished from
YouTube, it is a good time to revisit the whole issue and the topics
that surround it. Fuentes is probably the best known purveyor of the
good optics argument, so that is highly relevant to this.

For starters and to clarify a few things, the creator of that YouTube
response makes some mistakes that are common in these discussions. The
first one is to frame the issue as between a big tent and presumably a
smaller tent. That was not the point of the column and that is not the
issue at hand. One can have a broad-based movement that also excludes
people who think they are Roman emperors. Even the biggest of big tent
claims have limits on what is and what is not accepted.

The second claim is to conflate the term dissident right with other
sub-cultures that may or may not have claims to being right-wing. It is
a form of binary thinking to define right-wing as anything not tolerated
by the Left. The goat blood drinking pagans calling themselves Roman
emperors may not be liked by the Left, but that does not automatically
qualify them as dissidents or even right-wing. The left is not all that
fond of scientists these days, but most scientists are not right-wing.

Then there is the use of the term *dissident*. In a generic sense, sure,
lots of people would fall under the definition. Anti-Semites, for
example, are in dissent from the prevailing orthodoxy on antisemitism.
That’s most certainly true. Would that put them in the same club as
someone like John Derbyshire, the guy who coined the term *dissident
right* twenty years ago? How about Steve Sailer? Calling all of these
people dissidents is as useful as calling them mammals.

The fact is, what distinguishes the dissident right from the
conventional right is not just opinions on the human condition and
biological reality. What ultimately divides the two camps is the lack of
ideology among the dissident right. It is the old Russell Kirk
observation about Right and Left. Conservatism is not a set of
ideologies, but the rejection of ideology. Conventional conservatism has
embraced the Left’s ideological views on human nature, which is the
roots of the dissent among the dissident right.

This divide also exists within dissident circles. Anti-Semites,
ethno-statists, fascists, third positionists and so on are ideologues.
The root of their dissent is they have a different vision of the model
society from prevailing orthodoxy. Similarly, they are never in doubt
about the possibility of it. Like the Left, to quote Kirk, “they see
politics as a revolutionary instrument for transforming society.” That
is an important difference between them and the dissident right.

Now, in the YouTube clip, the narrator makes some of the common claims
about optics and “punching right” that are popular in certain parts of
dissident politics. For example, he claims early on that the alt-right
was ruined by the media, who highlighted weirdos and lunatics in their
coverage. In reality, the alt-right was doomed when the face of it
became a narcissistic dilettante, incapable of organizing a one car
funeral. A serious movement never would have tolerated Spencer as the
leader.

The whole Spencer fiasco puts the lie to the claims by some that optics
are unimportant in their politics. The sole reason Spencer rose to
become the face of the alt-right is he looked good on camera. He
presented an appealing face to the cause, so he quickly became the face
of it. The reason why some of his former followers stick with him is
they think he makes their cause look good. It is nothing more than a
coping strategy to pretend appearances don’t matter. They always matter.

Another point that needs emphasis is that the whole “no punch right”
business was the creation of people trying to sneak into more legitimate
politics. You never hear this from people who can function among normal
people, despite holding heretical views. It was the dubious claim that a
right-wing movement cannot have legitimacy unless it is tolerant of
people who have not updated their views since the 60’s. It was, in the
end, an effort to co-opt dissident politics by the 1.0 crowd.

Then there is the issue of taboos, which is raised at about the ten
minute mark of that YouTube clip linked above. Unsaid, but implied, is
the claim that excluding certain people from dissident politics
reinforces left-wing taboos on certain opinions. The claim is that
excluding people, who are bad for the image of the group, automatically
gives legitimacy to the left, by reinforcing left-wing taboos. In other
words, trying to present a good image is playing by the Left’s rules on
politics.

This is the error of all reactionaries. Instead of developing an
internal logic that naturally results in a set of rules and standards,
the reactionary simply responds to what he perceives to be his opponent.
To be a reactionary in a society run by ideologues is to be a rebel
without a cause. Whatever the people in charge of for, the rebel is
against and whatever is taboo, the rebel embraces. The modern
reactionary is someone who puts a leash around his neck and hands the
other end to his opponent.

It also relates to the optics debate this way. Imagine a society that
has been ideologically tuned to associate the color purple with heresy.
There are regular ceremonies where the bad people are dressed in purple
and defeated by the good people. To go around wearing purple would
certainly challenge the taboo, but it would also convince most people
you are nuts. Unless you have the power to dispel the taboo, breaking
them just gives the people with power the chance to reinforce that
taboo.

The irony of the reactionary is that ultimately, he embraces the core
starting point of all ideologues and that is the binary universe. The
ideologue sees the world as white hats versus black hats, good guys
versus bad guys. You are either inside the walls with the good people or
outside the walls with the bad people. Those taboo breaking
reactionaries, with their disdain for optics, embrace the same view. You
either break the taboos or you must embrace them. There is no middle
ground.

This is why reactionaries fail. Most of life is in the vast middle
ground of exceptions, conditions and contradictions. Most people get
that. They get that politics is always about trade-offs, half-measures
and compromise. You don’t win them over by being as fanatical as the
people you oppose. You win them over by juxtaposing your apparent
reasonableness against the fanaticism of the prevailing order. You do
that by making concessions to their morality. You don’t wear purple.¹

There is the final point worth making here. Those who deny the value of
presentation always say, “The Left is going to demonize you anyway.”
They mistakenly think optics and presentation are about winning over the
Left or abiding by their rules. Again, this is the mind of the
reactionary. Good presentations and subtle compromises to convention are
about winning over the vast middle. The point of politics is about
controlling the field between the various sides.

Yes, the Left will call us Nazis and fascists no matter what we do, but
that can only be turned to our favor if it looks absurd. Spencer was
easily demonized because he embraced the role of prep school Nazi. Nick
Fuentes is not so easily demonized, because he reminds most white people
of their kids or grand-kids. He may be a smart-alecky twerp at times,
but calling him a Nazi violates bourgeois sensibilities. To put it
another way, it is very bad optics for the Left.

Politics is always about keeping the ends in mind and making the
necessary compromises to further those ends. Politics is a means to an
end. Ideologues always fall into the trap of thinking politics is an end
in itself, which is why ideological states are always unstable and
usually short lived. Successful outsider politics has to be practical in
its application in order to win ground in the vast area that is always
up for grabs between the orthodoxy and those challenging it.

¹Anticipating the response from certain circles, the Nazis winning the
street battles with the Bolsheviks in Weimar Germany is an exception,
not the rule. The middle had collapsed in Weimar Germany, along with the
old ruling order. The Right and left, as understood at the time, were
not fighting to win over their fellow Germans. They were fighting to
fill the power vacuum that resulted from the collapse of the middle.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
