---
title: "Looking From The Left"
date: "2020-09-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20333"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20333"
---

One of the lessons of 2020 is that the near future is every bit as
unpredictable as the past, perhaps more so. Six months ago, no one would
have predicted a replay of the disastrous Black Lives Matter stuff from
the Left. Similarly, few would have predicted that the Democrat Party
would have installed a dementia patient as their candidate, after he had
been rejected by their voters. Therefore, trying to look out from here
to predict how all of this will unfold is no easy thing.

We can, however, look at the possibilities. The future may be
unpredictable, but the range of options is not unlimited. We can further
limit the scope by eliminating things like meteor strikes and accidental
nuclear exchanges. Just sticking to the political, there are a number of
ways the current situation can go. The first step in narrowing that list
further is to consider what the Left will do over the next six months.
The one thing that is clear is the Soros wing is driving events now.

One possibility is they realize this has turned the public against them
and they pull the plug on their lunatics. This is what happened in 2016.
When BLM started assassinating cops, the party quickly moved to defund
them and instructed the media to stop talking about them. That could
happen this time, as Biden is now running ads lying about his position
on this stuff. He and the Bitter Bindi are pretending they have been for
law and order all along. So far, the Left is not listening.

The other option is this is just the start. The civil war on the Left is
now going to continue until the radicals seize control of the party and
the institutions. The people running woke capital have the resources and
confidence to keep going, so this looks like the most likely scenario.
They could very well rig the election in November, without regard for
how it looks. Appearances have not stopped them so far. We could be
witnessing a woke version of the Bolshevik Revolution.

The first decision point therefore is what happens on the Left. As much
as so-called conservatives want to make it about their ideas from the
1980’s or Trump fans want to make it about their guy, the real driver is
internal left-wing politics. The fact is, the anti-white radicals have
taken over the corporations and the academy. Now they are looking to
take control of the Democrat Party, which of course will give them
control of the government institutions controlled by the party.

There’s no reason, at this point, to think the Inner Party old guard has
the sense or energy to fight off this assault from their radicals. The
leadership is a collection of septuagenarians and octogenarians. Nursing
homes have more vitality. Their underlings were selected for their
stupidity, so they would never be a threat. The proof of this is their
inability to contend with the anarchist unrest in their own cities. The
idiot mayors in places like Seattle and Portland have no idea what to
do.

Assuming the brown tide does indeed sweep over the remaining
institutions and we end up living in a country controlled by social
justice fanatics, we can expect the current anti-white pogroms to extend
to all aspects of life. We are getting glimpses of what comes next in
these corporate indoctrination sessions. Whites will be forced to swear
loyalty oaths and go through struggle sessions. Those who resist will
lose their jobs and maybe worse. Everywhere will be Portland.

It is important to remember that five years ago no one thought banks
would be canceling bank accounts based on politics. No one thought the
technology giants would steal domain names and deplatform people. Before
the alt-right turned itself into a raging dumpster fire, no one thought
the ruling class would declare war on people as we have been seeing ever
since. This unprecedented assault on our liberties by these corporate
oligarchs was just a warning about what comes next.

A defining feature of the American Left, is its habit of projecting onto
others, things it is either doing at the moment or preparing to do in
the future. [The Opposite Rule of
Liberalism](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561) is one of those
universal truths of our politics. A corollary to that is the Left is
always preparing for what it fears the most. In this case, they are
signaling that they expect the radicals to win and they expect the white
population to notice that they have been reduced to dhimmitude. They are
planning for it.

The most likely first response of normal white people will be political
protest, the same stuff we always see from the Right. Initially, a Tea
Party 2.0 will try to get going, but slightly more aware of the racial
component. You see this awareness even on super-safe media outlets like
Fox News and talk radio. They talk around the issue, but they at least
do so in a way that acknowledges reality. You still see bleating about
left-wing racism, but that has lost a lot of its punch.

The thing is, the Tea Party stuff assumes things that are not true, like
elections matter and politicians listen to the voters. If the Left rigs
the 2020 election, only drug addicts and libertarians, two groups with
tremendous overlap, will continue to think we live in a society ruled by
laws. The “hey let’s get together and get our guy elected” approach will
not get very far with people who suddenly think their elections are
rigged. This is why the Left is unconcerned about this possibility.

A possibility the Left does worry about is one where they rig the
election and it is obvious to everyone. On election night Trump wins the
key states by a slim margin and slowly “newly discovered ballots” are
found in rural mailboxes that flip the necessary number of states. This
triggers mass protests, like the color revolutions that have turned up
in corrupt countries over the last couple of decades. Trump actively
disputes the result, causing even more unrest.

This is something the Left thinks is a possibility, which is why they
keep planting stories in the media about Trump refusing to accept the
result. It’s why media hacks keep doing hand-wringing [concern
posts](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/06/when-does-trump-leave-white-house/613060/)
with titles like, “Trump Could Still Break Democracy’s Biggest Norm.”
What follows is a call for the military to stage a coup or the CIA to
assassinate him. The Left is thinking through how they must respond to a
populist revolt in response to their election rigging.

Of course, violence is always a possibility. Despite the manufactured
studies by the Left and the few random nut jobs cast as white
extremists, there has been very little right-wing violence thus far. In
fact, the carny acts that are usually drawn to these street protests
have stayed home and allowed BLM and Antifa to own the show. It’s why
they have been forced to stick with the absurd “peaceful protest”
nonsense. They own the violence happening in the streets right now.

In a world where elections are rigged and white people no longer think
they have legal recourse, that old revolutionary spirit could flare up
among many. One way that could manifest is through propaganda of the
deed, as the anarchist say. This is why the Inner Party is having the
security apparatus
[declare](https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/515244-dhs-to-label-white-supremacists-as-the-most-persistent-and-lethal)
“white supremacist” as the great threat to the country. Doing this while
far-left gangsters ravage major cities is a nice touch, but it suggests
the Left is genuinely worried about this.

If you could beat an honest answer out of them, most of the people
supporting and financing the unrest are probably puzzled by the lack of
resistance. They are sending mobs into nice white areas to assault
middle-class white people at restaurants and shopping areas. They have
looted major cities. Left-wing politicians are openly declaring war on
white people. Despite the overt war on white people from the top, little
in the way of organized resistance has emerged yet.

Either the Left has much more in store for white people or they are
sensing a change in general attitudes, but either way, they are planning
for a response. There are tens of thousands of disaffected young white
males with military training. Not only are they familiar with the use of
weapons, they are trained in small unit tactics. If the degenerates of
Antifa can organize a summer of rage, smart white guys could punch much
higher. In the regard, the Left is being prudent

That’s why the Left wants the security agencies to put “white
supremacist” up there with Islamic terrorists and the Russian mafia.
They are planning for organized violence from the people they expect to
keep attacking. If and when white people wake up and realize what is
happening and decide to do something about it, the Left wants the
institutions they control to be fully prepared. They seem to think they
will be battling something closer to terrorism than peaceful political
resistance.

We can therefore expect a new push to characterize any resistance to the
ascendant as the same as Islamic terrorism. We’re getting a glimpse of
that with the tech oligarchs organizing to label Kyle Rittenhouse a mass
murderer. Like the old communist regimes, even the slightest resistance
to the Left will be met with over the top language and an extreme
response from the rulers. Even if armed resistance never materializes,
society will be organized as if it is imminent.

The most likely outcome at this point on the timeline, therefore, is we
arrive at something like a highly feminized version of Cold War Albania.
Instead bunkers dotting the land and citizen militias scanning the
horizon for foreign invaders, it will be inter-sectional enforcers
planted in every company and institution, charged with locating white
supremacists. Society will be organized around fighting the specter of
white supremacy and white privilege.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
