---
title: "The Noosening"
date: "2020-06-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20757"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20757"
---

For those on this side of the great divide, the NASCAR noose hoax played
out in an unexpected fashion. Instead of the fraud going undetected for
a month until some clever sleuth uncovered the truth, this time the hoax
was revealed in real-time. Usually the Left is better at concealing the
truth long enough for another hoax to come along and push the first hoax
down the memory hole. That way, anyone talking about the old hoax is
charged with being a racist conspiracy theorist.

This time it was different, as the FBI flew in an army of investigators
to hunt down the racist before he could noose again. Why they responded
with 15 agents is a question no one will bother to ask them. Did they
really think this was true? Do they swing into action like this for
every noose warning? Did Bill Barr suspect a hoax and send the FBI in to
expose it before it could be forgotten? All of these reasons seem
unlikely, but the FBI responded with overwhelming force for a reason.

Putting that aside, the absurdity of this hoax bears some examination.
The supposed cause of the panic was a garage door pull-down that had
been there probably since the last garage door pull-down was replaced.
The old one, most likely, looked a lot like the new ones as it is a
common thing. Whoever claimed it was a noose was either extremely
stupid, insane or so filled with a sense of entitlement that he just
assumed everyone had to accept his story about the noose.

There is a strong possibility that the truth is something different.
These facilities are not open to the public. They have lots of security.
In this age that means cameras recording everything that moves 24-hours
per day. There is a good chance the footage made clear that there was
never a noose in the garage, so they quickly came up with the story
about the garage door pull-downs. It’s better to be thought a moron than
to having to admit to being a fraudster. Just look at Jussie Smollett.

That is a useful comparison for lots of reasons, but the one to watch
here is how Wallace reacts to being outed as a fraud. As of now, he is
taking the <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/auto/bubba-wallace-defiant-calls-rope-straight-up-noose-after-fbi-says-no-crime-occurred"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Smollett approach</a> and
demanding you believe him rather than your lying eyes. It is one of
those examples where you see how extreme entitlement is what is driving
this stuff. Wallace has lived a charmed life, but he assumes he is
entitled to more. So much more, in fact, that anyone who dares say “no”
to him must be evil.

It is an unexpected result of the Left’s weaponization of blacks against
normal white people the last 70 years. They have always expected blacks
to be a pit bull on a chain they can use to terrorize white people. For
the most part that has been the case, but blacks have been internalizing
Progressive race speech to the point where they have come to see
themselves as a sacred people. The endless doting and fawning has
convinced them they are exempt from the rules.

This is most evident with successful blacks. Every black athlete walks
around with a chip on his shoulder. NBA players carry on like they are
being forced to work the fields, when in reality they live like
nobility. No group of blacks complains more than NBA players, despite
having so much. This is something you see to vary degrees with all high
achieving blacks. The endless adulation from their masters on the Left
has led blacks to obsess over their own <a
href="https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2014-12-20.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">blackness</a>.

It is that sense of entitlement that keeps the hoax game going. That and
there is rarely any consequence to the people promoting these hoaxes.
The pint-sized pundit,
<a href="https://twitter.com/NickJFuentes/status/1275588562419961856"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ben Shapiro</a>, will never
have to explain himself. He got to feel like a hero when he
instinctively condemned all white people. Then he gets to be smug, while
pretending he was never fooled by the hoax. He’s not alone. All of
Conservative Inc. plays the same role in every one of these hoaxes. It’s
their job.

The Left, of course, needs these hoaxes to feed the engines of the rage
machine, so they are more than happy to indulge black fantasies about
oppression. They will be out their washing the feet when some NFL team
is forced to sign Colin Kaepernick to a contract this summer. They will
get to feel vindicated. Then when he can’t play, they can blame racism
for his benching. In the skins game, the Left is the house and the house
always wins, which is why they never close the game.

That brings us back to Wallace. Like Kaepernick, he is destined to be a
mediocre performer in his sport, who got a big leg up because he is
black. In other words, his best asset has always been white guilt. The
path forward for him is the same as with Kaepernick, which means
militant anti-white agitation. Look for him to start issuing demands to
NASCAR and other drivers. He will expect exemptions to the rules and
when they don’t come, he will cry “racism!”

The irony is we will end up with something close to what the Left calls
white privilege, but it will be for blacks. The Left has claimed for
years that white people out-perform all others because they get to play
by a different set of rules. This was always nonsense, but it is what we
will get with negrophilia. Blacks will be given a pass on the rules and
loaded with benefits and praise. They are quickly becoming a race of
spoiled children, around whom society is organized to keep them happy.

Whether or not such a world can last is another matter. NASCAR has done
everything it can to placate the blacks. Will their fans find a way to
swallow the humiliation and stick with the sport? Will the NFL be able
to humiliate its fans and survive. There are plenty of broken white
people, so it is possible, but there does seem to be an awakening among
whites too. Whether they know it or not, the race hoaxers have opened a
debate among white people about what it means to be white.

For those on this side of the great divide, this is the way to see it.
For the first time in generations white people are thinking about race,
rather than emoting about it. Lots of white people are wondering if they
want to live in the same world as people demanding they wash the feet.
Many will kneel, but many will not. This is something that always had to
happen. If it means the death of sports entertainment, it is small price
to be paid for the freedom to decide for ourselves.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
