---
title: "The Chaos Election"
date: "2020-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20637"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20637"
---

If any other president in recent history was facing both wide scale
riots and an economic depression before his reelection, the smart money
would be on the side of the challenger, regardless of his quality. For
the longest time, conventional wisdom has said re-election campaigns are
a referendum on the times as much as the performance of the sitting
president and his party. Despite the gloom and doom, Trump’s re-election
chances remain a coin toss at this point in time.

Part of it is the fact that Joe Biden is a relic from a bygone age, a
relic suffering from severe cognitive decline. If not for the
shenanigans of the party, Bernie Sanders would be the nominee of the
party right now. At best, the party would be looking at a deadlocked
convention, from which they could select an alternative to a fossilized
communist and a dementia sufferer. Trump versus a tattered museum piece
is about the best match-up Trump can get in November.

Even so, this election is probably the first in this new cycle that was
ushered in by the 2016 election. Maybe the 2016 election could be called
the first post-post-Cold War election, but no one knew it at the time.
This time, everyone seems to know that the rules are different and the
forces shaping the election are different. Trump the Mule, the guy who
breaks things and disrupts the natural order has changed the normal
re-election pattern as well. This will be a different election.

That’s why the skeptical on-looker should be cautious about judging
Trump’s behavior by the conventional metrics. For example, he has been
tweeting during the black riots about how great he has been to the black
people.
<a href="https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1267885675338219520"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This tweet</a> was
relentlessly mocked, but Trump will no doubt stick with it. Critics
scoff that he is just a delusional civic nationalist groveling to
blacks. From now until the election, he will talk about how he has been
the best thing for black people since emancipation.

The thing that people on this side of the great divide often miss is
that sentiment carries a lot of weight among white voters. This side is
often too spergy to appreciate the value of gesture, but in the age of
gesture politics, the sentiment counts for a lot. Trump’s apparent
concern for blacks counts for a lot with his base. Those older white
voters really do care about race relations. These riots, at one level
anger them, but at another level they sadden them. They hate seeing it.

Take a look at those scenes of whites kneeling and bowing. The crowd
always skews older, with lots of gray ponytails in the scene. Granted,
these are aging libs looking for some final redemption before they die.
That said, it is just an exaggerated sentiment common with older white
people. They spent their whole lives trying to make race relations
better. Even the right-wingers think it is really important for blacks
to feel included in American life. It’s a big part of who they are.

That’s why Trump plays to that sentiment. His ham-fisted appeal to
blacks is not really aimed at blacks, but at older whites who decide our
elections. He’s never going to win over the gray ponytail crowd, but he
will appeal to the weekday golf crowd. They see his earnest appeal to
blacks and think well of Trump, despite the black youth rioting in the
streets in every city. Talk to the sort of older white who has been
vexed by Trump’s tweeting in the past and they are eating this up.

It’s also the nature of his appeal. He is not blathering about dignity
and respect or any of the crap you hear from activists. He’s talking
economics, things like jobs and crime, the sorts of tangible things that
resonate with older white people. The Zoomers can mock the materialism
of the Baby Boomers, but politics is about reality. Trump is appealing
to the most important part of the electorate where they are, not where
the Zoomers would like them to be. It will most likely work.

Not too put too fine a point on it, but look at what just happened in
Iowa, a state in the heart of the Cuck Belt. <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/controversial-rep-steve-king-loses-iowa-gop-primary-battle"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve King was defeated</a> in
the GOP primary by some loser who will happily flood the state with
Africans. If King was the nominee, he would win the general election for
sure, but GOP voters could not tolerate someone labeled a racist by the
inner party. The sin of racism is so powerful to the old whites that
make up the GOP primary electorate, no one can survive a hint of it.

There’s also the black vote. Trump is relentlessly mocked for courting
the black vote, but <a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19871"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">he may not be as dumb</a> as
he seems on this issue. The closest comparison in history to Trump at
the moment is Richard Nixon. After the riots in 1968, Nixon won 14% of
the black vote. This was the guy who ran the Southern Strategy, which
was allegedly a crypto-racist appeal to former Klansmen. Clearly, blacks
were motivated by something other than the superficial appeal to race.

The truth is, black voters, a distinct subset of black people, are a
very conservative voting bloc. The thing is, they are conservative in
the traditional sense of the word, not the neoconservative sense. That
is, they don’t give a crap about economics as much as they care about
their people. They look around at the riots and see this as a threat to
their people and their communities. Blacks as a whole may have
outlandishly high crime rates, but black voters incline toward law and
order.

Trump will never win a big share of the black vote. Critics who think he
thinks he can win the black vote are more delusional than they accuse
Trump of being. What Trump is up to is appealing to that core black
vote. If the choice is between an old white guy siding with the rioters
and old white guy promising jobs, they will be much less motivated to
come out in big numbers. That’s why Trump is working so hard to frame
the choice for blacks in exactly this fashion.

The thing about the 2020 election is it will be a purely in the moment
election, in that it will turn on how people feel at the moment. Trump
the chaos agent won in 2016 because he had the knack of keeping people
on edge. Some who never voted, responded by voting for the first time.
Some who always voted one party stayed home or switched to a third party
in a moment of anger.  Trump is a guy who likes chaos and seeks to
create it in all of his endeavors.

In the moment, people act on instinct. That’s what Trump is betting on
for his re-election this fall. If things are in total flux, his
opponents are unable to get footing. More important, the voters are
unable to settle into comfortable patterns. Riots, plague and economic
devastation is maximum chaos. Voters may instinctively go with what
appears to be the safe choice, but is just the familiar choice. More
important, they will not be thinking about it, but rather acting on
instinct.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
