---
title: "The Negative Mind"
date: "2020-05-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20351"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20351"
---

For a very long time, the radical conception of politics was the
struggle between the radicals advancing society forward and
reactionaries trying to block the way. In this formulation, the radicals
push for reform and the reactionaries concoct an argument against it and
the resulting struggle advances society forward. The result is
imperfect, so the ideal solution from the radical perspective is to
eliminate the reactionaries, who stand in the way of the project and the
path of human destiny.

Strangely, the modern Right has also embraced this view. This was not
always so, but the conservatism that evolved in the 20th century fully
embraced its role as the dancing partner of radicalism. Bill Buckley
made this clear when he said, “A conservative is someone who stands
athwart history, yelling Stop, at a time when no one is inclined to do
so, or to have much patience with those who so urge it.” Note also the
need do the yelling when others are not inclined to do any yelling.

Superficially, this was an effort to own the insult, a pose to signal
indifference to the self-righteousness of the radicals. There’s a bit of
self-dealing there, as it assumes a bravery on the part of conservatives
that has never been observed in the field. At the core, however, is the
acknowledgment that conservatism as Buckley and others imagined it in
the 20th century could not exist without radicalism. Conservatism was
just one prop on a set that was built to feature the radical agenda.

Of course, this is an entirely negative identity. There is no internal
mechanism to define Buckley-style conservatism. In isolation, it is like
a pathogen looking for a host. It can only be kept alive through
artificial means. This reality means that Buckley-style conservatism
could never defeat the radicals, as to do so would be to sign their own
death certificate. In time, this evolved into a sort of battered wife
syndrome, where they needed the radicals to win every fight in order to
feel alive.

The thing is, the radicals were not entirely self-determined. If we
assume the birth of radicalism was the French Revolution, what defined
it at its conception was an opposition to the established order.
Radicals opposed tradition and order, seeing those as superstitions and
cowardice. The way forward was to abandon those things in pursuit of
human destiny, so naturally the radical must always be opposed to
convention and orthodoxy. The radical was born to be in opposition.

In the 20th century, as liberal democracy became the norm in the
Anglosphere and the nations under its dominion, radicalism blossomed
into its own negative identity. To be on the Left meant opposing
normalcy. Whatever normal people were doing, the radicals had to oppose
and try to wreck it. This is explicit today in the grievance studies
rackets, where they endlessly go on about disrupting and overturning
what they imagine to be their oppressors. It’s all about opposition to
normal human relations.

Modern politics is a dynamic between two co-dependent worldviews that
must oppose one other to exist. This dynamic between two entirely
negative identities has come to define modern liberal democracy. The
radicals search around for things they must oppose and the conservative
are constantly examining the radicals for what it is they plan to
oppose. Once some novelty is discovered, both sides feverishly engage in
well-established dance that always ends in the same place.

Take, for example, the issue with Joe Biden. He has a long reputation
for being a guy who gropes women, often in public. He seems to get off
on it. He’s not a rapist or a sexual predator. He’s just a weirdo who
likes to grope women. According to the current sensibilities of the
Left, he should be torn to pieces and fed to the dogs. After all, women
have come forward with specific complaints and his behavior. In the
Kavanaugh hearings, they said we must believe all women.

Of course, the Left is not all that interested in this. The
conservatives are up in arms at the alleged hypocrisy. How can they
support the absurd claims about Kavanaugh, while ignoring the quite
believable claims about Biden? Predictably, the conservatives are
putting on their outrage faces and doing the self-righteous indignation
act. Soon, they will be outraged that the Left is not shamed by their
own hypocrisy. That’s always the next phase of these political dramas.

The thing is, the Left is not indifferent or ignorant to the obvious
hypocrisy. They are energized by it. Seeing the conservative apoplexy is
what makes them feel alive, because it means they have disrupted and
subverted the status quo. Who they are, what makes them what they are,
is entirely dependent on the outrage and anger of the people they
oppose. When the conservatives put on their angry face and appear to be
confused, the radicals have become self-actualized.

What may have happened over the generations is liberal hypocrisy has
evolved into a form of caudal luring. The radicals naturally embrace
hypocrisy as it lures in the conservative, causing them to act in a way
that validates the radicals. Unlike a snake or shark that uses its tail
to lure prey, the radicals are not hoping to destroy their opponent, but
rather they are sustaining themselves. As an entirely negative identity,
they need the outraged conservatives in order exist.

This dynamic between two co-dependent negative identities that has come
to dominate liberal democracy may be at the root of the crisis in the
West. With no positive vision of the future and the endless struggle
between two political forces with no natural reason to exist, nihilism
becomes the default. At some level, both sides feel the despair that
must come from knowing the pointlessness of their existence. The result
is a manic quest to plumb the depth of cultural despair.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
