---
title: "Progressive Whites"
date: "2020-01-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19634"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19634"
---

Yesterday’s gun rally in Richmond Virginia was a great success, at least
as a public relations item. You can tell that by the relative lack of
interest by the Left. Nothing about the event fit into their narratives,
so it had to be ignored. Fanatics see only that which confirms their
fanaticism. In this case, they wanted to see white supremacists dressed
in Klan robes and Nazi regalia, terrorizing poor black bodies, while
Antifa battled them in the streets. None of that happened.

The question that never gets mentioned in all of this is exactly why the
newly ascendant radicals in Richmond are attacking gun owners. If you
look at what they are proposing, none of it has much practical value.
All the talk of confiscation is belied by the actual bills they are
producing. One limits handgun purchases to one per month. Another bans
private sales of regulated firearms. One vindictively targets the NRA
shooting range in Northern Virginia. These have no practical purpose.

The answer here lies in understanding how American Progressive’s view
society and their role in it. Contrary to popular opinion, the people
behind this stuff are not communist, motivated by Karl Marx. They are
not controlled by hand-rubbing lizard people living in a secret volcano.
They are not triumphant browns. The people pushing this stuff are white
people. There are a few Jews and browns tossed in, but the main body of
the Left is still white and formerly Protestant.

The white American Progressive has always imagined society as a fully
enclosed community, that is judged as a whole. A popular slogan among
them is that “society is judged by how it treats it weakest members.”
This is an explicit expression of communal judgement, which is the
traveling partner of communal salvation. The white Progressive looks at
society as an organism that moves forward as a whole. If some parts lag
behind, the whole thing slows to a halt.

Further, the white Progressive believes in the unitary reformer. That
is, the reformer is not just focused on one area of society, but the
whole of society. Even if their efforts are in one area, those efforts
support the whole community. A reform effort that does not promise to
move the whole of society forward is of no interest. For white
Progressive reformers, society is the flock and they are the shepherds.
Anything that threatens their effort to guard and guide the flock must
be eliminated.

It is this spatial understanding of the world that helps explain these
largely symbolic attacks on the Second Amendment. In the hive mind of
the white Progressive, people who own guns are outside the domain of the
righteous. Therefore, they must be marginalized from society. Much in
the same way they anathematized smoking, white Progressives seek to make
owning a gun disqualifying. Symbolically, these measures are aimed at
putting gun rights outside the whole of society.

This territorial thinking is why Charlottesville remains an important
symbol for white Progressives and why Richmond will be erased from their
memory. In the former, the righteous chased the threat to the flock from
the field. The physical place of society was literally reclaimed by the
good guys. Richmond, in contrast, was when the dark forces of society
were permitted to operated unmolested. The bad guys did not win. The
shepherds were forced to hide their flocks.

There is another aspect to this. White Progressives are aroused by the
thought of the Charlottesville riots, because the radical mind needs
violence in the same way the body needs food. While many white
Progressives reformers are sincere, if deranged, others are in it for
the blood. They need to terrorize and attack the enemy. In the same way
the bully needs to terrorize the nerd in order to be a bully, the white
radical needs the enemy of the cause in order to maintain his identity.

Therein lies the other reason why Richmond will be forgotten, while
Charlottesville will be a regular story in the 2020 election. It was
there that the need to terrorize the enemy of the flock was fully
actualized. They not only chased the evil doers from the field; they
drew blood and they had a sacrifice. Notice they always remember the fat
women, who died, but not the cops. That’s because she was a blood
sacrifice to the cause, while the cops that died were just collateral
damage.

This is how to understand these pointless gun grabbing efforts, as well
as many other Progressive fads we see today. In Virginia, these
proposals are like the winning side erecting a trophy on the field of
battle. The good whites have recaptured the heart of the Confederacy,
the home of the bad whites. They did not eliminate the enemy, however,
as they are still out there in the counties that refused to support the
Progressive reformers. The fight must continue.

This is why facts and reason have no effect on white Progressives. They
see themselves as defenders of the innocent against the attacks of those
who seek to destroy the whole by corrupting the weak. Against such
delusions, facts and reason are wholly ineffectual. Appeals to their
humanity, on the other hand, are infuriating, as it calls into the
question the point of their existence. It is why they are most
vulnerable to moral arguments. It cuts to their sense of identity.

Of course, the Left is not just white Progressives. There are other
parts, but their motivations are different and mostly modifiers to the
whole. These other groups operate from ethnocentric motives. Blacks want
free stuff and easy access to white people, while Jews want what is best
for Jews. The newly arrived non-whites want a short path to the material
assets of the white majority. The bulk of the Left, however, are white
Progressives, who provide the power and authority.

The thermal exhaust port of the Progressive death star is their sense of
moral purpose, not factual accuracy or even the relationships between
the tribes of the Left. The white Progressive sees contrary facts and
internal divisions as challenges the righteous shepherd must overcome.
Call into question the moral standing of the white Progressive and the
very center of the Left begins to collapse. Self-righteous certainty of
purpose is the main tent pole that holds Progressivism together.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
