---
title: "What Lies Beneath"
date: "2020-05-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20493"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20493"
---

An axiom of politics is that scandals are about sex or money. The
politician at the center of a scandal got caught with a live boy or a
dead girl. The public loves those stories, so it becomes a scandal, even
when the politician is from the inner party, as was the case with Bill
Clinton. Alternatively, the politician confused his money with public
money or someone else’s money and someone blabbed. This is almost always
the heart of local political scandals, where political machines run on
graft.

It’s something to keep in mind as the years long FBI scandal has
apparently entered a new phase during the lock down. The General Flynn
cases was surprisingly dismissed, after a document dump by the
Department of Justice revealing gross misconduct by the FBI and DOJ.
Everyone sort of knew Flynn was setup, as is always the case when people
are charged with lying to the FBI, but the extent of the entrapment
scheme appears to lead to the inner circle of former President Obama.

Then there is the release of the transcripts of testimony to the House
committee investigating the Russian collusion hoax. At the time,
everyone in official Washington was required to pretend it was
legitimate, so the House brought in over 50 people to answer questions
under oath, behind closed doors. Those mostly unredacted transcripts
have proven to be revelatory. Everything about the official narrative,
according to the sworn testimony of the people involved, was entirely
fake.

Probably the most amazing thing in those documents thus far is the fact
that all of these people have been able to maintain a complex series of
lies. The old adage about three can keep a secret if two are dead does
not apply here. It’s not just the people at the core of the story
either. Peripheral people, who have plenty of reasons to run to the
media and tell their story have maintained a rigid discipline not seen
since the heyday of the Italian mafia. Even now, they still refuse to
rat out their friends.

That is the part of this that need special emphasis. Why are all of
these people risking their freedom to maintain an obvious lie? Take, for
example, the story about the Russians hacking the DNC e-mail system and
handing the contents to Wikileaks. Just a few months ago they were
repeating [the
claim](https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/bears-midst-intrusion-democratic-national-committee/)
that they were brought into investigate the crime and found that the
Russians had gained access to the server. Yet, they testified [under
oath](https://www.dni.gov/files/HPSCI_Transcripts/2020-05-04-Shawn_Henry-MTR_Redacted.pdf)
that they found no such information.

Putting that aside, the question is what was driving all of this from
the start. Sex and money are not the motivators. The other thing that
drives political scandal is power, which makes some sense here. The
Clinton campaign, like the Nixon campaign in the 1972 election, was not
content to just win with their massive advantages. Instead they decided
to cheat with help from their friends in the intelligence services and
apparently people in the White House. That may be the starting point.

The trouble with that theory is Team Obama really never liked Hillary
Clinton all that much and did little to help her campaign. While it is
possible that the people in the FBI and CIA were happy to help, it seems
unlikely that the White House was going to be enthusiastic for such a
caper. The bizarre [Susan Rice
e-mail](https://www.foxnews.com/media/byron-york-susan-rice-email-obama-flynn)
to herself regarding the Flynn entrapment scheme suggests the White
House really hated Flynn and was willing to do anything to keep him from
re-entering government.

Adding to the intrigue is the fact that the DOJ in their filing to
dismiss the Flynn case left breadcrumbs leading to that memo. There was
plenty of information of general misconduct by the FBI and the DOJ, as
well as Flynn’s original defense team, to warrant dropping the case. The
government could have done one of those dramatic “to protect the
integrity of the system” announcements that would leave open the issue
of Flynn’s guilt, but close the issue from further discussion.

One possibility here is the Obama administration had been exploiting a
workaround to the limits on domestic spying. By making Flynn the target
of an investigation, the FBI could monitor his electronic communications
and track his movements. This means they could know who he was meeting
with as a member of the Trump team and monitor what he was discussing
with them. In other words, the entire fraudulent Flynn case was just a
way to spy on the campaign and later the transition team.

This would be the second and possibly third example of this play. It is
quite clear that they used the same tactic on Carter Page. They faked up
a case for him being an international spymaster, so they could monitor
him and everyone in contact with him during the campaign. They may have
been working the same angle on George Papadopoulos, the low-level
foreign policy adviser. In other words, this may be a pattern of
behavior that was standard operating procedure.

This ultimately may be what the Durham investigation is about in the
end. A domestic spying system had evolved in which private companies
worked with public officials to get around domestic spying limits and
put the results to use for the inner party. The FBI and CIA would make
raw information of their legitimate surveillance available to private
contractors, who would leak it to the press or party members. Those
press reports were then used to obtain warrants for wider domestic
surveillance.

That could be the power motivator behind this. The reason for the
Russian collusion hoax was to cover up the operation from the Trump
administration. Team Mueller could threaten anyone making the wrong
noises about it and the whole thing would remain hidden from the
administration and the public. Still, that does not explain the amazing
discipline of the conspirators. At this stage, a private party like
Crowdstrike should be looking to cut a deal with the Feds. Yet they are
sticking to their story.

One possibility is that there really is something much bigger at the
heart of this conspiracy than simple spy games. Maybe the Seth Rich
assassination looms larger than anyone realizes. Maybe that secret
e-mail system running out of Hillary Clinton’s spare toilet is involved.
Maybe it is simply ideological fervor. We know from their private
communications that most of these people were fanatics. Their Trump
hatred was just one aspect of their zeal to serve the inner party.

Government will always be corrupt, as men are not angels. Whether it is
the lust for power or the temptations that come with power, corruption
is part of the human condition. A much more serious problem is a
government overrun by fanatical ideologues. That may be the heart of
this scandal. The long march through the institutions has been followed
by a radicalization of the institutions. The inner party now operates
like a religious cult, rather than a political operation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
