---
title: "The Great Retreat"
date: "2020-04-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20240"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20240"
---

It is becoming increasingly clear that the great zombie apocalypse of
2020 is not going to live up to the hype. At this stage, the models and
their experts said we would have bodies in the streets and chaos at the
hospitals. Instead, what we have is a shuttered country and [hospitals
furloughing
staff](https://www.beckershospitalreview.com/finance/49-hospitals-furloughing-workers-in-response-to-covid-19.html)
due to a lack of sick people. The curve benders keep changing their
forecasts, but the virus keeps letting them down. The big question now
is how will everyone retreat from this debacle.

To his credit, President Trump has sensed the end game from the very
beginning and has been talking about “reopening the country” for a
while. He knows this cannot go on much longer and his job will soon
shift from battling dingbats in the press room over the virus to
battling dingbats in the press room over the economy. If he is to
continue in his role, he will need the promised V-shape recession. If it
is a depression, then he will be replaced with the first
Alzheimer-American to run for president.

This may turn out to be what saves his presidency. He will have six
months to go around the country talking up the economy. He will also be
able to blame Congress for a whole host of things in the process.
Running against Congress is a good way for a President with soft support
to win over skeptics. If the economy is quickly recovering by the fall,
with employers hiring back furloughed workers, Trump can run as the guy
who not only saved us from the invisible death but also saved the
economy.

A lot of that will depend on the local politicians. They have suddenly
found their spines in this panic and are now claiming to control our
destiny regarding the lock down. They are [coordinating their
plans](https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-coronavirus-cases-rise-as-officials-weigh-when-to-restart-the-economy-11586774781)
to re-open, which is smart politics. They don’t want to give Trump
credit, but they don’t want to risk being the first to open up. They
will pretend to be operating as a team in order to not risk getting
blamed if the media does not follow orders and continues to report on
the virus.

That’s the big part of the coming retreat from this panic. The media
will have to be coached carefully so they don’t screw up and
accidentally report the truth. A whole new gaggle of experts and actors
playing experts is being prepped to explain why it is now okay to go
outside. At the same time, they still have to blame Orange Man for the
deaths that never materialized. In the end, they may just drop the whole
thing and pretend it never happened, like the impeachment fiasco.

Perhaps the hardest hit by the great virus flop has been the curve
benders. They will have the task of explaining why they are still
smarter than the rest of us, but were ridiculously wrong about the
biggest event in their lives. As RamZPaul [pointed
out](https://twitter.com/ramzpaul/status/1249785950038884357) the other
day, in most professions, being this wrong gets you fired. Being an
internet expert, however, means never having to be right, so maybe they
just follow the lead of the media and forget the whole thing happened.

The problem with that plan is the curve benders personalized this from
the start, calling the skeptics all sorts of names. It is unlikely that
the skeptics will forget how Nicky Taleb threw his dress over his head
and ran around squealing like a girl. Many of the curve benders will be
able to recover their reputations, but some will not. In a better age,
the curve benders would be packing their stuff and heading out of town
right now, but in this age, they will probably be rehabilitated without
much effort.

Then there are the people who fell for the hype and then piously
lectured the rest of us about how the virus was more important than the
economy. Many of these people claimed to be on this side of the great
divide. They had lectured for years about how the media can never be
trusted. Then they swallowed the official line on the virus like good
little boys and girls. The internet never forgets, so they will be
reminded of this for the remainder of their days, especially on this
side of the divide.

It’s not so much that they were wrong or acted like smug bleeps. It’s
that they revealed themselves to be every bit as out of touch as the
mass media. This was just another game for them to play on-line, like
their politics. Their clapping for the lay-offs and business closures
revealed that they have no skin in the game. It is a good reminder to
never take business advice from someone who has never signed the front
of a paycheck and never take political advice from people without jobs.

As far as timing, we are getting close to the point where the lines of
the alarmists and curve benders break. [The one
guy](https://wmbriggs.com/post/30278/) consistently right about this
thinks the great retreat is coming soon.
[Governors](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/nyregion/coronavirus-new-york-update.html)
are now preparing to declare victory, so they will be scurrying away
from this in the next couple of weeks. Local business is already showing
signs of rebellion, so they may set the pace for the governors. Trump
now has a [task
force](https://gab.com/system/media_attachments/files/047/577/841/original/9d757bfa69b4e6d1.png?1586807361)
to re-open the economy. It even has his dingbat daughter on it.

What all this suggests is that in a couple of weeks, everyone will be
talking about the economy and going back to work and school. In another
month, the only people talking about the virus will be conspiracy nuts
and the remaining curve benders who refuse to let it go. If the summer
is a great recovery in the economy, this whole sorry episode will be
sent down the memory hole. The great retreat from the panic that will
change everything will be complete and no one will remember any of it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
