---
title: "The New Masons"
date: "2020-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19837"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19837"
---

Yoram Hazony took his neo-nationalism show on the road to Rome, where he
invited all the best people to talk about his new idea called
nationalism. He brought in various political and academic figures from
around Europe to discuss this new nationalism thing, but he was careful
to exclude anyone associated with nationalism. It was a replay of his
show in Washington last summer. The point of it is to rebuild a wall
between the establishment and the growing army of dissidents.

As noted in the past, Hazony’s game here is to rebuild the walls between
the good thinkers inside and the very bad thinkers outside. Instead of
rebuilding the old wall in place, he plans to extend the perimeter so
the new wall will include the more docile nationalists and populists,
who are happy to have a platform, but will not threaten the castle of
cosmopolitan globalism. It’s really just a way to co-opt some of the
language and energy of dissidents in order to confuse the issue.

As he did the last time, Hazony was careful to invite the right sort of
influencers, the type that appeal to gentry dissidents. For example
<a href="https://unherd.com/2020/02/the-danger-of-the-european-right/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Douglas Murray</a> was given
access so he could offer his opinions on it. Hazony was also given
access to the <a
href="https://blogs.spectator.co.uk/2020/02/guilt-by-association-at-romes-national-conservatism-conference/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Spectator</a> to complain
about how the Left says mean things about him because he is such a
threat to their position. It is classic sandwich making that dissidents
of a certain type have become adept at identifying.

The effort to rebuild the right side of the sandwich has been underway
for a while now, since the 2016 election. The Intellectual Dark Web
nonsense was one effort to reestablish the outer boundary of the
acceptable Right. Quillette was positioned to be the new frontier of
right-wing discourse. Of course, Ben Shapiro was promoted as the voice
of young white people. The latest effort to create a new right-wing
intellectual zone is what the usual suspects are now calling the <a
href="https://www.tabletmag.com/jewish-news-and-politics/298148/the-new-millennial-american-right"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">New Right</a>.

The sheer number of people employed in rebuilding the walls of the Right
is quite impressive and it reflects the urgency of the people inside. If
they had a sense of humor, they would nickname these folks “the masons”
as an homage to the secret society, as well as to the art of wall
building. That would require both a sense of humor and some
self-awareness, both of which are absent from our intellectual betters.
Instead they gaslight themselves about the success of these projects.

The irony of what Hazony is doing is that he loathes Catholicism, yet he
is engaged in a very Catholic enterprise. He is trying to lead a
counter-reformation, similar to what the Catholic Church did in response
to the Protestant revolts. Like the Catholics, he is not ceding any
important ground to the rebels, but instead he is trying to re-brand the
faith by talking openly about its abuses. He’s not questioning the logic
of cosmopolitanism, just its implementation and excesses.

Of course, unlike the Counter Reformation, Hazony is an outsider coming
to town selling a cure for what ails the local rulers. He’s a monorail
salesman, playing on the fears and insecurities of his targets. He’s not
all that interested in nationalism for Finns or Italians, but he is very
interested in Jewish nationalism. His case for a new nationalism is a
means to an end, rather than an end in itself. His project is about
defending his country, Israel, from defects of cosmopolitan globalism.

The <a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18094"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">internal contradictions</a>
are obvious in his book. His arguments on behalf of Zionism are straight
forward and quite rational. Most dissidents would come away thinking
they make perfect sense. Then he adds in a million exceptions and
qualifications when applying his argument to the West. All of a sudden,
things like ethnic distance and common heritage no longer apply. It is a
contradictory argument, because it is littered with exceptions.

That’s what makes his tour stop in Rome interesting. Unlike Americans,
the European Right is a bit shrewder about this stuff. They understand
perfectly well what Hazony is doing, but he is useful cover for now, so
they throw in with him. He hopes to free ride on their energy and
organization and they intend to use him as cover. The European national
populists want legitimacy, so they can look past his motivations. It is
a good lesson in the reality of politics.

This effort to co-opt dissident ideas and the energy from national
populism can only have two possible outcomes. One possible outcome is
the effort is destroyed on the rocks of political reality. Despite the
quality of people inside the institutions, they have real power and they
are not afraid to use it. In fact, they have shown themselves to be
quite vicious. They take pleasure in cancelling people, so it is not
unrealistic to think they will squash Hazony like a bug.

The other possibility is it washes away the current political order.
This is more likely in Europe, where right-wing parties have been slowly
organizing and nibbling away at the established order. The cover
provided by Hazony, as well as the fragility of the European model,
could open the door for national populist to gain real power. In the US,
the bizarre reaction from establishment parties to populism could
explode their whole project. Just imagine a Trump -Sanders debate in the
fall elections.

That is why these efforts by the wall builders are a positive for
dissidents. From the perspective to those downhill looking up at the
institutions, the walls continue to look quite formidable. For those
inside the walls, they look quite fragile. Those people inside have a
much clearer view of their situation. The mad scurrying around we see by
the wall builders is a positive. The siege cannot last forever, so the
more energy they spend on defense, the better for the people outside the
walls.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
