---
title: "The Inner Party Revolution"
date: "2020-06-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20664"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20664"
---

One of the difficult things for people living in an ideological society
is that they are suspended in a solution of propaganda. All of the
information they receive is warped by the currents of the prevailing
ideology. Everyone has some interest in shaping opinion, so all effort
is put into promoting one thing or another. Since all parties are
advancing a cause at odds with reality, truth becomes an enemy. The
normal person trying to figure out what is happening is left to swim in
a sea of lies.

That’s what makes the current events hard to decipher. Why has the death
of a drug-addled black felon at the hands of the cops set the world on
fire? Why is the institutional Left so exhilarated by the rioting? Why
have the corporate oligarchs rolled out an information campaign in
support of the revolts? For sure, the oligarchs are all members in good
standing of the new religion, but there is an uncanny valley vibe to it.
The whole thing is like a well-choreographed performance.

When normal people, not infected by the rage virus that seems to be the
root of the new religion, look at scenes like
[this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=boh1FlOl3bY) they are disgusted.
Why is the mayor of that city exhilarated by it? What possible reason
could he have for promoting it? Why are white people literally
[worshiping](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8397065/White-police-officers-community-members-wash-feet-black-faith-leaders-protest.html)
black people? That’s probably the most bizarre aspect of this entire
circus. It’s like these white people have secretly joined a weird UFO
cult and they think blacks are the visiting space aliens.

Again, in a world of lies and propaganda, it is very hard to know if any
of this is planned or spontaneous. The entire apparatus of the Left is
promoting and facilitating the protests. Make no mistake, that apparatus
is a vast and extremely well financed operation. Still, the scale and
absurdity to what we are seeing goes beyond what the Left normally can
muster. It is clear that the new religion that has swept the country has
these people thinking something big is happening.

Now, there is something else that gets little attention. A part of
what’s going on is a push by the non-white elements in the new religion
trying to make their move on the old white and Jewish people at the top.
The Old Guard has run the Left since the 1960’s and the party since the
1990’s. The new swarthy guard thinks it is their time to run the show
and this is their chance to make their move. These choreographed events
are about showing the Old Guard who controls the rank and file of the
party.

This is not just about far-left theatrics. The well-orchestrated moves
by people like General Mattis, Mitt Romney and Secretary of Defense
Esper suggest elements within the establishment think inner party
leadership has been too soft with Trump. Mitt Romney may not be down
with Team Brown, but he hates Trump and the people who voted for Trump
with a passion. Leadership promised Trump would be removed long ago and
here he is running for reelection.

Those are some subplots, but it is also clear that something very
strange is happening within the upper reaches of the ruling class. The
[top
editor](https://www.inquirer.com/news/stan-wischnowski-resigns-philadelphia-inquirer-20200606.html)
of the Philly Enquirer was chased off by a woke mob for stating the
obvious. The NYTimes is being overrun by far-left crazies. One of their
top editors was [forced
out](https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/07/media/james-bennet-new-york-times-resigns/index.html).
Andrew Sullivan, a long time darling of elite society, has been [put on
mute](https://spectator.us/andrew-sullivan-new-york-column-riots/). It’s
increasingly clear that the inner party elite is scared of the woke
monster they have unleashed.

What’s happening in the big media operations sheds some light on what
has been going on for two weeks. All of the groveling and cheering by
liberal politicians may not be entirely genuine. They may think it is
their only way to avoid being another victim of the woke army they
helped to create. That’s clearly what’s happening in the media centers
and probably elsewhere. The strange willingness to indulge these mobs is
really about a panic rumbling through elite society.

The street riots of the 1960’s were a training ground for the New Left
that would eventually march through the institutions. What we are seeing
is cheesy replay of that process, where street violence forces the
establishment to appease the new element rising up in the inner party.
Fifty years ago, people like Nancy Pelosi were the future of left-wing
politics and eventually the leadership of the inner party. Today, the
grotesque non-whites we see on-line are the future of the inner party.

The future will come fast. The forcing out of old white looking males
from big media will now accelerate. The same will happen in the academy.
One reason the police are being targeted is that even in brown cities,
the cops are mostly white. That’s why they are plotting to dismantle the
police. They want all of those white men out of their cities and this is
the fastest way to do it. Look for every city to start competing with
one another to see who can be the most woke in dismantling their police
departments.

The paleocons and civic nationalists will, of course, try hard to find
good news in all of this by making excessive comparisons between now and
the 1960’s. Steve Sailer is all over stuff like
[this](https://www.unz.com/isteve/will-black-anti-semitism-once-again-undermine-the-latest-peak-black-moment/)
from America’s [chosen
rapper](https://twitter.com/icecube/status/1269714793650245632). “See?
They are eating their own now. The fringes are falling apart!” That’s a
fine coping strategy for those on the back nine of their lives, but it
is not relevant to this age. Frankly, Mr. Cube is no longer relevant to
this age, as he is a museum piece from a country that no longer exists.

The radicals of the 1960’s inherited a country and a ruling apparatus
that was high functioning and manned by highly capable white males. The
country and ruling apparatus of today is hollowed out and manned by
incompetents. The radicals of the 1960’s were the sons and daughters of
high IQ achievers. The radicals of today are the sons and daughters of
peasants elevated into their potions by a system evolved to assuage the
guilt of the old white people running it.

The Covid-19 panic gave us a glimpse of what is too come. The
exaggerated incompetence of the politicians and the system itself was a
preview of what lies ahead this summer. Rather than operate like public
officials with a duty to their positions, local officials will be
responding to the radicals with bizarre press conferences and a
competition to see who can be most dramatic. Like the Covid panic, we
are about to see a spiral of make-believe over the woke insurrection.

Having gotten a taste of blood, the radicals will be out in force this
summer, especially at the party conventions. You can be sure Antifa and
Black Live Matter are prepping to burn down Trump’s convention. That
assumes any city will agree to host it. There is a good chance this will
become the new fashion. Woke cities refusing to hold Trump events like
rallies and the convention. Corporations will stop hosting GOP events
until they renounce Orange Man and his wicked whiteness.

Read the biographies of Nixon people and you will find that one deep
concern in the Nixon White House was whether a real revolution was
afoot. It was a genuine concern, but the revolution, it turned out, was
mostly within the inner party. The country was strong enough to contain
it. Today, that old containment vessel is rusted and full of holes with
no one around to repair it. The revolution within the inner party will
surely break contain and contaminate the entire society now.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
