---
title: "Dangerous Escapism"
date: "2020-12-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22266"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22266"
---

Montesquieu famously explained that each system of government has a
principle that animates the people within that system. In a democratic
republic, the citizens, and presumably the office holders, are driven by
the willingness to put the interests of the community ahead of private
interests. While every society of sufficient size has factions, the
interests of those factions come after the interests of the republic.
This is the framework of what dissidents call civic nationalism.

Since the middle of the last century or so, this view of politics has
been the exclusive domain of the Right. The Left slowly embraced the
partisanship of interest group politics during the cultural revolution
of the 1960’s. First it was the array of interest groups in the old New
Deal coalition that dominated politics into the 1970’s. That has given
way to what we call identity politics today. Meanwhile the Right has
stubbornly held to the abstract concepts of republican virtue and civic
duty.

One result is that a standard item in the toolkit of Official
Conservatism has been the argument against identity politics. Initially,
as the Left embraced race politics, this was mostly an argument against
pandering to blacks. As the array of identity groups in the radical
coalition has expanded, it is now a generalized argument against
appealing to the self-interest of groups based on their professed
identity. The claim is identity politics is bad for the country, as it
pits one group against another.

Tucker Carlson is probably the most vocal opponent of identity politics.
He does a bit against it as part of his standard act. The other night,
according to [this Breitbart
piece](https://www.breitbart.com/clips/2020/12/22/tucker-carlson-what-if-the-woke-brain-virus-began-to-infect-the-military/),
he warned people about what will happen when the military is fully woke
on identity politics. He asked, “what if the current lunacy turns out to
be more than a passing phase? What if woke race obsession is not a fad,
but instead an incurable brain virus that’s infected our country’s
entire leadership class?”

He then showed a clip of some television performers talking about what
Joe Biden should to do to have a diverse administration. Carlson then
went on to explain that the people being given spots in the
administration are not qualified for the posts, in the sense they have
the skills to perform the stated duties. Instead, they are being given
jobs to tick boxes on the ideological tick list. He then asks what would
happen if the woke warriors take over the military.

It is never fully explained, but the viewer is supposed to come away
thinking that this would be very bad. Instead of transgender fighter
pilots being selected based on their skill, they would be selected based
on their choice of sundress. Instead of based black guy getting promoted
for his ability, woke black guy will be promoted because he is really
into his blackness. Girls will be installed into special forces units to
satisfy the desires of Nth wave feminist, rather than on their ability
to fight.

Carlson does not put it that way, but he carefully avoids the
implications of what he is saying, as he likes living in a mansion. The
truth is, a military composed of the sorts of people the Left says are
the future will be a disaster. The promotion of female officers is
already showing up in incident reports. The military brass is well to
the Left of the American public and they are fully committed to
diversity. It is just a matter of time before that institution looks
like the rest.

The fact is, Carlson is peddling the same civic nationalist fantasy that
conservatives have been peddling for generations. In the face of
identity politics, they preach a weird combination of individualism and
a sacrifice to principles the other side rejects. His “what if” question
is about thirty years too late, as it has been happening since the
1990’s and is accelerating. The real question that needs to be discussed
openly is how does one live in a world defined by identity politics?

So far, the stock response from conservative like Carlson is the same
answer they have been giving for generations now. That is, white people
in general, but conservative whites in particular, have to pretend this
is not happening. If they just carry on as if that old republican virtue
is the best, eventually the other side will tire of their fads, see the
results and return to the civic nationalist fold. In response to the
radical advances on every front, civic nationalism has become a cargo
cult.

Worse yet, it is a call to docility. The civic nationalist argues that
eventually, the truth of radialism will catch up to them and all the
good citizens really needs to do is wait for reality to slit the throat
of radicalism. Instead of matching the Left’s anti-white rhetoric with
pro-white rhetoric, which would be really bad according the civic
nationalists, white people just need to embrace their individualism and
soon enough things will go their way. UFO cults have greater
self-awareness.

At some point, the dumb idea stops being dumb and becomes dangerous. We
live in an age where public figures, elected officials, brag about
withholding the Covid vaccine from whites in the name of racial
vengeance. Not long ago this sort of rhetoric was considered a white
nationalist conspiracy theory. How long before some unthinkable racial
assault on whites is the new fad among the ruling class? Refusing to
accept this reality, as is common with civic nationalist, is suicide.

This would be fine if it was a private form of suicide. If civic
nationalists, like Tucker Carlson, simply focused on the work product of
the Left, leaving the rest to the imagination of his viewers, that would
be fine. Living within the constraints placed upon him by his employer,
but seeding the minds of his viewers with the reality of their
situation, would be a great service to his people. That’s not what he is
doing. He is explicitly telling his viewers to lie back and take it,
promising it will be over soon.

Civic nationalism, like libertarianism, is now a form of escapism. It
allows the believer to stand on the sideline, not only believing it is
the moral high ground, but certain that what is happening on the field
will go his way. The principles of a republic, not only have no place in
a majority-minority society, they are a dangerous narcotic that prevents
the user from accepting reality. Civic nationalism and its traveling
partner libertarianism are more dangerous than the identity politics
they claim to oppose.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="vuy6v8l00Q3t72k5V55oog==cb77a6SJMUroK1MnhUCA0CevxBYWAenBsy3fIL1X+6T8oHXa260q9cIn/TOGglCq/0C"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="7sQyIML0bhZXp0t3yLQRAg==cb7hAF94D+I29/u0nWwZa9K76dkhk/wfHjELya/6KlsrjKN9f7VPYZKTmbOpOw4Oavs"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
