---
title: "Blackwashing"
date: "2020-10-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21369"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21369"
---

**Note:** Technical issues scuttled the podcast this week. Apparently,
the Yeti USB microphone does not last forever. Too many hours of
fiddling with it and I finally threw in the towel and ordered a new one.
I’ll be back in business next week.

In the English speaking world, it has become common to “blackwash”
movies and television shows. This is the process of removing white
characters and replacing them with non-white characters. The stated
claim is that popular entertainment needs to reflect the changing nature
of the audience. Of course, the reason the audience is changing is that
the same people blackwashing films and television shows are ethnically
cleansing white societies with mass immigration.

For a long time now, Hollywood has been taking great care to make the
good characters black and the bad ones white. For a short while, the bad
guys could be Arab terrorists, but now bad guys are white again. If they
need to be foreign baddies, then they are neo-Nazis from eastern Europe
or Russian gangsters. Of course, the smartest characters are black or
female. If we’re lucky, the brainiac is a black lesbian. Every computer
hacker is now non-white or female.

On occasion the blackwashing gets ridiculous. Some figure from white
history is played by a black actor. A black guy in a show about medieval
Europe could be amusing, but that’s not how it is done. Instead, we get
black cowboys saving a white town or a black playing King Lear. It will
not be long before we have historical dramas in which well-known figures
from white history are played by black actors *as black people*. Imagine
Ben Franklin played by Morgan Freeman.

The most recent absurdity in this process is the TV series *Fargo*. The
series kicked off six years ago as an extension of the movie with the
same name. As the name suggests, the show is primarily set in North
Dakota, but it has scenes and plots that range out into the rest of the
region. The first season was primarily set in Bemidji Minnesota. In
fact, only the second season is located in North Dakota. The idea is to
root the story lines in the sorts of people who settled that part of
America.

Of course, that part of America, up until fairly recent, was all white
people, with a population of Native Americans. Until the people fond of
blackwashing started dumping Africans into Minneapolis, for example,
Minnesota was known for being one of the whitest places in the country.
It was the Scandinavia of North America. In fact, North Dakota was
almost all Scandinavian people. It was settled by Norwegians and
Icelanders, who migrated out of Canada, along with some Germans.

That’s what made the first season enjoyable. It was a good plot with
good characters set in a place that is a bit quirky. Of course, it had
no black characters, because there are no black Norwegians. This being
the high point of the colored revolution, the fourth season of the show
is now entirely black. Since setting a black crime story in North Dakota
is ridiculous, even for the people behind the blackwashing, they located
the story in 1950 Kansas City, Missouri.

The point of blackwashing is to erase white history and culture. The
world condemns China, for example, when they do this to Tibet or now the
Uighurs, but when it is done to white people the great and good
celebrate. As Joe Sobran pointed out many years ago, the motivation here
is envy. The very existence of white people is a daily reminder of the
failure of all others to accomplish much of anything, despite being
blessed with the best the earth has to offer.

We will soon reach the point where no characters in movies or television
are white, unless they are criminals. The ad makers are far down that
path. The ads that are about a product or service, which is rare these
days, always have a racial makeup that represents the fantasy of the ad
maker, rather than reality. The ads about how much the company cares
about us, most ads now, are multicultural orgies of diversity that exist
nowhere on earth.

Popular entertainment is a leading edge. It tells us what is in store
for us as soon as the great and good think the time is right. The
bellowing about white supremacy after the debate show is another clue.
It was not enough for Trump to dismiss bigotry or racism during and
after the show, They demanded he denounce white people. That’s because
the mere existence of white people is a reminder of the great
achievements of white people relative to the other races. Therefore,
whitey has to go.

The blackwashing has been normalized in entertainment and sports. It
will next move into other aspects of life. Whether or not that can be
normalized is an open question, as someone has to keep the plates
spinning. More important, will white people keep letting themselves be
pushed off the stage of life? The pessimist says yes, whites would
rather be dead than rude. The optimists say that eventually, whites wake
up and take back their lands from the blackwashers.

Either way, the reality of this age is we have moved beyond the quest
for diversity into the beginnings of the vengeance phase. The daily
attacks on whites going about their business and the evolution of Jim
Snow laws are parts of it. The blackwashing is another part of it.
Ethnic cleansing is not just about removing the people, but also about
removing their culture. It takes a special hatred to erase a people from
the book of life and that is the point of the blackwashing.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="lU3aHWIv9QULC56TzEn3Vg==cb7rfywpW5wHEii4ueS1fpk2HJzfT8tAxKbvvl2fYvUAKZTKJSPD4+475+j/Pfubcur"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="SBxvL8iUptoazTrPGTqWOg==cb7L8RMpw0sjz9RwVFHuVLbjcNR+zT8hSxzgFdiNxQW/ikXdG50xUL6354/OSc6Vta0"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
