---
title: "Man’s Greatest Invention"
date: "2020-04-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20191"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20191"
---

The great British biologist J.B.S Haldane said that fanaticism was one
of mankind’s greatest inventions. By “fanaticism” he meant the burning
desire to save mankind from some imagined evil. The fanatic is not just
trying to help his fellow man. He feels as if it is his purpose, his
reason to exists. Therefore, he will die in his effort to reach his
goal, as to give up on his quest or accept defeat would be no different
than denying the reason for his existence. To die trying fulfills his
purpose.

Haldane credited this to monotheism. If there is one god, then no people
could be favored by one god over another. All men were the creation of
one god and therefore of equal importance. This leads to the great
battle to decide who has the correct understanding of God’s desire for
mankind. The only way to know this is to do whatever is necessary in
order to bring your understanding of god’s will into being. Fanaticism
therefore was the great molder of human history for the last 5,000
years.

Of course, Haldane was a fanatic himself. He was a foaming at the mouth
atheist, as they tend to be, so blaming the belief in God, especially
Christianity, was a natural instinct for him. A central tenet of atheism
is that if man drops the superstition about invisible men in the sky,
they will stop trying to impose their beliefs on one another and thus a
new post-God era can begin. Mankind will be driven by reason and the
underlying facts of natural reality. Logic will be the religion of man.

This is nonsense, of course, but Haldane was not wrong about fanaticism.
It is a great mover of history. Where he got things wrong was in
thinking monotheism was the root of human desire to save mankind.
Instead it was egalitarianism, the idea that all men are naturally equal
and therefore naturally worthy. This did not require the belief in one
god, as we see today with our humanistic fanatics. The modern
intellectual is as indifferent to God as he is committed to belief that
all men are equal.

An example of this comes from the legacy site National Review. [This
piece](https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/04/coronavirus-pandemic-crisis-thrusts-interdependence-americas-warring-factions/)
argues that the coronavirus is the great leveler. Mother nature is
reminding the world that all men are equal in her eyes. Because, in
theory, rich people can get the virus and die, it proves the fundamental
equality of mankind. Time will tell on that score, but most likely the
smart and rich will do better in this than the poor and stupid. That’s
because Mother Nature does not distribute her gifts equally.

Of course, if this virus turns out to be the scourge of the poor or the
great killer of the stupid, the egalitarians will have an answer for
that as well. As the author of the piece says, it will be due to the
rich and smart taking precautions to insulate themselves from the virus.
For the egalitarian fanatic, there is always some behavioral reason to
explain why one group does better than another. The equality of man is
the beginning and the end, the alpha and omega, of their thinking.

A great driver of history is the belief that if only everyone would do
things the way they should do them, then the human condition can be
overcome. It is not the only driver, for sure, as not everyone has
bought into egalitarianism. In fact, egalitarianism was, for the longest
time, an exclusive belief. The tribe, nation or people knew they were
equal before god, but those other people, well, not so much. Conquering
them and taking their stuff was fine, as it was good for your people.

In recent years, this thirst for universal equality has turned into a
weird cargo cult, where simply making people appear equal will cause
universal equality to spring forth. You see a bit of that in the
National Review post. The author seems to be hoping the virus is a great
plague that hits the elites as hard as everyone. In the midst of the
suffering, so the thinking goes, everyone will suddenly embrace the
equality of man. Only a fanatic can believe that he not so subtly hopes
for a plague.

In fact, disaster, man-made or natural, is proof that egalitarianism is
rooted in our biology, or at least in the biology of some. The great
destruction of man’s creation, the bodies stacked upon one another, a
scene seen in every age by every generation, has not purged this
instinct from our being. There’s no reasoning with a fanatic and there
is not reasoning with an egalitarian. They are immune to reality. They
see only that which confirms their belief that all men are created
equal.

It is why, by the way, Africa is getting a good leaving alone in the
pandemic chatter. They were all revved up a month ago to display their
sorrow for the poor Africans, who would surely suffer the worst from
this virus. This has not happened, so the egalitarians are busy editing
on-line maps to remove the whole continent from our vision. Any
discussion of why some groups have done better or worse is prohibited,
even by the human bio-diversity crowd. Egalitarianism is powerful magic.

It is a good reminder that whatever comes out of the other side of this
pandemic, the egalitarian will still be with us. No amount of reality
can dissuade him. If he can see a man in a sundress as just another one
of the gals, not even the complete failure of the system built on the
dream of equality will dissuade him. He will be right back at it,
picking through the rubble for signs that all men are equal.
Egalitarianism is man’s greatest invention, a doomsday device we cannot
disarm.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
