---
title: "The Lessons Of Trump"
date: "2020-11-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21783"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21783"
---

An old bit of wisdom is that you should never try to con a con man. This
advice is not aimed at con men, of course, but at honest people.
Grifters are intuitively dishonest, which means they instinctively work
every angle to some advantage. Normal people are simply unable to think
like this, even when they are trying to do it. Their scruples get in the
way of their scheming. This is something that Trump should have had in
mind when he took office four years ago. It was his first mistake.

Trump came to Washington thinking he was smarter, more clever and more
resilient than the people he had mocked for so long from his couch.
There’s no question that most people in politics are stupid. Without a
government grift, they would end up peddling replacement windows
door-to-door. But politics in a liberal democracy does not select for
smart people. It selects for clever and ruthless people. Washington is
the major leagues for the most clever and ruthless.

To his credit, he did outfox them from time to time, but after a while,
they began to get the measure of him and figured out how to out-clever
him. The FBI scandal is a great example of how they simply outmaneuvered
him to delay the process. More important, they got him to drop it as a
campaign item. What should have been a key part of his campaign as a
populist champion went unmentioned. Time after time Trump tried to play
their game and every time he came up a loser.

Similarly, Trump came to Washington under the mistaken impression that
his opponents would follow the rules and abide by their own rhetoric.
After all, he won the election, the people have spoken, time for the
winner to enjoy the fruits of victory. That’s how it is supposed to work
in a democratic society. From the very beginning he assumed these people
would play fair, despite the fact he knew they spied on him in the
campaign and tried hard to cheat him out of his victory.

This is a great example of the civic nationalist disease. This is a
malady that is most pronounced in men of Trump’s generation. The civic
nationalist loves rules and fully expects his enemies to play by those
rules. In reality, the ends justifies the means mentality of the Left
has poisoned the entire ruling class. These are people devoid of honor
and virtue. Playing by the rules, especially their rules, is a sucker’s
play, one Trump never figured out in his four years.

No matter how many times the political class kicked him in the groin, he
refused to accept this reality. The strange thing is he campaigned in
the most unconventional way, preferring rallies to the formula popular
with the political industrial complex. He was a refreshingly
unconventional politician in his campaign, but he was thoroughly
conventional in his governance. In office, he played by the rules of
Washington, while Washington made the rules up as they went along.

Probably his biggest mistake in office was in not seeing the FBI scandal
as a purely political affair, rather than a legal one. He was conned
into thinking it should be handled by the courts as a criminal matter,
when he should have used it as a political hammer to bludgeon official
Washington. By the election, all of the classified information should
have been leaked and revealed. This would have kept Washington petrified
about what he may release if they got too aggressive with him.

This would have fed into the subplot of his campaign. It was always
Trump the reformer against the political class. Instead of working with
Republicans like he was one of them, he should have treated them as part
of the problem. Trump needed to be Harry Truman running against a
corrupt establishment. He would have accomplished more and he would have
provided a clear reason to support him 2020. Instead he kept trying to
be accepted by people who detested him.

Stylistically, Trump the salesman was an amusing bit of comic relief in
the 2016 election that probably won him the benefit of the doubt. The
trouble was, he kept selling his voters after he had won. The campaign
is about promises, while governance is about delivering on those
promises. Trump did some good things in office, but he never spoke of
them, instead preferring to keep promising to look into new things and
maybe do other things. It quickly rang hollow with his voters.

The great lesson to learn from the Trump era is that winning the crowd
is useless if you don’t have a plan to put it to some purpose. Trump is
not an ideologue, which allows him to be pragmatic. That’s a great asset
in politics, as long as you have the secret list in your head of things
you want to do in office. This is what makes the Left so powerful as a
social force. They never lose focus on their goal. They know why they
seek power, so they adapt and keep moving forward.

Trump never seemed to know what he wanted to do in office. Like all
civic nationalists, he has this vague notion in his head of what America
should be, but he was never able to translate it into policy. The
closest he came was the many administrative changes made to the
immigration process. He never spoke of those, because like all civic
nationalist, he preferred to dream of the mythological America where
everyone happily abides but the rules of the republic.

There are many other things that can be put in the list of mistakes by
Trump over the last four years, but the overriding theme is this. Trump
never rose above the petty and practical to grasp his historical moment.
Like everyone else is Washington, he had no vision of the future. As a
result, he got bogged down into the swamp he promised to drain, playing
petty politics, squabbling over small issues. The moment called for a
man of vision, but instead got a pitchman from Queens.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Eo7L0K9ezRQb82kg+4KHiA==cb7Rmr9mr8mqrGZ3eTPAkBdy04PbcyM9BzJNK6NuUQwa9QqaDH1yvBUU1c4WdSl6lMs"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="UG110A6DVx9zm1kRkvfNqw==cb7bAwpuoqGjH2fNqvvkGoywXGkMSnBVwDUMzwmvsCVkQN4Y05kKtSjyRxvHJle7imM"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
