---
title: "The Cult Of Inclusion"
date: "2020-06-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20650"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20650"
---

The conversion of Europe to Christianity did not happen in one fast
moving wave, but rather in fits and starts over a long period of time.
In the case of England, a nobleman would convert and then force his
subjects to convert. In other parts of Europe, a critical mass of people
would convert, leading the nobility to convert. Often, the new religion
existed alongside the old religion. Not everyone was excited for the new
religion, so they would stick with the old gods rather than convert.

In the cases where the nobility forced their subjects to convert, it
must have been a very strange situation for the people. One day they are
marched down to the river where some weirdos with funny haircuts speak a
strange language while dunking them under the water. Then everyone is
marched to a building with some new images and forced to repeat words in
that same strange language. To the person subjected to this, it must
have seemed like the rulers were going mad.

Of course, not everyone was willing to give up their old gods, even if
the lord or king had converted to the new religion. Initially, these
holdouts may have been tolerated, but eventually they had to be forced
to obey. In Britain, according to Bede, disputes between Christian kings
and pagan kings resulted in lots of bloodshed. The last pagan king was
killed in battle in 686. After that, Britain was nominally Christian,
although paganism survived as English folkways.

This is something to keep in mind as we watch the American empire
succumb to what increasingly looks like the emergence of a bizarre new
cult. All the attention has been on the blacks looting and the Antifa
stirring up riots, but around this orgy of mayhem has been signs that it
is all part of a strange new religion. Images like
[this](https://twitter.com/selfdeclaredref/status/1267911752462843904)
are becoming more common, as this new region evolves public rituals. All
of the corporate oligarchs are all-in on this new cult and they control
the culture now.

To the common people of the empire, this seems bizarre. It is as if the
ruling elite has gone mad all at the same time. Large swaths of the
national government are in revolt against the President over his failure
to comply with the new faith. State and local government officials are a
click away from open insurrection. The country is tipping into civil
war, with one side on the side of this bizarre new religion and the
other side baffled as to what is happening. The empire is a madhouse
now.

This cult is not entirely without president. The radicals of the French
Revolution created the Cult of the Supreme Being. They first sought to
replace Catholicism with a new religion devoted to the abstract concept
of reason. That new cult was largely a blend of atheism and
anthropocentrism. Robespierre saw the obvious problems and denounced
this cult and instead promoted the Cult of the Supreme Being. It was
intended to be primarily a state religion with God at the center of it.

This cult we are seeing evolve in the empire is much more like the Cult
of Reason, in that it has no gods and elevates abstract concepts like
inclusion, diversity, cooperation and openness. When activist chant
demands for justice, for example, they are not talking about legal
justice or even moral justice. Justice is one of the many words to
signify this collection of concepts at the center of the cult. In this
case, justice is when all non-whites feel joyfully included in the white
society.

That’s a key element that goes unnoticed. In this example of justice, it
is not enough for whites to grant legal access. Whites must joyously
embrace the inclusion of non-whites into their world. The holy concepts
of inclusion and cooperation demand more than just mere compliance with
the new rules of inclusion. A grudging compliance could result in future
conflict. No, justice requires that whites redefine themselves to
include non-whites as an integral part of their identity.

This is why the elites suddenly look like supplicants. These bizarre
rituals where they kneel and confess their privilege are in fact
rituals. This new cult does not have the concept of private devotion.
Such a thing as private cannot exist in a fully open and cooperative
society. To have a private thought is to exclude those from that part of
your life and there is no greater sin than exclusion. Those who truly
embrace the new faith must do so in public. Only then can they be truly
saved.

The Left in America has always been a spiritual force, rather than an
ideological one, as is the case in Europe. The roots of Progressivism
are in religion. Their ideal society was never about material equality.
It was about communal salvation. As the empire has shifted fully into
liberal democracy since the end of the Cold War, this spiritual yearning
has turned into a religion of its own. Instead of salvation, the goal is
a worldly Utopia of universal cooperation and inclusion of all people.

To the insider, a cult is a world where the internal rules and beliefs
of the cult perfectly explain the world. To the outsider, the rules and
beliefs of the cult seem amusing, bizarre or possibly dangerous. That’s
what is happening in the empire. Most of us are outside this ruling
class cult, so their chants, declarations and actions strike as strange
and crazy. The destruction of the cities makes no sense. For the cult,
these riots are purifying rituals. To outsiders, they are wanton
destruction.

This may also explain the bizarre behavior over the Covid virus. It was
obvious a long time ago that something other than science and a concern
for public health was driving public officials to stoke the panic. The
elaborate game of make believe has now been made plain. People are
barred from Christian services, but BLM protests and homosexual parades
are now permitted. The destruction of civil society from the top down
was the elite’s version of the urban street riots.

What we may be seeing is this weird religion of inclusion and
cooperation quickly morph into a suicide cult that seeks to level
existing society. First the elites try to destroy society with the lock
downs and elimination of personal freedom. Now the rank and file are
doing their part by devastating the cities. The new faith will not rest
until every trace of the old has been erased. That includes the people.
Those who represent the old, with their white habits and white ideas
must be destroyed.

Like those medieval peasants who woke up one day to learn their king was
part of a strange new cult brought in by a couple of bald guys in
dresses, normal people in the empire are seeing the mass conversion of
their rulers. Just as Christianity could only tolerate the old ways for
so long, this new faith is increasing intolerant of the old normal ways
of American society. It now exists to expunge every trace of civil life.
This cult has declared total war on the rest of us.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
