---
title: "Self-Assessment"
date: "2020-03-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Pandemic
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20091"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20091"
---

On Monday of this week, I had a conversation with a client about the
normal stuff we talk about on a regular basis. Of course, the panic was
a topic, as every business is figuring out what they need to do to keep
the doors open in the panic. This person is generally sober minded and
skeptical about most things. He is one of those guys, who can get wound
up over little things, but those little things are stupid things.
Otherwise, he is not the sort to mindlessly join the herd in the latest
fads.

Anyway, I just assumed he was as skeptical as I was about the panic, so
I said something along the lines of this being madness. To my surprise,
I got a lot of push-back about how this is super serious. He did the old
“my wife knows a doctor at some hospital and she said 70% of people will
get this.” It is the
<a href="https://youtu.be/diVaagssHYQ" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Ferris Bueller gambit</a>, in which a mythological
expert several steps removed from the person, is the most reliable
source of information on the planet about the subject.

Of course, I made the mistake I often point out in politics and that is
I countered his claim with actual facts that anyone can look up. I
pointed out that there are eight billion people on the planet. I told
him more people have died from suicide in China than from this plague
and China is the epicenter. My client listened, but it was quite clear
he was on the side of strangers he reads on-line. Those people are much
more convincing to him, because of something called abductive reasoning.

Abductive reasoning is where you start with an observation or set of
observations and then you find the simplest and most likely, or what
feels like the most likely, explanation for the observations. Greg
Johnson talked about this in <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2019/12/ben-novaks-hitler-abductive-logic/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">his review</a> of Ben Novak’s
*Hitler & Abductive Logic*. In this case, my client sees the panic and
the outlandish actions of government officials and thinks, “What could
be causing this?” The best answer, the one that is the simplest, is that
the virus is the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plague_of_Justinian"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Plague of Justinian</a>.

Later in the week, I had an e-mail exchange with someone, who is most
certainly on this side of the great divide. The e-mail was about the
cancellation of this year’s American Renaissance and other dissident
events due to the panic. I once again assumed he was on the sober minded
side of this issue, so I freely called it a panic. What I got was the
old line about “If we can save just one life.” In this case, he thought
staying home for a couple of weeks was a perfectly reasonable measure.

The mistake I was making here was in not talking to someone where they
are rather than where I would like them to be. That is, this person is a
non-technical person working in a non-essential part of the economy. He
will get paid to stay home for two weeks, so this is a nice unexpected
vacation. He also has kids, so he feels he has to be extra cautious, as
people literally count on him for their existence. He’s never going to
respond to facts and reason on this issue. He’s being justifiably
selfish.

Both of these examples are useful in thinking about politics. The whole
point of politics is to persuade people. Being right is a nice side
benefit, if you are into that sort of thing, but it is rarely an
essential element. People, even smart people, respond to emotional
appeals and moral appeals before appeals to reason. Critically, only
left-wing lunatics put politics ahead of their personal safety or the
well-being of their family. “For the children” is a cliché because it
was highly effective.

In this case, after the panic has subsided and we are evaluating the
wreckage, most of the people who supported these measures will be right
there with extreme solutions to remedy the fallout. The curve flatteners
will be demanding a New Deal to restore the economy and boost the stock
market. Many may even howl about the foolishness of destroying the
global economy to save a few extra people this year. People are funny
that way. They forgive and forget their errors first.

It will be tempting to remind these people that they were warned about
the trade-offs, but supported the panic anyway. In six months, a lot of
curve flatteners are going to be complaining about the downstream
consequences to this. Just as facts and reason are of no use in this
panic, they will be of no use in the aftermath. It is a lesson dissident
need to take from this current crisis and put to use in the next. Like
animals, people must be led, exploiting their naturally tendencies, not
their reason.

That’s the hard part of politics for the sorts of people that naturally
find themselves on this side of the great divide. The bigots and
anti-Semites, of course, end up over here because they have nowhere else
to go, but most people are led here, because this is where the facts led
them. It is the rejection of emotional appeals and herd thinking that
opened their eyes to alternative explanations for observable reality.
It’s asking a lot to then resort to emotional appeals in order to do
politics.

That said, it is not impossible. Midweek I had a chat with another
client and this subject naturally came up. This person is a
self-actualizing beautiful person. Having been bitten twice earlier, I
was prepared this time. I mentioned that I was worried that about how
the lock-down would keep the tens of millions of diabetics from getting
their insulin. This person then told me their mother was on insulin. We
chatted a bit about how shutting down the economy would stop all sorts
of essential items.

I could tell his sense of well-being shifted on a dime. He went from
being comfortable with the lock-down to suddenly being worried it would
cause him real harm. The number of insulin users is less ten million.
The number is less than half that, but we all know someone that takes
the needle. We can feel that without thinking about it. The ten million
number is meaningless. What resonates is the one, the one person we
know, who is dependent upon insulin to remain on this side of the grass.

Ultimately, this is the age-old lesson of politics. Politicians are
trained to personalize issues as best they can, because that resonates
with people. The town hall debate is really just a form of the AA
meeting. The politician is the counselor, leading the participant in
telling their story. The politician provides affirmation and encourages
the groups to share in that affirmation. This is the ideal environment
for the relatable sociopath, which is why democracy loves the town hall
style debate.

For dissidents, there will be loads of open doors in the coming months,
as the public comes to terms with what has been wrought. Suddenly, there
are going to be a whole lot of people looking for the simplest and most
likely explanation for what they see happening around them. The normal
political construct is not going to be enough to explain it. That means
there is an opportunity to provide a personal and reasonable sounding
answer that emotionally connects with them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
