---
title: "The Intersectional Intifada"
date: "2020-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21199"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21199"
---

So, you have decided that you will lead a revolution and overthrow the
government, but you don’t know the first thing about overthrowing the
government. Lucky for you, Washington & Lee University is offering a
[three credit
course](https://www.zerohedge.com/political/washington-lee-university-teach-students-overthrow-state)
titled, “How to Overthrow the State.” In that class you will learn how
previous revolutionaries managed to overthrow the state, how they dealt
with the aftermath and how they rewrote history in order to justify
their rule.

Now, Washington & Lee is like every other liberal arts college these
days, in that it has been overrun by the Left. It is staffed with the
same dreary mediocrities you find at every other liberal arts colleges.
The only interesting thing about this node on the Progressive Borg is
that it retains its white supremacist name. At this late date it should
have changed the name to something more fitting, perhaps a collection of
pronouns or unpronounceable symbols.

The topic and structure of the course are revealing. These are people
who think they are leading a revolution against the system, when in
fact, they are the living embodiment of the system. This college and all
the drones inside it exist because the system created them. The system
created them to perpetuate itself. Liberal arts colleges are
indoctrination centers. If the nation’s academic elite really want to
overthrow the system, they would start by committing suicide.

Another revealing fact about this course is they just assume they will
be the heroes, the good guys in the revolution to come. They are not
studying the many monsters who slaughtered in the name of the people.
They are not looking at the failed revolutionaries for examples to
avoid. What drives people into Progressive politics is self-loathing and
self-doubt. What the Left offers them is reassurance. They are on the
right side of history, the heroes of the future to come.

This is something that does not get enough attention. The people out in
the streets think they are overthrowing the system. Whenever the media
bothers to interview one of these people, they make noises associated
with left-wing revolution. The academics and college students
participating in this stuff mouth the words and phrases of 20th century
left-wing revolution. None of them notices that they are the creation of
the system and dependent upon it.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but what if the protesters got their
wish and the cops were not only pulled off the streets, but they were
disbanded? Let’s just take Portland as an easy example. Starting this
week, there are no more cops. The most likely result is heavily armed
Patriot Prayer people enter the city and it is open season on the Left
with no bag limit. Most likely, a lot of cops would join in. That would
be their path back to full employment as a cop.

In the case of the academic revolutionaries, they may get to see what
happens when the system breaks down. The economic foundation of higher
education is crumbling and it has been made much worse by recent events.
Private liberal arts colleges are starting to fold and state systems are
laying off workers. In the not too distant future, the gal asking you
for your drink order will be a former assistant professor with a PhD in
intersectional studies.

The irony, of course, is that if outsiders really wanted to overthrow
the system, they would look for ways to get the system to attack itself.
In all cases, a unified enemy with a clear sense of purpose is a
challenge. On the other hand, a disorganized enemy hobbled by internal
dispute is always beatable, even when they have numerical or
institutional advantage. If you can sow discord in the enemy ranks, you
have a chance to use their strength to your advantage.

One approach is to get their young people taking college classes with
provocative titles like “How to Overthrow the State.” Maybe convince the
opponent’s young people that their ancestors were monsters. Throw in
some wacky ideas about their penis being a figment of their imagination
and you have the makings of unsustainable turmoil in the enemy ranks.
This intersectional intifada in the ruling class is exactly what the
real revolutionary would want.

On the other hand, if you are the ruler and you have a lot of restless
youth in your ranks, pushing for aggressive action on behalf of the
cause, getting them to fight one another is always a good plan. If you
know you don’t really have to worry about some outsider trying to topple
your rule, keeping the people busy fighting with one another is a good
tactic. This is what [Yassir
Arafat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Intifada) did in the late
1980’s. He got his street fighters out wasting their energy throwing
rocks at Israelis.

This may be why the Inner Party leadership is being patient with the
rioters, even though it is helping Trump in the election. They know they
can handle Trump, but they would like their radicals to exhaust
themselves a bit more. The truth is, the people in charge think this
intersectionality stuff is insane too. They would not mind if the people
behind it discredited themselves. That would simply mean no more talk
about pronouns and photo-ops with men in sundresses.

The Palestinian Intifada was cast as an organic revolt by Arabs in the
occupied territories against Israel. That’s how it was sold to the kids
throwing rocks at tanks and the cell leaders organizing actions. In
reality, it was about power relations at the top of Palestinian society.
Yassir Arafat and the PLO were in a power struggle with Hamas and other
Islamic groups. The Intifada was about who would enjoy the spoils of
being Israel’s puppet in the occupied territories.

That is probably what is happening now. The Inner Party is run by old
people nearing their expiry date. The question on the Left is who fills
those roles. One camp is the rainbow coalition of intersectional
warriors, raised on multiculturalism. They think it is their turn to
rule. The other side is the Judeo-Puritan elite that have been in charge
for generations now. They are rolling the dice on this intersectional
intifada in the hope that the other side weakens themselves.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
