---
title: "Litigating the Blood Libel"
date: "2020-01-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19572"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19572"
---

Is the term “white nationalist” a slur? How about “white supremacist?”
The general definition of a slur is “an insinuation or allegation about
someone that is likely to insult them or damage their reputation.” For
“white nationalist” to be a slur, the term itself would have to be
generally accepted as immoral or derogatory. It would also have to be
used in a way that incorrectly labels one a white nationalist. Calling
Greg Johnson, a white nationalist, for example, is not a slur. He
embraces the label.

The interpretation of the term white nationalist is just one interesting
aspect of the <a
href="https://vdare.com/posts/brimelow-lawsuit-against-nyt-makes-politico-and-drudge"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">lawsuit</a> brought by Peter
Brimelow, editor of VDare. He is suing the New York Times, according to
Brimelow, for falsely labeling him a white nationalist. He not only
denies being a white nationalist, he claims the company deliberately
labeled him as such in an effort to damage his reputation, even after he
made many good faith attempts to point out the error to them. He is
seeking $5 million in damages.

That is the first interesting angle to this case. Intent is always a
central part of defamation cases. The defendant must be shown to have
intentionally libeled or slandered the other party. The statement must
have been made with knowledge that it was untrue or with reckless
disregard for the truth. Simply making an honest error is not
defamation, which is why newspapers have always posted corrections. It
allows them to show the false claim was an honest error.

Another interesting bit of this is the unspoken dispute over what
exactly makes someone a white nationalist. Greg Johnson, for example,
has written <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/the-white-nationalist-manifesto-order/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a book</a> describing white
nationalism. He calls himself a white nationalist. Peter Brimelow, in
contrast, has never used to term to describe himself and has been
generally negative toward the use of it as a label. No doubt both men
share similar opinions on many matters, but they have many important
differences as well.

Yoram Hazony has written a book promoting nationalism. He is a proud
Zionist and an ethno-nationalist. Large swaths of his book match up well
with the arguments made by Greg Johnson in favor of white nationalism.
In fact, strip away the references to Israel and the Jews and Hazony’s
book is the same argument made by Johnson. Does that make Hazony a white
nationalist? Is white nationalism just another manifestation of
nationalism, like Zionism or black nationalism?

If this case ever makes it to court, it would be an easy task to show a
jury that the term white nationalist is undefined. Its meaning is
entirely controlled by the intent of the person using it. When used by
the New York Times, the intent is purely negative, perhaps even a
synonym for evil. When used by normal people, it is more benign, maybe
even positive. In other words, the definition is entirely one of
context, which is the heart of the lawsuit against the Times.

That would be an amusing part of this case if it gets to the deposition
phase, as everyone involved would have to define white nationalism.
Brimelow would have no trouble giving an objective definition. The Times
writers and editors would have to figure out a way to craft a definition
that puts someone like Peter Brimelow at the same table as Johnson.
That’s a circle that cannot be squared, without first asserting the
promotion of white interests is negative.

That really is the secret that lies beneath all of this. The underlying
assumption of the beautiful people at the New York Times is that white
people have no right to promote their interests. Jews, blacks,
one-legged trans-lesbians of color, all of these groups have interests
and a right to promote them openly. Whites, according to the sorts
working for the Times, have no group interests. Therefore, white
nationalism is the assertion of something false, for malign purposes.

Now, there is yet another twist to this. From the perspective of someone
like Greg Johnson, Brimelow’s suit against the Times can be seen as
damaging the cause of white nationalism. The basis of the suit is that
the Times deliberately libeled Brimelow by applying a derogatory term to
him and his work. In other words, a putative ally is agreeing with the
enemy that white nationalism is immoral. That further anathematizes the
term and the issues associated with it.

In reality, that train has left the station. In fact, that is another
important issue involved in this case and many others. The media is not
simply an institution for disseminating factual information about people
and events. No sane person would make such a claim, as the media
repeatedly states otherwise. The mass media defines the public debate
and largely defines public morality. When they pronounce something
forbidden, like white nationalism, it usually becomes immoral and
off-limits.

That brings us back to intent. There simply is no way the Times can
claim they did not intend to libel Brimelow when they called him a white
nationalist. There only hope is to conjure a definition of white
nationalism that includes Brimelow along with other people, who sharply
disagree with him. The only way to accomplish that is to broaden the
term to mean any white person, who thinks white people have interests.
In other words, merely being white makes you guilty enough in this case.

Finally, this case can be a useful on-ramp. These people are clever, in
that they talk about whites in a negative way without directly
addressing white people. In this case they have turned the phrase white
nationalism into a purely negative term that they liberally apply to
white people questioning orthodoxy. They don’t say whites are evil, but
they regular claim “whiteness” is evil and that promoting it is immoral.
They condemn the thing by condemning its nature.

In the end, this case can only be a net positive, assuming Brimelow and
VDare don’t embarrass themselves in some unforeseen manner. Cases like
this are a good way to raise this issue. The more people talk about how
the Left systematically anathematizes the natural characteristics of
white people, the more people will notice the blood libel at the heart
of this case and the general war on white people. The reason the Times
hates white nationalism is they hate white people.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
