---
title: "Nice Guys Finish Last"
date: "2020-12-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22075"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22075"
---

One of the main battles within Western liberal democracies over the last
seventy years has been the war between partisanship and objectivity.
Those on the side of partisanship see politics as a war between
interests, like labor versus capital or minorities versus the majority.
Objectivists see politics as a battle about finding the best solution
for the problems of society. For them, even their own narrow interests
must take a back seat to the truth. Being right counts for everything.

The partisans have always had the advantage, because they correctly
understand that the “right answer” or even the “best answer” is a matter
of perspective. Your class or identity interests shape your ideology and
you will always see as the correct answer that which fits your ideology.
Put another way, it is human nature to root for your own team, whether
you do so consciously or unconsciously. Those who think they are being
objective are just flattering themselves.

Once free of the restraint of objectivity, partisans are free to press
their interests through whatever means are available. They are not
constrained by the rules, because like all things in politics, the rules
are a means to an end. Forcing an opponent to abide by their rules,
while you violate them, for example, is perfectly acceptable, as long as
it advances your group interests. The most recent election is a great
example of partisanship triumphing over objectivity.

A good example of how this clash of world views has been going on for a
long time is <a
href="https://www.amren.com/blog/2020/12/arthur-jensens-phil-donahue-intelligence-genetics/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post</a> from American
Renaissance. A long lost interview of the great IQ researcher Arthur
Jensen was discovered on YouTube or maybe re-posted to YouTube. It is
from the old daytime chat show called The Phil Donahue Show. Long
forgotten at this point, Donahue was the godfather of the modern daytime
chat show. He was the first to involve the audience in a town hall style
format.

If you watch just a few minutes of the interview, you see Jensen was
trying to answer the questions about the facts in his work. Donahue, on
the other hand, is not interested in the facts, but how he can use them
to further the cause. Donahue was one of the smarmier television
liberals at the time. He was the Bill Maher of the 80’s, infamous for
tricking guests into coming on his show, only to put them in terrible
positions, in which they inevitably looked foolish or disreputable.

Early in the interview, Donahue knows he cannot use the old liberal gag
of dismissing an enemy as stupid, so he keeps shifting the focus from
the facts in the book to the alleged motivations for writing about them.
He wants the audience to come away thinking that Jensen is an immoral
person for having an interest in the topic, so good people should
therefore dismiss him out of hand. To the partisan mind, all
disconfirmation is personalized and the person is then anathematized.

In that American Renaissance post, Jared Taylor adds some commentary
about his personal interactions with Arthur Jensen. This comment is
illustrative of that gap between partisans and objectivists. “I was
struck by his mild and profoundly scientific reaction to his attackers.
He wasn’t angry at them; he was baffled. Why couldn’t they just look at
the data?” The partisan knows exactly why he is in the fight, while the
objectivist is perpetually baffled as to why there is a fight.

The objectivist will counter that facts matter and eventually, factual
reality must triumph over wishful thinking. In the case of IQ, for
example, the diversity of intelligence and what it means for modern
society is immutable. Gather up a bunch of 65-IQ Somalis and dump them
into Minneapolis and before long the city is struggling with the sorts
of social problems that come with a 65-IQ population. Intelligence is
driven by genetics, not environment, so these experiments must fail.

The thing is though, while the results of the current experiments with
diversity are certain to fail in the long run, there is no guarantee
that the critics will be around to see their predictions proven correct.
Another immutable truth is the future belongs to the winners of today,
for better or worse. Being right, but losing the fight over who will
shape the future simply guarantees you will be proven correct. That
makes being right hardly worth the effort, unless you are a masochist.

This has been the story of all opposition to Progressive racialism in
America since the middle of the last century. The opponents go on about
facts and reason, while the radicals scheme to get around those
objections. Maybe it is anathematizing an opponent by calling him a
racist, as with IQ researchers. Maybe it is violating the rules, while
forcing the other side to obey the rules. At every turn over the last
three generations, the partisans have beaten the truth-speakers.

Interestingly, this is the one bit of objective reality that the
objectivists always find a way to look past in their analysis. When it
is pointed out to conservatives that they have managed to conserve
nothing, they have no answer. The best they can muster is the weak claim
that playing to win makes you no better than the Left, which is suggests
they are not committed to the causes they claim to champion. Instead, it
is about their personal honor. They want to lose with dignity.

Taylor finishes his commentary on Jensen with the following sentence.
“He was a model of dignity, courage, and fair-mindedness for all
dissidents.” On a personal level, this is a fine sentiment, but lousy
advise. In this long twilight struggle to save the West, those concerned
with dignity, courage, and fair-mindedness must be relegated to the
drawing room to comfort the women, while those willing to do whatever is
necessary go out and subvert the enemy on the field of partisan
politics.

This should not be read to mean that the answer to Progressive
radicalism is to ape their tactics. In fact, that is usually the wrong
course. The Left deployed their street terrorist this year hoping to
draw a response, which they were prepared to use in their election
efforts. They can do this because they control the courts and the
police, so the tactic is low cost for them. For dissidents, however,
such a tactic is high cost and promises a small or even negative return.

Instead, the dissident must learn to view “dignity, courage, and
fair-mindedness” as tools in his political toolkit. When they advance
the cause, they can be deployed, but when they weaken the effort, use
other tools. Like the craftsman, the partisan dissident uses his tools
in furtherance of the project. No one cares if the master craftsman is
dignified or fair-minded. He is judged on his work. The dissident right
will be judged by its deeds, not by its adherence to abstract personal
qualities.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="mkfBFywByxGUfofVPFPLwA==cb7IDCPrWEci34oFoOHwsIueRfQnW4Jr+1jEm8be/lO2mairKR646GkcGfHjoyOf0nv"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="i6vE73Skh1IdIDfTnQ6GFA==cb76fU4WvF0711xP6hi1VQuA/Bf22iLxfYqFG6CfzB1gIKQ0rc0dEO9/qRqTFviP8Pr"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
