---
title: "Parable Of The Lizard People"
date: "2020-07-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20985"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20985"
---

Imagine a strange world that is inhabited by a variety of intelligent
life forms, rather than just one like on earth. These life forms are not
just different tribes or races like here on earth, but different
species. That means no interbreeding between the groups, so they remain
separate and distinct. Here on earth, humans are the smartest beasts on
the planet, so we sit at the top of the hierarchy. On this alien world,
the top of the hierarchy is a crowded place populated with these
different intelligent species.

One group evolved from a serpent-like ancestor, so they retain many of
the features we would associate with reptiles. Unlike a lizard here in
earth, they are like the aliens from the movie *They Live*, in that they
can appear to be familiar to those around them. This is one of their
main advantages as a species. They sort of fit in with the other species
when they want to do it, so they are able to influence the other
intelligent species. This allows them to avoid direct confrontation with
the other intelligent life forms.

Another intelligent species evolved from something bird-like. Like birds
and reptiles here on earth, this groups shares a distant relative with
the lizard people, but it is too far back for them to share many
similarities. One branch went the bird way and then a bird-like humanoid
way in the distinct past. The lizard people went reptilian and the
evolved into the smart lizard people of the present. The bird are much
more efficient breeders, so they have the ability to increase and
decrease their numbers quickly.

Another group went down the primate path like humans. They split into
two branches at some point in the past. One group turned out to be a
dumber, brutish ape-like creature that lives in caves and is prone to
violence. The other branch ended up something closer to what we think of
as humans, but still apish. They are like the apes from the *Planet of
the Apes* movies. All of these species are smart enough and aware enough
to grasp their relationship with one another.

The lizard people are smaller in number, but nature has endowed them
with great cleverness as a force multiplier. The bird people are smart
as well, but not quite as smart as the lizard people. They have greater
numbers when necessary. The cave-apes, of course, are quite dumb, while
the yard apes are pretty smart. They can be as smart as the bird people,
but they are a notoriously individualist species. They tend to cluster
in small groups while the bird people organized into large flocks.

Now, these are all species of varying intelligence, so instead of
relying on the natural evolutionary processes to sort out their
differences, they reason them through. The lizard people, despite being
small in number, tend to control things. The bird people feel a natural
kinship with the lizard people, for the most part, but they also compete
with the lizard people for control. The lizard people will use the
cave-apes as an ally in these fights, while the bird people will try to
recruit the yard apes.

Into this system of interlocking loyalties and rivalries comes a new
group of intelligent creatures from some other planet. These are much
closer to humans, with a wide range of skills and intelligence. They are
refugees from a nearby planet and settle onto this new world. Initially,
they hope to reason with the host species to carve out a place for
themselves in this complex set of relations. After all, these are all
intelligent species that can solve problems and avoid conflicts.

What they find is none of the groups in these coalitions want to open up
to them. The lizard people, in fact, dedicate their efforts to keeping
the new group outside the coalition, even trying to oppress them. They
encourage the yard apes to attack the new comers and organized the cave
apes to harass them. The bird people see no reason to side with the
newcomers, as they don’t want to go to war with the lizard people and
their cave ape army. The planetary coalition remains closed.

The new people now face a dilemma. They can leave, but there is no
guarantee they can find a new world that will welcome them or be able to
sustain them. They can stay and allow themselves to be preyed upon by
the apes. Maybe if they defend themselves well enough, they can win a
long war of attrition and bring the lizard people to the negotiating
table. Alternatively, they can go to war with the current system and
find ways to shatter the current relationships.

Naturally, the first choice will be to find another world, as this is
not a war-like species, but the facts eventually make this unreasonable.
That leaves the long war of defense or the possible shorter war of
offense. Either choice means violence. The only way to survive is to
either smash the current arrangements or drive up the costs to the
people at the top of it until they yield. That either means war on the
lizard people or a long war against their ape-like proxies.

Fundamentally, this is the logic of political violence. The group
committing the violence on behalf of their cause is assuming there is no
other option. Muslim terrorism in the West is the long war of attrition.
They don’t think they can negotiate with the West, which they see as the
aggressor, so it is the long war model. The Civil Rights movement was
the other option. The people behind it were using black violence to
overthrow the natural order, controlled by a white elite.

This is a useful way to consider the current organized street violence.
The people doing it have access to power. Many are the sons and
daughters, sometimes both at the same time, of the people at the top.
They have that initial option of petitioning for redress and negotiating
for new rules. This is what makes them the cave apes in our fantasy
world described in the above scenario. They may think they are
revolutionaries, but they are actually tools of the prevailing order.

The people being assaulted and attacked, the white shop owners and
residents in these areas are the newcomers in our scenario. It’s why
there are no corporate sponsors for their side, as we see with the
attackers. These riots are one step from having commercials from Amazon
and Goldman Sacks. “This assault on an old white man walking his dog is
brought to you by Amazon World Services.” It’s also why no one in charge
thinks anything is wrong or this needs to be stopped.

The one difference between our reality and the conjured reality of the
above scenario is the people under attack in our world lack
self-awareness. They think they are in charge and that the corporations
and politicians will respond to market pressure. You can be sure most of
them think they will have their revenge in November. They think “get
woke, go broke” is a reflection of reality. A big part of the war being
waged on them is a psyop to reinforce this false consciousness.

Another important difference is the math of the situation. On the alien
world, the existing species have the numbers on their side. In this
world, the ruling coalition does not have numerical superiority. Once
the people being attacked realize there is no negotiating with the
lizard people and there is no escaping the situation, the math of the
situation becomes the most salient aspect of the fight. The only
question is how long will it take for the people under siege to grasp
the reality of their situation.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
