---
title: "The Flynn Puzzle"
date: "2020-05-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20553"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20553"
---

Imagine you are out and about and you come upon something that is so
incongruous, you can’t help but take note of it. Maybe it is a car
parked on the roof of an old barn or a cat chasing a horse around a
field. The thing itself is not all that interesting, but its
improbability or its incongruousness is what gets your attention. How is
it possible that a horse is afraid of a cat? Why would someone put a car
on a barn? The strangeness of the possible reasons is what draws your
attention.

That’s what is happening with the General Flynn case. Originally, it
looked like the same old political shenanigans we always see in
Washington. The establishment wants a scalp to parade around so they
find a patsy to frame for a minor crime. In the case of Flynn, the inner
party needed some red meat for their crazies. Over time, it became clear
that the FBI had framed him and the careerists in the system were
working to prevent that reality from becoming explicit to the public.

At some point, it was too obvious to everyone to maintain the charade,
so the information that was being hidden for three years was made public
and the DOJ moved to dismiss the case. The people who conspired to frame
Flynn were not being charged and the people who systematically concealed
information from the courts for three years were not fired. Instead the
whole thing would be made to go away. At some point, Flynn would be paid
for his trouble and his silence.

Then, the judge went crazy and started doing things to keep the case
open for no obvious reason. He invited outside parties to file briefs
with the court and then assigned a retired judge to act as prosecutor,
going so far as to give him leeway to bring new charges. At the same
time, someone rounded up a bunch of former justice officials to lobby
the court against dismissing the case. The defense has now filed an
appeal asking the court to force the judge to follow the law.

The whole thing is so bizarre, some are wondering if the judge presiding
over the case has possibly had some sort of mental break. He’s had a
reputation for being a stickler for procedure and for being tough on
prosecutors. He was the judge who handled the <a
href="https://www.dcbar.org/bar-resources/publications/washington-lawyer/articles/october-2009-ted-stevens.cfm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ted Stevens case</a>, where
the FBI and DOJ conspired to frame then Senator Ted Stevens on
corruption charges. Many expected him to react in a similar way once it
was clear that General Flynn had been framed by the FBI and DOJ.

Instead, Sullivan has gone bonkers in what appears to be an effort to
drag this out for months or maybe even years. Since the Supreme Court
has been unanimously clear on this issue, the odds of this going on much
longer are slim. Sullivan has to know that a few weeks ago, the U.S.
Supreme Court issued a 9-0 decision, authored by Justice Ginsburg, that
took judges to task for similar actions. In fact,
<a href="https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/19pdf/19-67_n6io.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">that case</a> is eerily
similar to what Sullivan in doing in the Flynn case.

We are in Sherlock Holmes territory now. That is, once you eliminate the
impossible, whatever remains, no matter how improbable, must be the
truth. In this case, what we are seeing cannot be explained by an
ongoing conspiracy to frame Flynn. That horse left the barn a long time
ago. Similarly, we can eliminate a cover-up. The DOJ has released the
documents exposing what happened. Other disclosures make clear that
Flynn was a target of the Obama administration for years.

One possible reason for the actions of the judge is that he has been
blackmailed or extorted by people involved in this caper. If that were
the case, they would have forced him to shut this thing down a long time
ago. Flynn was forced to sign a confession years ago, so the judge could
have sentenced him and called it a day. Appealing a confession, even a
coerced one, takes years. Flynn would have done his time and been free
by the time the case made it through the courts.

Another possibility is the judge knows something that he cannot reveal,
but that maybe this new outside prosecutor could reveal. That would make
for a great plot to a movie or TV drama, but the legal system does not
work that way. If he had some secret intelligence, he could easily have
it passed to Flynn’s defense team. He could order the people with the
information to appear in his court and answer questions. There is no
reason for the judge to play cloak and dagger this way.

Now, there may be some political benefit to dragging out the Flynn case.
It is possible the Democrats think they need to maintain this charade in
order to maintain the larger charade of impeachment. In an effort to
gain access to secret grand jury testimony, they have <a
href="https://jonathanturley.org/2020/05/19/perpetual-impeachment-house-democrats-tell-the-supreme-court-that-they-are-preparing-for-a-new-impeachment/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">told the court</a> they are
preparing another round of impeachment. The trouble with this scenario
is they would be better served with the Flynn case being dismissed, so
they could then wave it around as part of some conspiracy.

There is the possibility that the Flynn case is tied to something that
has yet to be revealed to the public. Maybe as long as Flynn remains in
legal jeopardy, he is prohibited from talking about certain issues.
After all, the FBI did threaten his family at one point. There’s no
escaping the fact that Obama himself had a personal interest in the
Flynn case.  There were high level meetings in the Oval Office about
what should be a trivial issue. Why does Team Obama hate Flynn so much?

That seems to be the turtle on the fence post here. Flynn is not some
big shot political operator with a lot of enemies. He’s one of the
thousands of careerists who will work with both parties. It was
President Obama who made Flynn director of the Defense Intelligence
Agency, thus beginning his civilian career. He probably would have
joined the next administration, if asked, regardless of the party.
General Flynn was on his way to becoming part of the semi-permanent
ruling class.

Something happened in 2014 that turned the Obama people against him. His
term as director of the Defense Intelligence Agency was ended. A
systematic leaking campaign to the media about Flynn started around the
same time. When he joined the Trump campaign, it appears the Obama
administration began a surveillance operation against him, using not
only the FBI, but the NSA, CIA and even Treasury. People at the very top
of the Obama administration had some reason to hate General Flynn.

The puzzle is what could it be? It is entirely possible that this whole
sordid affair is like the Watergate scandal. That is, people far down
the food chain from the White House abused their power in some petty
political shenanigans. Then they cooked up tales of Flynn working with
the Russians as a cover story. By the time this was obvious, lots of
administration people were implicated in a cover-up. Like Watergate, a
minor scandal grew into a monster that consumed the administration.

Alternatively, maybe the full reading the Flynn case, once all the
shouting and disclosures are done, will reveal a wide-scale, systematic
use of government institution for political operations. People forget
about Lois Lerner using the IRS to harass conservative groups in the
2012 election cycle. There’s now a <a
href="https://theohiostar.com/2020/05/18/exclusive-the-treasury-department-spied-on-flynn-manafort-and-the-trump-family-says-whistleblower/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">whistle blower</a> claiming
Treasury was spying on Team Trump and others. Perhaps if any of these
cases is fully revealed, it threatens to reveal a much bigger picture.

All of this is fun speculation and none of it could be true. The problem
is none of the explanations offered up so far to explain the Flynn case
make any sense. Throw in the bizarre behavior of the judge and it
suggests there is something behind all of this that is much bigger than
General Flynn. The extraordinary efforts being made to run out the clock
on all of this suggest it is vitally important to permanent Washington.
Solving this puzzle may be the only reason to vote for Trump this fall.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
