---
title: "The Narcotic Of Outrage"
date: "2020-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20349"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20349"
---

The legacy right-wing media is working hard to breathe life into the
story about Joe Biden sexually harassing a women decades ago. Tara Reade
has been turning up on conservative chat shows to tell her story.
Evidence to support her claims has been circulating around the internet.
One can’t help but be impressed by the effort to locate old television
show clips and old acquaintances familiar with the event. That, of
course, raises suspicions about who is behind this effort.

As usual, the so-called conservatives are flabbergasted to learn that
the media is working hard to ignore the story. The same people who were
hyperventilating about the goofy old women accusing Bret Kavanaugh are
now too busy fabricating stories about hero nurses to bother with
politics. Here’s <a
href="https://reason.com/2020/03/30/joe-biden-tara-reade-sexual-assault-media/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a piece</a> by Reason Magazine
wondering why the media is ignoring the story. Here’s <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/04/joe-biden-allegations-tara-reade-calls-out-democrats-metoo-double-standard/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a post</a> by National Review
about the media’s double standard. They are shocked by the hypocrisy.

Most people on this side of the great divide no longer pay attention to
this stuff, as it is like watching an old movie that you liked at the
time, but you now realize was not very good after all. The Legacy Right
has not aged well. In fact, a lot of people struggle to admit that there
was a time when they were really into this stuff. The truth is though,
almost everyone on this side of the great divide used to be really into
these tales of left-wing hypocrisy. It mattered for some reason.

That’s the thing though. Why is anyone still fascinated with this angle
of attack at this point in time? If you are under the age of 90, the
so-called double standard has been a feature of politics your entire
life. The complaining about it has been a staple of your politics until
you made the journey over the great divide. The complaints never change
and they never have the desired impact. It turns out that the people in
charge are not swayed by appeals to their virtue or appeals to their
sense of fairness.

It is one thing to play the long game. It is quite another to keep
performing the same rituals over and over expecting some miracle, only
to see nothing change. Even the truest of true believers starts to doubt
after a while. Yet, the Official Right never seems to waver on this
stuff. When Brett Kavanaugh was being assaulted, they did the same
things they did when Clarence Thomas was assaulted. In fact, they were
giddy. It was like they were working from a script.

It’s not an age thing either. It would be understandable if the people
performing these rituals were old guys who spent their life doing this
dance. The Reason writer is in his 20’s according to his bio. The
National Review writer looks like he may still be in high school, but is
probably fresh out of Hillsdale or Yale. If you are over 50, you have
seen three generations work from the same script with the same results.
A cynical person would suspect that this is not entirely an accident.

There’s no doubt that the people paid to stand around yelling at trains
perform these rituals because they are told to do so. The people funding
the Official Right are the same people funding the Official Left. This
level of politics is intended to be theater to sustain the illusion of
choice. You, the active citizen, are supposed to pick a team, put on
their jersey and yell at your television every night. The
political-entertainment complex has its formulas just like television
and movies.

The puzzle though is why so many people fall for it. You can be sure
that the people who read Breitbart will be fully enraged by the
hypocrisy. The comment section there will be full of ritualized grunts
and groans to signal unhappiness over how this poor woman was treated by
old hairy legs Biden. They will be in ecstasy when Trump retweets a
story about this or maybe likes a Tara Reade tweet. The campaign
probably has that event on the calendar for this summer.

It may seem pointless to wonder about this, but any effort to alter the
political dynamic must first start with breaking this conditioning.
Simply pointing out to these true believers that their outrage is wasted
does not work. If you went into the comment section of Breitbart and
pointed this out, you would get shouted down as some sort of commie
liberal. The same is true with social media. Confront these people on
Twitter and they will just block you. They are programmed that way.

For a very large swath of right-wing people, even many on this side of
the great divide, valiantly losing is a powerful narcotic. That’s at the
core of the “let it burn” chorus regarding the coming economic
depression. There’s some deep-seated belief that only through utter
destruction can the sins of the modern age be washed for the collective
soul of the people. It’s the other side of following the hypocrisy
script. Instead of shared outrage, it is shared despondency.

That probably is the real narcotic of these quixotic battles we keep
seeing. They provide a sense of security and community in a world where
being “right-wing” means being an isolated individual in perpetual
competition with his fellow citizens. The alternative to the Left has
always been the lonely isolation of individualism, with the exception of
these outrage rituals. Like solitary woodsmen coming into the village
for a festival, it is a time to reestablish their humanity.

This is the trick of alternative politics. It’s not about grand plans or
sophisticated meta-political discussions. It is about offering an
alternative community. Libertarians, despite the ridiculousness of their
cause, hang together because membership in the community provides a
sense of belonging and bestows upon them a sense of dignity. That
sideline they imagine to be the high ground is not a lonely place.
Imagine a similar movement built around something based in observable
reality.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
