---
title: "Covid Update"
date: "2020-07-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20807"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20807"
---

As the inner party feverishly tries to create enthusiasm for a second
panic over the coronavirus pandemic, it is a good time to take a look at
what has actually happened with the virus to this point. It is easy to
forget, given the fire hose of nonsense that comes at us every day, but
we were all supposed to be dead by now. Maybe not all of us, but a lot
of us, a lot more than actually died. Instead, most of us are here,
social distancing and wearing humiliation masks to please the rulers.

In fairness to the people who made the initial projections, the only way
to get any attention in this age is to make outlandish claims.
Everything about the modern media culture has evolved to reward the
freaks, the crazy and the outlandishly dishonest, so the model makers
probably felt they were doing the right thing. They wanted the rulers to
treat the virus as a serious threat, so they were okay with rolling out
doomsday predictions that were not grounded in reality.

That has not stopped so-called experts from putting out [nonsense
studies](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/01/official-us-coronavirus-death-toll-is-a-substantial-undercount-of-actual-tally-new-yale-study-finds.html)
to feed the demands of alarmists. The under-counted fallacy will
probably be with us through the election, as that promotes second wave
fantasies. In realty, the death toll from the virus is probably
overstated, but it is [going down
quickly](https://issuesinsights.com/2020/06/25/falling-covid-19-death-rates-are-even-smaller-than-they-look/)
nonetheless. That’s because of two things that we see with all
pandemics. One is the most vulnerable die first and the other is herd
immunity. Covid is following the same course.

A good example of the power of mass media to warp the truth is how the
phrase “herd immunity” was quickly turned into an epithet. Even now,
alarmist sneer about herd immunity as if it is voodoo. The fact is, the
way forward for this thing was always going to be reaching an infection
level that slowed the spread of the disease. The only question was how
quickly it could happen, without creating problems in the health care
system like shortages and overcrowding.

That was the whole point of the lock downs. There’s never going to be a
vaccine and there was never going to be an eradication of the virus.
We’ve been trying to come up with a vaccine for a coronavirus for a long
time. Nothing has come close to working, so planning for one is foolish.
Instead, the best approach is to get the young and healthy out there
infecting one another and building up their immunity. By young and
healthy, it means under 60 and free of serious diseases.

In other words, the lock downs were a dumb idea. Perhaps they were
understandable in a panic, as [politicians are
stupid](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-06-24/sweden-s-epidemiologist-says-world-went-mad-imposing-lockdowns)
and like mischief. Now they make no sense at all, at least in terms of
dealing with the virus. If there is going to be a second wave, it will
be an [economic
wave](https://www.aier.org/article/again-what-were-the-benefits-of-locking-down/).
The inevitable Covid flare ups in pockets of the country this fall will
simply be the result of slowing the natural spread of the virus and
delaying the progress toward the [Herd Immunity
Threshold](https://jbhandleyblog.com/home/2020/6/28/secondwave).

As an aside, herd immunity does not mean the entire herd must be exposed
and develop antibodies. It can mean that, but it can also mean that
everyone who could get sick and die from a disease, gets sick and dies.
In this case, however, it simply means an infection level where the odds
of an infected person contacting a non-infected person falls below a
certain threshold. The virus, not having a ready supply of new hosts
dies out before infecting the whole population.

For those interested, the panic over Covid is a useful primer on why
mass democracy coupled with mass media is a suicide pact. If America was
run by a dictator or even a junta, the first step in fighting the
disease would be controlling the flow of information about the disease.
The media would be tightly controlled and prevented from spreading fake
stories about overrun hospitals and people dying in the streets. In
fact, we may not even know there was a pandemic at all.

Second, and probably more important, attention whores with outlandish
claims would have no platform to spread their nonsense. Instead, the
people who know about these things would give their advice to the
rulers, who would then make policy. The loons and cranks would be sent
to a camp if they got out of line. No one making policy or advising on
policy would have an incentive to get attention from the mobs. There
would be no market for crazy talk and fear mongering.

That’s what we have seen with Covid. The sober minded virologist
advising caution in public policy gets pushed aside in favor of TV clown
with dubious credentials. Millions of innumerate people are on social
media chattering with one another about facts that they don’t
understand. The result of America’s Covid response has been an increase
in the levels of stupidity in the public. Everyone is now dumber for
having had to put up with months of ridiculous claims about the virus.

The fact is, this [brilliant
post](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20069) from March was right all
along. Months ago, it was clear that the lock down strategy would not do
what was claimed. Even if it did slow the spread of the disease, that
was not a good thing. The cost of locking down a country would be
prohibitively high. If we lived in a just country, the curve benders
would be rounded up by the ruler and executed. The right answer was to
prepare the public and the hospitals to tough out what would be a very
bad flu season.

That is the one bit of good news in all of this. The public is
increasingly cynical about everything they hear from the ruling class.
The lies and sadistic punishments in the virus panic moved a lot of
people from partisan to hostile. The effort to gin up a phony second
wave panic to help Joe Biden in the election will probably be met with a
second wave of hostility, much bigger than the first. The ruling class
spent what was left of its legitimacy on this virus panic.

In the end, what we have is a very expensive lesson in the folly of mass
democracy and mass media. Both are based on the premise that the more
stupid people you add to the mix, the greater the collective
intelligence of the whole. It’s as if group intelligence works in
series, rather than parallel. In reality, the more people participating
in politics, the faster dumb ideas are created and allowed to zoom
around the system. We’ve reached a point where our society is no longer
able to perform the basics.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
