---
title: "The Great Dilution"
date: "2020-01-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19522"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19522"
---

The inner workings of a society’s ruling elite are always opaque to the
people of the society, mostly because the elite fear the people. They
think if their true thoughts were ever made public, the people would
turn on them. This is mostly true throughout history, but it has become
especially true in the age of democracy. One of the features of
democracy is that the people elect representatives, who secretly hate
them, but are very good at keeping that from becoming obvious.

Still, people in modern democracies can get a sense of what the rulers
think about them and what they are planning. The modern mass media,
which is just the marketing department for the managerial elite, is the
best source. The ads and programs on television reveal a lot about the
elites. The fetish for miscegenation, for example, tells us things about
the ruling class they would otherwise deny. The same can be said for the
proliferation of homosexuals in the media.

One take away from the miscegenation fetish on television is that the
elites imagine a future in which there are no races. This turns up in
movies about the future, where everyone is a mulatto. It’s often assumed
that the elites are lying when they chant about the horrors of racism,
but in reality, anti-racism is a religion for them. They really do
believe this stuff, even if they have no interest in race mixing
themselves. They truly think a world without races will be a world
without racism.

Of course, it is not just a dream for them. They are actively promoting
it and it is not just about wish fulfillment. In <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Whiteshift-Populism-Immigration-Future-Majorities/dp/1468316974/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the book</a> *Whiteshift:
Populism, Immigration, and the Future of White Majorities*, by Eric
Kaufmann, the author not only predicts a great mixing of the races due
to migration, but he lays out ideas on how to achieve it without white
people catching onto the scheme. There’s that sense that the gray future
planned by his kind is more about vengeance than natural reality.

The miscegenation fetish in the mass media is, of course, mostly about
advocacy and it does have an impact on public thinking. It’s just not in
the way the elite opinion makers think it works. For example, the
proliferation of homosexuals has not made people more accepting of
homosexuals. It has just made people more aware of them. In fact, people
are so aware of the gays, they think their numbers are <a
href="https://news.gallup.com/poll/259571/americans-greatly-overestimate-gay-population.aspx"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">vastly higher</a>, at least in
terms of percentages, than is reality. Everyone sees gay people now.

Something similar is at work with miscegenation in the media. Almost all
ads now have mixed race people in them. It’s becoming so common; the ad
makers now seem to be in a race to come up with the least likely
combination. One ad for an insurance firm matched a Jewish man with an
aboriginal from Australia in an American city. You have a better chance
of being struck by lightning as you cash in your winning lottery ticket
than ever seeing such a combination in North America.

The result of this is Americans think miscegenation is much more common
than the numbers or biology support. People have become tuned to seeing
mixed race couple, so they remember it more than the millions of normal
couples. At about the forty-five minute mark of
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZ9OSdrh7C0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this video</a>, Ed Dutton and
Michael Woodley go into the reality of inter-racial mating. They also
address the data Eric Kaufmann incorrectly uses in his argument in favor
of breeding away white people.

The short version for those unwilling to watch a video on the subject is
that humans are naturally disinclined to miscegenation. One reason for
this is we are naturally attracted to people who look like us. The point
of mating is reproduction and the point of reproduction is to pass on a
copy of your genes to the next generation. The more similar the mate,
the more likely you both have shared genetics. That means the greater
the odds of your DNA making it to the next round.

Now, there are more mixed-race couples today, for sure, but they are
less stable and produce fewer off-spring than normal pairings. Part of
it is cultural, for sure. The reason people race mix is they see it
celebrated in popular culture, so they seek status by finding a mate
outside their race. This is particularly true of women. The trouble is
biology gets in the way. These arrangements don’t last long and they
don’t produce many off-spring. <a
href="https://philipperushton.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/race-genetic-similarity-rushton-indoctrinability-warfare-ideology-1998.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Rushton</a> studied this two
decades ago.

Like so many things regarding the mixing of the races, genetic distance
seems to be the root of the dilemma. The greater the genetic distance
between people, the lower the sexual attraction between them. It is why
elite media prefers black women with white features over the typical
looking black women. A black woman who just looks like a very tan white
woman will appeal to white males. That’s not reality though, so that
genetic distance problem will be a brake on miscegenation.

There’s also the reality of cultural status. The ruling class is the
least likely to engage in miscegenation. They are the least likely to
enjoy the benefits of diversity. The ruling elite live like white
nationalists. Their neighborhoods look like the typical white suburb of
the early 1960’s. They send their pure white children to private schools
with other pure white children. Sure, they have some diversity on the
school sports team, but those highly selected non-whites are for
decoration only.

Everyone else notices this. In one of his
<a href="https://youtu.be/r3n63oLKp-g" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">most amusing and informative videos</a>, Ed Dutton
explains how status works in this regard. The top-tier women in every
society will seek high status males. If they can find males outside
their group, that have higher status than the males in their group, they
will be open to them. Similarly, males who can better deal themselves by
looking outside for a mate will do the same thing. It’s why white guys
like East Asian women these days.

In America, it means the better white women will seek out high status
white males or Jewish males, not black guys on the basketball team.
Middle of the road white guys will go shopping for Asians, if they
cannot find a white woman of equal quality. Race mixing will be mostly
bottom tier white women, who are repulsive to even the lowest status
white male. This is, in fact, what we see today. Miscegenation is far
more common in the underclass than anywhere else.

The great dilution will mostly fail. There will be a Brazilian-style
mulatto class, but it will be mostly a novelty. On the other hand, that
genetic distance issue will remain a factor. The multicultural future
will mean people with a great genetic distance thrown in together.
Instead of the great dilution favored by people like Eric Kaufmann,
society will become less stable and conflict will increase. Genetic
distance not only thwarts miscegenation, it thwarts peaceful
coexistence.

**Note:** Some have asked why comments end up in moderation. This is the
doings of the spam filter I’m using. It is often triggered by epithets,
certain links and mysterious word combinations. These messages get
flagged as possible spam. Now, in half a dozen years it has blocked over
3.5 million spam messages, so it is trade-off I accept. It means I check
the moderation queue once an hour or so. I approve the real comments and
trash the spam. Otherwise, there is no moderation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
