---
title: "Market Report Week Two"
date: "2020-03-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20148"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20148"
---

It may feel like this panic has gone on for a month, but in reality we
are just in our second full week. Technically, the panic began the
Thursday after Trump’s speech in which he announced the closing of air
traffic from Europe. That was the 18th of March, so we are in day 12
now. The real frenzy did not get going until the weekend, when governors
started telling people the end is upon us. Last week was the first full
week of people sheltering in place and treated one another like lepers.

The market always offers lots of lessons about the reality of social
organization. In the best of times, you see how poorly people naturally
organize. The best argument against libertarianism is simply going
outside and watching people. Now, the best argument against curve
flattening is to see how people behave when told they must assume
everyone else has a deadly plague. They take symbolic steps to defend
themselves, but the practical necessity of life overcomes those efforts.

At the ghetto market, the poor people, migrants and minorities are doing
nothing different from what they normally do. You’ll see some blacks
wearing masks, more on that later, but otherwise nothing is different.
The store itself is not engaging in the defensive measures you see in
suburbia. It’s not that these people are careless or stupid, but that
they have a different sense of risk. When you have less to lose, you
have less to fear, especially when your neighbor is scarier than a
virus.

In the suburbs where the beautiful people live, the market operates like
a German concentration camp. On the way in a nice older gentlemen wipes
down your cart and directs you to the delousing station for inspection.
Once you are sanitized, you enter the otherwise normal market. Again,
the blacks have masks on and some old people will look like they are
working in a nuclear facility, but otherwise people are spreading their
cooties on one another as they do in regular times.

This is the skeptic versus curve bender in a nutshell. The curve benders
live and work outside the confines of reality, so their schemes sound
reasonable. In the real world where such schemes go to die, something
else is happening. That is, people are already starting to show signs of
weariness. The cashier whispered to me that she and the other cashiers
are getting sick of the nonsense. There’s talk of collective action to
either get more pay or stop forcing them to do all this extra work.

This is something people learn when they have to manage people. Just
because they are paid to follow your instructions does not mean they
will. You have to convince them to accept the rules so they become
instinct. That can only happen when those rules do not conflict with
their natural instincts or create what appears to be an unnecessary
burden on them. Every captain knows the morale of his crew is his top
priority, as it is the only way they can be counted on to follow orders.

In theory, locking everyone in their homes until the virus dies out is a
great way to slow the spread and eventually eradicate it. After all,
this is what the Chinese supposedly did in Wuhan and who does not trust
the Chinese? In reality, people will go along with this for a little
while, but they will soon tire of it. That and we are not China. Too
many Americans will simply ignore the precautions. Unless they
immediately drop over dead, they become the example everyone follows.

One amusing exception to all of this, as usual, are black people. In the
beautiful people areas, rich Asians can be seen wearing masks in the
best of times. This is a cultural habit they bring with them. In this
panic, blacks have jumped on the mask-wearing craze in a big way. At the
market, it is not rare to see a black now wearing a mask and colorful
rubber gloves. Black people love display items. It is a good bet that
masks and other gear get Africanized as fashion accessories.

Another reason blacks are jumping on the mask craze is they fear the
unknown in ways most white people cannot grasp. It is why they are more
likely to believe in ghosts than other races. It’s also why they fall
for nonsense like white privilege so easily. To them, it is just another
spooky thing about white people that they cannot see, but they are sure
must exist. It is just one of the hidden forces that control events.
This virus will be the best crime fighting too Lagos has seen in
generations.

Anyone who has had to manage a large number of people knows that
sentiment can turn quickly against you, unless you stay on top of it.
It’s why sportsball coaches have locker room insiders to tell them the
mood of the players. It’s why every military has a layer between the
officers and the enlisted men. More than a few grand schemes have been
undermined by a quiet rebellion in the ranks. This is something we are
already seeing that will become more evident next week.

This is why Trump is getting antsy about getting people back to work.
It’s not because of the economy, although that is one reason. It’s
because he has managed lots of people and he knows this dynamic. By next
week, whatever benefit there was to this lock down will have been
achieved. The inevitable wholesale revolt against it will make the whole
enterprise pointless. Trump will want to be seen as leading the charge
to get the nation back to work, so expect that to be the topic a week
from now.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
