---
title: "The Unconservatives"
date: "2020-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21261"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21261"
---

The defining feature of Conservatism over the last quarter century or
more is that it steadfastly refuses to consider the consequences of its
dogma. In fact, part of its dogma is to reject any consideration of
consequences. Conservatives proudly state that the means justifies the
ends. If policy fits conservative ideology, then the results are by
definition acceptable. You see that myopia at work in their latest
fetish over zoning regulations in the suburbs and exurbs.

The American Conservative has been running [posts like this
one](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/urbs/zoning-reform-is-not-leftism/)
that claim the suburbs need to be exposed to predatory developers. The
marketplace should decide if a chemical plant is built next to the
school or a federally subsidized tenement is constructed in your town.
After all, every conservative knows that the will of the marketplace is
supreme. The only way for anything to be legitimate is if it is the
result of the invisible hand of the marketplace.

Of course, National Review has also jumped onto this fetish. [This
post](https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/08/housing-policy-suburbs-state-local-reforms-needed/)
from last month in response to the Trump administration trashing some
Obama era housing regulations demands the suburbs be deregulated. He
also makes the conservative case for exposing local communities to the
whim of developers. The irony here is the author lives in one of the
most regulated suburbs on the planet. In fact, Northern Virginia would
not exist as it does if not for the federal government.

Like the fetish for legalizing drugs or hardcore pornography,
conservatives first start their case by rejecting the obvious
consequences. Any consideration of the knock-on effects of public policy
violate conservative dogma. The only thing that can matter is if these
proposed polices square with what passes for conservative theory. In
this case it means zero government involvement in the regulation of
development. Property owners can do whatever they like with their
property.

Of course, at this stage, conservative theory is barely distinguishable
from libertarian theory, which is nothing more than a pose. It is a way
to stand on the sidelines and pretend to hold the moral high ground. In
this case it means avoiding the real issue at play in this story. That
is the systematic blockbusting of white suburbs by the Left through the
use of federal housing regulations. They are trying to dump non-white
populations into white suburbs in the name of retributive justice.

Rather than think about that, because that is scary and icky, the modern
conservative focuses on the theoretical aspects of the issue. Like the
reformer in Chesterton’s fence, they refuse to wonder why this is an
issue. They refuse to ponder why the Obama people were doing what they
were doing or why local communities have been fighting these efforts
over the years. None of that matters. As is true with all ideologues,
all that matters is the ideological conformity.

The irony here is that what passes for conservatism today is pretty much
the opposite of what conservatism has meant historically. Conservatism
has always prized continuity, as that is the result of generations of
trial and error. Change must come slowly and deliberately with proper
consideration for local customs and concerns. Modern conservatism is the
embrace of constant change, the whirlwind of the marketplace, in total
disregard for community and custom.

Another part of that embrace of continuity is the point of Chesterton’s
fence. The conservative not only knows there are consequences to every
reform, but those consequences will have consequences as well. It’s not
that the Right is adept at seeing the downstream consequences of the
proposed reform, but that they know we cannot always see far enough
downstream to truly know the second order effects of the proposed
reform. Prudence is chief among virtues.

Getting back to housing policy, what we do know is the Left is not
acting from republican virtue when they propose changes to the law. They
are animated by anti-white hatred and the quest for retributive justice.
That is the starting assumption when examining any proposed reform from
the Left. Therefore, the conservative must look at how best to prevent
the consequences the Left imagines. In this case, how best to prevent
the Left from devastating the white suburbs.

As to the issue of property rights, this is another example of how
modern conservatism is an inversion of what conservatism has meant
historically. Conservatives have always understood that rights are the
product of human society. Citizens have rights and one cannot be a
citizen unless they are part of a society. Therefore, the good of the
community comes before the individual. This is why no right is absolute.
There are always situations in which rights give way to the public good.

This is the case of local control of development. The people in the
community live in the community, which means they live with the
consequences of how members dispose of their property. They get a say in
that. Ideally, this is a light touch that relies on the moral scruples
of the community members, but when that fails, the collective good of
the community must prevail. Further, the rights of the outsider, the
developer, do not exist, because the developer lives outside the
community.

It is popular to call the modern conservative controlled opposition.
There is some truth to it for sure, as many are paid by left-wing media
organizations. For most of them, they are just part of another tentacle
of the managerial octopus. Some tentacles lash at the body of society,
while others, like this one, try to cut off oxygen to the brains of
otherwise conservative people. The hope is they will sacrifice
themselves and their community in the name of abstract principles.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
