---
title: "The Failed Experiment Problem"
date: "2020-08-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21119"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21119"
---

At the end of the Cold War, Progressives pointed out that conservatism
no longer had a purpose, so it was probably going to follow communism
into the past. Of course, the Left had its own problems in this regard,
but conservatism in America had largely been about opposing the Soviets.
They had conceded all the important points in the cultural war and the
Left was ready to embrace corporate control of the economy, so there was
no longer any purpose to conservatism.

This was a fair analysis, but one conservatives could not accept, as it
would mean getting real jobs and doing honest work. Instead they tried
to define conservatism as green eye-shade bean counting in the 1990’s.
That was no fun as they like spending borrowed money as much as the
Left. Then they tried to define conservatism to mean dropping high
explosives onto Muslims. That worked for a while, but then the public
soured on the pointless flag waving and hollow patriotism.

In the Obama years, conservatism entered the darkness and it has not
been able to find a way out of it ever since. They tried to rally people
around hating Trump, but that just underscored the bankruptcy of modern
conservatism. Since then, various writers have been trying to figure out
what conservatism is supposed to mean in the age of post-national
globalism. The one enduring feature of the Right has been its roots in
nationalism, so without that, it has no anchor.

This summer, the American Conservative has been running pieces on the
topic from various writers. Here’s <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/conservatism-remains-rooted-in-the-constitution/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">one</a> from July doing the
old constitution bit. Here’s <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/cheerful-allegiance-to-truth/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">one</a> relying on historicism
to define conservatism. A couple of Israelis contributed <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/american-nationalists/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a piece</a> claiming
conservatism is a big shopping mall. This <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/conservatism-is-rooted-in-natural-rights/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">one</a> makes the Straussian
argument that conservatism is rooted in natural rights. Along the same
lines, Yoram Hazony posted
<a href="https://quillette.com/2020/08/16/the-challenge-of-marxism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a long piece at Quillette</a>
about the dangers of Marxism.

The main take-sway from all of this is that no one in conservatism has
the slightest idea how to breathe life into the corpse of their project.
If they are unwilling to reject universalism and egalitarianism, they
cannot embrace nationalism, other than as a shallow rhetorical device.
Yoram Hazony has <a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18094"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">turned himself into a
pretzel</a> trying to promote a nationalism detached from biological
reality. Everyone else is too afraid to go near anything that
contradicts Progressive dogma on biology.

The truth is, the closest America ever came to having a genuine
conservative alternative to Northern Progressivism ended in the Civil
War. Since then the dynamic in America has been the Left innovating and
the Right implementing. The Left, needing to exercise its reform
impulse, finds something to break with novel ideas. The Right then comes
in to clean up after them, finding some way to normalize it. The Robert
Lewis Dabney <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/826117-it-may-be-inferred-again-that-the-present-movement-for"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">observation</a> is has never
ceased to be true.

This is why whatever replaces conservatism as the alternative to the
Progressive orthodoxy has to free of conservatism. It must be a clean
break with that failed tradition of accommodation and obedience. A
genuine alternative, a real competitor to the Left, has to be a
stand-alone moral framework, rather than just a collection of criticisms
and critiques of the liberal moral order. A critique is just a
conditional agreement. That’s always been conservatism, agreement with
conditions.

This may prove to be easiest in Europe, as Europeans have a genuine
conservatism in their past they can pull out of storage. It may have
failed under the pincer assault of Marxism and liberal democracy, but it
offers a foundation to build on. Like an old house with good bones, it
can be rebuilt with modern ideas and understandings. The failings of
liberal democracy now make it a weaker foe than in the past. Liberal
democracy is no longer about promise, but about practice.

For Americans, the task is difficult, as it means jettisoning most of
the American story, maybe even the very concept of American. The
frontier culture that has always been at the root of American mythology
no longer makes a lot of sense in the demographic age with high-density
urban areas. Rugged independence is suicidal when facing a demographic
assault. There’s also the fact that the past has been rewritten to
support the egalitarianism and universalism of the Left.

Then there is that American creed that starts with the assertion that
all men are created equal, endowed with inalienable rights. The
rejection of universal equality is a rejection of the core component of
Americanism. This is the trap that devoured Buckley style conservatism
in the last century. It is simply impossible to forge an alternative to
Progressivism without first rejecting universal equality. To American
ears, that sounds like a rejection of their very identity.

It is not impossible though. Events are what forge ideologies and the
demographic changes sweeping North America will forge new political
constructs. Organizing civil life in a world where the government is no
longer willing or able to control the frontier or police the violent
elements will require new ideologies. Most likely that means a return to
the oldest form of social organization, which is relatedness. The <a
href="https://www.scirp.org/journal/paperinformation.aspx?paperid=102034"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">large society problem</a> will
be solved with racial and ethnic identity.

Ultimately, that is the project facing the West. Liberalism, communism
and to a lesser degree fascism, were all solutions to the large society
problem. Liberal democracy is the current experiment in solving the
problem. The real alternative to the prevailing order starts with
accepting that these experiences have all failed. They failed because
there is no solution to the problem, other than a passive
ethno-nationalism organized around group identity and rights.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
