---
title: "The Next Phase Of The War"
date: "2020-11-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21843"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21843"
---

**Note:** I have a <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/221214"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">movie review</a> up behind the
green door. This time it is \#97 on the AFI top-100 list, *Bringing Up
Baby*. I must admit, I’me finding it a lot of fun to sample these very
old movies. Like reading old books, there is a lot of secondary cultural
stuff to be learned from watching old movies.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Very bad people back in the cultural revolution of the 1960’s noticed
that radicals were very good at the first phase of their project, but
not the second. The radicals wanted to knock down the institutions of
society and replace them with something better, but they never managed
to pull off that last part. In fact, the thing they cooked up as the new
and improved version of what they destroyed tended to create new
problems, which required new solutions that created new problems and so
on and so on.

An obvious example of this is family life. The nuclear family, with
clear and natural roles for the sexes, worked pretty well. The radicals,
on the other hand, could not understand why divorce laws and custody
laws were as they were. They could not understand why those sex roles
existed. They smashed them up and replaced them with family courts,
liberal divorce and weird feminist ideas about sex roles. The result has
been three generations of family and social dysfunction.

At some point, even the radicals realized that their project was not the
best for their cause, so they simply took over the existing
institutions. The long march through the institutions was largely over
by the 1990’s. The Baby Boomers had taken over and pushed out their
parent’s generation. Along the way they made sure that their generation
had the right opinions. Those who did not were cast into the outer
darkness of dissident exile. The radicals were in charge.

This is what makes the current revolution a shabby and ridiculous
version of the cultural revolution of the 60’s. Today’s radicals are the
sons and daughters of those radicals, who now are in charge of
everything. The street fighters are not attacking “the man” as the man
pays their allowance. They are attacking an avatar of the man their
parents vanquished generations ago. It is one-part public theater and
one-part cargo cult, put on as if it is an initiation ritual for young
adults.

There is a more sinister aspect to it. Read what the young radicals in
the academy, politics and even in business, are demanding and you see
that their assault on the institutions is really an assault on knowledge
itself. The radicals of yesteryear were content to embrace the logic of
the institutions, just put to use for their purposes. The new radicals
want to wreck the logic itself. They want to replace institutional logic
with something different, something that does not exist and cannot
exist.

This is the heart of the anti-whiteness stuff. When they claim that
institutions suffer from whiteness or are Eurocentric, what they mean is
the internal logic that operates the institution is coherent and
rational. The STEM fields, for example, still abide by the rules of
mathematics. Medicine is still rooted in the logic of Western medicine.
Because these rules are barriers to all but the talented tenth of
non-whites, these rules must be racist and therefore these rules have to
be eliminated.

If one is over a certain age and a fan of dark humor, there is an
amusing bit of irony to all of this. The people in charge are now
getting the same treatment from their pets that they gave to the
Occidentals, who they assaulted as youth. After all, the reason
whiteness persists is the white Progressives, and white presenting
Progressives, have maintained that whiteness for their benefit. It would
take a heart of stone not to enjoy the sight of woke females of color
screaming at the aging radicals.

Putting that aside, a medical system “disrupted and decolonized” in
order to allow for the dominance of non-whites will result in something
dangerous and primitive. A world with Africanized math is a world
spinning off its axis. Allowing the wrong answer to stand alongside the
right answer in the name of equity and equality will result in disorder
and chaos within the institutions. In other words, it is not just a
threat to the people in charge of the institutions, but the institutions
themselves.

In order to maintain the simplest of things, you need to be able to make
some simple predictions about the future. Predictions rely upon order,
which in turn is the product of rules about the world and how people
will act. Imagine a road with no rules. If you cannot know what other
drivers will do or how the road surface will be around the next corner,
the road becomes useless. You are better off walking through the woods
than taking your life into your hands on the road.

This is what the woke revolution is promising and beginning to deliver.
Consider the news media, for example. A generation ago it was
predictably biased, but it contained some truth in the bias. If you knew
the rules, you could watch a chat show or read a newspaper and get a
sense of things. Today, in order to strip all that ugly whiteness from
it, the news is a random nonsense with no truth value at all. The only
point to it is to stimulate the true believers of the revolution.

What the woke revolution and its promise to decolonize Western societies
is really promising is a return to a form of occasionalism. The formal
definition of this is that created substances cannot be efficient causes
of events. Humans are “created substances” which means they live in a
world of miracles. There are no rules, only the whims of the creator. In
a world without fixed rules, there is no point in knowing the rules and
therefore no point in predicting what comes next.

This is a world of primitive oogily-boogily. It is why the people in
charge are suddenly getting nervous about the golem they released on
white people. The Democrat leaders in Washington are claiming their
radicals have gone too far, while the Republicans are cheering them on,
as they silently watch Trump be removed from office. Whether or not they
can put the golem back into what holds a golem is unknown. The woke
warriors are now everywhere in the institutions and they are not ready
to quit.

What this means is the next phase of the revolution shifts from
attacking normal white people going about their business, to a fight
between the rulers and their pets. The political class can probably
handle the people in their ranks, but what will they do about woke
capital? How do they plan to contend with the suddenly woke intelligence
agencies and the foreign-dominated foreign policy establishment? How
will they reign in the woke mayors, governors and police departments?

None of this is to imply that the coast is clear for whites. Attacking
whites is now an integral part of what makes the new radical. It’s just
that the purpose of it will change from pleasing their masters to
attacking their masters. The Pretender Biden does not know it, but Team
Kamala has stocked up on My Pillows. The war did not end with the
removal of the evil Trump. It was just the opening phase. The next phase
is between the ideology of the woke and the cupidity of their masters.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="WF23vfex+lN5QgIrCi9HRA==cb73yTavZXUqX/ujuRWKKMedQHmqL0x0KsLuTLx3dya4j84m3whXvzVBBAk6Cn/oha2"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="h6ZLKxHOMWOM7bmsyTCwjg==cb7OB/mBvjj9DlIg3QUTnRf0mnY2eH3csx3v1iFDZCwAivBHkrriG6RLdwYj181R1Uz"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
