---
title: "The 85’ers"
date: "2020-07-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20923"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20923"
---

Lost in the turmoil of the present revolutionary moment is the fact that
one side of the political class remains trapped in a strange time warp.
Look through the publications of mainstream conservatives and it is as
if they stopped publishing new material somewhere in the last decade.
They acknowledge that Trump won the White House, but they refuse to see
it as anything but a one-off anomaly. There was no reason for it, other
than a bug in the code or a one-in-a-million event.

For a while after Trump took office, they carried on with the anti-Trump
stuff, but the money from the usual suspects ran out, so they dropped
it. The Israel First wing of Conservative Inc. has setup shop at [The
Dispatch](https://thedispatch.com/) and [The
Bulwark](https://thebulwark.com/), sites that cater to an audience that
is similarly lost in time. Both sites look like recycled versions of the
Weekly Standard circa 1996 or maybe The New Republic in 1986. What’s
left of the old conservative coalition looks like a museum exhibit.

A good example is [this
post](https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/07/texas-2020-election-trouble-trump-republicans/)
from Kevin Williamson. It feels like forever ago when he was considered
an edgy writer for the new breed of conservatives. Read his copy and
that feeling is obvious. For the last four years immigration has been
one of the main topics of conversation in politics. What it is doing to
a state like Texas has been a popular example. Yet, in a post about how
Texas is becoming California, in terms of its politics, he does not
mention immigration once.

How is it possible to be so obtuse? Granted, Williamson is not the
brightest bulb in the bunch, but even the dumbest pundit should notice
what people are saying. Of course, Williamson is a good example of
another modern phenomenon. Whenever one of these guys gets mugged by the
mob, instead of being radicalized by it, they go the other way,
desperately trying to prove their prior blasphemy was an anomaly. He’s
now a 1985 libertarian, ignoring most of what is happening in the world.

That’s fine, but National Review chooses to publish him anyway. They
don’t have to make a trauma victim their lead writer. On the other hand,
what else is there? The entirety of Conservative Inc. is in the same
panic room as Williamson. At this moment, National Review’s front page
has a story about electric cars, a story drooling over an Indian
immigrant running for Senate in Tennessee, a story about robot wives
and, well, you get the point. Teen Vogue is more serious.

It is not just con-men and grifters from the Conservative Industrial
Complex that are trapped in a time warp. [This was on
Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/2020-election/2020/07/18/pinkerton-the-republican-party-of-cops-nurses-and-other-workers-all-together/)
over the weekend. James Pinkerton used to be a guy who would speak
forthrightly about the warmongers in the conservative sphere or the
impact of globalization on regular Americans. He’s a libertarian, for
the most part, but a rare one, in that he was prone to fits of realism.
That post looks like something he wrote in the 1980’s.

Stop and consider where we are at this moment. On the one hand, we have
a ruling class that is rotten to the core. They have corrupted every
aspect of civil and cultural life in America. They now send gangs out
into the streets to attack people and take over sections of cities.
Pinkerton’s argument is the GOP must become the defenders of those
corrupt institutions, as if this is forty years ago and the Left was
making its final assault on the infrastructure of the country.

It is as if the entirely of conservatism has responded to the present
turmoil by hopping in their DeLorean and going back to the 1980’s.
Instead of reevaluating those old positions in light of new reality,
they have reconstructed a new reality that is just ignorance of the
present reality. The effects of wholesale immigration, globalization,
the rise of the Cult-Marx Left and the populist awakening are all
ignored. Instead they are retreating into their Burkean panic room to
wait out the danger.

Part of it, no doubt, is fear. To talk candidly about what is happening
these days is to risk your job and career. Most of the people in
Conservative Inc. are there for the money and lifestyle it provides.
They like the social aspects and the easy living. If being a Maoist
provided the same lifestyle, most would happily quote from Mao. These
are highly remunerated house slaves. The monied interests that
underwrite these publications are not looking for candor.

Still, there are people who talk candidly about the current year. Kevin
Williamson could at least mention immigration once in a story about how
Texas is being turned into California by the flood of immigrants and
migrants fleeing the invasion. Even if he can’t bring himself to admit
the truth, he could at least acknowledge that people have been talking
about it for close to a decade now. Pinkerton could acknowledge that the
GOP is just the political arm of global enterprise.

What makes this retrenchment even more strange is the people they used
to rip-off are heading the other way. You see it in little ways. For
example, the old MAGA types are abandoning Twitter and Facebook for
Parler. Many have recently taken the plunge to join Gab, after hearing
Andrew Torba on Glenn Beck. Trump’s support is lagging because his
voters wanted him to be more of what Conservative Inc. warned about,
rather than less of it. They want the Trump the Left promised.

For the boys and girls now huddling in Camp 1985, the world has become a
dangerous place, so they are hiding out in the past, hoping it all goes
away. Every once in a while they will mutter “Orange Man Bad”, but
otherwise, they are sitting out the storm, updating their old posts
about the need for Burkean conservatism and how race relations [were
never
better](https://www.nationalreview.com/magazine/2020/07/27/americas-racial-progress/).
Conservatism has become a cargo cult. They think if they pretend hard
enough, it will be 1985 again.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
