---
title: "The Steely Truth Of Stalin"
date: "2020-03-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20069"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20069"
---

Imagine you are engaged in a fight against the alien battle cruiser
Briggs, off the Cochran nebula, and you are informed of a civilian
vessel in the area. It is in distress and unless something is done to
rescue the passengers, they will all die. If you disengage from the
battle to save the people on the passenger ship Steve Sailer, you will
most certainly be destroyed or captured by the Briggs. If you remain in
combat with the Briggs, you will win, but the Steve Sailer will be lost.

Clearly, the intent of the problem is not to test the ability of the
captain to solve a problem of fact, but rather one of morality. The
choice is to sacrifice yourself, your crew and your ship, the John
Derbyshire, in order to save a passenger ship full of people. Or, you
let those people die and continue on to defeat the alien enemy. There’s
no puzzle to be solved or information to be discovered. The challenge is
to arrive at the correct moral decision given the described parameters.

The moral answer is obvious. You and the Briggs are moral actors.
Presumably, you are a positive actor and the Briggs is a negative actor.
Otherwise, what would be the point of engaging in battle with the
Briggs? The Sailer is morally neutral. It could be full of future
Hitlers for all you know. You have no way to evaluate fully its moral
position, so it does not have one. The only logical answer is to
continue to engage the Briggs and let the Sailer perish. It is the only
way to ensure a morally positive outcome.

That familiar, but fictional, scenario is useful in thinking about what
our rulers should be doing in the current crisis. The coronavirus
epidemic has created a scenario for the rulers that has no right answer.
There’s no heroic 30-something women in a lab about to formulate a
vaccine for the Chinese Flu. There’s no handsome germ detective hunting
down the mad scientist that created it. The choice is either bring
civilization to a halt for as long as it takes or let the virus run its
course.

Now, the “flatten the curve” people will claim there is a third choice,
which allows for the virus to run its course more slowly, giving health
services more time and resources to treat the sick. This will also buy
time for a potential vaccine. There are variations on this, but that is
the general idea. We can only evaluate this option, however, once the
initial options are fully evaluated. To assume both are unacceptable is
to violate the parameters of the problem, so we will evaluate this
option last.

The first choice is to do nothing and let the virus run its course. It’s
not exactly doing nothing, but public awareness assumes people will
assess their risk tolerance and take whatever measures they think make
sense. In this scenario, the rulers simply inform the public about the
basic ways in which to avoid the contagion and perhaps put resources
into the healthcare system. The underlying assumption, however, is that
everyone that could get the virus will get the virus over the next year.

What does that mean, as a practical matter? Some experts are saying
50-70% of people will get the virus and up to 5% will die. This is not
based in much, other than wild speculation. We have no examples that are
similar or facts on the ground to suggest these numbers are probable.
Every year the influenza virus infects about 10% of the public, using no
precautions against it. Many more people get the common cold each year,
but the number that actually get it is unknown.

The fact is, we don’t have an example of a serious contagion, one that
kills with any significance, that infects 70% of the public. The Black
Plague probably infected 40% of the people of Europe. The Spanish Flu is
the best comparison to the Chinese Flu and it infected about 20% of the
public. Swine Flu infected about 10% of the people. It is a really good
comparison with the Spanish Flu, as both were H1N1 and both killed
younger people, which is always a more serious concern.

We actually have a good test of the infectiousness of this particular
virus. The Diamond Princess cruise ship was infected and remained in
lock-down for two weeks. The people on the ship were allowed to mingle
and party while they waited to be set free. The final numbers were 700
infected out of 3,500. That’s 20%. That figure seems to turn up a lot
when examining the infection numbers of deadly viruses. Again, the
Spanish Flu seemed to hit about 20% of people world-wide and in the US.

Now, we have some parameters to evaluate the first option. The infection
rate is probably going to be about 20%, like similar viruses, but it
could be the first universally infectious virus in the history of the
planet. Everyone gets it. The death rate, based on current data, could
be as low as one percent or as high as 3.4 percent. Those experts say
the ensuing collapse of the health care system will lift the number to
5%, even though we have no evidence to support that claim.

There you are. The first answer for the ruler in this position is that
somewhere between 20% and 100% of his people get the virus and between
one percent and five percent will die from it. In the United States, it
means between 600,000 deaths over the course of a year to a high of 16.5
million deaths over the course of the year. Here you see why the rulers
are panicking about what to do. No one wants to allow millions to die
from a virus, no matter what the cost of saving them.

Now, it must be emphasized that all of our experience with this virus
and similar virus outbreaks points to the low-end estimate being the
worst-case scenario. Other than the Black Death in the Middle Ages, we
have nothing worse than those low-end estimates of infection and death.
A lot of people really want to believe the high end is plausible, but
that’s what it is, a desire to believe. In reality, the worst-case
scenario from this virus for the United States is a million additional
deaths.

Now, what about the other option? We can quarantine the nation in an
effort to slow or even stop the spread of the virus. It means closing
down most business, forcing people to stay home and preventing
gatherings of people. Whether this is even feasible is a good question
on its own. Getting people to stay off the roads in a snow storm is
impossible, so this option looks like a fantasy, more than reality. On
the other hand, this is more serious. Maybe enough cooperate to make it
work.

What does that mean, as a practical matter? First off, it means the
economy plunges into an unprecedented depression. We have no examples of
what happens when you simply stop almost all economic activity. The
stock market will be closed, financial systems will be closed. The use
of money could very well cease. Either people hoard cash like they hoard
food or it simply becomes worthless in a world where no one is working
and all commerce has come to a halt.

In such a scenario, there are two ways forward. One is civil unrest that
topples over local authority and perhaps the national government. The
other is the imposition of martial law and a takeover of the essential
services by the state. Your food market becomes a food distribution
center where you get your allotted supplies. That sounds absurd, but how
else can you feed 300 million people when the economy has been shut down
by a quarantine? There is no other option.

Let’s pretend there is some magical version of this shutdown that both
halts the spread and keeps portions of the economy up and running, such
that food and essentials are distributed, but we enter a depression. The
last depression was a 10% contraction of the economy over a year and 30%
over three years. We still talk about that even today as it led to the
second industrial war of the century. What happens when the economy
contract 50% in a year? No one has any idea.

There are real consequences to an economic collapse. Essential medicines
stop being produced and essential services cease to exist. A shortage of
insulin would threaten millions in a month. The collapse would take the
health care system with it, so millions would be at risk right away. The
risk of civil unrest would threaten untold millions, mostly from local
police. We simply have no idea what such a collapse would do in terms of
death and destruction, because it is unimaginably horrible.

There you have the parameters of the problem. Now, the flatten the curve
folks would have you believe that a long vacation of playing video games
and watching Netflix will allow us to avoid the stark choices in front
of us. Sure, the economy will take a hit, but it will come back just as
soon as the virus is slowed down and the miracle cure is ready for human
use in a year or two. In reality, they are just wishing away the problem
in the hope of violating the parameters of the problem.

That’s why the talk of flattening the curve is actually more dangerous
than facing the reality of the situation. The end result will be worse
than picking one option or the other, because you end up getting both.
No quarantine can last more than a couple of weeks, because people will
never obey it, the state can’t enforce it and the society could never
afford it. That means we get the full brunt of the bug, plus the full
brunt of the effort to shutter civil life for an extended period.

Getting back to the fictional space battle, the right decision is
ultimately the one to have the most certain morally positive outcome.
The captain of the Derbyshire defeats the alien ship and goes on to be a
positive force in the universe. In this case, putting all efforts into
maintaining the civil life of the people has a clear set of costs. We
can plan for a million deaths. We cannot plan for the unknown economic
cost of collapse.

The great Russian leader Joseph Stalin allegedly said “a single death is
a tragedy, but a million deaths are a statistic.” Whether he said it or
not is hard to know, but it is both true and something Stalin likely
would have grasped. When a ruler is faced with this sort of problem, it
is not about saving one life. It is about preserving a people and what
makes them a people. A million deaths from the Chinese Flu is terrible,
but it pales in comparison to the costs of preventing it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
