---
title: "The Time Of The Golden Agers"
date: "2020-03-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20044"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20044"
---

Major social events are often a lot like moving furniture around the
house. Moving the bookcase from one side of the room to the other is a
mundane task. What you find behind it, however, can be quite
interesting. Sometimes you find something you searched high and low for
at some point. Other times you find something that you never knew was
missing. Maybe just moving things around a bit gives you a new
perspective on your living space that leads to other changes in your
environment.

That’s how big social events feel sometimes. The event itself is not as
important as what it reveals. Maybe you find out your neighbor is a bit
of kook, who quietly has been stocking the basement with dried food and
ammunition. Maybe we learn that the local government is more useless
than anyone imagined possible. The Chinese pandemic is one of those
events that will be more important for what it reveals than for the
impact of the virus itself, unless you die from it, of course.

For example, we are getting a glimpse of what the great Baby Boomer
retirement is going to look like in the coming decade. If we execute all
of the people, who like debating the precise dates of generational
divisions, we can agree that the cohort in question is roughly those who
came of age in the late 1960’s and the late 1970’s. Two waves of the
post-war baby boom. Right now, the number of elderly people grows by an
average of 2.8 percent annually. It will peak at about 80 million.

For as long as anyone reading this has been alive, Baby Boomers have
driven American politics. In the 80’s, they wanted to make money, so we
financialized the economy and gave everyone a 401K. In the 1990’s,
better schools were all the rage then better access to college. Health
care became an issue, first because Boomer parents were getting old then
when the Boomers themselves got old. Cheap health insurance was the most
important political issue until now.

Notice that Bernie Sanders promising free health care got no senior
support. The reason is seniors have Medicare. Blacks have Medicaid. The
only people who care about health insurance premiums are younger white
people and no one cares about them anymore. In fact, Bernie’s Medicare
for all probably scared the crap out of older people, who rightly
assumed it would mean longer lines for them. Worse yet, it could mean
taxing their retirement to pay for it.

This brings us back to the Chinese Flu. Otherwise sensible people like
<a href="https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2020/03/09/nuking-the-curve/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Greg Cochran</a> and <a
href="https://www.takimag.com/article/crushing-the-coronavirus-curve/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer</a> are clanging
the bell, trying to get people to declare a war on the Covid19 virus.
What they are suggesting, short of some miracle cure or a vaccine, would
require rearranging American society. It would need rounds of universal
testing, mass quarantines and testing of every human crossing the
border. North America would have to become something like North Korea,
in terms of travel restrictions.

Keep in mind that polio is still around, despite generations of
eradication efforts. We have vaccines for a lot of nasty viruses. For
the most part, these have been eradicated in the West, but they still
exist in the world. If stop vaccinating people, those viruses will
reemerge in the West, which is why we remain vigilant. We have no
vaccine for the Chinese Flu and no one is sure we can get one. In other
words, eradicating this virus, without vaccine, will require a massive
reorganization of society.

What we’re seeing is the first glimpse of what democracy looks like when
20% of the population is elderly. Baby Boomers have always voted for
stuff they want and soon, they will want to be insulated from the
dangers of old age. If it requires us to turn America into a hermit
kingdom in order to prevent a Boomer Pox from getting loose, then that’s
the price the younger generation must pay. The salient political issue
of this decade will be how best to guard the old coots from the Grim
Reaper.

Now, this is the part where angry oldsters stop reading and post a
comment about how not all Boomers are like that. This is true. In fact,
it is plausible that no Boomers are willing to crater society to get a
few extra days. This is a variation on the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simpson%27s_paradox"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Simpson’s paradox</a>. That
is, this trend is uncommon in small groups or individuals, but appears
when looking at the cohort as a whole. This turned up with education,
abortion and health care. The data says Boomers collectively vote their
interest.

Now, there is another angle to this. The sorts of collective action
proposed by people like Steve Sailer and Greg Cochran can only happen in
a cohesive, high-trust country with lots of social capital. The sorts of
communities where people like Cochran and Sailer grew up had those
qualities. Modern America, in contrast, is a multicultural amalgamation
of low-trust clusters. The store of social capital has been burned up a
long time ago in order to have cheap stuff.

This raises the question as to whether this cohort will suddenly have a
come to Jesus moment over demographics. Most of those Trump voters in
comfort fit slacks, carrying over-sized constitutions to the rally,
think we can get back to the way things were when they were kids. If you
dispute this, look at the comment section of Breitbart or Conservative
Treehouse. For those people, it is always 1985.

What happens when they find out that ain’t happening? Will it make any
difference if the oldsters finally see their interest are threatened by
the great brown wave that is washing over America? We’ll soon find out.
This panic, and that what we are seeing, will change things far more
than the virus. We’re about to learn just how much social capital is
left and the answer is probably not going to be encouraging.

The fact is, all the snarky comments about the Boomers and the
irreverent mocking of the Zoomers is not changing the reality on the
ground. America has operated like a young country for a long time. It
still does in many ways. It is an old country now, a country run by old
people just coming to terms with their mortality. The psychological
revolution in American culture that is upon us will make the past decade
seem like golden age. Instead, it will be the prelude to the time of the
Golden Agers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
