---
title: "The Compound Eye"
date: "2020-01-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19525"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19525"
---

Compound eyes, common with insects and crustaceans, are made up of
thousands of individual visual receptors, called ommatidia. Each
ommatidium is a fully functioning eye in itself. The insect’s “eye” is
thousands of ommatidium that together create a broad field of vision.
Every ommatidium has its own nerve fiber connecting to the optic nerve,
which relays information to the brain. The brain then processes these
inputs to create a three-dimensional understanding the surrounding
space.

The compound eye is a good way to imagine how the surveillance state
will keep tabs on the subjects in the near future. Unlike the dystopian
future imagined by science fiction, it will not be one eye focusing on
one heretic, following him around as he goes about his business. Instead
it will be tens of millions of eyes obtaining various bits of
information, sending it back to the data-centers run by Big Tech. That
information will be assembled into the broad mosaic that is daily life.

For example, rather than use informants and undercover operatives to
flesh out conspiracies against the state, the surveillance state will
use [community detection](http://senseable.mit.edu/community_detection/)
to model the network of heretics. Since everyone is hooked into the grid
in some fashion and everyone addresses nodes of the grid on a regular
basis, keeping track of someone is now something that can be done from a
cubicle. There is no need to actually follow someone around as they go
about their life.

For example, everyone has a mobile phone. At every point, the phone is
tracking its location, which means it is tracking your location. It also
knows the time and day when you go into various businesses. Most people
use cards to pay miscellaneous items, so just that information would
tell the curious a lot about you. Combine that information with the same
information from other phones that come into close proximity with your
phone and figuring out the [community
structure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Community_structure) is simple.

Of course, the mobile phone is not the only input device. Over
Christmas, millions of Americans were encouraged to install surveillance
devices in their homes by friends and family. Maybe it was an Alexa
listening device from Amazon or a Nest Doorbell surveillance device from
Google. All of these gadgets are collecting data on your life inside and
around your home. It is then fed to the same data-centers that have all
of your movements and associations collected from your phone.

That’s an enormous amount information about the lives of the subjects,
but that’s just the start of what they are collecting. Everything about
property and property ownership is now kept in those same systems. Tax
and earnings information are now shared with the new technological
overlords. We know this because [Raj
Chetty](https://www.unz.com/isteve/does-anybody-ever-question-raj-chetty/)
told us so. He gained access to everyone’s tax information from the IRS.
Since Big Tech provides the infrastructure to all government operations,
they have their data too.

It turns out that the future will not be one big eye searching about for
a heretic on which to focus or even thousands of such eyes. Instead, it
will be tens of millions of eyes, collecting data, filtering it through
a specific lens, and passing it onto massive data-centers controlled by
Big Tech. It is there where the focus will narrow, looking for patterns,
modeling communities and searching for any anomalies that could indicate
unacceptable behavior. Big Brother will be an Indian in a cubicle.

The human eye is attached to muscles that allow it to move, expanding
the field of vision and narrow in on specific items of interest. The
compound eye is fixed and therefore cannot focus on a single item. It
also results in nearsightedness. It is, however, exceptional at
detecting motion. The mosaic of infinitesimally small images lets the
insect notice the smallest movement around it. This is why flies, for
example, are so good at anticipating your effort to swat them.

Big Tech’s compound eye will be similar. It will be adept at tracking
movement and capturing data about the environment, but it will not be
very good at focusing in on one individual or even a group of
individuals. That’s where the brain takes over to interpret the data,
looking for the sorts of movement that could present danger. As with
insects, the compound eye has evolved for defensive purpose. Hunters
need focus, prey need a broad field of vision and pattern matching.

We are seeing the precursors of what will be special teams of agents
charged with focusing in on potential trouble. Those “Trust & Safety”
squads on social media are the early attempts at this. Algos were
created to look for patterns and movement that would then warrant
further review. The “focus teams” then look more carefully at
individuals inside an identified community. This is how a heretic gets
banned from Twitter despite not using the system very much. He was part
of an identified community.

In the future, these “Trust & Safety” teams will be dispatched into the
real world to infiltrate suspected communities, disrupt social bonding
within dissident communities that are forming up and, of course,
neutralize genuine threats. That last part is always what the dystopians
focus on, but that will be an exceedingly rare occurrence as we move
into the custodial state. Technological advance will also bring with it
new ways to influence behavior in a myriad of small ways.

Alongside those millions of eyes collecting data will be other nodes
that nudge people in the right direction through the power of
suggestion, social proof and social bonding. The Chinese social credit
system is a crude example of what is to come. A much more subtle version
will rely on social influencers, who will be rewarded for encouraging
positive behaviors. Social proof and fear of ostracism will confirm the
tendency to accept what comes from prominent influencers.

This is already happening in a crude way on social media platforms. They
promote those with the right opinions and demote those with the wrong
opinions. Since active users seek an audience, inevitably they act in
such a way that gets them promoted by the algos running these sites. It
is why review sites have abandoned real user reviews in favor of robots.
It is a lot easier to push a movie on a movie review site if the “viewer
reviews” are actually robots run by the site.

That’s the future that awaits us in the custodial state. It is living
under the watchful compound eye that is feeding all of our data into
massive data-centers controlled by private companies. Since information
is the ultimate currency and controlling the currency makes you
sovereign, the official state will simply become another node on the
network run by the Big Tech. There will be no recourse. Any effort to
revolt will be detected by the compound eye before it gets started.

**Note:** Some have asked why comments end up in moderation. This is the
doings of the spam filter I’m using. It is often triggered by epithets,
certain links and mysterious word combinations. These messages get
flagged as possible spam. Now, in half a dozen years it has blocked over
3.5 million spam messages, so it is trade-off I accept. It means I check
the moderation queue once an hour or so. I approve the real comments and
trash the spam. Otherwise, there is no moderation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
