---
title: "Taboo Breaking"
date: "2020-08-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21133"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21133"
---

The Scandinavian nationalist, Fróði Midjord, is fond of saying that the
way to break a taboo is to break the taboo. The logic is that taboos
only work as a crowd control device when the crowd agrees with the
taboo. If people stop abiding by a taboo, then it loses its power to
enforce behavior. We see this with the social norms that have fallen
away since the 1960’s. Things like adultery and divorce were normalized,
in part, by people ignoring the taboos against them.

Of course, a good way to have your life destroyed is to go around
breaking taboos, especially the ones that matter to the people in
charge. Start talking race realism at your office and you not only get
fired, you become unemployable. Break the taboo against fighting back
against left-wing street thugs and you could end up in prison. Breaking
taboos works only when a critical mass of people decides to break the
taboo and a larger set of people are ready to join them.

That’s the other problem with taboo breaking. Without popular or
institutional support, the taboo breaker ends up enforcing the taboo. He
gets hauled out in front of the crowd and is properly punished. The
crowd sees it and the point is made. If you don’t want to end up like
the guy being made into an example, don’t break the taboo. Rosa Parks
would not be known to us without the support of the ruling class. Her
taboo breaking was welcomed by the people in charge.

Obviously, taboos are an essential part of every human society. They are
the unwritten rules that habituate people to the historic norms of
society. Usually, they have some basis in reality. A prohibition against
going to the dark part of the forest is probably because it poses a real
danger. A taboo against infidelity is rooted in the understanding that
stable families make for a stable society. Shaming the adulterer is a
way to discourage the behavior that disrupts stable family life.

Taboos also require a moral authority. We’re pretty sure belief, as in
spiritual belief, co-evolved with language. There’s a pretty good chance
that religion co-evolved with human settlement. As human groups began to
settle down and invest in their territory, rather than just guard it,
religion evolved to provide both the rules to govern human relations and
to provide an authority for those rules. If the gods think you should
not steal from your neighbor, you should listen to them.

When a taboo is rooted in religion or even tradition, it becomes
self-enforcing. Humans are social animals, which means we want to be
thought well of by others, so we look to show our conformity to group
norms. One way to do that is public piety. The person known for fidelity
to the faith or the traditions of the group is always going to be
thought well of by his peers. Enforcing taboos is a good way to
demonstrate your piety, thus you are someone that can be trusted by
others.

This is the fundamental flaw in the current taboos. There’s no religious
basis for anti-racism, for example. Even if there was, the people
screaming about racism are flamboyantly opposed to religion. There’s
nothing in our history or traditions that can be the moral authority for
something like anti-racism. Republican virtue demands equality before
the law and support for the basics of citizenship, but it does not
require you to live next door to a black guy. In fact, it opposes such a
requirement.

Most of the current taboos are deliberately conceived to contradict
religion and tradition, which are dismissed as white privilege. The
normal impulse to be around those with whom you have something in common
has been anathematized in order to damage the normal functioning of
society. Sending men dressed as women into the schools, while demanding
everyone celebrate it, is nothing more than an outlandish rebuke of
religion and tradition. Its only purpose is spite.

The same can be said for the whole catalog of modern taboos. There is no
moral authority for them. There’s no logical basis for them either. A
society that thinks sexualizing children is acceptable cannot rationally
claim it is immoral to oppose the normalizing of men in dresses. The
only authority for the current taboos is the force wielded by the taboo
makers. They have control of the institutions and use that power to
enforce these taboos on society.

Force is always the costliest form of rule. When the law is the habit of
mind and obedience is the natural instinct, the ruling class does not
have to spend very much to maintain order and their place at the top of
that order. On the other hand, when their rule is at odds with habit and
the people must be forced to obey, the cost of maintaining order
eventually exceeds their capacity to impose it. Our ruling class is
exhausting itself maintaining this collection of absurd moral codes.

It is why deliberate taboo breaking is probably the wrong course. Giving
the people in charge easy targets and useful examples lowers the cost of
enforcement. Mockery and avoidance do the opposite. It’s hard to drop
the hammer on someone who is mocking your silly taboos. It’s expensive
to root out the bad thinker minding his own business in the cubicle
farm. The guerrilla in a modern moral war must live in the shadows,
turning up to mock the enemy, but always avoiding direct confrontation.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
