---
title: "Sunset In Kansas"
date: "2020-08-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21031"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21031"
---

It’s easy to forget, with all that is happening, but the racket known as
democracy is the one thing not being forced to close by the local
tyrants. The state of Kansas had its primary yesterday. The race of
interest to white people was the Republican primary for the senate. Far
left Rep. Roger Marshall faced off against the moderate former Kansas
Secretary of State Kris Kobach. Marshall, of course, had the support of
both parties, as Kobach favors some minor limits on immigration.

Marshall won with the support of the usual GOP suspects. He got the
endorsement of the U.S Chamber of Commerce, the Kansas Farm Bureau, the
National Right to Life Committee. If he wins in the fall, the tech
monopolies and agribusiness will get a much-needed voice in Washington,
but the people of Kansas will remain unrepresented in both houses. Of
course, President Trump did nothing to support Kobach. Instead he spent
his time tweeting about something.

It used to be that the three “I’s” controlled American politics. That
was Israel, Ireland and Indiana. The money men, working class whites and
heritage whites controlled the political process. It’s still the three
“I’s” today, but they stand for Israel, India and the investor class.
Politics is now controlled by the Israel lobby, open borders fanatics
and the financial class. Even the very mild skepticism for open borders
by someone like Kobach is completely out of bounds.

This race was interesting for another reason. Mitch McConnell organized
a $15 million ad campaign against Kobach. The ads claimed he was a white
nationalist who employed invisible Nazis on his staff. It is a great
example of how today’s heated rhetoric from the Left becomes
conservative dogma tomorrow. No one should be surprised if the GOP slips
in some language into their platform condemning your ancestors and
supporting the black lives matter nonsense.

The other interesting McConnell angle is that he now runs the GOP. Trump
is not even a figure head at this point. He is a non-factor. Both
parties are now preparing for the Biden presidency and will make sure a
guy like Trump is never allowed to step foot in Washington ever again.
They said Nixon ushered in the imperial presidency. McConnell is now
ushering in the legislative supremacy. Both parties have locked shields
to impose their will on the executive branch.

That really is the story of the last four years. Disaffected whites
rallied to put Trump in the White House to send a message to both
parties. It was not that people were charmed by Trump or thought he was
a great man. White people backed the pompous and crass Trump as a
rejection of official politics. A good chunk of whites were sick of the
wars, the open borders, the corporate piracy. Voting for Trump was a
rejection of the status quo in an effort to wake up the political class.

The political class responded by making sure this never happens again.
Look around at Republican races since 2016 and you see a maximum effort
to eliminate anyone that supports populist policies. The Democrats, of
course, have spent the last four years turning Washington into a circus
of conspiracy theories. Instead of cutting a deal with Trump, which
would be easy, they are working with their friends in the GOP to
undermine Trump at every turn.

In the fullness of time, the 2016 election will be viewed as the last
legitimate presidential election in America. Using the excuse of the
pandemic, states are ushering in vote by mail schemes. As Gandhi once
said, “It’s not the people who vote that count, it’s the people who
count the votes.” What that will mean moving forward is the wrong votes
will be shredded by the party men counting the votes. There will be no
way to audit this process, so voting will become ceremonial.

Then there is the fact that the vote counters will be the wokest of the
woke. If you vote the wrong way, your name will be leaked to the right
people and before long you will be facing the mob. The point of the
secret ballot is so people feel free to be honest in their choices. The
point of the mail in vote is to make sure you know someone will be
looking over your shoulder as you fill in the ballot. Feel free to vote
your conscience, but they will feel free to make you suffer for it.

One other thing from the Kansas race worth noting. The party man got the
support of the National Right To Life Committee. There is no better
example of the corruption inherent in democracy than the anti-abortion
movement. For generations they have been hoovering up millions and have
nothing to show for it. A candidate opposing abortion may as well claim
he opposes leprechauns riding unicorns. It is the most meaningless
position in politics.

In the end, it is another reminder that there is no voting your way out
from under a corrupt ruling class. The only solution for that is the
hangman. If the interests of white people were represented in the ruling
class, then they would be represented in the House and Senate. The
ruling class of America no longer has any connection to the average
white American, so the interests of white people are ignored. There is
no solution to that problem at the ballot box.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
