---
title: "Answering War Hysteria"
date: "2020-01-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19512"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19512"
---

According to just about everyone, we are either at war with Iran or
about to go to war with Iran. The droning of the Iranian general at the
Baghdad airport has unleashed a lot of pent up war hysteria, as well as
anti-war hysteria. The neocons are dreaming of another pointless war in
the Middle East. The paleocons are warning about how the Iranians will
enact vengeance. The anti-Zionists are completely off their leash,
making the usual claims about who is really behind all of this.

The truth is, we are not at war with Iran, at least not a conventional
war. We have been in a cold war with them since the 1970’s. The
temperature rises and falls as domestic politics requires, but it never
gets too hot. The main reason for that is Iran is run by fairly
competent people. Iran is also much more cohesive than the neighboring
countries in the region. Persians have a strong sense of identity that
transcends the tribal alliances that dominate in the rest of the Middle
East.

Of course, the Iranians now have important ties with Russia and China.
The Russians are helping them build nuclear capability and the Chinese
are providing them with conventional military technology. Both countries
are in bed with the Iranians because Iran sits on large oil and gas
reserves. China is starving for oil and the Russians are a player in
Europe because they control the gas supplies. Those are strong
incentives to prevent a US – Iran war.

At the same time, America is in no position to launch another war in the
Middle East, at least not a ground war. Trump can call in drone strikes
and maybe air strikes from subs and carriers, but that would be very
risky. To get a ground force together would require prepping the public
and getting Congress to sign off on it. It would also mean talking Trump
into something he has opposed. War is always bad politics. In an
election year where his prospects are even money at best, that’s a
foolish gamble for him.

History is full of examples where countries bluffed themselves into a
war that neither side wanted, so it is not completely out of the
question. Israel could blow something up and the neocons running the
State Department could talk Trump into believing the Iranians did it.
Some rogue element in Iran could do something foolish. Then there are
the many guerrilla and terrorist groups supported by Iran. One of them
could do something provocative and set us on a path to war.

Even so, the odds are very low that this current crisis lasts more than
a week, other than some hotly worded tweets from Trump and bellicose
rants from Iran. This raises a few questions. One is why the anti-war
people have flipped out as if they were just waiting for a reason to get
back in the streets. They were not going crazy when Trump lobbed
missiles into Syria. They were silent when Venezuela was on the brink.
It’s as if someone flipped a switch and reactivated the anti-war people.

The bigger question is why Trump has decided to take this step. It’s
clear he has no interest in starting a war. He has been trying to get
troops out of the Middle East for three years now. Taking out this
general is a high risk move that could lead to terrorist attacks this
year. The White House is warning Congress that retaliation in the next
weeks is a possibility. Even if a full blown shooting war with Iran is
unlikely, it does not mean there will be no fallout from this venture.

One possibility is that Trump is just dumb and he got bamboozled by the
neocons into attacking Iran. They cooked up a story about how this
general was plotting a terror attack and he fell for it. This is popular
with the anti-Zionists. They believe the neocons are like
super-villains, able to hypnotize politicians. They have finally figured
out how to maneuver Trump into going along with their schemes. It’s
possible. The distinguishing feature of Trumps’ time in office has been
incompetence.

The trouble with this theory is that Trump has been pretty good at
dodging the neocon war plots thus far. This is not the first time they
cooked up a plot to attack Iran. He has even joked about guys like John
Bolton wanting to bomb the world. He also avoided the various traps they
set with Syria. Trump may not be very good at governing, but he seems
pretty well aware of how the neocons operate. He has been as good at
shining them on as he has the immigration patriots.

Another answer is that Trump saw this as a chance to break the deadlock
over nuclear negotiations with Iran. Think back to how he broke all the
protocols in order to get the North Koreans to the table. All prior
presidents refused to meet with the North Korean leader, but Trump not
only agreed to meet, he pushed for it. His erratic and unconventional
management style is an extension of his negotiating style. He likes to
throw over tables and create chaos as a prelude to deal making.

Evidence of this is his tweet after the droning of the general. In
addition to the boiler plate stuff, he made the point that he preferred
to negotiate and the Iranians should prefer it too. In other words, this
high risk, high stakes gambit is about breaking the stalemate and
getting all the various players to rethink their position. Trump is a
legendary bluffer and this is basically a big bluff. He’s threatening
unconditional drone warfare unless they come to the table.

The other side of this is he gets a boost with his base who love the
fact he took out this general with a drone strike. Despite what the
anti-Zionists think, this is a winner for him with his core supporters.
If nothing comes of it, he will be able to say he has tried to bring the
Iranians to the table, but they will not budge. He played the same cards
with North Korea. As a political matter, he gets to be both the tough
guy, who drones bad guys, and the peacemaker seeking to talk rather than
fight.

Finally, there is the possibility that this is tied into the impeachment
process that will get going again this month. Senate Republicans like
Mitt Romney and Ben Sassy are wholly owned by Jerusalem. In order to get
their vote in the impeachment fight, Trump may be forced to give into
the forever war crowd. This attack and the subsequent bluster about more
attacks may be the real quid pro quo. If anyone thinks this is too
conspiratorial, just look at the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lSjXhMUVKE"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">anti-BDS campaign</a>.

The likelihood of this scenario leading to war, however, is low as the
impeachment lever has a clear expiry date on it. There is an election
brewing and Washington needs to dispense with the impeachment issue by
February at the latest. That’s enough time to do some drone strikes and
saber rattling, but not enough time to gin up support for a war with
Iran. Instead it will just make negotiating with Iran impossible for the
remainder of Trump’s tenure, which may be the real point.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
