---
title: "The End Of Gynocracy"
date: "2020-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20201"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20201"
---

A decade ago, the Cloud People
[celebrated](https://www.amazon.com/The-End-Men-Rise-Women/dp/1594488045)
the fact that for the first time in history, women were the majority of
the workforce. Not only were women the majority of workers, they were
the majority of managers. They were also the majority on the college
campus. Women have been the majority of college graduates for over a
decade and now outnumber men in advanced degrees. It is not unreasonable
to say that we are now celebrating the first full decade of the
gynocracy.

Of course, the celebrating is being done from inside closets and under
beds, as the world hides from the virus. America is not just run by
women; it is now run by overprotective schoolmarms. Social distancing is
just the latest thing in a world now run by childless women. On-line,
the harpies have been demanding males with the wrong ideas be social
distanced right off the internet. The great purging of dissident voices
from social media was a dry run for social distancing.

If you think about it, the timeout has now become the go-to move from
the gynocrats in charge of our culture. If you use the wrong word or
phrase on social media, you get put in timeout for 12-hours. If you
repeat the error, you end up in detention. Since the gynocrats have
replaced the parents, there’s no parent conference for those who can’t
conform to the rules. Instead, you are relegated to the trailers out
back, which for the internet means setting up an account on Gab or
Telegram.

This is just one reality of the world run by women. Since women have
come to dominate the workplace, the fastest growing parts of the economy
are those where women have the dominant position. For example, while
STEM jobs get outsourced to barbarians, either imported from tribal
areas or through outsourcing, health care, which is dominated by women,
has been booming. Tech workers have seen declining wages, but registered
nurses have seen their wages grow.

Of course, the feminization of society has been hardest on the working
classes, as the jobs for working class men are replaced by jobs for
women. The rise in death from despondency has been acute among working
class males. A man with no way to support a family, relegated to living
off a woman, has no reason to live. Inevitably, drugs, alcohol and
eventually suicide become the answer. The white death that has afflicted
our people is not all that different than what happened to the Indians.

The middle-class males have not escaped the ravages of the gynocracy.
We’re onto at least the second generation of middle-class males raised
by women in a female dominated society. The process began with the
liberalization of divorce, which spread through the middle-class like a
plague in the 70’s and 80’s. By the 1990’s, the feminization of America
life was well underway. We’re onto our second generation of young
middle-class males raised to live in the gynocracy.

You see it in marriage and dating. With scrambled sex roles, the males
are ill-equipped to play their role, so they are less marriage worthy to
females. On the other hand, men instinctively suspect a career woman
will be a poor mother and mate. The subsequent drop in marriage and
fertility is hardly a surprise. For the young men in the gynocracy, life
is a bachelor’s ball on-line, punctuated by mock battles in video games
and mock intimacy in the form of pornography.

As an aside, this is why someone like Richard Spencer was so appealing
to young men in the alt-right days. He is the non plus ultra of
gynocritic male. He is reckless, feckless and irresponsible, but immune
to the consequences. Mom is always there to make everything better. He
is the perpetual adolescent, unable to care for himself, but always in
rhetorical revolt against the gynocracy. As a result, many young
middle-class white males saw him as the ultimate expression of
themselves.

For young women, the gynocracy offers a short-term elixir of a career,
independence and power over her personal life. By middle-age, the elixir
wears off and it means a lifetime of lonely nights being an on-line
harpy or one-night stand. Many women escape the clutches of feminism to
marry and have children, but in the gynocracy, it still means a career,
because they have to support the husband and family. They get to pay the
price for upper middle-class women feeling empowered.

Of course, feminism has been hard hit by the rise of the gynocracy. The
purpose of feminism for close to a century was to give homely women a
reason to feel good about themselves. In a world where women are made
hideous on the inside by the pointlessness of their existence, but given
power over society, feminism has had to find a new audience. In the
gynocracy, feminism is now the domain for those born insane, rather than
those driven mad by the prevailing reality.

That may be the light at the end of the tunnel. Increasingly, women are
seeing the disaster that is modern life for what it is. The slow
flowering of traditional women living life as traditional wives and
mothers is a little green shoot. Despite the bellowing from the media,
Trump remains quite popular with married women. The contempt in which
these women are held by the gynocrats suggests this is the Achilles
heel. The end of the gynocracy is single women seeing a mom playing with
her kids.

On the other hand, Aristophanes was surely right. Practical reality will
break the gynocracy on the wheel of reality. The great lock-down is
madness that will eventually force great changes. This hysterical
response to the virus will force a lot of rethinking about practical
matters, like the habit of outsourcing manufacturing to China and the
outsourcing of child rearing to the state. This is what we may be
witnessing in this great panic over the virus. it is the beginning of
the end of the gynocracy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
