---
title: "The Creedal Insult"
date: "2020-05-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20499"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20499"
---

One of the side effects of the bizarre creedal nation theology is that
what claims to create unanimity ends up creating friction and hostility.
The most obvious and predictable way it does this is the debate over the
creed itself. What it means to be an American, for example, will change
over time under normal circumstances. Attitudes change, circumstances
change, the culture evolves, so inevitably what defines the people will
change with it. Everything evolves over time.

Not everything evolves at the same rate, so that definition of the
unifying creed quickly becomes many versions of the creed. In a liberal
democracy, where radicals are encouraged to dream up novel new social
fads, this quickly gets out of hand. We now live in a land where the
“unifying creed” of the people in Pennsylvania includes making a <a
href="https://triblive.com/local/regional/pennsylvania-state-senator-calls-for-resignation-of-health-secretary-dr-rachel-levine/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">mentally unstable Jewish
man</a> the head of their public health. In a creedal nation, everyone
is encouraged to have their own reality.

There may be a bigger problem with the liberal democratic notion that a
nation just needs a unifying set of principles. That is, the
implementation of that system cheapens it and eventually mocks it. The
simplest way to think of it is this. If everyone can easily become an
American, then being an America is not all that special. After all, what
makes Harvard the most prestigious college on earth, aside from the
human sacrifices and satanic rituals, is that it is difficult to gain
admittance.

Liberal democracy flips this on its head and claims that something that
is easy to attain is somehow special and unique. If Pablo can just float
on over in his inner tube and become an American, then what’s the point
of being an American? There is none and we see that in current year
America. In fact, citizenship is now a burden. The McMichael case in
Georgia is an obvious example. Following the law and being a good
citizen is for suckers. It’s why people are <a
href="https://www.newswire.com/news/americans-giving-up-citizenship-faster-than-ever-before-reports-21142429"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">abandoning their
citizenship</a>.

Putting aside the material aspects of the creedal nation theology, there
is another aspect that makes it a lethal poison for a human society.
People are tribal, having a natural affinity for their kind. Despite the
massive agitation efforts to deny this reality, it remains a reality
nonetheless. For example, real estate brokers will now be mentioning the
local jogger scene, or lack thereof, when showing houses. The reason is
we all know the correlation between joggers and quality of life.

No one wants to think their tribe is a bunch of losers. Another aspect
of our tribal nature is to think our tribe has some unique quality that
is unique to us. Those stereotypes did not spring from nothing. Blacks
think they invented basketball, because they dominate the sport at every
level. Italians assume they have a superior sense of style. The French
think they are the intellectual masters of the West. Every tribe has
cultural items they believe to be unique to them.

This is where the creedal nation theology creates conflict. <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2020/04/now-let-us-praise-great-jewish-violinists/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> in
Counter-Currents on great Jewish violinists makes the point that Jews
dominate the list of great violin players. If Jews had invented the
violin or invented the music best performed with the instrument, it
would be a great cultural achievement of their people. Instead, it is
outsiders mastering the cultural achievements of others. It’s no
different than a group of genetically engineered Asians dominating
basketball.

That is the unintended insult. The musician that masters the instruments
and music of another people to the point where he is superior to their
best is committing a great insult to those people. It is a demonstration
that their cultural achievements are so little that an outsider can
master them better than the natives. This does not necessarily have to
be intentional. The virtuoso could sincerely love the instrument or
music he is mastering, but the result is still the same.

This is most obvious in popular culture. Movie makers inserting
Africans, for example, into movies about the middle ages has become a
running joke on-line, because it has become so common. The zeal to prove
that people don’t matter has the rulers of popular culture feverishly
rewriting popular history to include everyone. The result is the past,
our past, is no longer our past. Even if the intent is to be “inclusive”
of the new Americans, the result is an insult to white people.

Guarding the culture from outsiders is the natural response to efforts
at cultural appropriation, something we see on the college campus. If
the kids want to have a party on Cinco de Mayo, they better not wear
culturally appropriate costumes. Even if the kids make every effort to
avoid mockery or snark, it is still forbidden. The guardians of
political correctness will have none of that, as to appropriate the
symbols and images of another culture is assumed to be an insult.

Jews, of course, are the most ethnocentric people on earth. They have
survived as a guest people for thousands of years. One reason for that
is they guard their culture, forbidding outsiders to access it. For
example, teaching the Torah to non-Jews is forbidden, unless it is part
of a conversion, which is not encouraged. In Israel, religious Jews send
their kids to separate schools to avoid being mixed in with Arabs, but
also to provide their children with training in their culture.

Even in modern America, where Jews operate at the top of society and
dominate the popular culture, few non-Jews know much about Jews or
Judaism. Part of it is genuine fear of being called a blasphemer, but a
big part of it is that Jews are not all that forthcoming about what goes
on inside their culture. By guarding large swaths of their culture and
not permitting outsiders to imitate it in anyway, Jews have been able to
preserve themselves as distinct people.

The creedal nation theology is the exact opposite of what has worked for
Jews and other people. Instead of preserving and protecting the culture
of the people, it cheapens it and commodifies it. To be an American, for
example, now means occupying some space in North America and having a
Netflix account and the newest iPhone. The solution in which a people
are naturally suspended dissipated and we are left with a collection of
strangers agreeing only on our insults.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
