---
title: "Our Primitive Ugliness"
date: "2020-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20913"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20913"
---

Something that is easy to miss in the insanity of the current age is the
fact that the people running the revolution are not just mediocre
people, but they have the most mediocre dreams. Unlike revolutionaries
of the past, they don’t speak of moving past this age of trouble and
strife to a new age of man. There’s no sense that mankind can ascend to
a higher level of existence. Instead, all of their energy is directed to
that which touches on the imponderables of the human condition.

The assault on Confederate symbols is the most obvious. There’s no
thought given to why these statues were erected by the people living in
these communities. What little thought there is to the people who
erected them is simplistic and childish. In fact, the need to know
anything about the statues was so vexing and offensive to the people
assaulting them, they quickly moved from attacking Confederate symbols
to attacking all symbols that were connected with the past.

There’s certainly a strong anti-white element to this. They have to deny
it for partisan reasons, as to do otherwise is to give the other side a
victory, but only Progressive ideologues and their conservative enablers
can deny it. The appeal, however, is in the simplicity, as it requires
so little from the partisans. This is why they have moved so quickly
from Confederate iconography through “symbols of whiteness” onto all
items with a nuanced connection to the past.

This vulgar dullness is often read as just fanatical violence by rich
kids seeking attention or authenticity within their movement. Others
want to see it as just decorating common street criminals with politics.
The thing is though, many of the rioters and statue topplers are the
children of ruling class types. Just as the left-wing radicals of the
sixties were the children of the bourgeoisie, today’s street radicals
are children of the managerial elite. These are bourgeois
revolutionaries.

The blandness of this revolution reflects the tastes and sensibilities
of the people who produced the ideology and the radicals themselves.
Look around at the creations of our modern rulers and the remarkable
feature is the ugliness. If someone had dozed off in the 1960’s and been
revived in this age, they would be sure the communists had won the Cold
War and imposed their aesthetic on the West. Relative to the post war
years in America, the modern aesthetic is offensively ugly.

The synthetic ugliness of the current year West surpasses the ugliness
of communism in that it is the product of material excess. The
dreariness of communist architecture, for example, could be explained by
scarcity. They had to make do with what they could produce, which meant
concrete and steel. The modern West is brimming with material excess,
but insists on an aesthetic that captures the hopes and dreams of the
career civil servant. Today’s style is depressed postal clerk.

This is, of course, the fruit of egalitarianism. When a society embraces
the natural hierarchy of man, even the people at the top are looking up
for inspiration. They are sure there is something better and more
beautiful a little higher than where they currently stand. There’s no
limiting principle to capturing the beauty and wonder of God’s creation.
The aesthetic of such a society is one of increasing beauty and
complexity in the art of the people.

In an egalitarian society, this is thrown into reverse. Everyone is
discouraged from looking up, as that may suggest apostasy. Instead, the
best only look up in order to get a better grip on the self-imposed
ceiling, which is always pulled down. Everyone else is compelled to look
down for a new lowest common denominator. Only in the most vulgar and
debased can everyone be included. The result is a community that looks
like film noir, but is awash in pornography and degeneracy.

This makes perfect sense, as egalitarianism inevitably flips the natural
order on its head, elevating the bottom over all else. The ideological
enforcers in the human resource department are no different from the
ideological enforcers in communism. These people are not selected for
their skill, but their stupidity. They are too stupid to contemplate
what they are doing. Instead, they puff out their chests and stiffen
their backs for having memorized the latest party fads.

The same is true of the volunteer auxiliary police patrolling the public
space for unapproved thoughts. Imagine the dullness and ugliness of
someone who takes the job of Facebook moderator. It is no wonder so many
of them are South Asian. The Indian subcontinent’s primary export is the
narrow-minded functionary, best fit for the ticket window of the train
station. The fact that suicide is not common among the staff of social
media firms confirms the dullness of them.

At first blush, it seems like a paradox that a system capable of
marshaling human effort to produce such spectacular material excess also
produces such mediocre men. It’s as if the engine of material progress
uses the creativity and passion, the hopes and aspirations of the people
as fuel to make consumer goods. Just as the failed materialism of
communism denuded the land of culture and beauty, liberal democracy is
doing the same, just with high tech materials.

If it were just ugliness, one could think that perhaps the next phase of
man is a post-beauty world, where the aesthetic is defined by
efficiency. That’s not so, as the people are also made vulgar and
simplistic as well. What passes for intellectual endeavor in the modern
academy is striking for its narrowness. The innovative thinker is one
who manages to lop off some new bits of human knowledge. The goal of
intellectual life is to reduce the stock of human knowledge.

This is most evident in politics. The market place of ideas that is
supposed to be the wellspring of liberal democracy has resulted in a
bazaar full of weirdos all selling the exact same goods. The defining
feature of the modern elections is their pointlessness, as no matter the
result, policy never changes. In modern politics, innovation is treated
like superstition. Anyone suggesting something different is treated like
he has been possessed by a demon or is in league with Old Scratch.

Perhaps liberal democracy has reached a point where a small number of
capable people can keep everything running, while the mediocre and
stupid run riot. Maybe that is the world at the end of history. Given
the recent madness, there is a strong case to be made for this argument.
On the other hand, history says man cannot live without beauty, even the
simplest expressions of it. The inexplicable beauty of the world has
always demanded our attention. Will we want to live without it?

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
