---
title: "The Weirdo Problem"
date: "2020-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19494"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19494"
---

The other day, the YouTube pioneer RamZPaul posted
<a href="https://twitter.com/ramzpaul/status/1212445783037009922"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">something</a> on Twitter that
generated a lot of responses and not all of them positive. The tweet was
a link to a story about the arrest of someone calling himself Augustus
Sol Invictus. Paul added a bit of commentary, “The former Alt Right was
a movement that welcomed freaks and weirdos. The “no punch right”
philosophy resulted in this.” As of this posting, the tweet had 133
replies and over one thousand likes.

Not all of the responses were positive, of course. Members of the
subculture, in which people calling themselves Augustus Sol Invictus are
welcome, were unhappy with Paul’s take on the matter. The general theme
of the negative reactions is that Paul is ”punching right” and that this
guy claiming to be a 2000 year old Roman Emperor needs to be defended.
In other words, drinking goat’s blood and claiming to be a Roman emperor
are not unforgivable acts in that subculture.

It probably does not need to be said, but Paul is correct. A person who
has legally changed his name to that of a Roman emperor and is regularly
issuing royal decrees on Twitter, needs mental help, not a political
career. He’s also running for president, when he is not drinking goat’s
blood in pagan rituals. The normal response to such things is to assume
the person is mentally ill. Even if he is not a danger to himself or
others, he should not be included in anything serious.

Paul is also correct to point out that the alt-right collapsed under the
weight of these sorts of weirdos. There were so many oddballs and
crazies flying the alt-right flag at one point, their enemies were
spoiled for choice. The far-left media could just keep plucking these
characters out and putting their profile out there on-line. In fairness,
most of the people attracted to the alt-right were perfectly normal, but
that’s not what the public saw when the alt-right was showcased in the
mass media.

This is a problem that all outsider politics faces. The weirdo problem
was not unique to the alt-right. Anyone who has attended a Libertarian
Party event knows that movement has had a weirdo problem for
generations. The environmental movement has had a similar problem. Most
people are happy to support conservation efforts, for example, but when
they see some nut dressed as an elf, demanding everyone give up their
cars, they assume he and the movement are crazy.

There are two reasons outsider politics is plagued with weirdos. One is
they are always going to be the most open to newcomers. They are trying
to boost their numbers, so they are never going to be too picky about
people coming into their thing. Even if the new people have odd ideas,
the assumption is they will learn the new politics and eventually fit
in. You see this with the White Nationalists, who spend a lot of time
indoctrinating one another in the ways of the subculture.

The other reason for the weirdo problem is there are a lot of weirdos in
a big society like America, so supply can easily overwhelm a new
movement. These weirdos are always looking for a home, so as soon as
something gets going, they are attracted to it like moths to a flame.
Since new political movements are disorganized and chaotic at first,
they have no way to ward off the weirdos. The alt-right was swamped by
people whose reality was formed by fantasy literature and video games.

That is the lesson of the alt-right, one that the successor operations
like Casey’s American Identity Movement have learned. Rather than try
and attract the biggest crowd possible in the shortest time possible,
the goal is to focus on high quality people, who can grow local chapters
organically. It’s not as fun as trolling people on Twitter, but it
limits the number of weirdos entering the movement. It is much harder to
be August Sol Invictus in real life than on-line.

Of course, the main issue with outsider politics is that they usually
form up around a complaint or a list of complaints. If the Roman emperor
and the accountant have the same complaints they can end up in the same
camp. At that point the accountant rethinks his position and moves
along. In other words, a negative identity opens the doors for anyone
who has those grievances. Often, it rewards the extremists at the
expense of the sober minded.

That is the key to any successful movement in the age of democracy. The
default is always going to be the shared reality of the society. The
people who control the public space, can therefore always be the default
position. In order to combat that the outsiders have to have a positive
identity that can be both defended, but also advocated to normal people.
The trick for outsiders is to remain in the realm of the acceptable
while challenging the prevailing orthodoxy.

That can only be achieved by having rules and standards. This gets back
to what Paul pointed out in his tweet. “A man that drinks blood and
thinks he is literally a Roman Emperor is probably not my first choice
for leadership material.” When the standard means presenting a
respectable face to a skeptical public, lunatics drinking goat’s blood
are never embraced as part of that public face. Instead they are kept in
the background so they cannot cause trouble.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
