---
title: "Springtime In The Pandemic"
date: "2020-03-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20114"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20114"
---

When I’m not on the road, Sunday is the day when I get my supplies and
set things in order for the coming week. I like to get an early start as
it means I don’t have to stand in line too long at the market. With the
panic raging, lines are longer than normal, but I had some hope that
people had exhausted themselves by now. Even so, I got an earlier than
typical start. Apparently, I was not the only one thinking the same
thing as the parking lot had many more cars than typical.

The shelves were mostly stocked, which was a relief, of sorts. I know
more about the nation’s supply chain than most people, so I was not
worried that we would run out of food, but it was still good to see it
confirmed. Even the meat section was as full as normal and that’s the
most fragile bit of the system. Items with a short shelf life tend to
the least resistant to panic buying. Empty shelves are an exception in
America, so seeing the stores full again will calm people’s nerves.

Having stocked up pretty well before the panic started, I just needed to
top up a few things, but I took a look around the whole store just to
see how people were handling things after a week playing pandemic. While
picking up some skyr, I caught a bit of conversation between two women.
I’d say both were in their 30’s, toward the older end, and they had the
mom look. One of them was telling the other how great it was to have
dinner together every night at the same time.

That will be one of the side effects of the great lock down. All of
sudden, women are home and taking over their domain again. The kids are
home, so they have reason to reassert their control over that part of
their life. Many of these women will no doubt hate it and perform
poorly, but most will be reminded that being home and running the
household full-time was always their bets career option. Men will learn
that having the wife home beats having a second income.

In line, I struck up a conversation with a women about this topic. The
checkout has to be fumigated after each person goes through, so the
lines are thirty people deep as we wait for our turn in the delousing
station. The woman is in finance, so she can work from home. She has
kids at home now, so she’s happy work has slowed up with the great shut
down. Her kids get their school assignment over Skype, but she has taken
over the normal instruction they would get in class.

She told me that she and the other moms are now talking about putting
together their own community home schooling operation. I almost laughed
out loud a few times as she explained how she and the other moms got a
look at what their kids are being taught and how they can do much
better. She was bit angry, for example, about the errors they found in
the science books the school is using. There will be a lot of this type
of stuff happening around the country because of the lock-down.

One of the unexpected consequences of this panic and the economic
collapse that is now certain to follow, is people will discover the joys
of want. We tend to think it is always terrible to do without, but there
is an odd pleasure that comes from having to sacrifice and conserve. The
mom I spoke with while waiting almost sounded giddy about the idea of
simplifying the household diet in order to accommodate the shortages in
the grocery stores. It will give her purpose again.

That will not just be about food. She said something about the lack of
TV sports was a bit of downer, but I countered with the fact that
everyone now gets to discover outside again and she lit up. No doubt she
was thinking the same thing, but was happy for the confirmation. She and
other moms are now taking over the fun time for their families, rather
than delegating it to the entertainment business, sports leagues and the
schools. Again, it will give these women purpose again.

On the other hand, we still live in a world of rule by exception. The
right thing to do when someone says, “we need to normalize wearing masks
in public like the Asians” is to punch them in the nose. That should
have been the answer to people telling us their pronouns or their weird
sexual fetishes. Instead, we committed ourselves to making one exception
after another to accommodate a metastasizing number of weirdos, oddballs
and trouble makers. The mask freaks will just be another.

That said, I doubt the mask thing lasts long. Americans are not going to
live as if we hate everyone. Social trust has broken down, but it is not
gone entirely. The reason Asians love masks is they have been practicing
social distancing for 5,000 years, so the mask compliments a natural
instinct. Conformity was their answer to the problem of social trust. To
westerners, living such an existence will be a bridge too far, so the
weirdos pushing it better enjoy their hazmat suits while they can.

Something I thought about as I was leaving is that suddenly the status
hierarchy for women has changed. The mom I was chatting with was feeling
really good about taking control of her household. Suddenly, the women
taking care of their kids, taking over their schooling and being a
stabilizing force are cool. Those career women sheltering in place with
their box wine and social media account can no longer kid themselves
about their real status in society.

There’s been a lot of wishful thinking about a baby boom coming from
this lock-down, but what may follow is a marriage boom. Millions of
single women now have no reason to exist, because they are stuck at
home. They can’t cause drama at work and they can’t cruise the bars with
their friends. Meanwhile, the women they made sport of at the office are
having the time of her life at home with the family. There’s some chance
this panic opens some pretty young eyes to the reality of their
existence.

On the way out, I stopped at a light and noticed that the trees are all
starting to turn green and the flowering trees are about to go into peak
bloom. Persephone is making her way up from the underworld and all of
creation celebrates.The cycle of life is immutable, which means that all
things come to end, even plagues. It also means they are replaced by
something new. A lot of bad things will come from the great lock-down,
but on the other side will be some good things too.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
