---
title: "Thinking About The Unthinkable"
date: "2020-03-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Pandemic
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20153"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20153"
---

Last summer, cable personality Tucker Carlson started doing a bit where
he claimed to believe in things like extra-terrestrials, or at least
believe they are possible. He would go through a list of things that he
used to think were impossible, then finish with how in a world where
Donald Trump is president, anything is possible. The point was not to
talk about little green men, but to highlight how our old assumptions
have to be abandoned, because many of them have been proven false by
events.

It is a good thing to keep in mind when evaluating predictions about
what comes after the great lock down. Trump is no longer talking about
Easter as the back to normal date and has extended the lock down through
April. Governors are now in a race to see who can come up with the
bleakest prediction for when things get back to normal. The Brits now
lead the race with <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8165169/Coronavirus-lockdown-SIX-MONTHS-says-Dr-Jenny-Harries.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">six months</a> as their
estimate. This is an unprecedented time, which means what was considered
unthinkable is very thinkable.

For example, ten years ago most Americans assumed the political classes
had learned a hard lesson from Watergate. They had let the security
services run wild for too long and suddenly they were a threat to the
politicians. The days of a J. Edgar Hoover spying on people were over.
Not only was that false, but there was a plot among FBI officials to
interfere in the presidential election. They went so far as to concoct
an impeachment trap in order to remove Donald Trump.

Six months ago is was unthinkable that these same security agencies
would have the president removed by some other means. Six month ago we
did not have a third of the country hiding under their beds. We did not
have major cities turned into ghost towns by quarantine orders. How
unreasonable is it to think that the same people who launched the
seditious plot in 2015 would find themselves a Lee Harvey Oswald? It
sounds crazy, but we live in an age where the crazy quickly becomes the
norm.

What about something less cloak and dagger like martial law? State
governors are getting pretty close to the line between state of
emergency and assuming dictatorial powers over their states. New Jersey
is supposedly issuing travel passes to citizens and arresting people for
gathering in their own homes. Los Angeles has suspended the second
amendment. Trump has contemplated a Federal quarantine of New York City,
which would probably mean troops on the streets to enforce it.

On April 27, 1861, Lincoln suspended the writ of habeas corpus between
Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia so military authorities could silence
rebel dissenters. In a world where governors are calling up the National
Guard in order to enforce a lock down, is martial law really
unthinkable? Sure, some nutty judge would no doubt challenge Trump on
something like this, but what about governors? Would a corrupt judge
like Amy Berman Jackson challenge a fellow party member like Cuomo on
this?

What about the upcoming election? The Democrats have already suspended
many of their state primaries for this virus. Given that Joe Biden is in
such poor health now, they may force the suspension of the remaining
primaries in order to have an easier time finding a replacement for him
at the convention. That’s a precedent that could easily be used to delay
the general election in November. What if New York and California have a
second wave of the flu in the fall? Unthinkable?

How about something way out there with Tucker Carlson’s space aliens,
like a military coup to topple Trump? The military is riddled with
multicultural lunatics these days, so you know many are fanatical Trump
haters. You can be sure there are a few generals who think they are
Napoleon trapped in the body of a mediocrity. Given what we saw with the
FBI, it is not unreasonable to think that the same “us versus them”
mentality has crept into the officer ranks of the military.

Of course, for a military coup to work, it needs at least some support
down the line, but mostly it needs civilian support. An ambitious
general would need someone that really hates Trump to be the fig leaf
for the coup. Would a <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/29/politics/nancy-pelosi-coronavirus-cnntv/index.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">vindictive old bat</a> like
Nancy Pelosi entertain such an idea? Would a group of Senators from the
neoconservative cult consider such a thing? It seems unthinkable, but
again, we live in an age when the unthinkable is not just thinkable, but
happening in real life.

Of course, military coups and revolutions at the top have the habit of
setting off civil unrest, as some portion of the public protests what’s
happening. Locking people in their homes and communities will have
unanticipated consequences. Lots of things that were out of the question
now start entering people’s minds. The riots in Wuhan after they lifted
the lock down is a good reminder that forcing people to do something
does not change their unhappiness with the policy. It just intensifies
it.

If this does go on for months and the cracks in the ruling class begin
to show, is civil unrest really unthinkable? Is civil war unthinkable?
<a
href="https://nypost.com/2020/03/29/rhode-island-begins-door-to-door-checks-for-new-yorkers-fleeing-coronavirus/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Rhode Island</a> now considers
New Yorkers persona non grata. Pennsylvania is doing the same. <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8165415/Armed-vigilantes-cut-tree-use-roadblock-quarantine-workers-New-Jersey.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Mainers</a> are now going
vigilante on suspected New Jerseyites. Sure, concern for the virus is
the stated reason, but a general dislike for New Yorkers is the real
reason. There are lots of such divisions in this country. Is civil war
really so unthinkable?

Just because something is possible, does not mean it is likely. It is
possible to hit the lottery for a billion dollars, but the odds are very
small. What we’re talking about here though are the things that were
thought impossible or close to impossible just six months ago that are
now suddenly possible. Maybe they are still unthinkable within the
ruling classes, but we thought the FBI and CIA spying on presidential
candidates was unthinkable until not so long ago.

We live in an age where the unthinkable, like the fog, quietly creeps up
on us until suddenly the unthinkable is the new normal. Just as “shelter
in place” is the new normal whenever it snows, mandatory lock downs will
be the new normal whenever too many people get the sniffles. The
unthinkable not only becomes thinkable, it becomes impossible to think
otherwise. It also means that everything unthinkable today is suddenly
on the table, maybe even the menu, for tomorrow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
