---
title: "The Babylonian Captivity"
date: "2020-02-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19800"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19800"
---

Every age has its defining characteristics. Often one of those
characteristics is used to make a handy name for the period in question.
The Jazz Age, for example, is the name given to the period before the
Great Depression. Alternatively, one event is used to label the age,
like the Woodstock era, for the late 60’s. These are not
all-encompassing definitions, but shortcuts that spawn images in the
mind. If one were to conjure a name for this era, a good option would be
the Age of Conspiracy.

For starters, we are just wrapping up the impeachment fiasco, which was
based on a popular conspiracy theory with the Left. They think Trump
secretly works for the Russians or maybe their hated enemy the
Ukrainians. No one is really sure who it is he conspires with, but they
are really bad. This conspiracy theory also gave us the Russian hacking
hoax and the Russian collusion hoax. Of course, the Left also thinks
Trump secretly conspires with white nationalists too.

The Left is in charge, not always officially, but they run things so
naming this era the Age of Left-Wing Conspiracy could work too. The
irony, of course, is that they always accuse their enemies, real and
imaginary, of being conspiracy theorists. Every idea they hate, even
stuff from science and math, is tagged as a conspiracy theory. The
demographics of crime, for example, are a race conspiracy by racists.
Another good name for this era would be the Projection Era.

The Opposite Rule of Liberalism age would work, but it is a bit wordy.
It does cover the main feature of this age. The people in charge always
say things that turn out to be true, but in an alternative way. In the
case of the Ukrainian collusion stuff, they were right about Ukrainians
meddling in our politics. It was just that the Ukrainians were bribing
Democrat politicians. There’s that opposite rule at work. What they say
has some truth to it, just pointing in a different direction.

Of course, another reason why The Age of Conspiracy would work is the
inner party is actually behind some rather important conspiracies. For
example, the seditious plot to overturn the 2016 election. The Benghazi
fiasco and cover-up. Clinton’s mysterious e-mail server and the
shenanigans around it. How can we forget old Jeffrey Epstein, the
mysterious character, who apparently died by magic? Note that months on
and the FBI has not charged anyone with anything regarding his death.

Now we come to the best caper so far. The party appears to have rigged
the Iowa Caucus, in order to deny Bernie Sanders a victory. They will
have results, eventually, but there will be no big live rally or press
conference for him. Maybe they post the results wherever they place the
obituaries now. The results don’t matter anyway, as the media will now
pretend the [Dancing Queen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xFrGuyw1V8s)
is the savior. Who knows, maybe they rig the results to declare him the
official winner.

It may sound a bit conspiratorial, but a reasonable person is now forced
to consider conspiracy as an explanation for everything in politics.
There’s no doubt the Democrat Party tried hard to rig the vote against
Sanders in 2016. They admitted as much while it was happening. They have
been quite clear about their loathing of Sanders this time. This
technology they decided to use to count votes is the product of a party
insider. Their app is called
[Shadow](https://twitter.com/lhfang/status/1224561674679488513).

That’s another thing about this age. The inner party likes a dash of
irony with their conspiracies and the resulting theories. For example,
accusing Trump of colluding with Ukraine is rather rich, given the
number of inner party members on the payroll of a Ukrainian oligarch. In
this case, their new technology would ensure accuracy and prevent
shadowy forces from meddling in the vote. Naming it Shadow and then
using it to meddle in the vote is a nice touch.

This is not the first time we have seen this. After the assassination of
Seth Rich, the young DNC staffer, they put a plaque in his honor up at
the door used by young party staffers at the headquarters. They claimed
it was a coincidence, but in the Age of Ironic Conspiracy, one has to
assume otherwise. In fact, given the howling about rigged elections the
last three years, in is safe to assume Iowa is just the start. The 2020
election will probably be the first entirely corrupted election.

The civic nationalist types will be tempted to conclude that this will
be the downfall of the Left or maybe even the inner party. After all,
Americans like rules and expect the powerful to play by the rules. It is
important to keep in mind that there is a strong oriental influence on
this age. That culture really likes conspiracies. The entire Middle East
is controlled by a tapestry of conspiracy theories. Chasing them down
keeps people too busy to do anything about the people really running
things.

That is how things in the Empire run now. It is like the ancient
empires, in that politics is in the shadows, conducted by secret
conspiracies. The people just hope to bugger on and avoid being a victim
of it, but at the same time spend their leisure time puzzling through
the various intrigues. Maybe that’s a good name for this age. It should
be called the Babylonian Captivity, as the natural ruling class has been
captured by an ancient mentality. That’s a label that has something for
everyone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
