---
title: "Selling Normie"
date: "2020-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20667"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20667"
---

One of the truths about politics that many would prefer to ignore is
that politics is not about facts and reason. The game is about
persuasion. If you live under a monarch, then the game is to create
popular support in order to persuade the king that some policy is good
for his people. If the ruler is a despot, then he needs to be convinced
his best interest lie in a particular policy. In theory, at least,
democracy is about persuading fifty percent plus one in favor of some
course of action.

In order to persuade someone, you need to understand his needs and
motivations in order to frame your appeal to him in a way that he can
understand. Good salesmen always start by understanding what their
prospect needs and why he thinks he may need whatever it is he may buy.
He is far more likely to buy the widget that makes the boss happy than
the widget that works a tiny bit better than the rest. He needs the
widget and is motivated to make his boss happy.

A similar approach must be done with the sorts of people dissidents seek
to persuade in the political arena. The so-called normie has become the
universal white guy everyone says they want to bring to this side of the
great divide. As President Barak Obama once said, he is the typical
white person. This is the guy who votes Republican and listens to Rush
Limbaugh when he is driving around during the day. His dream is to be
left to live his life as he sees fit with whom he sees fit.

Normie would naturally come this way, but he has been convinced of a
number of things that operate like a leash keeping him in lefty’s yard.
For example, normie is sure that markets matter a great deal. When he
sees all of the corporate oligarchs promoting black violence, he mutters
to himself, “Get woke, go broke.” He truly thinks the marketplace will
punish these companies. He thinks the sportsball leagues will suffer for
kneeling to their black players. The fans will punish them for it.

The mistake made by dissidents when discussing the magic market issue is
in thinking they need to be anti-market. The thing is, normie needs to
believe the market will magically solve these problems because he is not
motivated to act on his anger and frustration over what he is
seeing. The choice he sees is to abandon the convenience of buying from
Amazon or forgoing the joy of watching sports. If he is going to walk
away from consumerism, there has to be something in it for him.

There is something similar at work with race. Normie has been told his
whole life that if he just tries hard enough, black people will stop
thinking he is a racist. It’s not that explicit, but that is the point
of race messaging from the ruling class. They want white people in a
constant struggle session over race, where they examine everything they
do with an eye on reaching the magic state of being not racist. Since no
such place exists, the struggle can never end, hence the endless riots.

It is why explicitly racist language is a dead end for normie. He sees
that and is confirmed in his desire to not be a racist. Those
taboo-breakers with their salty language and snarky comments are mostly
singing to the choir. There’s a place for it and a need for it, but when
it comes time to pitch normie on race realism, such language and
symbolism is a deal killer. You become the salesman who walks into a
Christian business using four-letter language and wreaking of alcohol.

Normie also likes feeling a bit self-righteous and sanctimonious. This
is true of all people to some degree. All of us want to be good people
in the universal sense, but we also want the people around us to
acknowledge it. As John Derbyshire
[explained](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/7275977-the-ordinary-modes-of-human-thinking-are-magical-religious-social)
back in the Neolithic, social thought is a foundation of man. When it
comes to politics, the easiest way for normie to feel good is to
triangulate. He rejects the far-left, but also rejects those bad people
and haters to his right.

You see this in business. Often a buyer will justify his decision as
being the value proposition, which means not the best, but not the
cheapest. It is a form of self-flattery that the good salesman can
exploit. He recognizes that the buyer needs to feel like he is a
reasonable guy not taken by fads and thoughtful in his analysis. Normie
takes a similar approach when it comes to thorny cultural issues in
politics. He naturally seeks some middle ground that he can then pretend
is the high ground.

This is, in part, why normie remains smitten with immigration. It has
always been framed for him as a choice between open borders and
xenophobia. Normie really needs to believe that those immigrants want to
be like him. To reject them out of hand is to reject himself. Again, it
is a form of self-flattery. Think about how so-called conservatives sell
normie on immigration. They talk about immigrants starting businesses
and being natural conservatives who love Jesus and family

On the other hand, normie makes noises about the need for immigration
being legal and measured, because it makes him seem reasonable. He
rejects the chaos of open borders, because he is an orderly sort of guy.
He wants a tough border, but as long as there is a legal process, he is
fine with immigration. The current immigration levels have become his
value position. He’s not taking the cheap route of open borders, but he
is not going for the expensive option of a moratorium.

Then there is the weird fatalism of normie. He looks around at the
madness of the day and thinks, “They have gone too far. The snap-back is
coming.” This is similar to his belief in the magic of the marketplace.
Normie just assumes the excesses he sees around him will cause the
silent majority, of which he is a member in good standing, to move like
a school of fish in a different direction. Millions of private decisions
motivated by left-wing excess will put things back in order.

This is why talk of whites becoming a minority is so effective on
normie. It’s not so much that he fears being at the mercy of non-whites.
He fears he will lose the validation of being in that silent majority
and that the silent majority will no longer be that magical force that
rights all wrongs. In other words, so much of the normie mindset that
keeps him tethered to conventional politics, depends on him believing he
is part of a perpetual majority of good white people like himself.

It’s why the scenes of whites washing the feet of blacks and kneeling
before them is so powerful, when combined with demographic reality. When
normie understand he will be a minority and it means washing the feet,
he suddenly becomes a highly motivated buyer for a new political
ideology. The good salesman is always prepared for the motivated buyer.
He does not bore him with a long sales pitch. He just presses on those
pain points until he gets the sale.

Every salesman will tell you that there are good times and bad times.
The good salesman weathers the bad times and maximizes the good times.
Right now, it has never been a better time to sell dissident ideas to
the normie in the market for something better. Not all are motivated
buyers, for sure. Some people never let go of the past. You can’t save
everyone, but there are a lot of white people looking around right now
thinking, “There has to be something better than this.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
