---
title: "The Beginning Or End?"
date: "2020-07-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20839"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20839"
---

Way back in the before times, whenever the topic of Soviet propaganda
came up, inevitably someone would mention that it was necessary in order
to keep the people from revolting against the system. There was an
assumption that the propaganda worked to some degree in convincing the
public. The truth is, it was never particularly effective on the masses.
Instead, the real value of propaganda is in keeping the believers from
questioning their beliefs.

We see this today with the massive propaganda barrage from the ruling
class media organs regarding the race war. They endlessly wave around
claims about how much public support there is for toppling statues,
assaulting old white people on the streets and perpetrating race hoaxes.
It is the oldest and dullest form of persuasion. “All the other kids are
doing it. You don’t want to be left out, do you?” It’s so crude and
clumsy it often feels like it is an inside joke at times.

For example, <a
href="https://speedsport.com/indy/indycar-series/indycar-nascar-twinbill-draws-strong-ratings/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this piece</a> rocketed around
the sports media sites. The claim is car racing, especially newly woke
NASCAR, is getting record audience numbers. They don’t make the claim
explicitly, but clearly the intent of the post is to suggest wokeness
has been good for car racing. Of course, TV ratings are entirely fake
and have been for a very long time, but even taken at face value, NASCAR
is as popular right now as a moderate YouTube star or OnlyFans bimbo.

If you are running a billion-dollar sport and you can only draw a
million fans when no other sports are permitted to operate, you have
serious problems. That’s the world of facts and reason. In the world of
wokeness, a slight bump after a series of embarrassing public relations
blunders is a triumph of the will. It is all the proof the great and
good need to convince them that turning NASCAR into an endless lecture
on the horrors of white people was a great idea.

What we will not see, of course, is a similar story a year from now when
the sport is struggling with half-empty stands and dismal TV ratings.
That’s not the sort of thing that keeps the true believers energized. In
ideological societies, truth is a very dangerous thing, not because it
gives the doubters ammunition. Truth is dangerous because it undermines
the zeal of the believers. That’s the real motivation behind this race
war unleashed by the ruling class. They needed to inspire the faithful.

This need to constantly tend their own garden is why the rulers are now
banning harmless people like Stefan Molyneux from the internet. Whatever
you may think of his performances, Molyneux is pretty much just a garden
variety AnCap. He sprinkles in some crime data and facts about race on
occasion, but he has not done much of that in a long time now. Instead,
he has retooled himself into a street corner Socrates, but he was banned
from social media anyway.

People on this side are tempted to think his banning is due to his
occasional flirtations with race realism, but if that were so he would
have been zapped years ago. In reality, the people in charge are running
low on people willing to go onto their stages and play the villain for
them. Twitter is all house broken conservatives and Progressive cranks,
with the latter outnumbering the former 100-to-1. After years of human
sacrifice, the stock of sinners is running low, so they are creating
them.

Therein lies a significant difference between what we are witnessing
today and what went on in communist countries. At some point after the
war, communist propaganda shifted from promoting the glorious future
that was at hand to promoting the glories of the here and now. That is,
the point of communist propaganda was to endlessly remind the people in
the party that there was no need for change, just constant vigilance
against the remaining reactionaries.

That does not appear to be in the cards for liberal democracy. It is a
constant revolt against the present, even when the present is the
creation of the people doing the revolting, as we see today. That’s why
the propaganda gets more intense and more absurd with each click of the
ratchet. It’s as if the faster they chase after the glorious future, the
further it recedes into the distance, so the only solution is to run
faster and that means more sacrifices and more witch hunting.

It is tempting to conclude that they cannot keep up this pace for long
and will at some point exhaust themselves. That is probably true, but
that point may be well beyond where we stand now. Look at the way they
have reacted to the <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/07/us/bloomington-car-attack-protesters.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">rioter</a> in Seattle being
run over and killed. Instead of sobering them up, it is becoming
something of a blood sacrifice. The new religion has no limiting
principle, so the limit of their fanatical zeal may turn out to be
physical reality.

The point of all this is that this may be the early stages of the
revolution. It is popular with the older crowd to compare now with the
1970’s, when the cultural revolution of the 1960’s collapsed into
anarchy. In other words, it is 1974, Trump is Nixon and Joe Biden is
Jimmy Carter. In reality, it could be 1968 and Trump is Johnson. He
certainly spends like Johnson and dithers like Johnson. We may be living
through the good part of the revolution and things will get much worse
from here.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
