---
title: "The Elect"
date: "2020-12-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22253"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22253"
---

**Note:** Lots of additional material this week. Over on Taki I have
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/its-a-wonderful-movie/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a post</a> up about the great holiday
movie *It’s a Wonderful Movie*.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/240753" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Behind the green door</a> I have a post up about the
YouTube/Livestream subculture. For those looking for some soothing
sounds of reasonable analysis and conversation,
<a href="https://youtu.be/jrZAbwx0rfI" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here is some of that</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A recurring feature of the government Covid efforts is the people
issuing various public health edicts violating those edicts. The
self-righteous lectures about mask wearing from a sanctimonious
politician are followed by pics of that politician going around without
a mask at some swanky event. Restaurants all over the country have been
closed, but special exceptions are always made for the politicians.
These stories of official perfidy have become a staple of the outrage
media.

One of the more amusing examples was from Rhode Island where the
governess there has been carrying on like an overprotective mother,
demanding that everyone stay home for the holidays. Meanwhile she is
[getting tanked
up](https://www.abc6.com/its-not-the-full-story-woman-who-took-photo-of-governor-raimondo-speaks-out/)
with other hens at a wine and paint party. The latest is the coordinator
of the White House coronavirus response, who has been telling people to
stay in hiding for the holidays. Meanwhile, she had a [big family
bash](https://www.breitbart.com/news/birx-travels-family-visits-highlight-pandemic-safety-perils/)
at one of her mansions over Thanksgiving.

Of course, these stories are waived around as examples of the hypocrisy
and sense of entitlement common in the political class. There is an
assumption that the people contradicting their own lectures know the
lectures are nonsense. They know the mask wearing and other rules are
ridiculous. They just like playing dictator. In contrast, these stories
are sometimes presented as examples of how these people think they are
above the rules, as if they are members of an aristocracy.

The latter is probably closer to the truth. The fact is, few people in
elected office have the smarts to know if any of these policies make
sense. It is monkey see, monkey do with these local politicians. They
see a politician in another state getting noticed for an innovative
torment and they race to match it. We live in the age of gesture
politics, which means showing you care is all that matters. Covid allows
these tiny tyrants to show they care by imposing restrictions on the
rest of us.

What we are seeing is the results of the managerial class that formed up
in the last century, having become class aware. These people see
themselves as more than just experts tasked with managing society, the
economy, education and so on. They are now an indispensable class, the
fulcrum of society. There is no aspect of society that is off-limits to
their machinations, because in their understanding of themselves and
their role in society, no area of society can exist without their
attention.

Therefore, you never hear any mention of constitutional liberties or
constitutional rights when they are holding forth on their latest Covid
edicts. You will also note that with some rare exceptions, political
alignment has made no difference. Politicians of both parties have been
participating in the orgy of rulemaking in response to Covid. What we
have seen this year is the mask drop. The political divide in America is
no longer Democrat and Republican, but the managerial class and the rest
of us.

This new class awareness comes with a strong moral component. They see
themselves as an elect, chosen by the people, based on merit, to manage
society. It is why they often carry on as if what they are doing is a
great burden. Like a mother saying “this will hurt me more than it will
hurt you” when disciplining her child, the new elect carries on as if
their duties are a great burden. Every new lecture, every new edict,
comes with the sense that they are sacrificing for the community.

It is the old Calvinist concept of the predestination of the elect,
secularized and democratized, into an obtuse form of entitlement. From
the outside, these people look like self-important poseurs, oblivious to
the damage they are causing. From inside the managerial class, they see
themselves as heroes of a great cause. They are selflessly battling the
Covid monster in order to save our democracy. The fact that no one voted
for any of this is completely lost on them.

Another Christian element to this is the conflict over free will. On the
managerial side, they no longer believe they are accountable in any
formal sense. Governor Cuomo can cause the death of thousands of old
people, but he is not responsible. On the other hand, some guy tries to
keep his business open and he is accused of being a super-spreader, the
angel of death. The elect has received grace, while the rest are
condemned to suffer the torments that come for the damned.

There is also the old radical sensibility at work too. The radical
always imagines herself as the vanguard of the people. She is free from
responsibility, because her actions are intended to create the
conditions for revolution. She can blow up women and children in a
terrorist act, because her intentions are pure. She is not judged by the
death and destruction she causes to the innocent, but by her fidelity to
the cause and her willingness to sacrifice on behalf of it.

This turns up in the Covid edicts. These petty tyrants take pleasure in
punishing the non-compliant, as it provides an opportunity to show how
much they care. Like the radical bomber, they rationalize the damage
they are doing, imagining themselves as the shock troops of social
revolution. The great reset stuff and the build back better jabberwocky
is the beacon on which they have fixed their gaze. They are leading us
to salvation and nothing can stand in their way.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ME8Sbji9RAUdYR4/Eylxhg==cb7UYHgfJzw9Wcp5QhByDJnCaORhn6yDCJx2L+NO6n41lDQ0SFRru1w9C58lnJW626s"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="qMjYRDx0wYnDzbdkxlH4Yw==cb79Xg5E+Rzm5bqA+fgSzRVO9MBuZL2xZINO5/HNJLSz9Z2ZZOgjYUJCVLNHTAAf3Ia"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
