---
title: "Right-Wing Marxism"
date: "2020-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20814"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20814"
---

There was a time when conservatism was defined as a lack of ideology, by
which Russel Kirk meant ideology in the Marxist sense. The Marxist
defined ideology as a set of beliefs that were assumed to be true, but
were, in fact, the product of economic and social conditions of the
time. The ideologue, whether he knew it or not, believed in a collection
of things he assumed were true in all times and all places, but were
only true in his time and place. Conservatives rejected this argument.

That was a long time ago. For generations now, conservatism has
succumbed to that old Marxist understanding of ideology. What that
usually meant is the so-called conservatives would figure out the
position of the Left on some issue and then take an alternative
position. Not necessarily the opposite, as they have always been careful
to avoid being called reactionary by the Left. This is, of course,
evidence that they are reactionary, but reactionaries have some
self-awareness.

A good example of this is <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/urbs/its-time-to-abolish-single-family-zoning/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this piece</a> in the American
Conservative. The writer is someone calling himself Charles Marohn, but
his friends call him Chuck. He is the president of something called
<a href="https://www.strongtowns.org/about" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Strong Towns</a>, which promotes itself as an advocacy
group in support of rebuilding local community. Of course, it is a
501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Here is their <a
href="https://990s.foundationcenter.org/990_pdf_archive/271/271459378/271459378_201712_990.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">tax filings</a>. Their
language and choice of media outlets suggest they are conservative or
right-leaning.

The best one can say about it, however, is it is a mix of misguided
libertarianism and Breitbart-tier reaction. Consider this line. “After
all, there is no greater distortion of the market than local zoning
codes, and there are few bureaucracies doing more harm to property
rights and freedom than local zoning offices.” This is right out of
libertarian market worship. An actual conservative would ask, “Do these
local zoning laws reflect the attitudes and customs of the local
community?”

Nowhere in the piece is there any discussion about what the local people
may want or how these zoning laws fit in with local customs. Instead,
the author is frazzled over the prospect that the market, peace be upon
it, may be vexed with these laws. Even more vexing, suburban voters have
somehow managed to get the Federal government to back these zoning laws.
In this case, it means rules against building tenements and trashy
commercial development in white suburbs.

In other words, his definition of conservative simply means opposing
anything that impedes the marketplace. Further, he points out that these
sorts of zoning laws started in the New Deal years. There’s where you
see the Pavlovian aspect of modern conservatism. Instead of judging the
thing in question against a set of accepted principles, they just ask if
Democrats were for or against it. Conservative Inc. better hope the Left
never takes a strong stance against suicide.

That’s where you see that conservatism, rather than being a rejection of
ideology as the Marxists define it, has become an ideology, one that
compliments and supports the prevailing ideology of the Left. In the
case of single-family zoning laws, there is no consideration of their
efficacy. The writer does not bother to ponder why these laws exist in
the first place. Instead, he just assumes they are bad because the Left
once supported them and they violate market absolutism.

Of course, he does not address why we have zoning laws prohibiting the
demolition of the suburbs with tenement blocks. The Left destroyed those
old white ethnic neighborhoods in the cities, by unleashing a black
crime wave starting in the 1960’s that drove whites from the urban
areas. Twenty years ago, the legendary quantitative blogger, La Griffe
du Lion, <a href="http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/hood.htm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">pointed out</a> just how
quickly blacks began to prey on urban whites as their population grew.

At least with the Obama administration, they were honest about why they
wanted to destroy the white suburbs with tenements full of blacks. They
hated white people and they hoped to reclaim some urban real estate. The
game is to change the zoning laws in these white suburbs, so builders
can erect apartment blocks. The Federal government, coordinating with
the local Democrat machine, then fills them with blacks from the nearest
city, using Section 8 housing vouchers.

Toward the end of the piece, he writes, “The progressive left has
discovered that single-family zoning has racist underpinnings. That’s
great, because we should now have no problem finding common cause for
repealing this most distorting of regulations, one that the federal
government never should have forced cities to adopt to begin with.”
Instead of using this observation to discuss why these zoning laws
exist, he falls victim to the fallacy of Chesterton’s fence.

There is another part to the Marxist definition of ideology. Once one
accepts that beliefs are shaped by conditions, you no longer have to
think too much about the truth content of political beliefs. Your
opponents are simply the victims of false consciousness, while your
ideas reflect the interests of your side. This inevitably leads to both
close-mindedness and fanatical zeal. Any questioning of your side is
heresy, while the other side’s arguments are assumed to be without
merit.

This is where conservatives find themselves today. They are confined to
a moral ghetto created for them by the Left. On the one hand, any new
ideas, especially those from the Right, are rejected out of hand. On the
other hand, they are completely defined by their opposition to whatever
the Left is doing at the moment, but snugly within the confines of the
moral orthodoxy. Conservatism has been completely stripped of the
ability to question and debate political reality.

This is also why conservatism has turned into a racket. The people
inside this maze of right-wing institutions have been imprinted by
ideology. They can only see the world in terms of partisanship, a term
coined by Lenin, by the way. Of course, the same is true of left-wing
institutions. They treat their enemy as an indefatigable foe that is
always right there ready to pounce. In reality, both Left and Right are
exhausted ideologies and exist like two drunks leaning on one another
for support.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
