---
title: "The Escapists"
date: "2021-10-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-10-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25271"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25271"
---

One of the things about liberal democracy that is hard to see from the
inside is how the system must be all consuming. The people trapped in
such a system are forced to engage with it constantly. You are not
allowed to live outside of politics. Everywhere you go there are people
preaching the latest gospel, demanding you engage with it, usually
demanding you not only have an opinion, but you have the right opinion.
There is no escape from politics, because politics is everywhere.

The reason for this is democracy can only derive its authority from the
general will, which must be expressed through public opinion. That is
the basis of all democratic systems of government. Truth itself is fifty
percent plus one. If people refuse to participate by not voting or not
having an opinion, they must be assumed to be in the opposition to
whatever is being proposed. Democracy off all kinds is a binary system
where you can only be for or against the current issue.

You may not want to engage in the current issues because you simply
don’t care, but your lack of caring can only be read as opposition.
After all, if you supported the latest fad, you would make that clear.
Your indifference gives support to those who oppose it, so your reasons
are unimportant. What matters is your indifference is standing in the
way of the cause. Both sides, therefore, feel it is their duty to force
you to pick a side, as otherwise you are on the other side.

This binary view of the world that is forced on everyone inside a
liberal democracy is a form of totalitarianism. The conventional
definition of a totalitarian system is one that exercises an extremely
high degree of control over public and private life. The merely
authoritarian system seeks only to control the state. Totalitarian
systems seek to change the world and human nature with total control of
public and private life. Man in a totalitarian system is a prisoner of
enforced consent.

In contrast to the masculine nature of communist systems, liberal
democracy is a softer and more subtle expression of control. The old
communists would send men around to beat nonconformists. Millions were
sent off to die in camps because they needed to be examples to the
others. In liberal democracy, there is the same need for examples, but
instead of torture and murder, the system uses psychological weapons
against the intended victims. They get nagged into submission.

We see this with the Covid cult. In the Soviet Union, citizens would
have been dragged off to get their shots and that would have been the
end of it. There would be no need for vaccine passports, as internal
passports were compulsory. In liberal democracy, the system seeks to nag
and torment people into compliance. It is a passive-aggressive assault
on the mind of the citizen. You are told you have choices, but if you
choose incorrectly you are tormented by the system.

Note also that the point of compliance in liberal democracy is the same
as in the communists forms of totalitarianism. Compliance is a moral
issue. No one in charge cares about the health of the people. In fact,
they secretly hope the white population dies from Covid. What matters to
them is that you agree. They need your affirmation because they get
their sense of authority from the general will. No matter your reasons,
you not getting the vaccine is viewed as rejection of their morality.

This fear of and intolerance for opposition is the hallmark of
totalitarian regimes and it is the operating ethos of modern liberal
democracy. It is why the system has become entangled with digital life.
It allows them to search for what the Soviets called refuseniks, people
who refused to agree with the system. In liberal democracy, the
refusenik is a “denier” of some sort or possibly a conspiracy theorist.
The
[search](https://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/research_reports/RRA600/RRA676-1/RAND_RRA676-1.pdf)
for such people using digital tools is the highest priority.

The term “conspiracy theorist” is instructive. History is full of
conspiracies, and these are taught in the schools. One of the most
famous is the conspiracy to assassinate Julius Caesar by Roman senators.
It is used as the archetypal example of the political conspiracy.
Despite the fact that conspiracies are the norm in human history, a
person who traffics in them is anathematized as a dangerous weirdo. More
important, anyone questioning official dogma is called a conspiracy
theorist.

This is all part of the central demand of liberal democracy. Like all
totalitarian systems, it cannot tolerate deviation or doubt. The
authority of the people in charge is dependent on the general will. That
is not only what puts them in charge, but it provides the systems of
power they control. The indifferent in some small way question this
moral authority by withholding their consent. This is why in a liberal
democracy; you can never escape politics. You are only permitted to
agree.

It is also why the liberal democrat has a special loathing of those who
are indifferent to their moral claims. The person who mocks or dismisses
their morality is assumed to worship different gods and have a different
moral code. His source of strength is outside the liberal democratic
order. That person is the true danger because he carries with him an
alternative truth. That alternative truth is a direct threat to the
system and the people who control it, so it must be destroyed.

This is why Christianity collapsed in the West as liberal democracy was
imposed on it by the America empire. Christianity places the ultimate
authority, the basis of right and wrong, outside of politics. To allow
such an alternative source of morality is impossible in the liberal
democratic order. As a result, all forms of Christianity have been swept
from the public square. This is why Muslims reject liberal democracy.
They know it is a direct threat to their faith.

Perhaps the most important innovation in the realm of totalitarianism is
the lure of popular participation. In the communist systems, the party
was supreme. In the liberal democratic order, the system attempts to
draw everyone in with the promise that they can change things by
participating. This flushes the opponents out into the open, who
foolishly take the bait. This is the main role of mass media. They
promise to amplify your opposition, but only serve to identify you as a
heretic.

The Soviet Union made the great turn into decline when it began to run
out of enemies it could use to focus party efforts. Once the people
figured out that they could only live in the shadows and must always
avoid engaging in politics publicly, the system was starved for energy.
It settled into a long period of decline and eventually collapsed when
faced with the crisis of the 1980’s. Convenient opposition, the handy
heretic, is the fuel that powers the totalitarian system.

In a liberal democracy, a genuine opposition will refuse to engage the
system and seek to live in the shadows. It will stay off the official
social media platforms and avoid all contact with regime media. It will
evolve its own language and its own moral structures outside of and
independent from the system. The modern dissident will not stand athwart
history yelling “stop”. He will stand outside of it, going about his
business, building an alternative that is free from the bloody grasp of
liberal democracy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="0QlDvm2jOtEN6RhwXauPXA==cb7UXpQVGJ/tImMnb4sBBLZVSEuebmlUhGRvq0iGCy3da4fFCxKzvLqUYlcAG1PNfuu"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="SQ77pRGJdrkfvY3pXvZUIg==cb7tRtSyfLJ2JNq1Xicf2/YNXDERf+aHSurY5/OA9n6FsAp0FTlO0NlWfPxrHGWY6qd"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
