---
title: "Logocide"
date: "2021-12-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-12-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25844"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25844"
---

One of the distinguishing features of authoritarian societies is the
language becomes lifeless and dull. At the same time, the public space
is filled with the language of the authoritarian ruling system. The
people at the top give long arid speeches and their propaganda organs
fill the spaces in between with official noise. Fidel Castro would give
speeches that lasted half a day. Stalin would deliver long harangues to
the Party Congress for no other reason than to fill the room with words.

In America, this started to creep in after the Cold War. Bill Clinton
would give long speeches that were cognitively meaningless. The word
“emote” came into common usage at this time as his speeches were like
the “feelies” in the Huxley novel Brave New World. They were not
intended to stimulate your mind, but rather to anesthetize it so you
could experience the raw emotion being conveyed. His most memorable
words are those from his rare confessions of guilt.

Obama took it further by delivering nonsense speeches that were not just
devoid of meaning, but an assault on the concept of meaning. His
language was an assault on the mind, an effort to destroy reason.
Instead, the listener was supposed to abandon his senses and float along
on the warm thermals of passive happiness. His fans swore he was a great
speaker, but they never quoted him. To quote the great man would invite
questioning the great man and that was not permitted.

Authoritarian systems use language to suffocate and stifle the mind,
because people thinking independently is always a danger. The point of
regime language is to strip language of its meaning. Demagogic language
makes the people incapable of the objectivity and perspective that leads
to questioning. Questioning naturally leads to the formation of
individual ideas. Regime language seeks to destroy the independent mind
by stripping the language of meaning.

One result of this is some people become parrots, repeating slogans and
catchwords without understanding what they mean. These people are so
fearful of any deviation from the prescribed opinions, they only use the
terms provided by the regime. It is a ritualized self-degradation. To
express and judge all opinions in the accepted clichés and phrasing of
the regime is to accept that words and the concepts behind them have no
independent meaning.

It is *logocide*, the deliberate killing of words in order to kill the
concepts that lie behind those words. The most obvious example is
“fascist”, which no longer has a cognitive meaning in modern society. It
exists only to trigger an emotional response tuned to meet the needs of
the regime. The structure of modern Western government is about as close
to fascism as we have come since the middle of the last century, but the
word itself now means anyone who opposes the regime.

A current example of *logocide* is the war on information. Regime media
now obsesses over *misinformation* and *disinformation*. Both words are
used interchangeably, despite having very different meanings. The former
means false information that is often intended to deceive. The latter is
official lies promoted by the institutions of authority in order to
deceive the people. By conflating these meanings, this important
distinction falls away and both words just mean unofficial opinion.

Regime media has declared war on misinformation and disinformation,
despite being the primary source of it. The social media publishers
regularly announce their progress on the war on misinformation. Of
course, the government is the biggest source of disinformation, yet no
one questions them. This absurd bit of theater is intended to strip the
very concept of truth from the minds of the people. It is a form of
menticide intended to make people dependent on the regime.

The point of *logocide* is to cripple the ability of the people to think
independently and to prevent them from sharing information with others.
If no one can trust what words mean, you cannot trust the ideas behind
those words. One of those ideas is the concept of personal trust. If
your best friend is just as susceptible to repeating false information
as the stranger on the street, that friends can no longer be trusted.
The natural bonds between people fall away and everyone is a node of the
state.

This even happens to the people tasked with assaulting the language.
Look at the subhead from this
<a href="https://archive.md/GEIbd" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">story</a> in a regime tabloid. “Journalists and
academics are developing a new language for truth. The results are not
always clearer.” Imagine the intellectual bankruptcy required to
manufacture the phrase “new language for truth.” The person who wrote
that is dead inside. They are a shuffling zombie incapable of action not
directed by the people who now control his mind.

Notice also the creepy flavorless language of the age. No one speaks in
the first person unless they are displaying fidelity to the system. In
the corporate space, everything is written in soft passive language
stripped of declarative statements. Corporate communication sounds like
it comes from an encounter session. The people behind it are incapable
of independent thought. They fear deviation and degrade themselves with
therapeutic language to magnify their obsequiousness.

This is why authoritarian systems are minimalist. They lack beauty,
creativity and vitality because those are burned up in the engine of
authoritarian rule. A people living in fear of their own curiosity are
not inventing new ways to solve problems. That requires independent
thought, which means an independent language. When the point of the
system is to kill the meaning of words, there can be no independent
thought so there can be no new ideas, just the approved ideas.

This is what we see in the West. The suffocating conformity of thought
is boiling off the will to solve problems and challenge old solutions.
The centers of cultural production are now manned by automatons. They
are decorated in the trappings of past creativity, but they are like
mannequins in a museum display, interesting only to those who maintain
their ability to see what is happening. Otherwise, the culture is a
repetition of the banal official clichés and slogans.

This is what makes language the great threat to the authoritarian. To
call a man in a dress a crossdresser, rather than use an approved
neologism, offends the puppets of the regime, because it threatens the
foundation of the regime. Clear language conveys clear meaning which
implies clear truths. Standing on truth allows for the questioning of
the official language and by extension, the authority of the system. The
antidote to authoritarianism is truth and the honest language it
requires.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="GCVlrrbL9tCx18X8uz224g==cb7hFyccvZhZofMUHMvSovieEMWxleZFBc+cz3YaOwgiwyEq8JBAVVFfCuYqHW/CqqB"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Sfr7/FXoDO9DcBI7kUlSaA==cb7GiLo0ZLFQOoRloQB5vB+N2oY/5fexnlDzLhY9Cri0iPq3S5Pv03et3XdWYO2g/9u"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
