---
title: "The Really Big Lie"
date: "2021-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25409"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25409"
---

One of the unexamined parts of the current crisis in the West is that
much of it is related to an opposition to nationalism. It is an axiom of
the ruling ideology that nationalism is the worst thing ever and that
stamping it out is a primary concern. In Europe, there are laws against
the concept. People are jailed for promoting it. In the United States,
nationalism is linked to the deadly sin of racism. The term *white
nationalism* has become a synonym for racism and antisemitism.

Without much evidence, it is asserted that nationalism is the cause of
the great horrors of the modern age. For generations now children have
been taught that nationalism was the cause of the two great industrial
wars of the 20th century. Paradoxically, they also are taught that
nationalism is to blame for colonialism. Today it is claimed that white
people being themselves as a people, currently called whiteness, is the
cause of everything that ails nonwhites in the West.

The supernatural quality of nationalism is often aided by the people who
promote what they think of as nationalism. They try to “own the insult”
by parading around as the bogeymen the ruling mythology associates with
nationalism. This serves to reinforce the mythology around nationalism.
Others argue in favor of nationalism by first accepting that it was a
real thing in the past. They say we need to return to a past state in
order to avoid the fate of internationalism.

The reality is that nationalism does not have much of a resume. It has
no roots in the ancient past. The Ancients certainly understood the
concept of a people in the natural sense of it. They did not have a
concept for a political entity tied to the natural concept of a people.
Linking a people to the land they occupy in the way that modern Zionists
would define a nation did not exist. People could claim territory, but
the territory was not defined by the people in the way nationalists
imagine.

Of course, after the fall of the Western Roman empire the land we think
of as Europe was divided up into kingdoms. These kingdoms were made up
of various people with their own language and their own claims to the
land. The armies of these kingdoms were made up of various ethnicities.
The King of People X could Fight the King of People Y using soldiers
from the kingdom of his opponent or from kingdoms not involved in the
conflict. They were mercenaries.

The first real hint of nationalism in Europe, or anywhere for that
matter, was in The Hundred Years’ War, fought between the kingdoms of
England and France during the Late Middle Ages. When it started in the
14th century, both sides used armies of mixed ethnicity, often from each
other’s territory. By the end it was much more of a war between people
united around their identity as a people. Historians argue this was the
first flicker of nationalism in Europe.

Even so, nationalism did not catch fire in the late Late Middle Ages.
The Thirty Years War had a strong nationalist overtone. It is generally
framed as a religious war, but the partisans were also distinguished by
their ethnicity. The Bohemian Revolt was as much about not wanting to be
ruled by a foreigner as it was a revolt of Protestants against a
Catholic monarch. Even so, it was mostly a struggle between the Habsburg
and Bourbon dynasties, rather than a national struggle.

You have to get into the 20th century before nationalism is a real thing
with real power to unite people. The current mythology says that
nationalism, especially German nationalism, was the cause of the Great
War. The conflict between Germany and France drew in the rest of the
great powers, including America. After the war, nationalism was blamed
for the horrible destruction of the Continent. This is the origin of
anti-nationalism that is central to our ruling ideology.

Yet a brief examination of Europe at the start of the conflict makes
rather clear that nationalism was not the issue. The nation-state was
not a real thing. The Central Powers were the German Empire, the
Austro-Hungarian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and a collection of small
kingdoms. There was the French Republic on the Allied side, but the
British Empire and Russian Empire made up the other two parts of the
Triple Entente that was the basis for the Allied side.

Of course, we now see that America was already an empire by the time she
joined the fight in Europe. Yankeedom had conquered the South in the
Civil War, then spent the rest of the 19th century conquering the
continent. She chased Europe out of the Americas in the Spanish –
American. It is fair to assume that America would have annexed Canada
and much of Mexico if not for the opportunity to conquer Europe and Asia
in the two world wars.

Putting that aside, the Great War was not a war of national identity or
a war between national identities. It was an industrialized version of
all previous imperial wars in Europe, waged between empires over
resources. National identity played a role, but the primary cause was
internationalism and what we call globalism. One of the great first acts
of modern propaganda was turning a war between empires into a brief
against the antidote to empire, which is nationalism.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but the Wilsonian post-war project to
bring peace to Europe was not rooted in one-worldism. The League of
Nations was built on the premise that people had a right to exist and
have defined territories. Disputes over trade and boundaries would be
adjudicated peacefully through an organization of nations, rather than
war. It is not unreasonable to say that the seed of democracy was that
the default human organization was the nation.

The only bit of history the anti-nationalists can point to for their
forever war against nationalism is the rise of fascism. Fascism was a
rejection of the internationalism of communism and the pluralism of
liberal democracy. Because of certain events that happened in this time,
nationalism has become synonymous with a particular brand of fascism
that no longer exists. This is what gives nationalism its supernatural
quality that is so vital to the liberal democratic project.

The trouble here is that this flicker of nationalism in the heart of
Europe was met with overwhelming force by the great internationalist
coalition. International communism linked arms with international
liberalism to smash nationalism. As a practical matter, the influence of
nationalism is only as a bogeyman that was once a real thing, but now
exists only in the imagination of the current ruling class. Opposition
to fascism is a mystical version of internationalism for stupid people.

To add an additional layer of irony to all of this is the fact that the
proponents of various forms of Marxism and liberal democracy claim that
the failures are due to the imperfect implementation of these
ideologies. In other words, after centuries of effort, real Marxism has
never been tried. Real democracy has never existed. Nationalism, which
has never been tried, killed in the cradle by internationalism, is
condemned as a failed ideology of the bygone era.

That said, history says that there is something compelling about
internationalism that allows it to thrive in spite of its body count.
They say that 100 million have been murdered at the hands of Marxists.
How many have been murdered by liberal democrats is never discussed.
Tens of millions for sure. Awash in the blood of the innocent,
sacrificed to the various schemes of internationalism, the dream of the
great universal utopia of man remains alive.

Further, history suggests that the mundane realty of nationalism lacks
that special something that compels men to not just die for it but kill
for it. Dying for a dream is easy, because it is usually involuntary.
Killing for the dream takes courage and the internationalists have never
been short of it. Nationalists, in contrast, have never been able to
match it. It lacks the transcendent quality, the promise of something
beyond the daily reality of the human condition.

That said, even though the resume of nationalism is scant, its power to
inspire the enemies of humanity as it does suggests there is something
to it. Perhaps locked inside the undeveloped concept of nationalism is
something that can truly inspire. Maybe that is the great secret of
internationalism, the really big lie at the heart of it all. If Western
man ever truly explored his nationalistic impulse, internationalism
would be wiped from the planet and peace among nations would be
achieved.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="U8P4TDw/UNexo06wU5VBLg==cb7OUE8ZYcS2dx32zG4fZIsCfe8xkjfKKyw3RTAVOfQe2ogy7xSPMFXxS0q1FUEEAhG"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="mMl/d+21or1foXoTdMtP1A==cb7wSfMQpLVEj8MgiZn9xbMD1P44QM4Uf2ipVKfIYwZlaBh+T7cISGyyBHT9tDV4zlA"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
