---
title: "Corporate Rebels"
date: "2021-06-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-06-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24253"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24253"
---

**Note:** The regular Monday
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/watch-your-language/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> is up at Taki. This week it is a
language lesson in how to communicate in your new country. There is the
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/364313" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Sunday Thoughts</a> podcast up behind the green door,
for those who enjoy the sound of my voice. This week I spent a lot of
time making sport of General Milley.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It has been observed that people who claim to be free thinkers are
always people trapped in the narrowest lanes of dogma. They somehow
confuse their love of conformity for rebelliousness. On the other hand,
people who do question the prevailing orthodoxies tend not to think
about it very much. Instead, they follow their nose on the alternative
path, even if it violates a taboo. This is why genuine free thinkers
tend to be victims of the revolutions they initially support.

In the current age, this contrast is especially stark. The people
claiming to be the wild and crazy guys of politics are not only
conventional, but they also tend to be wedded to the oldest ideas. They
also enjoy full support from an increasingly authoritarian regime, while
claiming to oppose authoritarianism. A good example is someone like [Tim
Pool](https://twitter.com/Timcast/status/1407355529643577351), who is a
perfect example of how the regime creates its own opposition. He thinks
he is a rebel while broadcasting from regime platforms.

The Right is festooned with housebroken rebels. This is a legacy of Bill
Buckley, who defined the opposition to the Left within the bounds of the
acceptable. It was the Left, of course, that decided what was
acceptable. Over the last 70 years, every great purge was led by the
Buckley crowd. The Birchers, paleocons, populists, immigration patriots
and so on were denounced and purged by Conservatives, after the Left
decided they were no longer allowed in polite company.

In the current age, the contrast between the swelling hordes of people
outside the bounds of the acceptable and the so-called conservatives is
glaring. It was not always so, which would explain why so-called
conservatives carried on as if they were rebels trying to topple the
system. In the 1990’s, for example, Conservative Inc. could plausibly
argue that the paleo remnant turning up at Ross Perot rallies or Ron
Paul events were just a noisy minority, not the real alternative to the
Left.

A similar dynamic seems to be at play on the Left. The internet is full
of people claiming to be the real Left. They tend to rally around people
like Bernie Sanders and Ocasio-Cortez as the rebels against the system.
Unlike those conventional thinkers in the mainstream media, the
democratic socialist are the real rebels. They are the ones challenging
the established order. The fact that democratic socialism is the
plaything of a billionaire currency speculator never seems to matter.

This false consciousness is understandable among the street gangs and
rioters recruited to cause mayhem. Most of the people were see smashing
windows and bellowing about Nazis are just day labor hired for the task.
The typical “black bloc” is populated with drug addicts, homeless
people, and random losers. They are organized by the children of
managerial class types, building their resume. Nothing opens doors in
the managerial class like a turn as a street radical.

The real puzzle comes with the branded radicals. In this case, “branded”
should be read as corporate branded. The [Young
Turks](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1yBKRuGpC1tSM73A0ZjYjQ), for
example, imagine themselves to be rebels fighting corporate media and
corporate politics. They take their name from the Young Turk Revolution
that toppled the Ottoman Empire’s monarchy. Cenk Uygur, one of the
creators, describes himself as a young insurgent. He and the others are
leading a revolution from the Left against the system.

The fact that his channel is the creation of the system, operates on the
platforms of the system and is funded by the people who benefit the most
from the system seems to be lost on him and his audience. What makes the
whole thing even more amusing is that Cenk Uygur is a middle-aged man.
The only thing that would make their enterprise more ridiculous is if
the “Young Turks” were a collection of octogenarians working from the
human resource department of Goldman Sachs.

If you want to see just how much American politics has been corporatized
and homogenized since the end of the Cold War, look at the Left. The
typical left-wing person in America will defend to the death the right
of Apple or Amazon to exploit their workers in order to make a profit.
The far-left of American political discourse now arrives at the debate
dressed like race car drivers. They are the house slaves of the American
political plantation, but think they are John Brown.

One reason for the political discourse being dominated by deluded
corporate flunkies is it pays extremely well. Cenk Uygur would be
spending his days in traffic court if not for his willingness to play
this role in corporates politics. Instead of struggling to pay the
mortgage, he gets to live in a mansion. This is where Bill Buckley was a
pioneer back in the before times. He made selling out into a highly
lucrative career by making it look like a principled stand against his
paymasters.

That explains the cynical, but what about the truly deluded? The
internet is full of people volunteering to carry the torch for corporate
conservatism or corporate progressivism, while thinking themselves as
free thinking rebels. These people volunteer to be sheep while thinking
they are wolves. The people showing up at this summer’s Trump rallies
are not doing it for money. The losers calling them fascists on Twitter
are convinced they are fighting the racist system.

The simple answer is that the supply of people who are not terribly
bright, but sure they are on top of things is quite large. Even if 20%
of the population falls into this category, the system has an army of
noisy simpletons it can control. That is more than enough to drown out
the real opposition. It also creates social proof. People unhappy with
the system can find a corporately controlled mob to join. The fact that
it is safe inside the Cenk Uygur and Tim Pool tents adds to the appeal.

There is another reason. This quote from John Derbyshire’s [*We Are
Doomed*](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409597/ref=sr_1_1)
is useful in this context. “The ordinary modes of human thinking are
magical, religious, social, and personal. We want our wishes to come
true; we want the universe to care about us; we want the approval of
those around us; we want to get even with that s.o.b who insulted us at
the last tribal council. For most people, wanting to know the cold truth
about the world is way, way down the list.”

That is what these sorts of politics satisfy. The fans of Cenk Uygur or
Tim Pool get to feel like they are on the winning team. They are also
told that the tides of history or the immutable facts of the universe
are on their side. The exaggerated size of the audience offers the
social proof and the pseudo fellowship of on-line communities. Most
important, they get to hate on the bad guys. That is the real draw of
this sort of corporate sponsored politics. You get to safely hate your
enemies.

What never intrudes is reality. When Tim Pool says “I am not afraid of
being challenged or wrong” he means that in the context of corporate
sponsored politics. He is perfectly willing to sit down with the folks
sponsored by Amazon or Apple to talk about the latest pronouncements
from Team Walmart. What will never happen is any of these people sitting
down with someone who genuinely questions the premise of corporate
sponsored politics or the system that makes it possible.

In a way, the corporate sponsored rebel is the commercialization of the
old tactics used by state security agencies. The FBI does not have to
run COINTELPRO, because YouTube and Twitter do it for them. Instead of
agents from the state secretly supporting the accommodationist wing of
the opposition, corporate America hires them, gives them a big platform
and the freedom to operate on-line. The rest fall in line because they
just assume the marketplace has spoken.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="24TUEXX3K8+HFrkA8giMmg==cb7m8rudHoqYJ4hR8zXazQilMIHpJRV4M7IYCVggjo1nqb34xKt8097Am6Ev1jlb15b"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="UTKCkUv3Pdt0lbRPQ0vK5Q==cb7TxqZErsdN/fvTl9Jm/GsobJGYmf06EV8ThpZBw2wmtVxVQevrpaq6g0ANhW1xeX3"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
