---
title: "The 2021 Predictions"
date: "2021-01-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22396"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22396"
---

Despite the uncertainty of the age, it is worth the time to think about
what monsters are waiting for us in the new year. With The Pretender
being installed in the White House, there will be new challenges on the
political front. The people in charge will have a new bag of tricks to
distract people from what they are doing. The media will now have to
transform from their Trump hating to making Biden sound good. The world
will look a lot different in just a few months.

The first thing the omens are tell us is the murder rate in Baltimore
and other diverse cities will take off in 2021. An odd thing about Lagos
on the Chesapeake is that the murder rate is much higher in odd number
years. The locals seem to hate prime numbers for some reason. The number
of murders for 2020 was higher than typical for even numbered years,
which suggest we are seeing an upswing. This will be the year Baltimore
becomes Bodymore Murderland again…

The Covidians will not back down. There will be reports of “vaccinated
people” getting Covid and that will be enough to keep the panic rolling.
Covid has now replaced climate change as the left-wing religion of fear.
They need to feel they are part of a holy cause to give purpose to their
lives. Some politicians will try to ratchet back the fear mongering, but
they have unleashed forces they cannot control. Mask wearing and other
gestures are now the uniform of the enlightened…

Retail economic pain will become obvious to everyone, as the damage done
from the lockdowns starts to cut deep into local economies. The media
will work hard to ignore it, because they will be running cover for The
Pretender, but more and more people will start noticing the long lines
at food banks and the shuttered businesses. The reality of two Americas
will become more obvious and begin to creep into political
conversations, especially on the fringes where taboo topics are allowed…

Joe Biden will be forced to resign by Labor Day. Starting in the spring,
stories about his mental decline with start to turn up in the official
media. His handlers will let him flail around in public, prepping the
public for his eventual removal. Behind the scenes, the deal for him to
resign will include his family getting a pass on their crimes. The
Hunter Biden investigation will be broomed and that will pave the way
for him to pass the baton to the new generation of vibrant leaders…

Trump will quickly fade from the scene. He will keep making noises, but
his audience will dwindle quickly in 2021. One reason is he has fallen
for the wrong advice at every turn, so there is no reason to think he
changes now. He will be told that former presidents go away for a year
and he’ll do it. Instead of holding a rally on inauguration day, which
he has hinted at a few times, he will play his role in Biden’s
inauguration show and say all the things he is told to say.

There’s also the fact that his fanbase is ready to move on from Trump.
For many people who held their nose and voted for Trump in 2020, they
started out hoping for a reformer, but ended up hoping for a
revolutionary. Trump was neither of those. He was just an opportunist
who rode popular discontent to office, but never really understood what
was happening in the country. It was just another deal. The movement he
started is ready to outgrow him now. He came in like a lion and will go
out like a lamb…

This is the year we start to see some highbrow establishment characters
embrace the populist cause, as they look for a way to remain relevant.
The departure of Trump from the scene gives them cover to shed their old
skin in favor of a new one. You can see this in the second rung of the
commentariat. They are starting to talk about trade, the plight of the
working and middle-class and even corporate abuse. They will take great
care to avoid the demographic issues that drive most of this…

Once the pieces are on the board in Washington and a new round of
looting can begin, look for the Republicans to work hard to share the
blame for the coming economic troubles with the Democrats. The sinking
of the Covid money by turtle man was a preview of what we can expect.
Money for friends of government will sail right through, but things
popular with the public will be blocked by whichever party did not
promise it to their voters. It will be a game of bad cop – worse cop…

Expect the Republicans to make another push for amnesty in 2021. The
cheap labor lobbies are salivating at the prospect of unlimited cheap
labor. The GOP brain-trust is convinced that they can remove the
troublesome immigration issue for good by pushing through an amnesty and
expanded foreign worker visas. That way they never have to pretend to
care about illegal immigration again, since they have effectively made
all immigration legal. They are really that stupid…

Finally, we begin to see a changing of the guard in the dissident space.
The old sort of white identity politics that started in the last century
will continue to fade away. Similarly, the race aware civic nationalism
of the previous generation will give way to a new class-demographic
sensibility on the Right. This will be most obvious among the younger
generation of activists. Their takeaway from the Trump years is that the
system and the elites running it are the core problem.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kyg8jxgM009fklrO/EoWow==cb7vPcnCI1wsp+oXp2iMaAAoWMnNLqbz9IHNUbJShWdgumnWQkVAKIOEEmoI8QtcmgT"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="wh6Hn5FCKJ9+cFd6NMQFkg==cb7MeQSdcbgGYNcTe75ofSKtyGT+3bHMrCbX4wbofQNO1izqwQHgG7wwdj2W1qgOkx8"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
