---
title: "Generational War"
date: "2021-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22438"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22438"
---

**Note:** The first
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/the-cycle-of-racial-madness/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Taki post</a> of the year is up. I start
the year off with some soothing words about race. I also have
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/246643" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">a post</a> up behind the green door on the move The
Searchers, which is ranked \#96 on the top-100.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generational politics has been a part of American culture since the
middle of the last century when the Baby Boomers started making noises.
Youth culture started in the 20’s during the Jazz Age, but really came
into its own in the 50’s and 60’s. Today it is just assumed that each
generation has its own unique identity. Zoomers, Boomers and Millennials
are separate tribes with nothing in common. On this side of the great
divide, “boomer” is commonly thrown around as an epithet.

One of the great ironies of our political culture is that whites are
never allowed to play identity politics, unless it is generational
identity politics. That because generational war is pretty much a white
thing. Zoomers can rant and rave about the Boomers, because it is
assumed that both groups are white. You never hear the gatekeepers
lecture us about the danger of generational identity politics like they
do with other aspects of identity like race, sex or even region of the
country.

Putting all of that aside, there is a generational aspect to our
politics that will be front and center in the near future. The Baby
Boomers get grief for the cultural revolution, but in reality, they were
just consumers of that revolution. Despite all the radical rhetoric, the
Boomers emerged into adulthood with a high degree of institutional
trust. The Left has a deep faith in government and the process of
government. The Right has a deep faith in capitalism and the process of
the marketplace.

This institutional trust is apparent across the political spectrum. The
mainstream Left demands absolute fidelity to the institutions they
control. For example, skepticism of the mass media is treated as a
dangerous conspiracy theory. The mainstream Right was in a constant
state of panic over Trump challenging the system. Even dissident Boomers
maintain faith in the system. They are sure that getting the right
people in the right offices will result in polices rooted in demographic
reality.

This is to be expected. The Baby Boom generation came into a world that
not only worked, but worked amazingly well. They were raised up in a
high trust society with a booming economy. In their youth they got to
enjoy a flourishing popular culture and in their adulthood, they were
gifted a robust economy. Through their middle years, they got good
schools for their kids and great health care for their parents. The
system has been great for that generation, so their loyalty is sensible.

This deep trust in the system will only become more intense as the Baby
Boom generation gets older. The first wave of Boomers is either on the
cusp of retirement or already retired. Right behind them is the second
wave that perks up every time an ad for retirement services comes on the
television. What old people do not want is for things to change. Despite
the obvious problems in politics, the culture and economy, the Baby Boom
generation trusts the system. They have no choice.

Despite their vast influence, the Baby Boom generation will soon begin
to give way to the next generation, which is the Millennials. Generation
X is too small, and they have been shut out by the massive generation
ahead of them. The Millennials are now ready to start taking up their
place in American society. The first wave of that generation is
approaching forty now. Over the next decade, as the Boomers head into
retirement, their children will take over for them as the dominant
generation.

Unlike their parents or possibly grandparents in some cases, the
Millennials have a different lived experience, as the beautiful people
would put it. They came into easy times like their parents, but they
never had to fear war, recession, or the ideological threat of Soviet
communism. They never had to think much about the system or trust in it
in anyway, because the system was never under any threat. For them, the
current order was just a part of nature, something taken for granted.

One result of this is an unrealistic sense of entitlement. You see this
most acutely on the Left, where the new generation of radicals sound
like spoiled children. Their demands are those of a toddler faced with a
toy that is not working. They look around and demand to know why
diversity is not blooming wherever they look or why there are things
within eyeshot that hurt their feelings. Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez is
a petulant child, but also the face of the new American Left.

Another feature of this generation is an absolute faith in themselves.
The doting of their parents and the hours of esteem building lessons
paid off. Millennials are a wildly confident generation. This makes
perfect sense. Things just worked out well for this group, especially
those who entered the managerial class. As long as they ticked the right
boxes, the treat came out at the bottom. A generation raised on
participation medals reached adulthood highly confident in their
ability.

They also have a deep faith in their sense of right and wrong. They
start from the assumption that their desires are the moral high ground.
Whatever they want is not the right thing in the empirical sense, but
the right thing morally. This means they receive criticism and failure
as a personal affront. Add in their sense of entitlement and this is not
a generation built for struggle. They expect and demand things work the
way they want them to work and that’s the end of it.

For Millennials, politics will be intensely personal. They define
themselves by their lifestyle choices and the opinions they promote.
Personal accomplishment plays a minor role, because everything that
matters has always been here for them. Gesture politics is all about
moral signaling for a generation that conflated everything into some
aspect of their personal identity. This is why mainstream political
discourse increasingly sounds like a fight between a divorced couple.

For an aging empire showing signs of decay, this sets up an interesting
dynamic over the next decades. As the system begins to break in serious
ways, the older generation will want to protect it at all costs. On the
other hand, the people tasked with fixing the system will be their
overconfident, sanctimonious kids. Compounding it will be the fact that
the Millennials have come this far assuming the system is just a part of
the natural world, like the weather. It does not require maintenance.

The generational war that is shaping up is not between the Zoomers and
the Boomers, but between the Boomers and their kids. One side maintains
a deep trust in the system, while the other has a deep trust in
themselves. One side will demand the system be repaired and defended,
while the other will take this as a personal affront. Meanwhile, the
people capable of maintaining the system will be too old to do it, while
the people tasked with it will be too self-absorbed to be bothered. Good
times.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="8pyqg9XFwPHzDTiPSn1gpw==cb744S47wzFYbDFzmauAc0qbS7xT1v/tS6xeuikyD8aQJQwbatdNYiKrJfVq5a9q+U8"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="+RNVjrq+t0nzp3TALK4R+A==cb7AtDr/IDyXOJ2YB91Ji2WOr4RjauVvrUQYdfNzIbkf5Uz8Vj6r/z4NZXSNz6LorYh"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
