---
title: "Electric Elite"
date: "2021-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23990"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23990"
---

Most everyone has looked down at the fuel gauge and suddenly realized
the tank is very close to empty. Maybe it is the idiot light going on as
you pass the sign that reads “last stop for food or fuel for X miles.”
The worst one is when this happens in a rural area or at night. The
prospect of being stranded on the side of the road for a very long time
quickly crowds out other thoughts. It is a terrible feeling. Almost all
of us are conditioned to make sure this never happens.

Running out of gas used to be a common thing in America. In the early
days of the automobile, care did not have a gas gauge and gas stations
did not always have gas, so it was a common scene. The first “gas gauge”
was a marked stick the driver would stick into the tank. Until very
recent, gas stations used this method to test how much water was in
their tanks. Eventually, more sophisticated solutions were invented and
then manufacturers install them at the factory.

Running out of gas is not very common these days. For starters, we have
gas stations everywhere people live. They are about 120-thousand gas
stations in America. If you live in an urban or suburban area, finding a
gas station is not a challenge. The cars are also vastly more efficient
today than the old days. Even sports cars get over 20 miles per gallon,
so when the light comes on, you have about 40 miles to find gas. It is
why it is very rare to see someone walking down the road with a gas can.

This old concern will become a feature of life shortly. Every car maker
is determined to abandon the internal combustion engine for electric in
the next decade. All of them have a five year plan to ditch the IC
engine. Even the sports car makers are planning to drop the old engine
and use electric motors. The roar of the engine will soon be replaced by
the high pitched hum of the motor. Whether we wanted or not, the
electric car will be forced onto American roads over the next decade.

The problem is that electric cars need to be charged. Right now, there
are about five thousand fast chargers in America. The term “fast
charger” is a little bit of inside humor the EV people enjoy. It takes
about forty minutes to charge a car on a fast charger, so the word fast
here is sarcasm. There are more slow chargers available, but slow should
be interpreted as glacial. Those slow chargers take hours to charge.
They are only useful as at-home options or at office parks.

Replacing the gas stations with fast chargers is no easy task. There is
the cost, obviously, even if one assumes they could be profitable. That
is not an assumption you can make at this point. The economics of EV
charging stations are wildly different than those of a normal gas
station. You do not need a lot of space for cars pulling into the pumps,
fueling up in five minutes and then pulling away. You need vast spaces
for cars pulling in and parking for an hour as they charge up the
batteries.

Then there is the power grid. The current estimates say the cost to
upgrade the power grid for electric cars is between four and ten
trillion dollars. That is not money to be spent all at once, but it is
real money. In modern America, most streets look like the surface of the
moon and our bridges are literally collapsing. Like all aging empires,
America is struggling to keep the plates spinning. How realistic is it
to think we can upgrade the power grid over the next decade for electric
cars?

Like the automobile makers, the nation’s utility companies have five and
ten year plans for upgrading their part of the power grid. One cannot
help but appreciate the
[Gosplan](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Gosplan) nature of this
project. Like the car maker’s five year plans, the utility company plans
always has a line in there for free money from the Federal Reserve.
Unlike the car makers, the electric companies have not secured their
free money. Slipping tax breaks into the code is a lot easier than
printing trillions of dollars.

As with the Soviets, the central planners in America just assume
whatever they dream can become a reality. The Soviets were sure they
could find the right math to replace the role of prices in the market.
Once they conquered that problem, the system would literally run itself.
American central planners are sure they can find the right moral
language to make their dreams pop into existence. If electric cars
become who we are then all of the problems will solve themselves.

The electric car fetish is a good example of how markets are an
illusion, at least in the broad sense the Austrian school economists
argued. There never was a market for electric cars and there is not one
now, at least in the organic sense. Instead, the market has been
manufactured by government policy. Massive subsidies to the production
side and subsidies to the demand side have created the market. Take
those away and Elon Musk is back selling monorails to midsized cities.

It is also a good example of how elites have the dominant role in
society. As with other things like immigration and the Covid panic, your
opinion is never solicited, and it is never wanted. These are decisions
made by a small cluster of policy makers at secret retreats and over
cocktails at parties you will never attend. The American elite has
decided the electric car is the future, so that is that. The fact that
it could turn out to be another disaster like Covid is not a worry.

The argument against central planning has always been a simple one. It
is impossible for the planners to account for all of the variables. Even
the most basic of human systems is maddeningly complex. The truth of
this is never a deterrent to the elites, especially those who are sure
they are on the right side of history. The comically insane outcomes
from the Soviet system never deterred the planners. The metric system
did not teach American elites a lesson either.

Finally, the electric car fetish is a good example of what happens when
an elite class enters into decline. They become rapacious and
impractical. On the one hand, they seek to enrich themselves as quickly
as possible, because no one in the elite feels a loyalty to the elite
class or the society over which they rule. Everything becomes a smash
and grab. On the other hand, they have become so insulated from the
society over which they rule, they can no longer see their own folly.

America probably needs to spend five trillion over the next ten years to
get the infrastructure back to first world standards. We need a Marshall
plan for the roads, bridges, and utility systems. An aspiring elite
would focus on that, rather than frivolous nonsense like electric cars.
It would also be more scrupulous about who gets the money for the
projects. That is not the future. Instead, it will be abandoned EV’s
next to massive potholes and collapsing bridges.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="xOXwVzh08h1F93gEsVE8kA==cb7FL83yRKJnKMd+ilM1PvYq49mWf/OeLZaOZiOHG62H8w5hlbb1U8LcgXR228bUM1K"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="FalM85ERiomyPAfjddU4WA==cb7nHbHWaXF/56KYuZcBRlgJvIF+TO7hexkUxqBGdquHtqRX9+AgVGLEcO4OIjYmasc"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
