---
title: "Election Reform"
date: "2021-02-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-02-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22941"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22941"
---

**Note:** It seems that the comment plugin is hopelessly broken. The
developer is useless, so I need to find a solution for commenting that
is more reliable. For now, it is the basic comment system that comes
with WordPress. This summer, I hope to move off the WordPress software
(I host my own site), so I’m not going to invest time in a new
commenting system for WordPress.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most discussions about political reform are a way to avoid facing the
reality of the people in charge of the system or the system itself.
Often, it is a form of escapism where the proposed reform will magically
make the people in charge into the sorts of honorable or virtuous people
the system demands. Regardless of the political system, reform is an
internal operation, performed by the people in charge for the benefit of
the people in charge. The reformers always need elite support.

That said, thinking about how the system should be altered in order to
serve the ends of society can get at what is wrong with the system. Take
voting, for example. American elections are now hopelessly corrupt. The
path forward for those not supportive of the ruling class is to protest
the whole election. When the votes are rigged and the parties are
decreasingly polite fictions, voting is a waste of time. Every vote
cast, regardless of the candidate, is for the ruling party.

For most people concerned about this, voting reform would probably start
with the companies counting the votes and the voting process. They would
want open and accountable voting systems, for example. That way the vote
can be compared to actual humans in the district. Maybe the voters would
have to present a picture ID in order to vote, which would mean no more
mail-in voting. The idea is to reduce the amount of fraud by making it
more difficult for the ruling party to commit fraud.

The trouble though is all of those things are just polite ways of saying
voter reform means making it harder to vote. The ruling party has always
used this claim to justify smashing up the voting system. Democracy,
they tell us, is about everyone participating equally in the voting
process. That means the system has to be usable by the retarded, the
lazy and the disinterested. The only way that can be done is to make the
system easy to rig. If the retarded can vote, the imaginary can vote
too.

That right there is the point of thinking about voting reform. The
honest reformer here must start with the fact that too many people vote.
In a democracy, the truth is decided by fifty percent plus one. Although
it rarely happens, an election can be decided by one vote, which means
the winner is picked by that retarded guy. In a close election, the
winner is picked by a handful of the dumbest people. Put another way, in
a democracy, the toughest problems are decided by the dumbest people.

Really, what voting reform is about is how to stop the stupid, the crazy
and the disinterested from voting. You figure out barriers to put in the
way of these people in order to discourage them from trying to vote.
Voting is still open to all citizens, as long as they can navigate the
voting process. The trouble with this approach is it is not honest about
what it means to be a citizen. It says everyone is a citizen with a
vote, but in reality, it subtly takes the vote from the undesirable.

Building a system on a lie opens the door for the sorts of people who
seek to undermine order so they can plunder society. This is the story
of the last century. The drive to open up voting for blacks, for
example, was never about bringing blacks into the process so they could
have a voice in government. Blacks and black voting were just a cat’s
paw for others seeking to undermine the social order. We see the same
thing happening now with giving foreigners the right to vote in our
elections.

That is what modern voting reform is, when you stop and think about it.
One side lies about making it easier to vote, so they can stuff the
ballot box. The other side lies about making it fairer, so they can
prevent fraud. This is why efforts to fix voting will only make things
worse. It is a game built on a lie that encourages both sides to keep
lying about their intentions. In a game that rewards the best liars, the
people behind the massive election fraud have the advantage, which is
why they win.

The real question of voting reform is what sort of person should be
participating in the governance of society? When you start from that
point, voting reform stops being about rigging the system and about
defining citizenship. A citizen is someone who has a stake in the
outcome of elections. They have skin in the game. The health and
prosperity of society is an extension of themselves and their people.
That last part is vital, as the individual can only exist in the context
of his people.

The civic nationalist types used to answer this question with money,
because they have been conditioned to put a price on everything. They no
longer answer this question for the same reason. The trouble with a
money requirement, like owning property or paying taxes, is it turns
citizenship into a commodity. In theory, a foreigner who owns property
in a society should have a vote, even though he really has no skin in
the game. He can always sell his property and go to the next place that
will have him.

The starting point, when you think about citizenship as having a stake
in the outcome of society, is biology. The prerequisite of citizenship,
the minimum requirement for voting, is having been born in the
jurisdiction. If you were born in the place, then you can qualify for
voting there. Voting where you were born would solve the problem of
invaders piling into a state and changing its character at the ballot
box. The state of Virginia would go back to be a normal state again.

Being born into the jurisdiction is a nice feature, but it is not the
answer. Most people in jail were near home when they committed their
crimes. What you want is people with a stake in the future of the
society. Obviously, these are people who are parents or will be parents
at some point. Rationally, the ballot should be limited to married
people with kids or maybe married households over a certain age. A
30-year old couple can be assumed to want children. The old couple
probably had children.

The other aspect to this thought experiment is what sort of behavior
does a society want to reward? The current voting system is neutral
about behavior. As long as you are probably a human and you possibly
exist, you can vote. The fact that you are in jail, a foreigner or
imaginary does not matter. That cheapens the value of citizenship, which
in turn cheapens society. Our current voting system encourages everyone
to be a rootless raider, a vulture feasting on the carcass of society.

Anchoring the vote in biology flips this around. It encourages the sorts
of behavior that are required to maintain social stability. Extend this
to holding office and you end up with a system rooted in the goals of
the people, rather than in the goals of outsiders, which is what we see
today. More important, it shifts the focus from the present, which is
what we have now, to the future. This is why aristocratic systems are
conservative. The king is always thinking about perpetuating his line.

The point of this sort of exercise is not to create a reform program.
The ruling party has no interest in election reform, other than to
cancel the next elections. The only way they agree to reform is if they
are standing on the gallows. The point here is to break out of the
conditioning that comes with the current voting mindset. Elections are
supposed to be a tool, not a goal. Once you accept that, you can start
thinking about who should be wielding the tool and why.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A new year brings new changes. The same is true for this site as we
adjust to the reality of managerial authoritarianism. That means
*embracing crypto* for when the inevitable happens and the traditional
outlets are closed. Now more than ever it is important to support the
voices that support you.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you prefer other ways of donating, look at
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the donate page</a>. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="cLNEbBLkECAVIvRwDuUwHg==cb7rXN4UCdG/17fa84klxXOC0kLFlAotQuu56msCI1ZL8xgmsNy4SBYlNKiocnAei93"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="QQxLlpaFLmIm2ypNcV3taA==cb70cQ8INPbV2U9ZMjMUPnyFR/LkreAmj2l3yXPwt+OFNB2P4uFodE6H7Db1N+gtphO"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
