---
title: "Trump, A Retrospective"
date: "2021-05-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-05-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23764"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23764"
---

Evaluating most things in real time is a difficult process, because you
do not have the benefit of seeing how things end. It is why hot-takes in
the middle of a news event always sound stupid in retrospect. Those
evaluations are more about the mood of the moment and the desire for
attention than sensible analysis. It is only after the thing ends and
the dust has settled that you can get a grip on what happened. This is
the case with the Trump phenomenon, which ended months ago.

Now, we do not know if Trump will run again. He says he will start doing
rallies this fall, but so far, no news on that front. For now, he has
been commenting about old enemies and endorsing candidates who have said
nice things about him. Elise Stefanik, for example, has gotten the Trump
endorsement to replace Liz Cheney. The fact that Stefanik is one of the
most liberal Republicans in the House and is nothing but a sock puppet
for the establishment makes no difference.

That is a good jumping off point to think about why the Trump years
never amounted to more than lots of noise. The Stefanik example is part
of a pattern with Trump with regards to how he does politics. He tended
to endorse candidates on whether they would win, rather than if they
were on his side politically. He endorsed Mitt Romney, for example, who
has been a life-long fink. He also endorsed the two Georgia senators,
who were everything he allegedly opposed.

Trump’s politics were always an extension of Trump’s business approach,
which was just an advanced form of personal brand management. He wanted
the Trump brand to carry weight in politics in the same way it worked in
real estate. For most of his life, the game was to promote the brand,
while others found deals where the brand could be the difference between
success and failure. The Trump brand would push the deal over the top
and thus earn Trump a lion’s share of the profits.

This started way back in the 1980’s when Trump figured out that the way
for him into the world of big-time real estate was to create a media
image for himself as the big time deal maker. He was the real life
Gordon Gecko, the character from the 1980’s hit movie *Wall Street*.
This got him on television chat shows where he perfected the style that
has become synonymous with Trump. The pop culture icon became the brand
that would make Trump the real estate mogul.

From the late-80’s forward, the Trump business model was simple. He
would swap some of his brand prestige for shares in a deal, like a
casino. The people on the other end needed the brand to promote the
project to investors and politicians, so they were willing to cut Trump
in on the deal. Genuinely smart real estate people from the Trump
organization would then swoop in a maximize the profit for Trump Inc.
They got their money first and often at the expense of the resulting
project.

The genius of this approach is every new casino or resort property with
his name on it enhanced the brand, thus opening up new deals. Trump Inc.
became a frog in a pond full of lily pads. They just hopped from one to
the next. Unlike other real estate developers, they did not have to find
new deals and cultivate the political relationships required to make the
deal a possibility. Others did that and brought these opportunities to
the Trump people, hoping to get the Trump endorsement.

This worked amazingly well in real estate, but not in politics. The
Trump brand never counted for much in Washington, where the voters are
looked upon as ants at the picnic, rather than a source of strength.
Trump’s miracle win in 2016 meant nothing in a world where 95% of
incumbents win reelection. Compounding it, the only deals that happen in
Washington are the deals that benefit the insiders. The only thing Trump
could swap his brand value for were deals his voters hated.

That was the story of his four years. One side of the uniparty was
focused only on destroying the Trump brand. Trump never experienced that
sort of conflict in the business world, so he was ill-equipped to
counter it. The other side of the uniparty was willing to bring him
deals so he could attach his name to them, but those deals did nothing
for his brand or his voters. Throwing open the jails and giving the
store away to rich people was the equivalent of a Trump casino in
Tehran.

Where the Trump style failed the most was in the organization. In the
1980’s, Trump attracted a group of very savvy people into his
organization. They were the ones who did the deal making and profit
extraction from those deals. This allowed Trump to be the head of brand
management. Trump’s people knew their job was to make sure the final
deal boosted the Trump brand, because that meant more deals. Trump’s
role was to use his brand to endorse the deal and take the credit.

It was a good system that was never replicated in Washington. His team
was ignorant of how things were done in Washington. His son-in-law was
actually working for interests outside the Trump administration.
Official Washington was happy to send a stream of their people to fill
posts and undermine Team Trump. His organization never had a chance to
turn the Trump brand into anything, because they did not know how to do
it, even if the brand had real value to official Washington.

That is why the Trump years were lots of promises, but no delivery. Team
Trump would bring out the brand hoping someone would come forward with a
deal. Either the deal on offer was garbage or there was no deal to be
had. Trump’s DACA moves are a great example of the no deal. He was sure
he could trade that for his wall. Instead, they ignored him entirely.
Trump was begging them to do a deal on DACA and they just ignored him
harder. The art of the deal had no market in DC.

The Trump phenomenon is a good example of why democratic reform is
impossible in a liberal democratic system. The only way to reform the
system is to understand its internal workings and have people willing to
make the changes inside the system to create the desired reforms. The
reformer has no choice but to engage the system through the rules of the
system. There is no way to reform the system from the outside, as the
outsider has no access to the system.

For generations now, the political system has been selecting for people
who defend the interests of he system and the people in it. You cannot
get a job at any level of politics unless you are useful to the people
in the system. The entry points of the system, primaries, elections,
staffing jobs, are all designed to filter out people who could be
unhealthy for the system and select for those who will defend the
system. Even if a reformer sneaks in, they are surrounded by antibodies
of the system.

This is something the paleoconservative thinker Sam Francis recognized
with the conservative movement a million years ago. As soon as they
decided to engage in democratic politics, they would be forced to trade
their conservative principles for access to the system. Otherwise, they
would be shut off from the system. Over the years conservatism has
traded everything away. They are now a shuffling husk that staggers long
behind the Left living on scraps.

This is the inevitable crisis of liberal democracy. Those “liberal
principles” that are supposed to constrain the excesses of democracy end
up becoming obstacles to democratic reform. On the other hand, a genuine
effort to reform the system from outside is framed as a threat to
liberal principles. Trump immediately became Hitler, the great bogeyman
of liberalism, solely on the grounds that he was a creature that existed
outside the liberal democratic system.

That is the real lesson of the Trump years. There is no way to reform
liberal democracy from the inside, as it has evolved to prevent reform.
It is impossible to reform from the outside as liberal democracy is
defined by opposition to outside pressure. That means the only reform
possible is replacement, which requires a rejection of both liberalism
and democracy as anything more than expedients. Real reform begins with
the rejection of the system and its moral framework.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="uiZdPETOfld5DEjV+Rcf9g==cb7brIFUFkgLuYHTs26wTXFP0V6MogmCh/5WBI7NbKiAV+xFLQ9nfihg+WwOinONdmj"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="fHg5wdt+gJraS64J/XgoVA==cb7giWEB2saKLRyTmI6tsL8d3TfW8cSI4Qb+MLiUz3UHpeT+uoD3QbfUcM5sAdKHWRK"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
