---
title: "The Road Ahead"
date: "2021-01-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22596"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22596"
---

Up until this moment in time, the vast majority of right-wing people
operated from the assumption that they were in the majority. They were
part of the silent majority that did not make a racket in the streets.
The Left and their associated riffraff went out into the street and
bellowed like lunatics because they never had the numbers. They had to
be loud and intimidating in order to get their way. When they went too
far, then the great silent majority would awaken and put them in their
place.

They also operated under the assumption that numbers still mattered. If
the majority got motivated and turned up to vote, they would win the
election and that would make a difference to the politicians. Right-wing
politics was all about mobilizing the voters and winning a majority.
They did not have to worry about changing minds. They had to focus on
getting the word out so the majority would turnout. It was the Left that
focused on convincing people into going along with their schemes.

This not only applied to elections, but to all areas of politics. The
expression “go woke and go broke” is rooted in the assumption that
business has to respect the customer or face the wrath of the
marketplace. If management takes to Twitter pushing left-wing nonsense,
it was assumed they would pay for it. A television program that decided
to offend its viewers would see its ratings decline. Right-wingers were
the majority, and they were operating in a political marketplace.

Whether this was ever true does not matter, as it is not true now. That
silent majority is now a permanent minority. Further, the political
marketplace no longer exists. You are not allowed to speak your mind to
your fellow citizens, unless your opinions are approved by the
managerial class. They are also making sure that your choices at the
ballot box will be limited to their approved options. Even if you find a
way around it, the magic of mail-in ballots will guarantee the outcome
in advance.

What this means is the new age of managerial authoritarianism will
require a new brand of politics that fits the age. All of the avenues of
the old system have been closed off or corrupted, so they serve the ends
of the regime. Mass censorship monopolizes the public space by the
organs of the ruling class. Systematic ballot stuffing closes off the
electoral route. Even the courts are a dead end. A court that claims the
Founders wanted special rights for men in drag is no friend of the
people.

From the perspective of white populism, all politics must now be
irregular politics as conventional politics has been closed off to us.
The Right has to move away from the mindset of the majority to the
mindset of the put-upon minority. That means engaging in unconventional
tactics. When you cannot participate in conventional politics in order
to advance your interests, your choices are clear. You either submit and
live the lie that is conventional politics, or you rebel and live
outside the lie.

This is why boycotting elections and threatening the Republican Party
from the Right must be part of the new political toolkit. In the old
politics, it was always about the people running the system, not the
system itself. The focus was on getting the right people elected. In the
new politics, this is reversed. It is about the system, not the people
running the system. The GOP is part of that system. Attacking them is
part of weakening a system that makes war on us.

This has a strategic value, as well. The Left has always looked at the
Republicans, along with their enablers from Conservative Inc., as an
electric fence that keeps the white majority inside the system.
Attacking the GOP forces them to choose their friends on the Left over
their former constituents. It reframes politics as insiders versus
outsiders, rather than one group of insiders versus another, with the
white majority looking on like spectators, hoping for a good result.

The hardest part of this new mindset will be the idea of being
ungovernable. This is the opposite of what most right-wing people have
been conditioned to think. In the old way, the good citizen plays by the
rules. In the new age, the good citizen is always looking for the chance
to throw sand in the gears and undermine the rules. The dissident is
always looking to drive up the costs to the managerial class by making
them expend resources to compel compliance with their rules.

A simple example of this is the “It’s OK To Be White” flyers that create
havoc from time to time. A few dollars’ worth of material and an hour of
time results in a week of left-wing handwringing and the cops wasting
resources on it. Someone adding “And neither do black people” to a yard
sign that reads, “Hate Has No Home Here” does real psychological damage
to the managerial class. It mocks their morality and their control over
public attitudes. It is activism with a very high ROI.

The main point of politics for dissidents in any sort of authoritarian
society is to develop and maintain an atmosphere of pressure on the
regime. As ugly as it looks, those troops, barricades and razor wire
fencing in Washington are a great result. A ruling class living inside
an armed camp is one that will eventually burn through its emotional
capital and begin to make mistakes. Ideally, the ruling class stays
behind those barriers, fearing that the people on the other side are
ungovernable.

Another thing we must do is abandon solution-based politics. For
generations, the white majority has been conditioned to think in terms
of solutions. In this new politics, there are no solutions. There are
tactics that advance the interest of dissidents, which are primarily the
weakening of the regime. The solutions in the demographic age can only
come after the collapse the liberal democratic order. All politics now
are about creating conditions in which rational politics can return.

This raises the thorniest of problems. The late Robert Novak used to say
he loved his country but hated his government. In a post-national world
ruled by a dictatorship of the managerial class, there is no country to
love. Patriotism, like civic nationalism and clean elections, is a
museum piece. Instead, you love your cause, you love your people, and
you are willing to work with anyone that helps you fight the tyrants. In
a world of “us versus them”, abstract concepts like patriotism have no
place..

As a practical matter politics now must be a daily rebellion. Like
Havel’s [green
grocer](https://hac.bard.edu/amor-mundi/the-power-of-the-powerless-vaclav-havel-2011-12-23),
being a dissident means living in the truth and every day is a war to
pull a brother out of the lie that is modern America. It is defacing
signs that say we are all in this together and littering managerial
areas with reminders that they are surrounded. It means denying them
your virtues by refusing to cooperate and only going along with their
edicts after they have expended resources to compel you.

It is to live and let them know you live in a constant state of
insurrection and that as long as you do, they can never rest. The people
on the other side of those barriers live in fear of the people on this
side of those barriers. They can no longer trust the men guarding them,
as most of those men live on this side of those barriers. They are
paranoid and afraid of the noises on the other side. The politics of
this age are all about turning those institutions they control into
prisons.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="VcFvaHELAixYxkDvoJ+Nog==cb7keUB1mi4Kaq9bmd/elCsjexd5M02AGm4EhVvCB47jTeAHE5I40H1CCslqwjhJ828"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="2gsqw1tKdteF0ocuFurVaQ==cb7IRo83zLJtGVgnTqNmhJ2cySxpySMyonbR8OsQeqVTHAqMum2zx29I7/n+LQaxcNm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
