---
title: "Z In Taki"
date: "2021-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Taki Posts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24984"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24984"
---

The Russian evolutionary anthropologist Peter Turchin coined the term
“<a href="https://archive.is/4mzjS" rel="noopener" target="_blank">elite
overproduction</a>” to describe the condition of a society that is
producing too many potential elite members. These potential elites
jostle for positions that are declining in number relative to the
increase in elite members. This game of musical chairs creates conflict
as these elites engage in a struggle for power within society.

His choice of terms is a bit misleading, as his description of elite
overproduction in America is better understood as an overproduction of
people who see themselves as potential elites, despite being
mediocrities. He points to the glut of lawyers as an example of the
excess of people who wildly overestimate their ability. The number of
people toting around an MBA is another example of this phenomenon.

The primary appeal of Turchin’s theory is flattery. It is human nature
to resent the people who rule over you. A theory of history that says
the problem with the world is there are too many people like that
know-it-all rumpswab at the office is going to strike most people as
plausible. All of us imagine ourselves as the most rational person in
the room, so elite overproduction turns a conceit into scientific
theory.,,,

<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/mediocrity-reigns/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Link</a>
