---
title: "The Microcosm Of Sport"
date: "2021-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25350"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25350"
---

Like most things in the current age, professional sport has become a
degenerate <a
href="https://www.nbcnews.com/nbc-out/out-news/nfl-proudly-declares-football-gay-new-video-rcna1300"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">mockery</a> of itself. The presentation
is a high-tech vaudeville act that is now mostly advertisements and
propaganda. The people in charge of the various sports are the worst
this age can muster. The participants are vulgar carnies. Despite the
best efforts of this age, however, sport continues to provide an insight
into our times. It is a microcosm of the larger society in which it
operates.

For example, football was always the second sport in America, up until
the explosion of mass media in the 1980’s. In fact, football was
probably behind sports like boxing and horse racing, not just baseball.
The explosion of television rocketed football to the top of sport
entertainment because it was a natural for the medium. It provides a
stage that fits the screen, has breaks for ad space and is a weekly
happening. The NFL quickly became a lightly scripted television sports
drama.

The mass media culture made the NFL in particular, and football in
general, the king of the sports entertainment industry. Like the culture
as a whole, the apparent success of the league masks the problems.
Ownership has given way to a class of mercurial operators with no
loyalty to the local communities. Their greed has resulted in a steady
decline in the product. While ratings have seen a boost so far this
year, general interest has been in decline for the last decade.

A big reason for that is the product. Kids are not playing football at
the <a
href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/rogerpielke/2020/01/28/the-decline-of-football-is-real-and-its-accelerating/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">youth level</a>, like they used to, so
the number of young males moving through the system is in decline,
meaning that the quality of player has declined. You see that with the
quarterback position, which is the most challenging. The sudden decline
in the number of white kids playing youth ball means a decline in the
positions requiring smarts. One result is the position has become more
“athletic”.

Of course, modernity destroys social capital, and youth sports are the
canary in the coal mine when it comes to social cohesion. When America
was based on strong white communities, it had lots of white fathers
volunteering to coach sports, run youth leagues and so on. As the white
population declines, white volunteers decline. As society becomes more
diverse, which brings deracination and alienation, the organic
structures that make youth sports possible decline.

The men running the sport are not concerned about that as they are not
the sort to invest in society. They just assume they can pack up their
stuff and move onto the next society once all the life from this one has
been drained. These are post-Americans who operate as pirates. Like the
global economy that spawned them, they ride the waves of globalism.
America is just the place where they can operate at the moment, a
pirate’s cove that means nothing to them.

The NFL is also riddled with scandal. Its team in Washington is owned by
a degenerate who is one scandal after another. To distract from the
latest scandal, [DEA agents raiding their
facilities](https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2021/10/07/ryan-vermillion-washington-trainer-prescription-drugs/),
the league instructed their media to focus on manufactured crises
involving coaches. For a while, the media was obsessing over the coach
of the Jacksonville franchise. They keep making up stories about him,
relying on imaginary sources and manufactured internet chatter.

The coach of the league’s Las Vegas franchise was just forced to resign
when it was learned he held normal opinions about gays and blacks. His
e-mails magically appeared in the media just when the DEA came calling.
It was an orchestrated hit, probably with the help of that team’s owner,
in order to get out of paying the contract. It could also be part of the
effort to distract from the looming narcotics scandal. The DEA does not
raid famous people because of a paperwork discrepancy.

This stuff is a microcosm of the ruling class. They got these e-mails
from a previous investigation of their Washington team. Then they used
those e-mails from that prior scandal to distract attention from the
current scandal. Those e-mails were handed to a reporter, who did not
bother to mention the source of them. Once the coach addressed the issue
another batch of e-mails was delivered to the New York Times. They did
not mention their source either. Imagine that.

Like the political media, the sports media is owned by the system. They
are the ministry of truth blasting out what the league tells them to
say. If one of them gets froggy and does genuine reporting, he is
dismissed from his post. YouTube and Twitter are full of people who
would be happy to play the role of jock sniffer. Everyone in the
ministry of truth knows this, so they play along. To borrow a phrase
from Theodore Dalrymple, the media is a collection of emasculated liars.

Right there is the last five years of Washington politics. The system
manufacturing fake scandals in order to hide real scandals. The media,
which still claims to be impartial observers, plays along because they
have not choice. They are servants. The result is the real crimes get
pushed to the shadows, while nonsense stories fill the air, often used
to discredit people asking too many questions. This is rule by
sociopath. It is a reflection of the ruling class as a whole.

The Gruden affair is a perfect moment to see the reality of this age. He
is a person who holds normal opinions about things like race and gays.
In private he talks like what normal people would expect from a sports
coach. He is being hurled into the void on a morality charge by people
who lie on spec. The relatively normal guy is condemned by the carny
trash as morally unfit. That’s America in a nutshell. Our moral arbiters
are vulgar degenerates and sociopaths.

The problems we see with professional sports in America reflect the
problems of the West in general. Sport is a Western thing. Other people
compete in small ways, but organized sporting activity is part of
European man. There is a reason there is no equivalent of the NFL in
Africa. Big time sports need big time societies and those societies will
always be European societies. The other people of the world simply lack
the capacity to produce these cultural artifacts.

As the West declines, sport has now declined with it. The people running
pro sports, active in the destruction of the West, are operating under
the delusion that they can survive the decline of Western people. In
fact, many are driven by a desire to create a post-European world. This
is what you see everywhere in the ruling class. You also see that it is
unsustainable. Without the necessary human capital, these manifestations
of Western culture cannot last and they will not last.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3G++Z7CFxn2Z4OZTx72eDg==cb7ST19FxLncbFNYf31QKmuBl+tKOTnEKf9DMfwA3JtEBcM5+ov+bc/lZ0wny32Ks3c"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="kScyBBIFsbyvPARhyAp2kQ==cb7nXCkPeoTS4wEw2pH+D+q5v/m1GW8NkH5LpmWMiDY74MdCJRYfI7xYMP27TZB3TPu"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
