---
title: "Systemic Crisis"
date: "2021-05-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-05-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23821"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23821"
---

All human systems, whether created by design or created by happenstance,
start to evolve as soon as they are born. This is true of systems like a
company or tools like process regulation systems. Like Frankenstein’s
monster, they take on a life of their own and break loose from the
creator. This usually happens quickly. As soon as something like an
organization gets going, it starts changing. The people in it find
defects to remedy, new things to add and so on. Evolution starts
instantly.

That evolution has an impact on the people in the system or in the case
tools, the users of those systems. The ability to look down the road, to
see several moves ahead, seems to decline in human organizations as they
evolve. Initially, the people running them are always looking ahead.
That was the point of the organization. Over time, they either lose
their ability to look ahead or they are replaced by people who are only
interested in the short term, because that is where the rewards lie.

An example of this college athletics. Initially, student sports were
just a natural result of young people and free time. Before long college
teams were challenging one another to sports matches. Males like to
compete, and groups of males like to compete for their tribe, so college
teams playing one another was natural. The natural rivalries that
existed between states added to the fun. College athletics in America is
an example of a system springing up by happenstance over time.

Like all systems, college athletics began to evolve. The University of
Oklahoma, for example, invested in their football program for state
pride as a way to raise spirits during the Great Depression. Other
colleges learned that being good at a popular sport got them attention.
Notre Dame would be just another cow-college if not for the use of
ringers to make their football program famous. What started as amateur
fun turned into a marketing vehicle for colleges and universities.

Of course, the colleges and universities never imagined that college
sports would be a multi-billion dollar entertainment industry one day.
Television did not exist, at least to anything like today, so there was
no way to see this outcome. By the middle of the last century, college
athletics evolved into a popular American tradition that was mostly
about school and state pride. The players got free tuition for playing
the sport and the school got to promote their brand on the field.

Once it was a mature system though, the ability of the people running it
to see down the road started to decline. The NCAA v. Board of Regents of
the University of Oklahoma is a good example. This was a case that began
in 1979 over television rights. The schools wanted to strike deals for
putting games in TV, while the NCAA wanted to retain the right to
control those deals. The schools won the case and the flood gates of
television money opened soon after, reaching the billions today.

Half a century ago, the people running college football had no idea what
was going to happen once they started taking TV money. On the one hand,
they could not see the proliferation of mass media culture that was
coming. On the other hand, they were focused on the here and now. They
did not think about how a new revenue stream would change how the system
functioned. They did not think about how it would change their thinking.
They just needed the cash.

This type of example is common in America. Last year the people in
charge began to run around smashing things because of Covid and their
own sore feelings. None of them gave a second thought to the
consequences. When faced with millions out of work, they did not think
about the long term impact of their remedy. They just started throwing
invented money at people. We are now on a wild ride of unpredictable
scarcity and inflation with no ability to look more than one move ahead.

Getting back to the college athletics example, short-term thinking
within an organization takes on a life of its own. In the case of
college athletics, these highly educated college presidents have a
couple of generations of examples to draw from, but they are as trapped
in the moment as their predecessors. They tinker with the rules to
address one issue, only to create a chain reaction they never
considered. [This
story](https://www.cbssports.com/college-football/news/college-coaches-becoming-even-more-like-gms-as-one-time-transfers-the-portal-make-roster-management-tougher/)
about the advent of the transfer portal is a good example.

One reason that people in a system lose the ability and willingness to
think a few moves ahead is the incentives evolve along with the system.
The people in the system who show some skill at patching up immediate
problems benefit. Those pointing out the potential costs down the road
gets ignored. When it comes to tools like regulatory systems or
software, change means immediate cost. Since human organizations tend to
be intertwined with tool systems, both forces work in concert.

Take the college athletics problem. If a group of college presidents
wanted to address the excesses of college athletics, they would face
enormous institutional pushback over the immediate costs. Changing the
regulations and subsystems that are in place to maintain things as they
are would cost a lot of money. The reformers would also be in
competition with demands to address immediate problems. The reformers
get drowned out by the natural functioning of the system.

Reforming a system is like trying to reform evolution itself. The
thousands of cumulative decisions that went into the present state
cannot be turned on or off without addressing the other decisions. In
time, all human systems evolve past the point where reform is possible
without an existential threat. If the choice is death or reform, then
the minimum reform can happen to avoid death. Even facing death, reform
faces long odds, if death can be rationalized into a distant
possibility.

The French Revolution is a good example here. The threat of death was
both personal and abstract, but the aristocracy could not bear the
thought of reform. It was not as if they did not know their system was
teetering on collapse. Their best ministers had explained this reality
in detail. It was simply the case where the inertia was too strong for
the reformers. No one could look ahead and immanentize the eschaton, so
the immediate always took precedent over the future.

This is something to keep in mind in the current crisis. Reform, if it
is possible at all, will come only in the shadow of the gallows. If the
political class begins to fear for their life, then maybe they begin to
act to push that inevitability off into the future. Of course, 80-year
old men tend not to be long-term planners. Still, if genuine fear grips
the ruling classes, then maybe we see reform. That is not the way to
bet. Like all systems, this one most likely is carried on by internal
forces until it collapses.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="6RxOiwQubvvKIEvgCvoY0g==cb7V3LVc5i0w401h3s6dROr970VJK1ICqylTjDI9XYKQAyPXHvPgI7jEoxH81Aat3kH"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="lQO/FOyGLWhD9zDXwXGQtg==cb7tYrY+FlRYkbP/QGJJP2fTNK6ynIcOQBYCjXwo89WoEDJyAnl6bi33hR/BupQhx1T"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
