---
title: "Middlemen"
date: "2021-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24134"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24134"
---

The American economy is a middleman economy, designed around the idea of
there being a person or group of persons between the parties of a
transaction. No matter how trivial the transaction, there is someone
trying to get in on the deal. This middleman brings nothing to the
transaction. He adds no value and only facilitates the deal because the
rules have been set so that he is required. The middleman is the
ever-present silent partner that is the point of the economic
arrangements.

If you go back a century, selling a house involved three parties. The
seller and buyer, of course, and the government. You had to register the
transaction with the government so it was known who held the deed for
the property. If there was a lien on the property, then the bank would
be involved, but only on one side. Today there are dozens of people
involved in the transaction. The government is promising to add dozens
more in order to flood stable neighborhoods with magic.

Just about every transaction in the economy now has silent partners.
This is why the economy is still a mess due to the Covid lockdowns.
Shutting down supply chains was always a dumb idea, but getting them
restarted means activating millions of middlemen who have to get paid
for the system to work. In a completely financialized economy, nothing
moves without money moving first. The money men are the ever-present
middlemen in every deal, no matter how small.

The riddle for all human societies since the first settlements was what
to do with the people who could not work or would not work. The old and
the sick needed care, so they not only were not working, they took
someone out of the workforce. This meant that those who did work had to
produce extra. It also meant that those who were loafers had to be dealt
with so they were not freeloading off the system. Of course, many of the
loafers were called the rulers, so that was a problem.

The way out of this problem has been productivity. The farmer who could
grow enough food for his family plus the king’s share was never enough.
He had to grow enough to feed himself, plus the king and some extra for
the king to sell. That way the king could field an army and have a nice
castle. Every king wants a better castle, so the drive to produce more
with less is a feature of human society. The great ideological wars
since the Enlightenment have been about how best to do this.

The claim by communists and capitalists was that eventually,
productivity would produce so much that scarcity would be solved. Human
society, if planned the right way, would produce so much with so little
that want would disappear. That could never happen, of course, but the
West has reached the point where everyone has the basics if they want
them. In America, poor people are obese because they spend all day
eating and watching television in comfortable homes.

That does not mean the problem of economics has been solved. The old
free loading problem is still there. Those millions of middlemen baked
into the economy are still there, snatching away a little from every
transaction. Not only are they skimming from every transaction, they no
longer help facilitate the deal. Instead, they often just steal the
entire value of the deal. America cannot build a road or bridge, mostly
because the money is stolen before the first shovel hits the dirt.

In other words, all of those middlemen are now consuming the host. This
army of people involved in every deal are no longer just a weird patina
on the economy, but a very serious rot of the system. This is why hedge
funds are buying up residential housing to create new renters. The very
top of the rentier economy has run out of people from whom to skim, so
they are forced to eat their own. The big skimmers are now going after
the small skimmers down the ladder from them.

Running a skim is nothing new, but even the mafia understood that you
can shear a sheep many times, but you can only skin him once. The modern
mafia, the managerial elite, entangled with the powerful, are moving
from sheering to skinning. They have busted out everything, so now they
are busting out the bust outs. The hedge funds robbing the real estate
bandits is like a bank robber robbing drug dealers, in that it says the
criminal ecosystem is out of balance.

The story that started with the problem of scarcity has arrived where it
started. What is to be done with those who don’t produce? Every society
needs an elite and they do not produce in the conventional sense. Their
duty is to coordinate. What happens when you have too many people in the
elite? Turning them into middlemen seemed like a solution, but now we
have too many middlemen. So many in fact that they are now making it
impossible for the productive to stay ahead of demand.

The old image of economics is of a group of men pulling a wagon. In the
wagon are the unproductive, like rulers and bankers. The goal was to
keep the people in the wagon to the barest minimum. The modern wagon is
still relatively light, but now the men pulling the wagon are surrounded
by an army of people impeding their progress, as they demand a fee for
every step. Worse yet, the people in the wagon are creating people who
take up positions between the men pulling the wagon.

That has been one lesson of Covid. The reason the economy did not
collapse when millions were sent home from their jobs is that most of
the people being sent home were not doing anything all that useful. Some
were, for sure, but the empty offices went unnoted for a reason. Just as
every snowstorm in Washington reveals that vast number of unessential
workers, Covid revealed the vast number of middlemen. Many were unaware
of their middleman status. They thought they were essential.

Of course, the bizarre fads vomited up by the Cloud People is another
sign that we have too many people standing around looking for something
to do. Idle hands to the Devil’s work and Old Scratch is spoiled for
choice these days. We simply have too many middlemen with time on their
hands. The system is overstocked with them, so they sit around dreaming
up new ways to horn in on the life of the productive. Now the middlemen
have middlemen and that cannot go on forever.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="QTJrC71onDGe+j9n1uoG/g==cb7eYdkY/svU/slYkOW5czUkqcE7ezyvkoMFQ3ZzRuCBCI10udO0GPuCLNRoUKO1Hs4"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="CRRZYJdY2BVHJMuo9TQYFg==cb70bbXWq+cf7yDNgKDBf70eDQk3fxm81YMr/2CFwkb0hcjJ2mAedzSaVl2FaAXkMpu"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
