---
title: "The Death Of Burke"
date: "2021-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24647"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24647"
---

A key contribution of neoconservatives to the conservative movement
launched by Bill Buckley in the middle of the last century was the
assertion that conservatism is a means justifies the ends ideology.
Unlike the Left, the Right will accept less than optimal outcomes as
long as they are the result of a just process. Further, conservatives
are not reactionaries, instinctively defending order. Instead,
conservatism is the defense of liberal processes against the assaults of
the illiberal Left.

One reason that these former members of the Left and the emerging new
Right found agreement is they both agreed with Edmund Burke on key
points. One was Burke’s description of revolution. The liberals who
would go on to become neoconservatives did not see themselves as
revolutionaries. Like their new conservative friends, they viewed
themselves as defenders of liberal order and the liberal process that is
contained in and constrained by tradition and institutions.

In his observations about revolutionary France, Burke noted that
revolutions seek to cut themselves off from the past. The desire for an
entirely new beginning must lead to a repudiation of the past. This
divorce from the historical timeline means they have no sense of
themselves and their place in history. This is the source of their
inherent instability, and why they become murderous. For those who see
themselves as defenders of liberal order, this is what makes revolution
dangerous.

The other broad area of agreement between these former leftists and
their new friends on the Right was on institutions. Burke’s great
contribution to the Anglo-Right is his defense of institutions and
traditions as constraints on power. Traditions give meaning to daily
life, but they also play a key role in shaping the people. The voluntary
associations like churches, clubs and so on maintain and nourish the
social capital of the people and provide a balance to sovereign power.

Even today, you hear the legacy conservatives talk about Edmund Burke as
their ideal conservative stateman. Yoram Hazony, the ultra-Zionist
political theorist, named his think tank “The Edmund Burke Foundation”.
Modern neoconservatives like Ben Shapiro love quoting Edmund Burke. It
is one of the few things upon which traditionalist conservatives agreed
with the former leftists. They saw Burke’s philosophy as the center of
their understanding of conservatism in a liberal society.

The idea that conservatism is the defense of the existing processes has
had a powerful impact on the arc of American society. By elevating
process over ends, conservatism built into their defense of tradition
and order vulnerabilities that the radicals have been able to exploit
for generations. In other words, the very nature off conservatism as the
bulwark against radicalism has as part of its design a set of
contradictions that must always lead to its retreat in the face of the
radical onslaught.

The first of those is the unequivocal defense of process over results.
What this has meant, in practice, is the conservative defense of every
radical gain. Once the Left can find a way to warp the process to
support their ends, they turn their opponents into the most strident
defenders of this new order. Abortion is the obvious example. Once the
radicals changed the law through the courts, the conservatives agreed
that it can only change again through the courts.

This has been the motivation for conservatives to get as many of their
judges on the court as possible. The trouble is, in order to be a
conservative judge, one must pledge to defend precedent and the
traditional functioning of the courts. It is why every conservative
judge nominated to the high court must sit in front of Congress and
swear to never question the precedents used in support of Roe v Wade. It
is why this current court will defend radicalism against all challenges.

The other vulnerability that the radicals have exploited for several
generations is that the conservative fetish for means over ends prevents
them from questioning the morality of radical goals. Since Marx, the
central claim of radicalism is that they are trying to achieve a more
virtuous and moral society. Because a just society is such a worthy
goal, it justifies radical measures, including violence. Those who stand
between now and the better world deserve what they get.

By focusing solely on the means in which political goals are achieved,
the conservative must accept the morality of those ends if they are the
result of the liberal process, which is the root of their political
morality. This is why the “conservative case for…” is an internet meme.
Since compromise is always the goal of Burkean conservatism, the first
step is in figuring out jhow radical goals can fit into the conservative
process. If trannies can be the result of the liberal order, trannies
are conservative.

More important, this myopia means the Right can never question the
morality of the Left’s stated goals. In fact, they are allergic to it.
You see this with the reaction to the Critical Race Theory issue.
Conservatives recoiled in horror when it was pointed out that CRT is
explicitly antiwhite. The idea of addressing the morality of radical
ends is anathema to the conservative mind. Instead, they had to frame it
is bad process in pursuits of a worthy goal.

Edmund Burke wrote from the perspective of a man standing on the walls
of an old social order looking out over Europe struggling to maintain
order. His defense of the British social order was perfectly rational,
especially in contrast to the horrors that were unleashed by the French
Revolution. Like the social order he once defended, the Burkean
conservatism is no longer relevant. The current order is inherently
immoral and at odds with anything that a man of the Right should defend.

Further, Burkean conservatism prevents the actions required to overthrow
this current order and institute a new moral order. If one is prevented
from declaring the current state of things immoral and the goals of its
champions as grossly immoral, then there is no way to fight the
gathering darkness. If the preservation of the West and the people that
make it possible must be sublimated to an abstract process, then
conservatism can never conserve anything. It is part of the problem.

This is why the first order of attack for the dissident is conservatism.
As long as people are willing to accept “well we have to respect the
election results” as an excuse for not opposing evil, there is no
escaping the gathering darkness. It is only when the opponents of
radicalism commit to its utter destruction through any means necessary
that the tides of war will change. That necessarily requires consigning
Edmund Burke and his followers to the ash heap of history.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="bPH/j8lBUgw++RTzQm/Fqg==cb7S6zfgCFRtVjWk6DLCOZklYdgsztp9D4etL5ld+qMUoaY2s+gRa5YRJ2qR90VAU1z"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="zljiEpN2bmvtVMOaeZH57A==cb7bxpnfQfPE/Y1B0M6xSm/2Juuuid3xSjS5iqH3ltWD6lmA/ICe5/uqz3Ho9Lcfd2k"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
