---
title: "The Partisan State"
date: "2021-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24475"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24475"
---

It was Lenin who popularized the term partisan, as in someone who is
party-minded or exclusively concerned with the interests of his
political party. He coined the term to explain why socialists should
abandon objective analysis of politics. In a society of antagonistic
classes, the owners of property versus the laboring classes, class
interests and material conditions of existence determine political
outlook. Therefore, all claims to objectivity are delusional or
self-serving.

We see this in the dynamics of American politics, but not in the way in
which Marxists imagined the concept. The left side of the ruling elite
imagines themselves as the vanguard of society. They are the ones
leading social change in order to achieve their not always well-define
ideals. As a practical matter, this means they are the champions and
caretakers of the interests of minority groups or in the language of the
moment, “the under-represented and historically excluded groups.”

The opponent is always cast as the face of established interests. After
all, the power dynamic would not make a lot of sense if the opponents of
the oppressed were powerless or inclusive. In partisan politics, it is
always David versus Goliath, even when David is all powerful and Goliath
is powerless. For most of the last half century, the American Left has
had total control of the high ground in America, but they are sure they
are the underdog and the Right controls everything.

What this means is that the power relationship is the keystone of the
moral dynamic within partisan politics. The underdog, the oppressed, the
excluded, must always be the moral superior. Otherwise, it is possible
that the oppressed are being oppressed for good reasons or worse yet,
the partisan is in fact the oppressor. We see this today where massive
global corporations destroy the lives of ordinary citizens while
simultaneously claiming this is being done in self-defense.

In Marxist theory, once the working class conquered the capital class,
there would no longer be a need for politics. The workers would usher in
a classless society. Without classes, there could be no class conflict
and therefore no need for politics. In reality, the partisan needs an
opponent to exist. The very definition of the partisan is rooted in the
existence of the opponent. If one wanted to identify the inflection
point of the Soviet Union, it would be when [Brezhnev toasted
Nixon](https://youtu.be/B9IcLbgnzfY?t=529).

In America, this problem has been solved by generating an organic
opponent, custom made to play the role of oppressor, while never
threatening the real power. In the middle of the last century, the
American Left was in total control. The New Deal was confirmed by the
fact that progressives conquered the economic depression at home and
conquered fascism around the world. The best the Republican Party could
do is promise to be just like the Democrats, which was pointless.

The birth of conservatism solved a massive problem. Buckley style
conservatism began as a revolt against the war socialism that lingered
on long after the war, but quickly became a usable opponent when
debating the next great crusade, the long twilight struggle against the
ancient opponent to the East. Conservatism was quickly packaged as the
face of the oppressor, the tool of corporate interests. Soon, every
Republican was pictured as the little guy from the Monopoly game.

Back then, the coalition of the oppressed championed by the Left
reflected the demographics of the country. It was mostly white urban
working class people and rural whites, with blacks as a silent partner.
The silent partner grew less silent over time, but the demographics of
the country grew darker as well. The original opponent was the white
middle-class and has remained so. As the complexion of the coalition has
grown darker, the nature of the opponent has grown whiter.

The trouble is the old Buckley conservatism discredited itself after the
Cold War and no longer makes for a useful opponent. The system has been
desperate to create a new enemy, but so far, they have only come up with
cartoon villains. The persecution of the January 6th protestors is as
much out of frustration as anything else. The Left is so angry that they
cannot find real bad guys, they are taking it out on grandmothers who
had the temerity to walk into the people’s house.

The ridiculousness of the new bogeymen does not mean the partisans have
thrown in the towel on the project. There are efforts to create a new
right-wing, which they have helpfully called the [New
Right](https://scholars-stage.org/the-problem-of-the-new-right/).
Members of the [Old
Right](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/state-of-the-union/whats-missing-from-the-new-right-debate/)
are looking for a reboot, so they are happy to join the project. The
[heirs of
Trotsky](https://www.manhattan-institute.org/the-successor-ideology) are
hard at work trying to sort this problem as well. They helped the Old
Right avoid putting their ideas into practice for 70 years, so they are
hoping to repeat this with the New Right.

Therein lies a critical part of the partisan society. It must always be
partisans versus objectivist, with partisans having the power. The
partisan puts his ideas into practice, while the objectivist is content
to describe the world. The main reason for this is that as soon as the
objectivist tries to act on his ideas, he is ruined. We see this in
dissident politics, where you can analyze what is happening, but if you
hint at any action, the C-suites of global capital are alive with ideas
on how to crush you.

The thing is, the partisan state relies upon all parties believing that
the struggle is real, not just theater. In America, this has meant that
the upper-middle-class radicals must believe the enemy has real power
and is willing to use it. On the other side, the perpetual losers must
think they can win. Politics in the partisan state is a game of zebras
versus lions. The zebras win most skirmishes, but in the end, the lions
win the battle, and they only need to win once. The lions control every
outcome.

The question is what happens when people stop believing this fantasy.
Dissidents see the growing ranks of people who no longer see a point to
conservatism or even conventional politics. In a world of rigged
elections and grotesque levels of political corruption, voting is an
insult. Something similar is happening on the Left, where the
disaffected Bernie Bros are questioning the game. They already have a
[new party](https://peoplesparty.org/platform/) that is on the ballot in
over twenty states.

The Soviet Union provides a little insight as to what happens when the
struggle stops being real for the people. The 1920’s and 1930’s provided
the Bolsheviks with enemies they could use to justify themselves. The
war provided the ultimate enemy for the system, but then came the peace.
The Khrushchev years were about making the dream of socialism real, but
when that failed, the partisan state ceased to exist. Instead, it was a
generation of oligarchic rule with the tattered trappings of socialism.

It can be argued that the détente with the West is the only thing that
kept the Soviet Union from collapsing much earlier. The American empire
needed the Soviet Empire, so it was happy to help the Soviets keep their
system running. The American empire has no enemy to serve this role. The
Chinese are too smart to be trapped into a new Cold War and the Russians
are too weak. The instability we see is a partisan state that has run
out of enemies and therefore, lost its moral authority.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="/IH2TC60xRUZ1LXi9q8Mlg==cb74tNDwKnaiOUyi+hYaRWDosRRtMNGnMs7xQg+Mgkv/6nJne8Mf6SNgs+UifGM7w2K"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="f6WnWwzNnSX0G6ijkwxOlQ==cb78OH2XhSIO+koYYJaMBq4ST9Rhw7zIv4XVd6jKqLJRUnU0NFt/y/d0aPQLJbH5xAu"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
