---
title: "Media Man"
date: "2021-02-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-02-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22759"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22759"
---

There are many things that one can point to in the current age as the
cause of what we are experiencing. Social crisis is always the result of
many factors. There is never one single cause. Even so, examining the
individual causes has some utility. It helps provide a little sanity for
those living through it. If nothing else, it is like the band playing on
the Titanic in that if provides those who are condemned to live through
the crisis with a bit of dignity as they sink into the abyss.

Anyway, one of the things that has made modern life such a mess is the
vast chorus of nitwits who fill our lives with their voices. They repeat
whatever has been placed in their hymnals by people with agendas. One
person says something that gets them some attention and then everyone
repeats it. The thing is, these people position themselves as
authorities on various topics, so when they repeat what they hear, they
inevitably lend authority to it. The fact is, they know not what they
say.

A good example is [this
post](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/gamestop-and-the-end-of-video-game-retails-golden-age/)
at the ironically named American Conservative. The post is the generic
libertarian boilerplate about the creative destruction and how this
means retail will go the way of the buggy whip. In this case, the writer
argues that GameStop, the company at the heart of the short squeeze
initiated by a gang of retail investors, is a dead company that has no
future. He thinks the run up in their shares was due to nostalgia for a
bygone era of retail.

The post is complete nonsense, but it is popular nonsense repeated by
these sorts of people on many different platforms. In this case, the
writer is Addison Del Mastro and he is, according to his bio, the
assistant editor and social media manager of The American Conservative.
He is a graduate of the University of Maryland School of Public Policy
and writes on urbanism, place, and popular and cultural history.
According to [his
resume](https://www.linkedin.com/in/addisondelmastro/), he has never
worked in the private sector.

That last bit is typical. Few people in any type of media job have ever
worked in the dreaded private sector. Mr. Del Mastro is probably a great
guy who does a bang-up job as the social media manager, but he is wholly
unqualified to have an opinion on this topic or anything related to it.
Maybe he can offer an informed opinion about the social media aspect,
but otherwise, the cleaning lady at American Conservative is better
qualified to discuss business and finance.

The great conservative philosopher Joseph de Maistre observed that
“False opinions are like false money, struck first of all by guilty men
and thereafter circulated by honest people who perpetuate the crime
without knowing what they are doing.” This is exactly what we see with
the mass media. The public square is flooded with the sound of the
ignorant repeating falsehoods they heard from one another. It is a
cacophony of half-truths, distortions and outright lies repeated by the
unqualified.

The fact is, if you want to understand the GameStop story, you need to
know a little about finance and have some experience as a day trader.
You should also know how to read a financial statement. At the minimum,
that lets you examine the facts and sort the truth from the fiction.
Unless you are inside the group that pushed the stock or on the other
end of it, you know you are only getting some of the story. That would
be the basis for good media analysis or responsible commentary on the
story.

That sort of humility is not what we get from managerial man, the type
of person who takes up space in the media. Knowing practical things like
how to read an income statement is for prols. The managerial man does
not have time for that. That is why the media is stocked to the gills
with people who know nothing. They spent all of their time accumulating
esoteric credentials that they can wear as moral signifiers. These
impress the other managerial types. The result is a class of
know-nothings.

This is not a new phenomenon. Last year *First Things* published an
[interesting
article](https://www.firstthings.com/article/2020/10/suicide-of-the-liberals)
on the Russian intelligentsia prior to and during the revolution. The
*intelligent* was a member of the intelligentsia. Unlike an
intellectual, who is a curious and educated person, the *intelligent*
was its opposite. The art of not knowing practical things was a big part
of the life of a Russian *intelligent*. They took pride in not having
practical skills or having a useful occupation.

This is close to what we see with managerial man. At all levels, even
those who see themselves as critics, they have made sure to never learn
anything useful. At the bottom layer, where the media exists, the result
is a vast collection of chattering skulls with no useful knowledge of
their own. Above them is a vast army of people with no idea how anything
works. They crash about from crisis to crisis, hoping the big machine
they inherited rights itself before something bad happens.

The remarkable thing about the media is their confidence. These people
repeat things with total conviction and certainty. They don’t seem to
notice that they are just channeling what they heard from other
chattering skulls or what was fed to them by people with an obvious
agenda. These hyper-confident morons fill the public space with whatever
idiotic thing they heard last. The result is we are inundated by the
blather of people who have turned ignorance into a virtue.

The thing that has prevented our ruling class from bringing the roof
down on all of us is the system they inherited was very strong. It
evolved over many generations of struggle by a competent people with a
good foundation. But even the toughest structure will eventually succumb
to the wrecking ball of incompetency. Eventually, the collection of
jabbering airheads we see in charge of society will push the wrong
combination of buttons the end times are upon us.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A new year brings new changes. The same is true for this site as we
adjust to the reality of managerial authoritarianism. That means
*embracing crypto* for when the inevitable happens and the traditional
outlets are closed. Now more than ever it is important to support the
voices that support you.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you prefer other ways of donating, look at
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the donate page</a>. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="GLZTDssOArN63gTiAUbS3g==cb78LFwuwfAq0FOafJ4Po919AMbJGK5mF/sq0Yjs9x2YrH2YMDWrf6g5uryZavC0cSs"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ehWWqUwEfGWXPKRtHP12Ig==cb7D4AGRPUjQ1rZoOyNKAFguXpJ5KguAFcyty4mKi9O336dEEGPE4IYbxRguxrifI6V"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
