---
title: "Trade-Offs"
date: "2021-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22677"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22677"
---

Political systems are about problem solving. Inherited rule, for
example, solves the problem of selecting the next ruler. Blood also
provides legitimacy, which is an essential element for any ruler. One of
the problems a political system must solve is the problem of trade-offs.
Public policy, regardless of the system, is about trade-offs. A
political system has to have a mechanism for selecting between competing
options, by weighing the trade-offs and determining the best choice.

A great story from the ancient world about trade-offs is the story of
the emperor Tiberius and flexible glass. A craftsman was presented to
the emperor claiming that he could make flexible glass. That is, a
substance that looked and functioned like glass, but did not break like
glass. He produced a bowl that the emperor tried to smash, but it only
suffered some dents. The craftsman then repaired it with a small hammer,
knocking out the dents made by the emperor.

Once the emperor was assured that no one else knew how to make this new
material, he had the craftsman beheaded. The reason was that Tiberius
saw right away that this material was revolutionary. Innovation always
comes with trade-offs, as the new thing replaces an old thing. In the
case of flexible glass, the trade-offs were incalculable, so the proper
course was to make sure this new material never got loose. Tiberius
chose the well understood over the completely unknown.

This story is useful to us today, because we have lived through what
could be described as a series of flexible bowl incidents. The
technological revolution that was set in motion by the microprocessor
has swept through the West. As Tiberius anticipated with flexible glass,
the silicon chip has set off changes that no one anticipated. In the
material sense, our world is quite different from 70 years ago. In a
cultural and political sense, we now live at the other end of a
perpetual revolution.

In theory, democratic systems of government are about solving the
problem of the general will. Through the ballot, the people tell the
office holders what they want from their government. In turn, the people
in office try to guide the general will through public debate and public
advocacy for their ideas. The trade-offs involved in the options being
debated are fleshed out and the public, directly, or indirectly, makes
their choice and that becomes public policy.

The trouble is the system always selects for innovation over continuity.
When the microprocessor came along, there could be no debate about
whether this was a dangerous new innovation or how best to prevent this
radical new thing from overthrowing the old rules. Democracy always
comes down on the side of the new thing over the old thing. Every
innovation, no matter how pointless, is celebrated as another step in
human progress. Democracy is a perpetual revolution.

As a result, there could be no Tiberius moment with the microchip. There
was not one to examine the new thing and contemplate its ramifications.
Instead, it was quickly adopted setting off the technological age. Not
only did no one think about the trade-offs before unleashing this new
thing, not one thought about them afterwards. New is always good in a
democratic society. The only thing better than innovation is more and
faster innovation. Constant change is the ethos of liberal democracy.

The technological revolution was expected to solve lots of problems that
plagued the industrial age. Society was supposed to become more
democratic, for example, as improvements in communication made it easier
for people to express their preferences in the public square. The
distribution of goods would become more equitable, as innovation would
smash the old bottlenecks. The technological revolution would make the
world flatter, more egalitarian and more peaceful.

Some of the promised benefits have happened, but the trade-offs have
been enormous and could very well be the end of us. For example, the
cost of being able to call anyone anywhere from a device that fits in
your pocket is having millions of people experiencing the lives through
their phone. All the benefits of the mobile phone were realized with the
first car phone. Everything that has came after that point has been the
trade-off that no one could imagine. Most of them negative.

Similarly, the cost of instant communication across time and place is
millions of people standing in front of a firehose of information.
Humans are not made to experience the world this way. One result is
everyone is dumber and less informed. Another result is the number of
rage heads screaming in the face of their fellow citizens is growing
exponentially. The cost of knowing what is on everyone’s mind is knowing
what is on everyone’s mind whether you like it or not.

Again, this is not to say the technological revolution is a mistake.
E-mail is better than the postal service. Modern automobiles are better
and safer than their analog variants from the old days. Having the sum
of human information at your fingertips is an amazing leap forward for
humanity. There has been great material progress that has come with the
technological revolution, but it came with a price. The question the
West is slamming into is whether that price is warranted.

The trouble is democracy is incapable of evaluating trade-offs. This may
be why our systems are becoming increasingly authoritarian. The only way
to tone down the rhetoric in public forums is for the heavy hand of the
ruling class to limit what can be said in public forums. The only way to
break people from being constantly on-line is to make on-line less
rewarding. There is no democratic way to get rid of Twitter and
Facebook, so we get an authoritarian approach.

The trouble, of course, is that the current ruling class is the product
of the democratic system that created this mess. These are people bred
to overturn the tried and true in favor of the novel. That instinct is
seen in their fetish for men in dresses. They are attracted to it
because it is disruptive. Our ruling class is was selected by a system
that rewards pointless novelty over sober mindedness. A ruling class of
such people means we are ruled by a class of powerful toddlers.

That may be the next turn of the wheel. Democratic dictatorship gives
way to some form of personal rule, where stability and continuity are
prized over innovation. The ruling class is symbolically and physically
walling itself off from us, but what comes next is a culling inside
those walls. The feckless and stupid will be pushed out as a matter of
survival, by those actually capable of wielding power. That will be a
trade-off that everyone can accept, because it brings stability.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="r6vhusJCO6+VvO0D89pvgA==cb7RnDMcP5I3kvQGH7fXIu544ZcWK8XFTqzRd2VX+w8NiRJvDvW0/IQR6+iaz+MSNte"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="WkdUr6YD2D0v660AfRRG8A==cb7fSTSafsT0VWGWyLGHnA4xfbkDJgmIBc2evTsMZTO9EksEYIQX48DtAWE2FCiP/K8"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
