---
title: "American Alawites"
date: "2021-11-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-11-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25835"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25835"
---

Minority rule is one of those things that on the surface should be rare
but is actually quite common in human history. The most common form of
minority rule is when one people conquer another and then install their
people as rulers. This small ruling class is backed by the conquering
power. In the Bronze Age it was not unusual for one city-state to rule
over the surrounding city-states. The great leader would rule not only
his own people but the people he subjugated.

In medieval times, the family trees of ruling elites were often quite
complicated so the duke of some territory might not speak the language
of the people over whom he was the ruler. Conquest also played a role.
The Normans who were “invited” to conquer Britain did not speak the
local language. People were tied to the land, so when a successful ruler
conquered new lands, he inherited the people. His descendants would then
inherit a kingdom of strangers.

Ruling classes, in general, are a form of minority rule. In South
America, most of the countries are controlled by a relatively small
number of families that make up the ruling elite of the country. These
families trace their origins to Europe, marry amongst each other and
keep a tight grip on power. It is why the complexion of the political
elite rarely has the same hue as the general public. This demographic
realty of ruling elites is true to some degree everywhere in the world.

The thing about rule by minority is it works if that minority has
connections to the people over whom they rule. Those kings and queens in
medieval Europe may not have had much in common with the people, but
they shared a position within in a system that everyone accepted.
Richard the Lionheart did not speak English, but his position made sense
within the logic of society. Of course, empires tend to have ruling
classes that are alien to the people but make sense within the context
of empire.

This is what makes empires inherently unstable. Since an empire is an
amalgamation of people that don’t have much in common, the one thing
they have in common is they are ruled by strangers. The Habsburg Empire
made sense to the people running it but to everyone else it was an
unnatural combination. The Soviet Union struggled with the same problem
at the end. Empires tend to become minority run enterprises that only
serve the interests of the minority at the top of the system.

The American empire seems to be entering that minority rule phase where
it becomes clear to everyone that the people in charge are aliens. From
Gettysburg into the 20th century, America was a proto-empire. The Yankee
ruling elite had conquered the rest of the country. Then the push west
made Yankeedom into a continental empire and then a regional empire
entering the 20th century. The two great industrial wars established
Yankeedom as the American empire.

The Yankee ruling elite was joined in the 20th century by a Jewish elite
that arrived just as the American empire was forming up. The subsequent
Judeo-Puritan ruling class ruled the empire into the current day. While
the Jewish side did not have roots in the origins of the empire, the
Puritan side more than made up for it. The story of America started at
Plymouth Rock with the Puritans. At least that is how every schoolboy
learned it through the 20th century.

With the Cold War over and the borders wide open, the great flood of
people into the empire proper is about to change the complexion of the
ruling class. You see this with the South Asian takeover of Silicon
Valley. The latest example is Twitter, the social media publisher,
getting a new boss. Parag Agarwal will succeed Jack Dorsey as the CEO of
the company. Vijaya Gadde is the policy, safety lead director and a
chief legal officer and general counsel of Twitter.

If we take a quick inventory of the big tech firms, we see that Google
is now ruled by Sundar Pichai.  Microsoft is now ruled by a person named
Satya Nadella. IBM, once synonymous with American technological
innovation, is now ruled by a person called Arvind Krishna. Adobe
Systems is ruled by Shantanu Narayen. VMWare, the biggest virtualization
firm is ruled by Raghu Raghuram. Silicon Valley is looking like the
chamber of commerce of Bangalore.

This may seem like a coincidence, but Kamala Harris is the Vice
president because Indian money bought her the spot on the ticket. All of
her campaign money came from this cabal of South Asians in California.
She remains in her post, even though the Biden people want her out,
because the party is afraid of alienating the Brahmans. They know the
GOP is on its knees outside those offices begging for cash. They are
planning to run Nimrata Nikki Randhawa in the 2024 primary.

What is happening, of course, is the old Judeo-Puritan ruling elite is
getting pushed aside by the highly clannish and ambitious Brahman ruling
elite. Those high caste Indian migrants come from a long tradition of
looking out for their own, but also working the imperial system. The
British Raj selected for the sort of high cast local who knew how to
ingratiate himself with English speakers. Those skills are now proving
to be handy in the American empire.

This is why South Asians are fantastically antiwhite. They have picked
up on what is going on with the dying Judeo-Puritan ruling class.
Critical theory makes no sense to the new arrivals from the
subcontinent, but the slogans are easy to memorize and the targets are
familiar. The new ruler of Twitter is not only antiwhite, but he is also
openly hostile to the basics of Western society. He thinks the first
amendment is a pointless suggestion and he has no intention of
respecting its spirit.

From a certain distance, one has to admire the irony of it. India exists
because of British colonialism and it is now conquering the inheritor of
the British Empire. Perhaps the new Indian ruling class will start
wearing khaki shorts and pith helmets. The old quip from Pat Buchanan
about immigration comes to mind. He famously said, “American Indians had
open borders. Look what happened to them.” One group of Indians getting
revenge on behalf of another group of Indians.

Putting that aside, this is another sign that the American empire is far
closer to collapse than is evident from the numbers. Actual Americans
will notice that they cannot pronounce the names of their new rulers.
The alien nature of the ruling class is now being pushed into the face
of everyone. It is hard to imagine someone named Satya or Parag
commanding much loyalty from people named Bill or even Jonquarius. Rule
by alien invader will become evident to everyone.

That does not mean this new ruling class forming up is doomed. Syria has
been ruled by an Alawite minority for a long time now. They control all
of the institutions of power and that has allowed them to weather the
attacks from America and Israel. An alien ruling class can manage to
defy the math for a long time, if they are clever enough and ruthless
enough. The American Alawites will have to be as ruthless but highly
clannish people are never short of ruthlessness.

If one wants to be optimistic, the Illyrian emperors were Roman emperors
who rose up from what is now the Balkans during the Crisis of the Third
Century. This group of alien emperors culminated with Diocletian and the
stabilization of the empire. Maybe one of these new Brahman rulers will
go on to stabilize the American empire. After all, this class took over
India after the collapse of British rule. Look at the amazing job they
have done with the Indian subcontinent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="nwQl+otv7Op2rHeBjPiC8Q==cb7xKgI72hiYZNis7qCpWzhPmrG7pUD7nM4l2ZNu37mLFWxf3RhhGooEIyqdQBpjPCO"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="cZFGbhG2bD2IHmHkhsN+sQ==cb7NUNKpoxcInfKCsx3XhB+9gZLSphSDc984X3EUIwr/pFkoEq5TUib0ZE6uGTAQabp"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
