---
title: "Sino-America"
date: "2021-07-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-07-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24540"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24540"
---

Back in the early days of the internet, some people noticed that the
emerging tech sector was helping the Chinese Communist Party use new
technology to increase their hold on the people. Specifically, the
American tech companies were working on two areas of technology. One was
building the “great firewall of China” which prevented outside
information from entering China. They were also building out what would
became a digital extension of the surveillance state.

At the time, there were few people concerned about this washing back
into the West, because after all, that is not who we were. There were
people worried that American business was being changed culturally by
with China. After all, if profit can cause people with liberal values to
overlook slavery, torture and oppression, it means their allegiance to
liberal values is up for bid as well. In other words, the concern was
over doing business with monsters, not becoming monsters.

There were signs of the latter as far back as the Bush years. Thomas
Friedman, the far-left activist at the New York Times was very fond of
China. He started writing columns about how China’s one party rule was
much more efficient than the sloppy and chaotic democracies of the West.
Given that he was installed on an inner party platform, it suggested a
change in how the managerial elite was thinking about themselves and
their relationship to the people over whom they ruled.

Here we are a decade on and the American regime is slowly transforming
itself into something like the Chinese regime. Deng Xiaoping famously
said that China will have socialism with Chinese characteristics.
Economically this has meant state capitalism where large state
enterprises dominate the economy. They have some freedom to operate, but
they must answer to the party. A vast thicket of private enterprise is
tolerated, but the party keeps a watchful eye on them.

Whether by nature or by design, the managerial class of America is
taking on Chinese socialism with American characteristics. Instead of
state capitalism in the Marxist sense, it is state capitalism in the
corporate sense. A small number of massive corporations dominate the
economy. They allow the political parties some freedom, but politics
must always serve corporate interests. Private enterprise is tolerated,
but it operates in the shadow of the corporate giants.

It is on the political front where this is becoming more obvious. What
the tech giants learned helping China build the surveillance state is
the logic and spirit that it takes to operate it effectively. Gone
unnoticed is the absence of whistle blowers from companies like Twitter
and Google. One would expect regular document dumps revealing the
internal workings of these firms. We have more defectors from North
Korea than from Silicon Valley. The CCP has few defectors as well.

Of course, we are seeing the rollout of a social credit system like that
implemented in China, except it is being done by corporations.
Mastercard maintains a special blacklist of people who cannot use the
credit card system. This was originally intended to combat criminal
fraud, but it has now been turned to combat dissent. Note how it is
becoming normalized. This is the trick they learned from China. That
which is <a
href="https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/paypal-research-blocking-transactions-that-fund-hate-groups-extremists-2021-07-26/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">institutionalized</a> quickly becomes
part of the public psyche.

Another example of how the American regime is implementing Chinese
authoritarianism with American characteristics is in how they are
restricting speech. In China, the role of the party is explicit. The
language is explicit. In America, the inner party is hidden and the
delusion of self rule is their cloaking mechanism. Instead of hunting
down violators of party orthodoxy,  the regime is “combating
misinformation” on-line. Note how this new term has been repeated by
regime actors.

Ten years ago, most people accepted that there was a lot of nonsense
on-line and people would often joke about it. That was the point of a
free speech zone. Anyone could say what they liked. Today, the usual
suspects are cowering in fear at misinformation on-line. Joe Biden
claimed that people are being murdered by misinformation, suggesting
they have anthropomorphized the concept. In America, misinformation is
the deviationism of the ruling regime.

A good example of how politics has taken the second chair to state
capitalism is the latest spending bill in Congress. The Senate just <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/political/bipartisan-coalition-reach-agreement-12-trillion-infrastructure-bill"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">voted</a> in favor of a bill that exists
only in the realm of forms. It’s not words on a page, but rather a
concept that has yet to be given any specifics. What is happening here
is the corporate interest are telling the empty suits in Congress to get
it passed and they will then supply the text of the bill when the times
comes to make it official.

What this means is our clues for what the American regime will do next
lies in what China is doing now. For example, the Chinese imposed a law
on Hong Kong that allows them round of dissenters and send them off to
slave camps in China. The first has been <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/geopolitical/first-pro-democracy-protester-convicted-under-hong-kong-national-security-law"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">convicted</a> under the new law. The
American regime is trying to pass similar laws so they can do the same
thing. That is the point of the current show trial being held in
Washington. They want to justify new laws against dissent.

The hundreds of dissidents being held incommunicado by the regime are a
good mile post when measuring just how far the regime has moved toward
this Chinese style of authoritarian rule. It also shows how the media
has been completely subverted by the security apparatus of the state.
Within living memory the media would have been all over this story,
painting the victims as heroes. Today, few in the media bother to notice
them at all. When they do, it is to cheer the regime.

There is another lesson from China that applies here. When she tried to
apply Marxist-Leninist ideology, it was a disaster. The main reason for
that is political-economy is culture specific, so this foreign
political-economy could never fit China. The political-economy of China
is similarly a poor fit in the West, particularly America. In China, the
iron rice bowl still control regime thinking. In America, the seething
contempt for the masses prevents such a social contract.

Liberal democracy evolved as a solution to the violence that arose when
elites were no longer willing to hold up their end of the bargain. It
was a feedback mechanism to signal course changes and reform efforts
within the ruling elite. What we think of as liberal government was
always a solution to the problem of violent regime change that had been
the mode in the West for millennia. The current regime is now back on
the road that will inevitably lead to the gallows.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ky08LhY7Jd/FP+yrbTXuGQ==cb7PknBdhrj80XLSHSu0SmuhonXIDHiQCeVeM6q0jjaVDXrV5noLq0CuzuweZJxgYBs"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="hYWT9Geld4W5PIIY84tYOg==cb7o0fW+U9uxfF9WsOE31nXBsT7jiGJ+gP7WNB4OuyFdr1lzHY/IW8zJBFU/4NpB3V8"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
