---
title: "Revanchism"
date: "2021-11-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-11-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25642"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25642"
---

Revanchism is a political movement based in the desire to reverse
territorial losses after a war or cultural upheaval, like a revolution.
The term originated in France in the aftermath of the Franco-Prussian
War. Nationalists wanted to avenge the French defeat and reclaim the
lost territories of Alsace-Lorraine. It is often mingled with
irredentism, the desire for lost territory based on legend. Israel’s
territorial claims in the Levant are an example of both concepts.

In the West, revanchism is generally associated with the Right and
especially with nationalist politics. The revanchists wish their nation
to reclaim lost turf on perhaps fulfill its destiny by reclaiming its
ancient territory. It can also mean a reassertion of the old culture and
traditions, rolling back the current culture which is seen as foreign or
illegitimate in some way. Revanchists want to go back to some point in
the past where they think the break occurred in the culture.

An example is this American Conservative
[post](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/in-defense-of-cultural-christianity/)
by Sohrab Ahmari, Gladden Pappin, and Chad Pecknold. It is titled, “In
Defense of Cultural Christianity”, an apologia for the traditional
Christian order. It is not a defense but rather a call to reassert a
pre-Reformation Catholicism and the political and social elements
required to do it. Theirs is a “throne-and-altar” conception of
conservatism that seeks to restore the Church as the partner of the
secular state.

This wing of the Revanchist Right is responding to the modern Gnosticism
of the Left, especially its view of the material world. Since the modern
Left does not believe in an afterlife or God, their view of the material
world as being hostile to the sacred essence of man leads to a war on
the material world itself. Rather than transcending this life, like the
Gnostics of old, the modern Progressive seeks to conquer nature and
transform it into the tool of the fully self-aware man.

These Catholic revanchists are not the first to note the utopianism of
modern liberal thought or its connection to Gnosticism. Conservative
gadfly William F. Buckley popularized Eric Voegelin’s phrase “Don’t
immanentize the eschaton!”, which became a conservative slogan in the
1960’s. Immanentize the eschaton means trying to bring about the final,
heaven-like stage of history in this world. Hans Jonas, a century ago,
noted the link between Gnosticism and modern thought.

This link between Gnosticism, Progressivism and the Catholic response to
ancient Gnosticism is clear in the essay. “The thoroughly anti-gnostic
Augustine, moreover, viewed Catholic cultural Christianity as an
elongation of the Incarnation. It was its incarnational, anti-gnostic
realism about our social and political nature that lent the Christian
order of Europe its radiant vitality, its longevity and strength.” In
other words, the proper response to the modern is the ancient.

The authors go on to point out that the secular state that subordinates
all religion inevitably leads to a deracinated, gnostic form of
Christianity. You can enjoy your faith in total private, but it can have
no place in the culture or society. In the modern context, Christianity
becomes just another hobby that can have no impact on this world or the
people in it. You are left with a form of Rod Dreher-ism, in which you
must retreat from the material world and wait for salvation in the next.

As an aside, it is interesting that this essay is posted on the American
Conservative website, where Rod Dreher promotes his bespoke Gnosticism.
He does not sell it as such, but that is what he is selling. His form of
orthodoxy is just the special of the day at the cafeteria of
Christianity. From the point of view of the revanchists, his call to
retreat from this world is just another manifestation of the
deracination and degradation of man by the liberal moral order.

Putting that aside, the revanchists are correct for the wrong reasons.
They correctly see that the throne and altar are inevitably linked. They
seem to think this is a Catholic innovation, but that is incorrect. The
joining of the supernatural with human hierarchy is as old as human
society. Every ruling elite needs authority, and that authority comes
from legitimacy. There is no better way to solve this problem than to
claim the ruler or ruling elite are the will of the gods or actual gods.

Once belief is understood as a natural part of man’s nature, like
intelligence or the desire to reproduce, the question becomes, what
should man believe? This has been the engine of human conflict and human
progress since the beginning. The Catholic Church was a late comer to
this battle for the soul of man. Modern liberalism may have roots in the
ancient past, but it too is late to the party. It displaced that old
order the revanchists seek to restore.

That is the central problem of revanchist thinking. It is not hard to
make a compelling case in favor of the old throne-and-altar but there is
a reason why it was abandoned in favor of the liberal order. Simply
dismissing that reality as a wrong turn in the arc of history or a sign
of moral decline avoids the issue. The Catholic Imperium has a defined
beginning, the conversion of Roman emperor Constantine the Great in 312
CE, and a less well define end, possibly the Treaty of Westphalia.

To make the claim that this is a universal or timeless moral framework
has to address why it did not exist for most of human history and why it
was pushed aside. This is a problem shared by all cultural revanchism.
In its reaction to the present, it blinds itself to the failings of the
past. As a result, it becomes a form of escapism, where the past becomes
fantasy literature. In this case, the Catholic integralist gets to
imagine what it would be like to live in Medieval Europe.

The anti-Gnostics, however, should not be dismissed. Their observations
about modern liberalism are useful, if incomplete. What we see with
liberal democracy is an effort to solve its own internal conflict. It
rejects the supernatural, but like all political orders, it needs an
external source of legitimacy. It is trying to evolve one that only
hints at the supernatural by leaving out large swaths of reality that
can only be filled in with an undefined faith in the present order.

This is why the term “woke” is popular. These people are aware of their
eternal identity, which is analogous to being aware of their divine
essence. The great war between those “defending our democracy” and the
so-called fascists is a rework of the old Gnostic dualism where the
material world is evil, and the god is pure good. Critical theory then
becomes the logos connecting the two. Modern Gnosticism is the quest for
legitimacy and authority in a secular world.

In the end, revanchism can only be a starting point to model a new moral
order that incorporates the old while recognizing its flaws. A new moral
order will have to appeal to people as they are in this deracinated
modern state. That means what comes next must be a continuation, rather
than a rollback. That is both difficult and frightening, which is why
revanchism will grow in popularity. Even so, the path is always forward.
There is no going back to a prior age, no matter how much we desire it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="SdfCNjwgSvKuKf2lqo13hg==cb78+BlwWerbWnkB5BkN2XOS+JpINrg5G3oErMqRnpJ/rHzQ7L3U/R0o3U6KOB2N1pj"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MvXcYwDEqXJfTA3tUcqwzA==cb7x15TpTA+C+dKsBrV4pEEtoBRAO/NhxL/zlfqWEn/wL3HEbm+0j79tzME5KhrkTIT"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
