---
title: "Another New Right"
date: "2022-05-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-05-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27411"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27411"
---

**Note:** The
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/the-partisan-vs-reality/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Taki post</a> is up. This week it is a
discourse on the modern partisan and the impact it has on our politics.
The Sunday Thoughts
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/600619" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">podcast</a> is up behind the green door for subscribers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The term “New Right” is one of those phrases that has a long life but
has never had much meaning in American politics. Bill Buckley was a
member of the New Right when he got going in the middle of the last
century. Later, various efforts were made to create a New Right as an
alternative to the Buckley Right. As conservatism collapsed over the
last decade the term has become a popular one with failed alternatives.
Members of the alt-right even tried rebranding as the New Right.

The long life of the term in America, without much meaning, says more
about the overall state of politics than the various efforts to create
an alternative. In Europe, the term New Right has meaning, because it is
a real school that has been trying to create a new politics that
reflects the current age. In America, the popularity of New Right
reflects the fact that there has never been a genuine Right. What passes
for the Right is just a foil for the prevailing orthodoxy of the ruling
class.

That reality is clearer now that at any time in the history of the
empire, but there are those giving the term another shot. There are
several groups competition to be the new Right to replace the rubble
that is mainstream conservatism. There is a lot of <a
href="https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2022/04/inside-the-new-right-where-peter-thiel-is-placing-his-biggest-bets"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">interest</a> in the mainstream in these
projects as the prevailing orthodoxy works best when it has a foil to
operate as a gatekeeper. Channeling popular frustration into a sterile
alternative is the secret to maintaining order.

The least promising of the alternatives is whatever Curtis Yarvin, known
as Moldbug, is calling himself these days. Yarvin got famous blogging as
a neo-reactionary who criticized democracy in various ways. He would
write awfully long essays criticizing liberal democratic system from the
perspective of a royalist. His style was something like a stream of
consciousness while playing an on-line role playing game. It was elite
condescension for those who imagined themselves elite.

After a break from his Moldbug character, Yarvin is back, but playing
himself, a retired software developer, who has a lot to say about the
present order. Instead of demanding the creation of a monarchy, he
advocates a rejection of politics entirely. According to his analysis,
any participation in politics ends up supporting the system, so the only
way to oppose the system is to drop out entirely. His approach is not
much different from Rod Dreher’s Benedict Option, just without the
religion.

The basic argument Yarvin makes is that participating within the rules
of the system supports the system. If you organize a new party, for
example, you are legitimizing the party system and the rules that govern
it. On the other hand, if you protest against the system, your protest
is either crushed or permitted by the system. Either way, this
legitimizes the power of the system, because the system only acts in
ways that add to its power and legitimizes its power.

While there are bits of his critique of liberal democracy that are
accurate, his alternatives are best described as incoherent label
shopping. He has tried out “clear pill”, “grey mirror” and now “deep
right” as marketing phrases. None of which mean anything on their own.
Instead, they work like insider language for his fans, a way for them to
feel like they have special knowledge. Yarvin writes in riddles, so
these secret phrases can mean whatever the fan needs them to mean.

A more robust option in the New Right talent contest is the pan-Zionism
offered up by the Israeli political scientist Yoram Hazony. He is
probably the most complete of the alternatives and has the best
financial support. The oligarch Peter Theil has been backing him for a
few years, primarily by financing his conferences on nationalism in
America and Europe. These have become networking events for the people
hoping to win the New Right lottery.

Hazony’s argument, put forth in his book *The Virtue of Nationalism*, is
that the West needs to re-embrace nationalism and reject empire. His
argument for nationalism is pretty much the argument for Zionism. In
fact, his case seems to be more of a defense of Zionism than a genuine
case for European nationalism. In his book, he goes to great lengths to
argue that things like fascism and apartheid are not nationalism, which
of course are claims made against Zionism.

The problem for all nationalist movements is the elephant in the room.
Once you make the claim of exclusivity, that is a people has an
exclusive right to determine their composition, it means certain people
can be excluded. For European nationalists, this brings obvious
comparisons to unfortunate incidents. For Zionists, this offends the
donor base which lives primarily in the Global American Empire. The
solution is a watered down and exception-riddled nationalism.

In both of these efforts, what plagues them is an unwillingness to
address the core defects of liberal democracy directly. The crisis in
the West stems directly from the anti-human notions of egalitarianism
and the blank slate. This is what underpins multiculturalism,
universalism and globalism. Without addressing the twin tap roots of
liberal democracy, the critic is left to whack away at the leaves. It
means these flavors of the New Right are doomed from the start.

Another entrant in the New Right derby is what is sometimes called
common good conservatism and sometimes called integralism. This reflects
the two camps that operate within the movement. One camp takes a secular
view of politics, primarily focused on the law, while the other camp is
explicitly religious. The former seeks to reform the law in order to
achieve their ends. The latter is a revival of
antidisestablishmentarianism from old Europe.

The secular camp is best represented by Josh Hammer, who is busy
creating what he calls common good jurisprudence to replace originalism
and textualism. His critique, like many on this subculture, starts with
the dissident observation that conservatism has never conserved
anything. He repeats the century old <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/author/quotes/904468.Robert_Lewis_Dabney"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">observation</a> by Robert Lewis Dabney
about conservatism being yesterday’s progressivism. He then proposes an
alternative he calls common good jurisprudence.

On the integralism side, the face of that wing is a Harvard academic
named Cornelius Adrian Comstock Vermeule. He advocates for a robust
state that will act in the best interests of the common good. The common
good is largely defined by the teachings of the Catholic Church. He
wants a return of throne and later rule, in which the state, however
composed, is unconstrained by individual rights. In other words, he
wants the current system to be guided by medieval Catholicism.

Like Yarvin and Hazony, the various figures flying the common good
conservatism banner have no interest in taking on egalitarianism and the
blank slate, even though their hierarchical worldview should demand it.
A state that acts in the common good requires someone with the power to
decide what is the common good. There is no room for a monarch or an
enlightened despot in a world where all men are equal and their equality
must be respected by the state.

The problem with all of these attempts to create a New Right is they are
limited to a critique of the present order. They refuse to ponder the
central questions of all political morality and that is “who decides?”
and “by what authority?” The one who comes closest is Hazony and he
stops at the water’s edge for obvious reasons. Otherwise, the New Right
is pretty much a social club of people who are unhappy with the present
order but cannot face the reality of it.

That may be what is preventing a New Right from forming up and taking
the place of Buckley-style conservatism on the big stage. The specter
haunting the West is demographics, which is animated by those two
central questions. There is little need for a New Right unless it is
willing speak to demographics and everything that flows from it. When
the only question that matters is off the table, everything else is idle
chatter that makes for a fun conference, but not much else.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="2UtvyHZ/XIM9LjCrXQKh2Q==cb7mubeOrfwADUyex9etTMfEVg9mpPuTu09i6D2lHWhCgAgjwv7PChiT2PzCCRv7J+U"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="waUM7SvoZ74D2PqMbSNlPQ==cb7ugntS4Q7N1LnL7kl7HTyciKYPsrrmzoggwEMemDUUoraEpexmRtb1ZBH3V3IFh8G"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
