---
title: "Integral Thoughts"
date: "2022-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27564"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27564"
---

Integralism is the principle that the Catholic faith should be the basis
of public law and public policy within civil society. As with everything
political, there is debate as to when the concept was born, but modern
integralism as a genuine political movement has its roots in the 19th
century. For obvious reasons it has been limited to those countries with
a large enough Catholic population to make integralism plausible. That
means the Latin countries of Europe like Spain and Italy.

Over the last decade, integralism has become a topic of conversation,
largely due to Harvard Law professor Adrian Vermeule. He is a critic of
modern liberal democracy as well as the conservative movement that
operates within it. His main work is in the area of administrative law,
but his embrace of the integralism concept has attracted others from the
traditionalist wing of conservatism. Matthew Schmitz, Sohrab Ahmari, and
Patrick Deneen are the notable converts.

In fairness, what is forming up to be American integralism is not what
Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre had in mind at the Second Vatican Council.
The thinkers and writers coming to the integralism banner share
Vermeule’s disgust with modern conservatism and its role in enabling
progressivism. Sohrab Ahmari called it David Frenchism, a performative
traditionalism that is weak and conciliatory toward the Left. They
imagine themselves creating a new Right similar to old European Right.

To be fair there are some serious people within this space thinking hard
about how to re-center politics within the Western Christian tradition.
To be even more fair, there is no chance of this happening, at least not
peacefully. Liberal democracy comes with its own religion and moral
code. It cannot tolerate alternative morale codes and it cannot exist
within the moral framework of Catholicism. We will need a revolution to
go from liberal democracy to some new moral order.

Therein lies the main problem with all modern political philosophy. It
assumes a blank sheet of paper where the deciders get to decide the type
of society they will create and impose on the world. They spend their
time working out the political theory and then imagine how it would
work, assuming a fresh start. It is the game of imagining your dream
home in some idyllic setting. The plausibility of the house and the
process to make it happen is just assumed.

Libertarianism is probably the most egregious example. As Hans
Hermann-Hoppe explained many years ago, it is not possible to go from
modern societies to a libertarian society within the constraints of
libertarian theory. Further, there is no way to maintain a libertarian
society, assuming you solve that first problem. Despite this obvious
reality, libertarianism persists. The adherents are content to imagine
themselves living in the Shire with the other hobbits of libertarianism.

Integralism has a strong whiff of this same sort of escapism. Instead of
being yeoman farmers trading sheep for shoes, the integralists imagine
themselves riding out to face the black knight of liberal democracy in
defense of the faith. There is not much thought given to how we could
turn back the clock. It is just assumed that something will happen, the
current order will fail and this alternative will become the obvious
alterative to the crisis of liberal democracy.

In fairness to the libertarians and integralists, they are not outside
the bounds of normal political debate with this approach. The post-Marx
culturalists who now dominate the American Left believe they just have
to destroy the current cultural institutions and from the rubble will
rise the egalitarian paradise. The old civic nationalists believe we
just need a blank piece of vellum onto which we can copy down the
original constitution and America becomes a republic again.

A curious feature of this age is that almost all political discussion
operates in the world of forms to the exclusion of practical concerns.
This is true in outsider politics on the Right, which has largely been
centered on re-fighting the 20th century. Some want to re-fight the
1960’s while others want to re-fight the 1930’s. There is little
self-examination about why those fights were lost the first time and no
consideration for how re-fighting those old failures will change
anything in the present.

The fact that this sort of idealism is popular on the Right suggests
that maybe right-wing political theory in a liberal democracy is not
supposed to be a serious counter to the prevailing orthodoxy but is a
safe harbor for dissent. Historically, the Right exists as a counter to
ideology, not as an alternative ideology. The man of the Right is the
one throwing cold water on the dream of immanentizing the Eschaton. He
focuses on what is possible, not what is desirable.

This is where integralism can contribute. All human societies need a
source of authority to justify the rules of the society. “This is *how*
we do things” must be supported with “this is *why* we do things this
way.” Catholicism fused tradition with the supernatural to provide a
basis of authority for medieval Europe. The Roman empire had to rely on
force to impose its will abroad, but at home it was the traditions and
customs of the Roman people that provided the moral authority.

Every human society has an authority. In theory, the authority in a
liberal democracy is the will of the people, the consent of the
governed. In reality, fifty percent plus one is a fickle master and
easily exploited by unscrupulous actors. The crisis in the modern West
is rooted in the fact that the system is easily manipulated to profit a
ruling class that operates in the shadows of the political order. The
gods of democracy are tricksters who revel in the frustrations of the
people.

An alternative to liberal democracy must first deal with this reality
and propose an alternative authority upon which to base the moral order.
That new authority is unlikely to be medieval Christianity, but it will
have to be something similar. Some combination of nature, nature’s God
and the civilizational interest of the West will be the authority for a
new political model. Perhaps some form of techno-feudalism is in the
cards for what comes after liberal democracy is thrown into the dustbin
of history.

Of course, this means moving from the safe harbor of political escapism
into the world of practical solutions to present problems. The real
damage done to the American constitutional order has been the
deification of the Founders. Their ideas have been turned into holy
writ. In reality, the Constitution was a practical solution to present
problems hammered out by practical men. It was a political compromise,
not the foundation for a political cult.

Whatever comes next will have to start from the same basis. What sort of
civil society is possible in the world as it is demographically,
technologically and materially? Is a civil society even possible under
present conditions? If not, then what must be done, no matter how
unpleasant, in order to create the conditions that will make a civil
society possible in a post-democracy world? Whatever comes next will not
be the work of dreamers, but of practical men solving practical
problems.

That is the value in boutique political movements like integralism. It
is not a solution, but rather the starting point for a necessary
critique of the current order. From that will flow the necessary debate
to conjure a plausible alternative. Integralism can be a hammer to crack
the walls of modern conservatism, which in turn exposes the soft realty
of the liberal democratic order it protects. Integral to an alternative
moral philosophy is a rational critique of the present order.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="AHmkoB1pzWEGiwTOwyanbg==cb7f/NxzE1/QJAJvp2DfmmtibVCp9KYA0ZoIGaG4MZb0sTGWaVE/X5w4jTrUw9y09jL"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="G8qad1DITWTAyTjuhEh8PQ==cb727o31s2rC7Dvr5O/FhkN7cGLiFb5fk5h6XGnLWDxvjYGzNtNFFimqbrEsw+Ik3tc"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
