---
title: "A 20th Century Lesson"
date: "2022-11-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-11-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28729"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28729"
---

**Note:** It is the time of year when people feel generous. If you are
looking for someone that would appreciate a small donation, consider
kicking in a few bucks to our friends at The White Art Collective who
are making a film. They want to make a movie, but they need your help! 
Click <a href="https://wacmedia.store/2022/10/31/black-specter/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a> for more info.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the heart of libertarianism is the claim that in order to fully enjoy
your natural rights you must be free of coercion. That is, you are not
subject to the claims of other people either directly or indirectly. The
only direct claim a person has on another person is the enforcement of a
contract. Similarly, you can demand that whole society respects your
autonomy and property rights. Otherwise, no person in a libertarian
society has a claim on any other person in the society.

Simplifying it, the libertarian society assumes you have absolute
dominion over yourself, outside of the narrow exceptions for the
enforcement of contracts and the defense of private property. More
important, maybe most important, members of a libertarian society have
an obligation to respect the autonomy of others. The social contract, if
you will, gives members the maximum liberty, in exchange for the maximum
amount of minding your own business.

Hans Hermann-Hoppe identified two unsolved problems within libertarian
theory that he has spent a long time trying to solve. One is that there
is no way within libertarian theory to go from our current societies to
a libertarian one. The other problem is there is no way within
libertarian theory to police a libertarian society. The non-aggression
principle rules out coercion as a way to keep people from straying from
libertarianism into something like socialism or even communism.

It is the first problem that has occupied the minds of libertarians. How
can we get from where we are now to even a few steps down the road
toward paradise? One effort has been to convince people to become
libertarians. Proselytizing has always been a central part of the
movement, which is why many people outside of the libertarian subculture
view it as something like a cult. The libertarian, like the vegetarian,
is always ready to announce his membership in the cause.

The proselytizing has always come with an eye on politics. In theory,
libertarians must reject the premise of liberal democracy. The closest
they can come is some sort of democratic process for settling direct and
indirect claims. Otherwise, there is no role for the state so there is
no reason to have elections. Even so, libertarians have tried to use the
democratic process to change the law in their favor. The legalization of
drugs, for example, has been a main cause of libertarians.

A lot has been made about the effect this has had on conservatism. Way
back in the last century, Frank Meyer cooked up a new formula for the
American right that brought libertarians into an alliance with
traditionalists and neoconservatives. This Cold War coalition would make
up what was called the conservative movement. After the end of
communism, this coalition fell apart. Today it is nearly impossible to
see the difference between libertarianism and mainstream conservatism.

Something else happened during the last century. The contact with
mainstream liberal democratic politics deranged libertarianism. Some
libertarians, the left-libertarians, transformed into corporate
libertines. In exchange for a comfortable lifestyle, they promote every
degenerate fad of the left in the name of freedom. The left-libertarians
have been enthusiastic for every subversive cultural fad, as long as it
came with fat donations from corporate sponsors.

Right-libertarians have largely avoided the cultural issues, instead
focusing all of their energy on the power of the state. Ron Paul has
been the best known of the bunch, fashioning a political career as a
platform to promote libertarianism. At the heart of his argument is the
assumption that once the state is removed from the lives of people, the
cultural questions will answer themselves. It is the state that puts its
thumb on the cultural scale, creating the culture war.

It is a nifty bit of logic, which turns the old Marxist formulation on
its head. Marx said that once you get the morality right, there is no
need for politics. That is, once everyone has the same morality, there
is no need to debate public policy. The friend enemy distinction goes
away as we all share the same goals. Ron Paul argues that once you get
the politics right, the moral issues settle themselves. Without an
active state, there is no need for culture and therefore no culture war.

The last ten years has provided a test for that theory. It has also
brought us back around to that second conflict within libertarianism
identified by Hoppe. Over the last decade, corporations have assumed
greater power over the lives of citizens and they have become active in
directing the culture of society. On the one hand we have non-government
elements of society that are trying to coerce others. On the other hand,
that coercion is specifically over cultural issues.

For left-libertarians, this has not been a problem. They sold out to
corporate interests long ago so this works fine. If you do not like
Apple sexualizing your kids and funding grooming gangs, just start your
own trillion dollar tech company. Interestingly, this approach was aped
by neocons like Ben Shapiro. He was a leading voice in the “just build
your own internet” phase of the crisis. The neocon – libertarian nexus
is something that warrants further exploration.

Putting that aside, the right-libertarians have had a dilemma. You
cannot on the one hand put personal independence at the top of your
moral hierarchy and at the same time ignore or excuse the grotesque
abuse of basic rights by corporations. The solution has been something
like what you see in this Ron Paul <a
href="http://www.ronpaulinstitute.org/archives/featured-articles/2022/november/28/separate-tech-and-state/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a>. You see, the tech giants are
not rampaging through the culture and trampling your rights because they
want to do it, they are doing it to please the state.

After a long story about Ed Markey howling for censorship, Paul writes,
“Big tech companies silence their users to curry favor with politicians
and bureaucrats, often after “encouragement” from politicians and
bureaucrats. Therefore, to end big tech’s censorship, Americans should
demand that all government officials — including the president — not
violate the First Amendment.” You see, that army of scolds hired by
Twitter was to please the state, not the shareholders.

The reason Ron Paul and other libertarians cling to this ridiculous idea
that corporations are unwilling participants in the culture war is that
they have no answer to the problem of corporate activism within
libertarian theory. In fact, to even acknowledge such a thing as
corporate activism blows a hole in libertarianism. The whole point of
libertarianism is the maximizing of freedom. If it has no way to defend
your freedom from powerful members of society, then why would anyone be
a libertarian?

Of course, this is the problem Hoppe identified years ago. Individualism
is a wonderful concept as long as it exists within a collective outer
shell. In other words, the extreme individualism expressed by
libertarianism works only if everyone has been so thoroughly conditioned
by a pre-existing cultural framework that no one within the libertarian
society would ever consider coercion. Libertarian man must be the result
of severe cultural programming.

This is why Marx still matters and von Mises does not. Marx was wrong
about many things, but he was correct about one big thing. If you get
the morality right, then everything else falls into place. Politics is
therefore about getting the morality right, even imposing morality on
the whole, in order to make it possible for the citizens to maximize
their life within society. Put another way, the point of political
struggle is to define “who we are” and then put an end to the debate.

In the fullness of time, the 20th century will be viewed as a long human
experiment with the ideas of the 18th and 18th century. Various forms of
socialism, communism and libertarianism were put through their bloody
paces, only to see all of them fail as an answer to the only question
that matters. “Who we are” is the question every civilization must
answer. That is a moral question. Perhaps the 21st century will be
remembered for finally having answered that question properly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="sEEchTZ2FVOhnWyp16B9jg==cb7ufJRnbQjU2Ex+CFFtzwJHzim4qiq/LpXGUQ6rq0UgPXVqKOpa09epIOBJ+RPZq/o"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="rufv5x25G1rltF9UYd4EuQ==cb7YNAyYDTx+5cDw5cOSRAO46Yw+/1RHaIqMXh8rdaPYz9S/DeU2B+5oCTl5cqzXRjH"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
