---
title: "Bad Choices"
date: "2022-07-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-07-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27776"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27776"
---

**Note:** I was once again interviewed by a recovering libertarian. This
time it was Peter Quinones and you can find it
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_k3YCnphzVs" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> and <a
href="https://open.spotify.com/episode/4Fr4ngTXlqNFvRJyXagXIR?si=fL5Q1TppTp6EZL5_R_QcwA&amp;utm_source=copy-link&amp;nd=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Word from Britain is that Boris Johnson has agreed to step down as Prime
Minister as soon as his party finds a replacement. His party will have
an election to pick his replacement in October. According to the news,
the main reason he is resigning is that his party worries that his
personal scandals will drag them down in the polls and risk their
majority in Parliament. This is one of those stock answers that the news
supplies when no one wants to use the right answer.

The right answer is that the plutocrats who control British politics
never liked Johnson and they seized this chance to get rid of him. In
many ways, Johnson is like Donald Trump in that he represented the
unhappiness of the Tory voters, even though he never really sympathized
with them. Trump rode popular discontent into the White House but was
obsessed with gaining elite approval. Johnson rode a populist wave into
power, but never seemed to understand any of it.

There are, of course, lots of different opinions on the two men, but the
one thing everyone agrees upon is the best people hated them. The reason
the best people hated them is they appeared to side with the rabble
against their betters, which is the one unforgivable sin in this age.
Just about any degenerate act can be forgiven, but if you go against the
family, you will never be forgiven. Like Trump, Johnson never seemed to
understand this for some reason.

Another parallel to Trump is that the British ruling elite now faces the
same trouble as the American elite in that a replacement is not obvious.
In 2020 the selectors in Washington settled on a bumbling old simpleton
because the other options were terrifyingly incompetent. No matter how
angry you may be at the orange dirt monster, the thought of Elizabeth
Warren in charge is a bridge too far. Bernie Sanders was literally their
next best option.

For the Brits, the options are only slightly less ridiculous and that is
only because the Brits tend to like the ridiculous. According to the
European <a
href="https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20220706-who-could-succeed-boris-johnson-in-downing-street"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">press</a>, the favorite to replace
Johnson is a Hindu bugman named
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rishi_Sunak" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Rishi Sunak</a>. His great accomplishment in life was
marrying the daughter of a Hindu billionaire while at Stanford. His
other big accomplishment was wrecking the British economy as Chancellor
of the Excheque during the Covid panic. You cannot make this up.

The other option for the selectors is
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeremy_Hunt" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Jeremy Hunt</a>, who is something like the British
version of Mitt Romney. He is a blend of oleaginous mendacity and
obsequious rumpswabbery that would make him an ideal Republican. He
represents the fink-on-the-voters wing of the Tory Party. He also looks
like a character from a Mr. Bean sketch that gives him something Rishi
Sunak lacks, which is some connection to the country over which he wants
to rule.

The third likely option is
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liz_Truss" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Liz Truss</a>. She should be a favorite as she is in
many ways the most representative of the modern political class. Truss
is noisy, self-aggrandizing and as dumb as a goldfish. As Foreign
Secretary she encouraged Brits to volunteer to be killed in the Ukraine.
She confused the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea while making bizarre
threats against the Russians, while in Moscow. The woman is the poster
child for the modern professional woman in the managerial class.

Interestingly, two other options, both considered longshots at this
point, are Sajid Javid, from Pakistan, and Nadhim Zahawi, from Iraq.
That makes three of the top contenders who are clearly not British.
Further, they represent the party that claims to represent the
traditional British nation. One could argue that the traditional British
nation is a polyglot mishmash of people from the empire, but it is
unlikely that most Tory voters think of Mumbai or Lahore when they are
feeling sentimental.

This is the problem of empire. For an empire to work, the people at the
top must eventually reduce their own people to the same level as the
conquered. Initially force and grandeur is enough to keep the subjects
in line but over time that no longer works so the imperial leadership
must incorporate the conquered. This means granting them the same status
as their own people, which can only be done by reducing their own people
in terms of their place in the empire.

This is why the Tories and the Republicans have come to be the great
champions of diversity and multiculturalism. They are the conservatives,
but in the imperial sense, not the national sense. They are defending
the empire, which means they defend the system that raises up the
various people absorbed into the empire at the expense of the core
population of the empire. This is why Tories and Republicans are sure
their opponents are the real racists.

The final parallel to the Trump phenomenon here is that Johnson will end
up being an unheeded warning because the people who could hear it lack
the ability to respond to it with anything but anger. Trump was a sign
of disgust by the white population of the country toward the political
class. Similarly, Brexit and the dynamics that it unleashed, leading to
Johnson becoming PM, was a warning shot. The British people were unhappy
with their political class.

The trouble is, there is no answer for this. Like America, the British
political system is controlled by people who hold the core population in
contempt. Even if they could get past that, their options within the
political system are terrible. The system has become a weird carny act,
selecting for increasingly ridiculous people. Replacing a gasbag like
Trump with a dementia patient was not an upgrade. Replacing Johnson with
a simpleton like Liz Truss will not make life better.

What Johnson and Trump will come to represent was the dead end for a
political system that evolved to its logical conclusion. When politics
became theater, the stage was soon filled with carny acts, rather than
serious people. In easy times, picking between the bearded lady and the
sword swallower was fine, but in difficult times, these are not
acceptable choices. That is where the British elites find themselves
now, left with nothing but bad choices among terrible actors.
