---
title: "End Phase Phenomena"
date: "2022-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27608"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27608"
---

A cause that has any hope of surviving past the novelty phase will
demand from its followers a sacrifice to show commitment. Criminal
organizations are the simplest and easiest examples of this phenomenon.
A street gang will require all of the members to get a tattoo, for
example, to show their commitment. More mature criminal organizations
will require new members to commit crimes in front of other members to
prove their willingness to sacrifice for the gang.

In more sophisticated movements, the adherents will perform rituals or
make symbolic sacrifices to show their commitment to the cause. It has
not been unusual for cultural movements to adopt a style of dress. The
macaroni style, for example, was an extreme expression of commitment to
a cultural and social class. In this age, the sexual subcultures often
embrace clothing styles like the “lesbian kit” to set themselves apart
and show commitment to the subculture.

Whether it is getting the gang symbols tattooed on your face, wearing an
unofficial uniform or committing yourself to a way of life, every cause
requires something from the members as a payment. This sacrifice is not
only a signal to the other members, showing their shared commitment to
the cause, it is also a form of advertising to potential members of the
cause. More important, it adds a sense of value to membership in the
cause. The members feel committed.

The people displaying their pronouns in their e-mail signature and
social media profile are signaling their commitment by sacrificing some
portion of their dignity. There is a noticeable discomfort in these
people then they say “I go by they/them” because they know what they are
doing is foolish. It is as ridiculous as wearing a flowerpot on their
head, but that is the point of the ritual. They are making a fool of
themselves in public as a way to show their commitment to this cause.

The same thing is at play when white people take to the stage and begin
hectoring their fellow white people about racism. It is patently absurd
for a white person to stand up and condemn their ancestors for being
white or for the crime of having created a culture that is now called
white supremacy. Some of what drives this is mental illness, for sure,
and some is the “my fellow white people” act. Much of it, however, is
the need for the adherent to show their faith by committing an act of
lunacy.

For example, look at this
[post¹](http://www.stonewallfitness.com/sports-diversity/why-cant-black-people-swim-confronting-systematic-racism-in-swimming)
from a gym teacher about the racists power structures at the local
swimming hole. His profile makes clear that he is a fully enculturated
bug man, but as a white male, he is at the bottom of the woke
subculture. His post about how the man is conspiring to keep black
people from swimming is a sacrifice of whatever dignity he retains as a
man. The point is not to change minds, but to show others in the
subculture that he is fully committed to the cause.

A key part of the cult ritual is the irrationality of it. The systemic
racism claims are just modern magic. There is no rational or empirical
argument behind these claims, but that is what makes them appealing. You
just have to accept them on faith. That is the sole appeal of the trans
business. One has to strip themselves of all sense of self in order to
claim that humans are assigned sex at birth. The ridiculousness of the
claim does not allow for even a shred of dignity.

This is why we are being flooded with a wave of public testimonies about
how the trans community is ignored in some way. In this
[post](https://www.musicradar.com/news/signature-guitars-diversity), we
learn that the guitar makers have ignored transgenders and women. The
fact that the sex of the performer has no bearing on the instrument or
that there is no such thing as transgender is central to the sense of
sacrifice the writer feels when posting this. In another age, he would
have been writing about elves and sprites with the same conviction.

Part of this self-degrading ritual within the identity subculture is the
attention these humiliation rituals gain the adherent. It is why we have
gone from publicly tolerating homosexuals to take your child to a drag
show events. Each step has been more bizarre and degrading than the
next. Post-Marx culturalism has been a weird race to the sea that has
finally led to mothers offering up their children to predators. The
believers seek the ultimate sacrifice they can make to the cause.

How much the shot callers on what we now call the Left understand the
forces they are manipulating is hard to know. It is not particularly
clear that the trend setters in this cult understand the intellectual
history behind their movement. They have simply embraced the primary
modes of thought and let nature take its course. Robin DiAngelo could
simply be a fame seeking huckster who landed on the right cause at the
right time to make money from a movement desperate for a purpose.

Despite this cult’s efforts to tart up their thing with jargon from the
sciences, what drives it is a need to vanish into a cause. The appeal to
the adherent is the need to sluff off the identity of the adherent and
take on the identity of the group. Self-loathing has always been at the
heart of mass movements. Christianity explicitly embraced this reality
with the concept of sin. To be a Christian is to not only accept the
teachings of the particular sect, but to accept and embrace your
sinfulness.

These modern identity cults are less sophisticated, feeding on a
population desperate for immediate gratification and lacking the
intellectual capacity for high culture organizational structures like
mainstream Christianity. This is why the rituals are so primitive and
crude. The barrier for entry is low, so the people flooding into this
scene tend to reflect that standard. It is also no surprise that they
have arrived at the cusp of child sacrifice. Spilling innocent blood
appeals to the savage mind.

Counterintuitively, these spasms of ritualized self-degradation may be a
positive sign that the culture is finally ready to free itself. For
generations, American culture has been locked into cultural norms so
ingrained in the land that the present culture has not been able to
evolve to fit the times. The energy of each generation is channeled into
civic nationalism, which is throwing seeds among the stones. American
culture has been a zombie shuffling along with no real purpose.

Oswald Spengler used the term pseudomorphosis to describe “an older
alien Culture lies so massively over the land that a young Culture, born
in this land, cannot get its breath and fails not only to achieve pure
and specific expression-forms, but even to develop fully its own
self-consciousness.” This is most obvious in the obsession with the
Founders you see on the Right. All of the energy of youth for building
something new is channeled into ideas from men who wore powdered wigs.

What left-wing identity politics is signaling is the old culture finally
losing its grip on the present, which is why these maladapted mutants
can easily organize in public and attack the symbols of the old culture.
The subculture is not a replacement for the old culture or a genuine
culture in itself. Instead, it is a cancer on the old culture, slowly
eating away at its organs. Coinciding with it is the swelling hatred by
the young culture ready to break free from the old body.

There is the other part of Spengler’s concept. At some point, after
enough pseudomorphs have been created, the next flowering of cultural
energy is fueled by a hatred for the old forms. In the present age, it
is those asking how useful is that old civic nationalism rooted on the
culture of the Founders when it has led to suburban mothers sacrificing
their children to groomers? Perhaps it is now time to shed the old forms
and think about creating a new model appropriate to this age.

Of course, everything comes to an end. The current spasms of degeneracy
could simply be the death throws of a dying West. What comes next may
not be a new West, but a return to the barbarism that has been the
standard for humanity. What gets left behind is a reminder that a people
once thrived and reached for the heavens. Like all prior civilizations,
this one will end in rubble. What will remain is the high achievements
along with the mystery as to why it failed.

¹https://findmyguitar.com/blog/female-signature-guitars

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="smU9jk65PsnuhH/oLlJIww==cb7yaWgt392gBvsLRKjQi9nc9pEZhraaH4MHFM+dBrYULmj+uXBeNFCnRpNAQpwfsde"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="pME4lFIY9T9KnUjnrIRfsw==cb7c34H+GJSOqe3HA0vDaa8LWaZMccGUYNVO0WYrRQ67BAHN83Wp8oazGNnNZGQe7Ty"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
