---
title: "The Moral Hazard Society"
date: "2022-10-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-10-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28396"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28396"
---

For the last couple of weeks, there have been whispers that some large
banks may be in trouble due to the rising dollar. The strength of the
dollar is due, in part, to the Federal Reserve’s effort to fight
inflation. It is also due to the decline in both the Euro and the
British pound. Economic conditions in Europe are deteriorating quickly
because of poor management at every level. The relative strength of a
currency is the relative strength of the managerial elite that issues
it.

Recently, the gossip has turned to Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank, both
of which have seen their share prices collapse. The former has lost
about 60% since the start of the year and the latter is down around 50%
off its recent high. Credit Suisse could be at risk of imminent
collapse, due to its deteriorating credit condition. Banks need credit
to function and right now, no one is excited about extending credit to a
bank whose CEO is telling employees that the bank is not about to fail.

Some are calling the Credit Suisse crisis the *Lehman moment*. This
refers to the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, which triggered the
financial crisis. Banks are dependent upon one another, so if one fails,
it can set off a chain reaction where the next weak bank fails, then the
next weakest bank. Get enough banks unable to make payments to other
banks and the whole system crashes. This is why everyone is worried
about the banks all of a sudden.

It is also why the market boomed on Monday. The stock market is wholly
dependent on central bank policy now. Loose policy means lots of money
creation in the banking system, which means lots of money flowing into
markets. Tight central bank policy means the money gets fussy about
where it flows. It can even sit on the sidelines and wait until things
appear more stable. The robots are betting that Jerome Powell blinks and
ends his tightening to save the banks.

This is similar to what recently happened with the Bank of England. All
of a sudden, there was no market for the long dated British bonds. This
is why the British pound declined in value. This in turn created a
crisis for British pension funds, as their collateral started to
evaporate. The BoE had to step in and buy long dated bonds to guarantee
their price and save the pension funds. As a result, the gilt and pound
have stabilized over the last few days.

The weirdness of this age is right there in that action by the BoE. On
the one hand, they are trying to fight inflation by reducing the money
supply. They do this by raising interest rates, which reduces bank
activity. This slows the creation of money, thus reducing the supply of
money relative to demand. As relative demand increases, the relative
value increases, which is what brings down inflation. In reality, it
means a recession, which does the hard work of cratering demand.

Where we are now with the BoE, and probably the Federal Reserve, is that
the bank is trying to reduce the amount of money in the system relative
to demand. At the same time, they are trying to increase the money in
the banking system in order to prevent the banks from running out of
cash. Put another way, we may be in a situation where central banks are
injecting and withdrawing money at the same time, which is one of those
things that is supposed to be impossible.

The current crisis is due to the choices facing central banks. They can
provide liquidity to the system or they can fight inflation. If they
raise rates to fight inflation, major players who got sloppy with
interest rate swaps, for example, are suddenly facing an extinction
event, which threatens the whole system. On the other hand, if they
protect the system by leaving rates alone, they face the political fury
of governments contending with double digit inflation and energy
shortages.

There is a bigger issue. The energy problems, the supply chain
disruptions, inflation and the fragile credit markets are due to
political incompetnace. Over the last three years, Western governments,
led by Washington, have found every bad decision possible and then made
it with furious enthusiasm. People cannot be blamed for thinking it is
deliberate, because that is the best answer. The odds of rulers being
this dumb this often strikes most people as impossible.

This is a time when Occam’s razor does not apply. They are this dumb.
Liz Truss came to power promising to give rich people free money to
boost the economy. This was a moronic plan that nearly blew up the
economy in her first weeks. Truss is a simpleton who has no business in
politics, so she thought it was a grand idea. She is in office because
her predecessor was a bloated party boy who saw Churchill whenever he
caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror.

Go back through British PM’s and it is one buffoon after another. This
mirrors what has been happening in America. Joe Biden is in the late
stages of dementia and he will be on the ticket for 2024. His
predecessor was a carny act. The guy before that was a formless nobody
who was willing to act the role created for him. The guy before that was
a simpleton controlled by his father’s friends. You can do this in every
Western country going back decades. They are as dumb as they act.

The crisis of competence in the managerial elite is not the root cause.
The real first mover is the moral hazard economy. Going back to the
1970’s, the Western political system has come to rely on a handful of
clever bankers to save the political class from their own idiocy.
Starting with Paul Volcker, central banks have been the mother hen of
political economy, always right there to kiss the boo-boo of the
politicians or the pirates in the financial system when they stepped on
a rake.

This safety net under the political economy of the West has warped the
selection pressure on the people in the system. In a world of no real
risk, feckless airheads like Liz Truss can rise to the top on promises
to the powerful. After all, if she breaks something, nothing really bad
can happen. The result of this risk-free political environment is that
it rewards reckless behavior. The bigger the claim, the bigger the media
splash, which means bigger political clout.

The same selection pressure can be seen in banking. In a world where
bankers go to jail and lose all of their money if they screw up, there
is a low tolerance for people who are reckless and foolish. In a world
where the Fed steps in to not only save your bank but save your golden
parachute and those of your colleagues, why would you not take the most
dangerous risks? For over thirty years central banks have created a
moral hazard, which in turn created a culture of reckless disregard.

It is this sense that no harm can ever come from error that is leading
the West into a crisis from which it may not survive. It is this
mentality that is leading to the game of chicken with nuclear weapons.
The West is now led by a collection of mentally unfit bullies who think
they own the school yard. At some point, like all bullies, they will get
punched in the nose and see their own blood. In this case, it is reality
that will do the punching and the bankers will not be their to kiss the
boo-boo.

This raises the serious question. Bullies learn their lesson in the
schoolyard because that lesson is not lethal. In the present age, how
can the ruling class suddenly feel the pain of their own stupidity,
without blowing up the world? How can real risk be reintroduced to
change the selection pressure without risking collapse? The moral hazard
society may have reached a point where there is no solution. The phrase
that may be needed here is creative destruction.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4zU46zFBSddi3BGk5gS9uw==cb7N9Ss0ggPS9OpRp35KAxPIRPGOlp3OFozXe7V5VVeuQUdL/r7wuFKMoQNJqriUWMB"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="RJ9G4LmXO2jFTklaU/y3/g==cb79tc/JcCBZ1eK2/eg8E0vr0MCsJ5BzuZ0UQF7xcoTIMOKHytFG1PukQvIJeoMd2si"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
