---
title: "Lesson 230"
date: "2022-09-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-09-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28311"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28311"
---

Way back in 1996 when the Communications Decency Act of 1996 was being
contemplated, no one imagined the outsize role of the internet. In fact,
few of the people debating the bill had ever seen this internet thing.
The internet as we understand it was in its infancy and only tech savvy
hobbyists were using it. Most homes did not have a personal computer at
the time. The only thing everyone was sure about was that the internet
had to be free to grow.

Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act made a lot of sense to all
involved, because it gave the new internet companies relief from
parasitic lawyers who were already sinking their fangs into the
industry. Giving the public platforms protection from liability allowed
them to host the public platform without having to edit everything the
users posted on the platforms. At the time, the tech companies claimed
they lacked the resources to monitor user behavior.

The logic made sense as long as that last bit was true. If the people
creating these public platforms could not edit what was posted, then
they could not reasonably be held accountable, as we do for newspapers
and magazines. The New York Times controls its content, so in theory it
is responsible for it. As a practical matter they are never held
accountable and libel people daily as we saw with the Sarah Palin case a
few months ago, but that is a topic for another day.

In a quarter century, much has changed. Not only can the tech platforms
edit what is posted on their sites, they now aggressively monitor
content. Not only that, but they also promote content on the platforms
and they create their own content. The millions of bots used to boost
some content over others is a form of content. It is similar to a
newspaper making the editorial decision to post some stories on the
front page and relegate the real stories to the back pages.

The Section 230 protections were specifically tailored on the assumption
that the platforms could not control what was posted. Therefore, someone
could not reasonably sue them for defamation. It would be like holding
the building owner liable for something someone write on the walls
outside. In theory, the platform, like the building owner, would take
reasonable steps to remove the material. If the court asked, they would
try to identify the person responsible.

Of course, we live in a different age and therefore the laws crafted for
the prior age no longer make any sense in this age. No one in 1996 could
contemplate a world where an oligopoly in Silicon Valley controlled
political discourse. Further, no one imagined the oligopoly being
controlled by crazy people. This is why the matter is working its way
through the courts in various conflicting cases. In fact, it will
probably end up in the Supreme Court in the next term.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit upheld a Texas law barring
companies from removing posts based on political ideology. The U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit overturned a similar Florida law
on the grounds that it violated constitutional protections for tech
companies. The question is whether these private firms that get the same
protections as all other private firms or are they private firms
operating public accommodations and therefore can be regulated.

Morally, this would be a simple question if not for the racial double
standard that has become nearly universal. Facebook regularly hosts
livestreams of black people hunting a killing white people. This
happened most recently with the Memphis spree killer who livestreamed
his rampage on Facebook. On the other hand, a white guy uses the wrong
pronouns when describing a public degenerate and he is banned. In the
age of Jim Snow, everyone knows the score.

Before the Jim Snow laws, when Section 230 was created, no one imagined
the sorts of double standards we now accept. In 1996, everyone agreed
that a public accommodation had to accept everyone as long as they did
the minimum that was required of the enterprise. Restaurants could
require a dress code, but they could not ban people for holding the
wrong opinions. If they violated their own rules, then they could be
held accountable in the courts.

Ultimately, the court will have to fashion a new standard. If Facebook
is a public accommodation, then what are the rules that define such a
thing? If it is a private company, then how can it have special
privileges? The simplest solution is to clarify how one can claim
Section 230 protections. A platform that does not edit the content of
users would qualify, while a firm that censors the users would not
qualify. This would be the logical solution, which is why it cannot
happen.

Instead, the court will end up supporting the tech companies, because
the so-called conservatives will be so high from chanting “they are
private companies” that the crazies on the court will write the
decision. We will end up with a new standard that says private companies
can viciously and aggressively discriminate, as long as it is not
against protected classes. At this time, there is one class left
unprotected in the law, which is the class known as while people.

In fact, there is a good chance that the court creates a new framework
that requires public platforms to aggressively censor content in order
to get the protections offered under Section 230. That would mean a site
like Gab is wiped out unless they apply the same standards as Silicon
Valley. It would also mean that hosting companies are required to
monitor the content of their users. This would be the first example of
“common good conservatism” in the law.

This sounds terribly negative, but it is realistic. Stalin allegedly
said that it is not the votes that count, but who counts the votes. He
probably never said it, but it is something he would have grasped. He
was a communist, but he eventually came to see that *who* decides counts
for more than *how* things are decided. That is what we see in the
current age with things like censorship. It is not the rules that
matter, but who is enforcing and interpreting the rules that matters.

If the tech firms were run by the same sorts of people who were running
what passed for big tech in 1996, none of this would matter. The
internet pioneers were civic nationalists and libertarians. They were
on-line to get away from people who wanted to police free expression.
They needed Section 230 to keep the internet open, but they were
replaced with people who want to close it down, so one way or another,
speech will be closed down on the internet.

Finally, this is a good reminder that when a society begins to debate
the letter of the law, it no longer respects the spirit of the law. Put
another away, if the people in charge are so corrupt that they need
written rules to behave themselves, they are corrupt enough to find a
way around those written words. This is where we find ourselves with the
current ruling class. They see the rules like they see the truth. If
they are useful, they enforce them. If not, then not.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="99FTL0pruz9xB3otbvWU1Q==cb7NxJkFyVzLXtxue6KA4QKZvknRiaELuQq06aWYL4XtxDo/6zcjG73dnKaU0+cfiGM"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="DDkNYbHKqp7GwvVjcP2p+w==cb7fdipLQmfb4hqc14duYHBZQ8LVF0bvrywkzQR0hfnNsFLvrERIRL1GGY1jlqbKDu7"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
