---
title: "The Game"
date: "2022-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27507"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27507"
---

There is an argument that we live in a novel political environment in
which the mass media is the political authority. They get on an issue
and the political and corporate classes respond to it. We saw this with
the George Floyd story that was orchestrated by the big media
operations. On the other hand, political actors will seed the media with
fake stories hoping they will put it into their megaphones. The Russian
collusion hoax cooked up by team Clinton is an example.

A couple of weeks back, Tucker Carlson observed that most Republicans
wake up in the morning and go to the New York Times. They and their
staff read the thing over breakfast, because it is their guide
throughout the day. This is true of mainstream conservatives as well.
What passes for the Right in America is entirely controlled by the Left,
which is controlled by the media. Old school liberals sound like Trump
people when they complain about how the media runs their party.

There is a lot of truth to the media-ocracy claim. The backers of the
Ukraine fiasco have been feeding the media nonsense tales about Ukraine.
They handed them Ukraine lapel pins they had made up for the occasion.
Note no one in the media looked into who supplied everyone on television
with those pins. Instead, it was a unified media voice, a wall of sound,
selling the Ukraine story. Washington and the political class in Europe
were swept up in this unfolding disaster.

The thing is though, the Russia hoax makes clear that the media does not
have a coordinated center. The details of the hoax have been supplied in
the court case against Clinton crony Michael Sussman. He relied upon
confidence men like Franklin Foer, who exist to inject false narratives
into the media echo system. Once these fake stories get loose, they
rocket around the system, repeated by the sociopaths who are attracted
to life in the media echo system.

Further proof of the passive nature of the media system is the war in
Ukraine, a place few in the media can find on a map. There are three
observable trends in the coverage of the war thus far. One is there are
few Western reporters trying to cover the war on the ground in Ukraine.
They went over for the photo-ops when it started but made sure to stay
in Kiev. They quickly went back to their countries and left the
reporting to contractors and interested think tanks.

That is the other thing about the media response to the war. The
work-at-home war correspondents now do their reporting from press
releases issued by outfits like the Institute for the Study of War.
Alternatively, they rely on Ukrainians on the payroll of the American of
British intelligence services. In both cases, a five minute search
on-line would reveal these sources to be entirely fake. Instead, they
just pass on the information without bothering to question any of it.

The lack of original reporting and reliance on single sources with
narrow agendas has resulted in a uniform opinion in the media. Even the
so-called conservative media, which took off their American flag pins
and put on the Ukraine pin, repeated the same stories from the same
sources as if it was holy writ. What the Ukraine story reveals is the
media echo system operates like a murmuration of starlings, rushing
through the news cycle in response to external stimulus.

This reality will lead some to assume this system is controlled by a
tiny cabal of deep state actors in a hollowed out volcano. In reality,
the people trying to inject their special brand of poison into the
system are often tangled in the system. The Covid panic is the perfect
example. It was people hoping for media recognition who kept injecting
ridiculous claims into the system. These were not deep state players,
but often just ordinary people hoping for fifteen minutes of fame.

The “frontline workers” posting their made up tales of woe on social
media is the perfect example of how small players can move the media
swarm. Hoping for attention, nurses and doctors started positing on
social media stories that made them look like selfless heroes trying to
save Covid victims. This psychosis, and it was a form of psychosis, was
picked up by the media and amplified. These fake stories became fact,
which spawned new fake stories made up by media members.

The Covid hoax, and it is fair to call it a hoax at this point, was not
the result of clever scheming like the Russian collusion hoax. Instead,
it was something like a stampede over a cliff. Unlike the animals in the
herd, the people in this media stampede could question the rush over the
cliff, but like the animals in the herd, they feared being trampled more
than they feared the end result. As a result, fantasy became holy writ
and Covid turned into a bizarre mass media religion.

In a way, the berserk obsession with disinformation and misinformation
is not entirely motivated by malice toward the general public. The
people running the New York Times and Washington Post still cling to the
old myths about the media. They think they should be the cynics not
falling for their hoaxes. They sort of get the problem, but they lack
the proper perspective from their position inside the swarm to see that
it is the nature of the swarm, what makes it possible, that is the
problem.

It is tempting to think that at some point the public will get wise to
the fake news and this madness will come to an end. If no one believes
what is in the media, then the media’s ability to shape the news comes
to an end. The trouble with this theory is most people have already
figured out that the news is fake. The Ukraine war is a prime example,
as most people never cared enough about it to listen to the story.
Public apathy and skepticism have not changed the behavior of the media.

Instead, what we may be heading to in the short run is a world in which
the mass media operates like an on-line role playing game for the
managerial class. They get to play the various quests that get created
in the media echo system. Since they live in a consequence free world,
as in they never pay the price for their error, they are free to explore
their dreams within these fantasies. Once the quest is over, they
transition to a new quest or maybe play a different character.

We see this happening with Ukraine. As it becomes clear that this story
will not end well for Ukraine or the Europeans, the players are looking
for a new quest. Joe Biden’s heroic management of the economy through
the Putin-Trump inflation spiral looks like a fun new <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/my-plan-for-fighting-inflation-joe-biden-gas-prices-economy-unemployment-jobs-covid-11653940654?mod=djemalertNEWS"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">expansion pack</a>. Maybe they play the
China as dangerous dragon add-on that came with the Covid edition. Maybe
someone is about to release something entirely different and inject it
into the media echo system.

The result is we are headed to a world in which the normal people go
about their lives as best they can. Every once in a while, they will
take notice of the streaming role playing game that keeps the managerial
class busy. That will usually happen when the role players mistake their
world for the real world, gas prices and baby food shortages being two
current examples. Otherwise, the managerial class is becoming a virtual
world, a metaverse to occupy an otherwise worthless ruling elite.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="yZZ6Zxos4JCqShX7kTPrjg==cb7K0s0+nzr1oGyTK0lJBTdTm6bAiIxaY7ACEIvznUgWaVlBsLUurrioRxv81N2LBb9"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ko7Np02XuVDhOWQ62lCDgw==cb7L3hw+dcc1sr31f7zpzcL27oD+gCm1VIBG+DxqaIB0SpdUjp5Wd3ol1r8Ok8A9rK/"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
