---
title: "Third Rate Managers"
date: "2022-11-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-11-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28670"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28670"
---

Starting somewhere in the middle of the last century, American
corporations decided that they needed to invest in developing their
managers. Historically, American business relied on nature and the tools
of society to cultivate their workforce. The workers would get a basic
education in the public schools. Natural talent and upbringing would
sort the workforce the rest of the way. The best and brightest would
naturally rise through the ranks to populate the management layer.

This was slowly replaced in the 20th century with a new model where
senior management implemented programs to train their people, but also
cultivate the sorts of people who would become managers. In the back
quarter of the 20th century leadership training became popular in
corporate America. Managers would receive the same sorts of leadership
training officers in the military receive. Developing the next
generation of corporate leaders is now a hundred billion dollar
industry.

Because it has been normalized over several generations, no one notices
the contradiction in these programs. All of the people subject to this
training are in positions where no one would want leadership. These are
administrative jobs filled with people tasked with following the rules.
They may be required to supervise others who are also tasked with
following rules. These are not positions that demand leadership, but
rather roles that demand obedience.

Of course, the military has solved this contradiction. A squad leader is
trained to use the materials at his disposal, including his men, to
achieve the assigned objective within the rules of the operations. He is
not allowed to question the rules of engagement or the objectives of his
squad, but he is free to utilize the resources made available to him,
plus what he can find on his own. In other words, it is leadership
within the artificial construct of the military system.

Corporations borrow this general idea. The want their managers to be
goal oriented and use the resources available to them to achieve the
goal. The shipping manager does not select the shippers or what gets
shipped, but he is given a crew, tools to box and ship items and certain
goals to meet. He gets to select within a limited number of options how
best to get the assigned items shipped out and the incoming items
received into the shipping department.

Another way this is put is they want the shipping manager to take
ownership of his department like it is his business. It is not his
business and will never be his business, but they seek to trick him into
acting as if it is his business. That way he will sacrifice, and perhaps
encourage his people to sacrifice, in order to meet the goals laid out
for him by his superiors. Like the actual owner of a business, he will
act as if there is no separation between him and his work.

All of this leadership training sounds good in theory, even if it
contains a central contradiction, but there is another problem. The
nature of management and the nature of man tell us that the last thing a
manager will want is a natural leader as one of his direct reports. That
hotshot in shipping could get noticed by the big bosses and be promoted
up the ladder, perhaps at the expense of his boss. Systemic pressure
will always reward obedience over leadership.

It is the old line about leadership. First rate men attract first rate
men, while second rate men attract third rate men. To a great degree,
this is the problem that leadership training is trying to address. The
people at the top, the senior managers, want to keep the pot bubbling so
that they can spot the managers with potential and promote them into
middle management. They do not want the natural talent boiling off
because it is blocked by a ceiling of mediocrity.

The military has always suffered from this problem. Peacetime armies
tend to develop a leadership class that is good at politics, but not war
fighting. Wars always result in changes at the top and a restructuring
of the officer class. We have seen this in the Ukraine war where both
sides have changed their command structure in response to the reality on
the ground. Corporations suffer the same phenomenon; except they lack
war to force a pruning of the system.

The exception to this is the private company. The owner is there and he
has every reason to find the best people to populate his ranks. Elon
Musk has fired half the Twitter staff because they were there to serve
the goals of managers, not owners, so as far as he was concerned, they
were useless. The owner of the business does not need leadership
training in the corporate sense, because he does not have to be trained
to take ownership, as he is the owner.

This is the dilemma facing America. It is a society run by managers who
have turned the owners into passive share holders. This is
managerialism. Like a publicly traded company, the owners care only
about returns. The overall management of society is left to a class of
managers. Those managers, in addition to making sure the owners think
they are getting a positive return, have the additional goal of making
sure they remain the senior managers of the system.

Like senior management in a corporation or the senior officers in a
peacetime army, the management class of America is primarily concerned
with preserving their position at the top of the system. That requires
them to always be on the lookout for people down the ranks who could be
a threat. The solution to that is the solution all second rate men find
and that is to promote third rate men. The managerial system that runs
America selects for decreasingly talented managers out of necessity.

You see this with the Twitter situation. Elon Musk replaced a collection
of ridiculous people with himself and a small team of his people. When
you examine the titles of the people wiped out in the first wave of
layoffs, it is clear they played no role in the profitability of the
company, other than as an expense. They and their roles existed to serve
the narrow interests of management. They were of no use to a genuine
owner taking an active role in the running of the company.

Managerialism was on display in the past election. Mitch McConnell
diverted tens of millions of dollars to safe Senate races, but starved
out many contested ones, because that served his interests as the senior
manager of the party. It is better for him that a third rate zombie like
Murkowski returns to the Senate than a potential threat like Blake
Masters gets promoted into the Senate. Instinctively, Mitch McConnell
selects third rate people because it serves his interest.

That is the key to understanding the current crisis. The system selects
for the sorts of people who naturally become Mitch McConnell or Nancy
Pelosi. Even the richest people are forced to select between two
narrowing options. The second rate men select third rate men who in time
take their place at the top, selecting for people who will be
non-threatening to their position. Managerialism always ends with
incompetence at the top and that fosters a culture of paranoia.

This is the inherent contradiction in managerialism. It is supposed to
check the power of the ownership class, but it ends up replacing it with
an increasingly incompetent management class. That management class,
sensing its own vulnerability, selects for increasing incompetent people
up and down the system. It is how we have a political system run by
octogenarians promoting brain damaged zombies and obsequious sycophants
into the highest offices in the system.

This always ends one way. In the corporate sphere, companies like
Twitter either go bust or they get taken over by ownership. In the
military sphere the rulers are forced to replace the politicians in the
officer ranks with genuine wartime leaders. For the managerial society,
the result is systemic collapse and replacement with a modified form of
private rule. This is what happened with the Soviet Union. Communism was
replaced with a form of oligarchy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="6z55Xng1UkKnJ0/hwswpOA==cb7q4oqaIgMJgVwzBTKcrW6HUvMpzz8mpecwPXMa8RHfd3zhZgLFBiM0LelLCGfn4OY"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="8NFjkdnuDcqanzD5GGdbmQ==cb7qSwaKKkOR9vaTA5289JX4GdJKqG7vMlofyUh9NMzATMbeL+sZgJ08Al+gHsCivPV"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
