---
title: "Surf & Turf"
date: "2022-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28506"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28506"
---

Since ancient times, the great civilizations have been divided into two
distinct categories, land powers and sea powers. The best example is the
rivalry between Athens and Sparta that culminated in the Peloponnesian
wars. The Peloponnesian League was led by Sparta, the dominant land
power. The Delian League was led by Athens, the dominant sea power. The
great ancient conflict still casts a shadow over the West because the
dynamic is still with us.

To be a great sea power requires different human capital than what is
required of a land power, which makes them cultural opposites. As a
result, they look at war differently and they fight their wars for
different reasons. Sea powers tend to be driven by profit while land
powers tend to be driven by cultural forces. Culture and economics play
a role for both, but the priorities tend to be reversed. The sea power
is moved to act by money while the land power is moved by cultural
issues.

The Athenians were arguably the first financial empire. They built their
power through shrewd business relations with the other city-states. The
alliances that were established to fight the Persians quickly became a
business for Athens. They provided security while their “allies”
provided money and men for the ships. Their aggression toward the other
city-states was driven by opportunities for trade and profit. The
Athenian empire  was as much about business as Athenian culture.

The Spartans, on the other hand, were not driven by profit. Their
willingness to join the rest of Greece against the Persians was purely
in defense. When the Athenians wanted to take the fight to the Persians
after the Greeks had successfully driven the Persians back across the
sea, the Spartans were not interested. Their eventual war with the
Athenians was purely defensive from their point of view. It is probably
why they chose not to obliterate Athens after they won the war.

We see the same dynamic today. The Global American Empire is the new
Delian League, spreading democracy to the world at gun point. The
Russian Federation is the new Peloponnesian League. The Cold War was
often cast the same way, but it did not work as an analogy. The
communists were just as obsessed with spreading their form of utopian
politics as the West. This time it works as the Russians are at war with
an ideological and financial empire.

The clash of cultures is clear. The GAE just assumed the Russians would
do what the GAE always does in war, which is systematically destroy the
civilization of the opposing culture with air power. The West is still
puzzled as to why the Russians never unleashed shock and awe at the
start of the war. Further, the West concluded that the incremental
approach was due to a lack of resources. The GAE is a sea power so it
thinks like a sea power and fights like one as well.

The Russian Federation is a land power, so putting on a big symbolic
light show to start a war makes no sense to them. Sea powers move like
the sea, while land powers move like the land, slowly and incrementally.
This is why the Russians had not bothered to put together a public
relations campaign for the West. They saw no point in it as their
purpose was to force the Ukrainians to submit. That happens at the
bargaining table and on the battlefield, not on Twitter.

Another contrast in the two sides is in the weapons. The Russian have
the best air defenses in the world. They have the best artillery in the
world. The GAE has the best air force in the world and the best navy in
the world. This contrast is due to the assumptions of both sides. The
Russians assume their great wars will be defensive while the GAE assumes
its great wars will be offensive. The two contrasting worldviews results
in two entirely different military postures.

This contrast in warfighting is turning up in the weapons. Land powers
assume long wars of attrition so they plan accordingly. That means
squeezing the maximum from the resources available. The Russians are
famous for making cheap, reliable weapons that can be used by anyone.
The Kalashnikov is the prime example. The new drones the Russians are
now using follow the same pattern. They are cheap, easy to operate and
extremely effective against enemy targets.

Sea powers have to assume short wars. You can only keep a fleet at sea
for so long so you have to inflict maximum damage up front. A naval
battle is not going to last months like a land battle, so you need to
prepare for the short haul. In the old days, ships were expensive,
complex weapons. Today, the jet fighter is the cutting edge of
technology and human organization. All of America’s best weapons are
complex systems that require lots of training to utilize.

The flip side of the time preference aspect is that sea powers can take
a loss and bounce back quickly, while land powers take time to recover.
The GAE suffered a humiliating defeat in Afghanistan, but quickly shook
it off. The loss in Vietnam stung for a few years, but then the war
machine was back in business. In contrast, the Russians needed decades
to overcome the failure in Afghanistan. It has only been in the last
decade that they have moved past it.

What that means for the Ukraine is that barring a collapse of the EU or
the global financial system, the GAE will shake of this failure too.
Whatever is left of Ukraine will be ignored and the GAE will turn its
sights to some new opponent. Land powers must always be on defense,
because it is their nature. Sea power must always be on offense, because
it is their nature. That means when one war ends a new war must start,
regardless of how the prior war ended.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NJ6zOJEZOZ3Wfg7FyxTrSw==cb7QmndibCq5AmGy5DNAidgaEjvN5C9FJMGBJP3tdY8/CV1XETCnyfGz3eFPa/klcUh"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="jtlyaCOrZP37NckCPS5VhQ==cb7VlXwxJtFgp1T6Dh9zdZFzr8r2jdDRxkqOvjG25BoVUkSPVbTYLfNkKSj4HfVWxM8"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
