---
title: "China Thoughts"
date: "2022-08-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-08-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27991"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27991"
---

The most recent flareup between the Global American Empire and China has
brought forth all of the usual commentary about the rise of China, its
plans for Taiwan and the relative decline of America. The underlying
assumption is that China could take Taiwan if it wanted and there is not
much the United States can do about it, short of a nuclear strike on
mainland China. Further, it is assumed that China will one day make its
move on Taiwan when it feels the time is right.

This is an odd set of assumptions. If China can take Taiwan and wants to
take Taiwan, then why are they not taking Taiwan? The standard answer is
that they think they can wait out the American empire. That could be
true but there is good evidence to suggest the clock is ticking in her
ability to make war. China is hitting the wall demographically and she
knows it. They have a lot of young military age males right now, but a
decade from now they will be nearing middle-age.

The more likely reason for China’s hesitance is that taking Taiwan would
be an enormous gamble. It is a big island with no beaches. It has great
ports, but those are heavily defended. The Taiwanese military is
exceptionally good. They have the best weapons America can produce and
they may have the best air defense system on the planet, thanks to
America using Taiwan as a listening post. At the top of the island is
advanced radar used to listen to the Chinese.

Even if America does not come in to defend Taiwan, China would be facing
something similar to what the Marines faced in the Battle of Saipan. The
Japanese were dug in and the besieging Americans had to first create a
beachhead and then root out the Japanese from the well defended
positions. It took 70,000 Marines to root out the 30,000 Japanese
defending the island. The Americans suffered 14,000 casualties while
only one thousand Japanese survived.

The big difference is that Taiwan will fully mobilize their army of over
a million men and be dug into a highly urbanized island of twenty-three
million. That means the Chinese will need to mobilize a two million man
invasion force. The general rule is you need at least a two-to-one
advantage as the attacker. China has the people, but mobilizing,
organizing and coordinating such a force is a huge task. That also means
the Taiwanese will have months to prepare for the assault.

The Chinese certainly have gamed this out many times and they understand
the mathematics of conquering Taiwan. That said, it is all theory as the
Chinese have not waged serious war in a long time. The last large scale
amphibious landing on a populated Pacific island was in World War II. An
attack on Taiwan would be the first of its kind in the era of high tech
weaponry. As the Russians have been learning in Ukraine, technology has
radically changed the battlefield.

For example, cheap drones have proven to be a valuable tool. The
Ukrainians had a lot of these to start the war and they proved to be a
big problem. The Russians had to alter their tactics to account for this
new weapon. One reason the fight in Ukraine has settled into an
artillery duel is it is too easy for defenders to use cheap drones to
disrupt the lines of the attacker. Cheap drones have a limited range, so
the Russians operate outside that range to soften up Ukrainian
positions.

Taiwan is not a backward kleptocracy. It is one the most high tech
societies on the planet and they make most of the world’s chips. Taiwan
could deploy massive swarms of cheap drones against the ships of an
attacker. That is another lesson from Ukraine with regards to drones.
This weapon does not require a lot of infrastructure to operate so
artillery strikes are not a great deterrent. As long as you have
soldiers who can do the minimum you can keep using your drone weapons.

Another aspect of cheap drone technology is they can be turned into what
the industry calls a loitering munition. This is a weapon that flies
over an area program to look for targets like tanks and supply vehicles.
Once it spots one, it then attacks the target, usually by flying into
it. One result of this has been that the Donbas militias which make up
the bulk of the infantry in the Donbas have to operate from cover. There
is no cover in the straight between China and Taiwan.

When you examine what is going on in the Donbas, it becomes clear that
technology has had some unexpected consequences to war fighting. It is
not the cutting edge technology that is shaping the battlefield. It is
the commodified technology that is changing the mathematics. A defender
employing lots of cheap drones against the attackers expensive assets
has a clear edge. If it takes ten cheap missiles to take out an
expensive tank, that is a good deal.

This is the problem China now faces with Taiwan. Their invasion fleet
would be awfully expensive and the Taiwanese would have lots of targets.
The Chinese would have to follow the Russian lead in the Donbas. That
means siege warfare. China would have to blockade the island and
relentlessly shell the urban areas hoping to degrade their
communications and defense. The most likely result would be China
eventually conquering a bombed out island with millions of dead.

Technology has made China less vulnerable to American military power by
diminishing the value of sea power. Those giant carriers can now be hit
from a long distance by ship-killing missiles. The same technology,
however, is making Taiwan less vulnerable to Chinese military pressure.
The same ship killing missiles can be used against an invasion force and
cheap drones can radically increase the cost on infantry trying to
assault Taiwanese defenses.

The point of all this is that the blithe assertions about the Chinese
ability to take Taiwan are completely wrong. It would be a massive
undertaking and even under ideal conditions it would create an enormous
strain on China. Add back in unlimited submarine warfare from the
American side and the taking of Taiwan becomes a massively expensive
gamble. Further add in the closing of Western markets and taking Taiwan
no longer makes any sense at all.

That is another lesson of Ukraine. The Russians have weathered the
economic war because they are not dependent on the American economy.
Russia primarily exports commodities into the global market. There is no
practical way for Washington cut the Russians out of the marketplace.
China, on the other hand, imports commodities and sells finished goods.
Washington can cut off the sale of finished goods. It can also shift
production to other areas, which is currently happening.

A blockade of Taiwan would certainly mean a blockade of Chinese goods
not only by the United States but by Europe. The American Navy still
controls the shipping lanes in the Pacific and China can do nothing
about it. Unlike the Russian economy, the Chinese economy has no way
around this problem. An attach on Taiwan would bring about a massive
shock to the Chinese economy and that is before the West unleashed a
currency war on the yuan.

The reason China is making a lot of noise but not doing anything rash
over the Pelosi stunt is she understands the dilemma. Because of China’s
dependence on Western markets, she has to be much more delicate in how
she responds to American provocation than the Russians. That means
increasing the flow of bribes into the imperial capital in order to get
more friendly voices in Congress. It means a more flexible approach to
the Russia issue.

The bottom line with China is that the threat she poses is not her
agility to wage conventional war against her neighbors. The real threat
of China is her ability to purchase favors in Washington. The Taiwan
issue is a nice way for the American ruling class to shift the focus
from that problem. The Chinese know this and mostly likely see the
Pelosi trip as a demand for bigger bribes. If they do not want to see
more trips to Taiwan, then they better hire better lobbyists.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="xUbJSmYLp/urcP5Uq2MkpQ==cb7q4e8LhRzNhkbtDZZz2RL+IcG+793ugYMxtGbw3aeMNXT8BsZ4sbR3q/RXLFxpwZB"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="vJ4r6OM1M/okxhMTCdAvug==cb7vIZJZCF+p8C3NDIns61RRZKi5jNnBXenNZHgSlVztYy7r8kCNxtKXS3Q3bozRI20"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
