---
title: "Politics After Principle"
date: "2023-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30749"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30749"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a series of posts about my recent
journey into the heart of darkness, which is a sad way of saying the
future. If you want to see the future too, fly a discount airline to
Baltimore or Atlanta. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For as long as anyone can remember there have been two competing views
of how to engage in politics against the people we call the Left. One
camp says that opposition must come from a principled group that does
not engage in the same tactics as the opponent, in order to provide an
alternative to the Left. Their vision of politics is the means justifies
the ends, in contrast with the Left, who takes the view that the ends
justify the means, or any means necessary to win.

The other camp points out that the Left always wins, so the “principle
above politics” business is pointless. The point of politics is to win,
which means gaining power, so any strategy that lacks that as its goal
is a waste of time. Further, this camp notes that the first principles
crowd spends all of their time policing their ranks rather than fighting
the Left, which means endless purges. The people being purged are
usually the most effective fighters against the Left.

The critique of the “first principles” crowd is an easy one as they
stand in front of an empty trophy case with pockets stuffed with cash.
Individually they do very well in terms of salary and social status, but
collectively they have managed to do so little with so much that it is
easy to conclude that it is a long con. Billions of dollars have flowed
into Conservative Inc., but they accomplish nothing. The two
conservative wins, abortion, and guns, we accomplished by outsiders.

This should be an easy case. If the means justify the ends approach is
an utter failure, then we are left with the ends justify the means
approach. People on the right tend to favor “no enemies to the right” as
a slogan, but fundamentally it is the same thing the Left has preached
for generations. When the goal is winning, you do what you must in order
to win, even align with low-character people. The point of politics is
to gain power and once you gain power you can have principles.

There are a number of problems with this approach, specific to
right-wing movements in the modern age. The first is the Boebert
problem. For those unfamiliar, Lauren Boebert is a ditzy female
congressman from Colorado, who was recently seen getting felt up by a
man not her husband at a movie theater. The
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=irleK7nFnYg" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">usual carbuncles</a> of Conservative Inc. were quick to
denounce Boebert, who they see as lacking principles. Her behavior
violates their principles, so she has to go.

The dilemma for the “no enemies to the right” camp is that no decent man
wants to defend this airhead. Whatever utility she has politically is
cancelled out by the fact that she is a dingbat and an attention whore.
Even remaining silent on her is tough because the absurdity of it makes
for easy jokes. Can you expect people to not make Boebert jokes in the
name of politics? Can you expect people to defend this ridiculous woman
when lefty friends make fun of her?

That gets to the other problem for “no enemies to the right”. The bad
guys control the media, so they control the popular narrative. That
means they can hold their opponents to a high standard. In other words,
they can make their opponents defend all of their members and alleged
members. On the other hand, any attacks on their members can simply be
ignored. If you are in the game of winning the crowd against the Left,
you have to accept this asymmetry.

Dingbats like Boebert are the easy problems. The really tough problem
for the “no enemies to the right” camp are guys like Russell Brand and
Andrew Tate. The former is a far-left comic turned populist gadfly and
the latter is a pimp and pornographer, who attacks the feminist
industrial complex. Both have big audiences and often voice positions
popular on the dissident right. Tucker Carlson has been seen paling
around with them and promoting them to his fans.

Coincidentally, both have been accused by the authorities of rape. Tate
was arrested in Romania on sex trafficking claims. He admits to being a
pimp and pornographer but claims to operate within the law. Brand has
just been accused of being a serial rapist decades ago. He denies the
claims. The
<a href="https://twitter.com/DavidAFrench/status/1703145504492638334"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">usual carbuncles</a> of Conservative Inc.
were quick to accept the claims at face value and denounce Brand. Their
instinct is to always trust the people they claim to oppose.

The trouble here for the “no enemies to the right” side is that both
Brand and Tate are horrible people, even if you exclude the claims
against them. Tate brags about things that will get him hanged if the
Right is ever in charge. If there is a revolution from the Right, Andrew
Tate will not live to see its second day. Russel Brand is a sociopath
who will attack anyone to get attention. Not so long ago he was happy to
<a href="https://youtu.be/fGDFFQxawxI?si=ESaJuGEw9z8YHDjG"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">attack</a> the enemies of Left if it made
him famous.

How can the “no enemies to the right” side defend Russell Brand when it
is clear he would savage them if he saw a profit in it? How can they
defend Andrew Tate when he should be swinging from a tree branch? The
answer is two-fold. The first part is that while all politics is
personal, it is also situational. The Brand case offers an opportunity
to focus on the abuse of the law against political opponents. It is not
about the odious Russell brand, but the grotesque abuse of the legal
system.

In this way the “no enemies to the right” side can wear the clothes of
the “principled conservatives” to both undermine their claims by holding
them to their own standards and attack the behavior of the Left. This
leads to the second part which is that a part of dissident politics is
reminding dissidents that the point of politics is to win and gain
power, not be the most high-minded loser. Sometimes winning means
defending people like Russell Brand in order to damage the enemy.

The lesson here in all of this, especially for the “no enemies to the
right” side who are new to dissident politics, is that principles of any
kind assume a common end. This is why conservatism was a failure. They
assumed the other side wanted what they wanted, but through different
means. This was never true outside of the neocons who never relinquished
their radical ends. In a world of conflicting moral visions, there is no
place for the principled stand.

Carl Schmitt wrote, “The specific political distinction to which
political actions and motives can be reduced is that between friend and
enemy.” In other words, the question central to politics is who is on my
side and who is not on my side. There is nothing about the answer that
should imply eternity. If Russel Brand is a useful ally, then he is a
useful ally. When he stops being a useful ally, then he stops being a
useful ally. In politics, allies are a bus you ride to the next stop.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="QwezdMiJA7E0GQ0JP335Tw==cb76V5y7xixAxtFP2qvoKHTeX95RH4kK/+N00dHOtovh3Br0+Q/DLHVsOrSy0YN2KEW"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="yyG+uVkB48TNC4ngmpCoUA==cb714FGYJvr+QxCqyuHXJTB5oomkeVOZWYAD8ixrNSOcasauk5gn0ceEMKX0G11shvi"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
