---
title: "Unfrozen Caveman Conservatives"
date: "2023-12-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=26717"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=26717"
---

The remarkable thing thus far about the 2024 presidential election is
that the so-called conservatives, and therefore the Republican Party,
have gone into this process without having prepared for it. They have
experienced two presidential cycles that went entirely against their
interests, yet they have not done anything over the last eight years to
prepare for this cycle. Their plan, if you want to call it a plan, is to
pray the other party eliminates Trump for them via lawfare.

We know with a fair bit of certainty that the party told the collection
of munchkins showing up at debates that they expected Trump to be
disqualified. In the first debate, the zombie-like Asa Hutchinson
blurted this out during the questioning. In the last debate, Ron
DeSantis said something along the lines that the option for voters is
what was onstage due to Trump’s legal troubles. It was long rumored that
he decided to run based on the assurance that Trump would be eliminated.

Now, that is a plan, of sorts, but only if you think the only problem
you have as a party is this one man wrecking your fun. Get rid of the
bad man and the party, along with the so-called conservative movement,
can go back to the old times. They are even bringing back the <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/nikki-haleys-pathway-to-a-competitive-race-with-trump-is-now-visible/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">neocon nutters</a> to promote a dingbat.
It is as if they think they are just one more court ruling from going
back to 2000 when they could pass off a simpleton to their voters as the
updated version of The Gipper.

Of course, Trump is not an isolated phenomenon**.** He exists because of
what the so-called conservatives did in 2000 with George Bush. The
populist revolt within the Republican Party is the response to the bait
and switch, along with massive amounts of lying, by the party and
so-called conservatives. The reason millions continue to support Trump,
despite all of his well-documented flaws, is that the “party of Lincoln”
thought they could fool all of the people all of the time.

The reason the party is unprepared for 2024 is their intellectual engine
ran out of fuel back in the Reagan years. In retrospect, the 1980’s were
the last gasp of the old bourgeois liberalism that defined America into
the 20th century. Buckley style conservatism was a bug fix, a cumulative
patch, to the progressive software of the 20th century and once that
work was done, conservatism had nothing left. It was a room full of
people trained to fix something that was about to be replaced.

It is why conservatism looks like a collection of unfrozen cavemen
unaware of the time that has passed while they were frozen. National
Review still puts out <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2023/12/why-home-alone-is-a-conservative-movie/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">nonsense</a> about how progressive
cultural production is actually conservative. That is when they are not
<a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/news/dallas-mayor-aims-to-ignite-republican-urban-renewal-after-abandoning-democratic-party/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">swearing</a> that blacks will start
voting Republican any day now. The reason that so-called conservatives
are <a
href="https://vdare.com/articles/jesse-kelly-s-the-anti-communist-manifesto-a-start-but-not-nearly-enough"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">locked into</a> the 1980’s is they
evolved for the moment and once the moment passed, they no longer had a
purpose.

In retrospect, conservatism of the Buckley sort was a reaction to one
narrow set of claims made by progressives in the 20th century. Put
another way, it was a delayed response to the reforms of the FDR
generation, who were sure that government could right the wrongs of
American society. Through force they could fix race, poverty, inequality
and the trade-offs of the marketplace. Conservatism was a response to
the failure of this project to achieve its aims.

With the end of the Cold War and the arrival of the Clinton machine, the
old left of government reformers was replaced by a new generation of
reformers. These were the sons and daughters of the managerial elite who
were marinated in the ideas of post-Marx culturalism, once called
political correctness but now called woke. It is the totalitarian
project to cleanse the world of whiteness by harnessing the power of the
institutions, like a team of horses pulling the reformers.

Conservatism has no answer to this because conservatism was evolved to
fix the bugs of the old progressive software. As a result, the Bush
years were not spent addressing the cancer unleashed by the Clinton
machine, but instead poured trillions of new dollars on federal agencies
as they ramped up the cultural revolution. White people sensed things
were getting worse as a result of the Bush presidency. The Obama years
confirmed this and thus the populist revolt began with the 2010
election.

What white people in America faced in the 1970’s was a government that
was terrible at the basics of government, but focused on righting the
wrongs of the world. The antidote was conservatism that promised to
reverse this. What white people face today is an army of antiwhite
bigots running the centers of cultural production and protected by the
federal government. They need a movement and party that promises to
reverse all of this, but instead they get unfrozen caveman
conservatives.

That is what you see on the debate stage at these debate shows. With the
exception of Vivek Ramaswamy, who is a Trump catspaw, the rest are some
versions of what you can see at the Reagan Museum. They skim over some
of the cultural issues, but refuse to address the racial issues. If any
of them noticed that there are no more white people in television ads,
he would rocket up the polls. None of them mention these things because
for all of them, the present is a foreign country.

Nature abhors a vacuum, which is why Trump exists. The system is lucky
in that Trump is not very good at politics. A more skillful political
animal with Trump’s instincts would be the Red Caesar the system <a
href="https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/calls-for-an-american-julius-caesar-are-ignorant-dangerous/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">fears</a>. The inevitable failure of
Trump to scratch the itch that has needed scratching for decades will
not make the itch go away. It will simply lay the groundwork for a more
skillful and more cynical version, because in the end no political
system can survive making war on itself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Qh+9UYGJ2eo4dLhrPgOsFg==cb7zbI9VnT583JbHF3N/wDNDa0UnXTgMeB7/Bdllu5gnDPk1BNhKIz4rkYC5QBqgxNb"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="031IL27Qy/KsRttB6YFJ3g==cb7yO48khzOZl8d6ysd68AWYNxa69KgFJW9Hliof0ipLhGmimVWem7Vn+qhUbJG7Gb2"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
