---
title: "More Bank Shenanigans"
date: "2023-04-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29820"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29820"
---

Just as the last bank crisis was fading from memory, a new bank crisis
is emerging, this time staring First Republic Bank. Despite upbeat
earnings, the bank’s stock has collapsed this week. The market cap has
[fallen](https://www.investors.com/news/first-republic-pleads-with-big-banks-for-rescue-frc-stock-keeps-tumbling/)
below one billion for the first time in the bank’s existence. They are
currently begging the big banks to shift some of their deposits into
Republic to stem the outflow. Depositors are worried that the Feds may
shutter the bank, putting their deposits at risk.

If this sounds like the crisis that brought down Silicon Valley Bank or
Credit Suisse, that is because it is the same problem. Large depositors
and insiders got worried and began to shift their money out of the bank.
Because there are no secrets in this age and the plutocracy is
relatively tiny, it does not take long for word to get out and the other
large depositors begin to pull their money. Banks that rely on large
dispositors will always be prone to these sorts of bank runs.

Oddly, this reveals some Dirt People wisdom. Silicon Valley Bank did not
cater to the Dirt People, so Dirt People did not put their money in the
bank. Instead, Dirt People end up at the big banks. The whole too big to
fail thing in the prior financial crisis taught the regular guy a good
lesson. The big banks are friends with the regime, so the regime will
always protect them. If you want to protect your money against
shenanigans from crooked bankers, put your money in a big bank.

The trouble comes when insiders in a particular industry, like the tech
sector, want to conduct shenanigans away from the prying eyes of other
oligarchs. This is why Silicon Valley Bank existed in the first place.
It was the bank for the connected in the tech sector, so they could
conduct shenanigans amongst other tech insiders. If you wanted to know
what would be promoted as the next big thing in tech, you needed to be
at that insider table, so doing business at SVB was necessary.

Since the American economy is nothing but shenanigans by insiders, it
means all of the other areas have their insider tables too. That is
where these other regional banks come into play. They will serve the
large developers in a region, for example, who will park lots of cash in
these banks. Those developers will draw in local warlords and potentates
to their shenanigans, who will put their cash in the same local banks,
so that moving money and information is simpler.

The information portion is the key to modern shenanigans. The reason the
hedge funds operate in sleepy villages in Connecticut is that it is much
easier to conduct shenanigans in person at a dinner party or on the golf
course. If you are in New York, someone could hear you talking or you
may be tempted to trust the wrong person via e-mail, so it is much safer
to deal in person out in the leafy suburbs, free from the hoi polloi and
the ambitious government regulator.

You can be sure this used to happen at Silicon Valley Bank. Part of what
they provided to clients was introductions to other clients. One tech
insider could socialize with another insider at his friend the banker’s
house. If after a few drinks there were some shenanigans, who would
know? This sort of thing plays out across the economy and regional banks
often operate as junction points. A part of their service is putting
likeminded investors together for shenanigans.

In the world of shenanigans, there is no honor, so when the money could
find better deals outside of tech startups, they no longer needed Silcom
Valley Bank and they pulled their money. A similar problem is happening
in the commercial real estate sector, which is facing tough times. The
work from home craze kicked off by Covid is here to stay, so that has
cratered demand for office space. Crime waves in cities are killing
urban commercial and retail properties.

The big drag on commercial real estate, as far as the banks are
concerned, is the way in which property owners manage debt. If you own
an apartment building, you never pay down the debt on the property.
Instead, you keep borrowing against it as rents pay down the debt. That
is the source of income. Of course, there are investors, who get paid
from these periodic withdrawals of equity. Commercial real estate is not
about the rents, but the equity, which can be pledged as collateral.

Imagine you have a property worth a million dollars. The rents far
exceed the cost of maintaining the property, so it has a remarkably high
cash flow. It means you pay taxes on those profits. If on the other
hand, you take a mortgage against the property, the cash flow decreases,
along with the taxes, but you now have a pile of cash to do things like
buy another property. As rents pay down the debt, you periodically
refinance the property to create a big pile of cash.

The trouble is interest rates are going up at the same time that
occupancy is going down, which is driving down the value of properties.
The bank is not only demanding more in interest payment, but they are
also willing to loan less against the property, because of the declining
occupancy. What is happening in commercial real estate is similar to
what happened when the housing bubble popped. All of a sudden, lots of
people are upside down on their mortgages.

This is what is pressuring regional banks. A bank that primarily works
with commercial real estate is seeing a sharp decline in deposits, but
also a sharp decline in many of the assets they are holding on their
books. This is why everyone is suddenly nervous about the regional
banks. Many of them were tied into the regional real estate markets,
which are now in decline due to rising interest rates. First Republic
Bank is probably the first shoe to drop in what will be another banking
crisis.

Of course, the question that lingers over all of this is whether the
Federal Reserve can keep the plates spinning while they work out decades
of bad policy. As of this week, the Feds are not coming to rescue the
local banks. They were not going to rescue Silicon Valley Bank until
they had no choice. Commercial real estate has just as many powerful
oligarchs as the tech sector, maybe more. That means everyone is going
to be betting on yet another massive bailout of the banking sector.

All of this is a good reminder that America stopped being a market
economy a long time ago due to the outsized role of banking. When you
have control of the global currency, you can conjure money from thin
air. When you have that power, you use it to command things of the
economy that otherwise would not exist. That means this command economy
is going to keep faltering as the people commanding it lose their power
to command it to do things it should never have done.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="BOXW17I2ogqqQdK6+h5H5A==cb7Whyy4GY3N4gvInsQLdlDywpGaDloCg+2DDEXY55S+8z2COS+aW4xXwnbijFwsKqs"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="nOblmyUfm8kBnPBvNJujNA==cb7u/DD5w5NfjF4loxpTrvRuNPAVgF0woj5cZLmXOTot8N9ZuQzI3bOqjR07pZiyxZ/"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
