---
title: "What If They Believe It?"
date: "2023-01-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-01-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28989"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28989"
---

One of the questions no one in the media plans to ask is why the FBI was
so deeply involved in the Twitter disinformation campaigns? The word
“disinformation” is the correct word in this case. Twitter was actively
trying to provide the public with false information about a wide range
of issues. One tool they used was silencing those who contradicted
official narratives. They would instruct the Twitter censorship team to
take down posts and ban particular users.

Presumably, the FBI was not just involved with Twitter, but with all of
the big social media companies. Of course, this was just part of what
the FBI has been doing to undermine the normal functioning of society.
Victor Davis Hanson took a
[stab](https://amgreatness.com/2022/12/25/what-will-the-fbi-not-do/) at
cataloging some of their activity. He does not get into their plots to
entrap people in various capers like the Gretchen Whitmer case. Then
there is their involvement in the January 6 protests at the Capitol.

This is a massive effort, but to what end? Paul Gottfried
[suggests](https://amgreatness.com/2022/12/27/strange-deep-state-bedfellows/)
the primary motivation is power politics. “I’m still trying to figure
out where the close alliance between surveillance agencies and the woke
Left, which has been evident since at least the Obama Administration,
may lead. I have no doubt this friendship is based more on power
considerations than ideological affinity.” The assumption here is that
the FBI does not really believe the crazy things they are saying.

Gottfried’s position is the standard conservative position that has been
the default for more than half a century when dealing with the Left.
Conservatives assume that there is no way these people believe what they
are saying. Instead, they are motivated by a more sensible reason like
money or power. Conservatives tend to be practical people, so they
assume people are motivated by practical reasons. They cannot accept
that these people genuinely believe what they are saying.

What if the FBI is as woke as it appears? What if the people at the top
of the military, the people pushing the DIE agenda throughout the ranks,
really are as antiwhite and generally insane as they sound? Talk to
anyone in the services and they will tell you that the officer corps
makes corporate America look old fashioned. Every FBI agent is sent to
the ADL for
[brainwashing](https://twitter.com/adl/status/472384478464061441?lang=en),
so the selection pressure strongly favors the sorts of people who
believe in the woke conspiracy theories.

It is entirely possible that these organizations, in fact the entirety
of the managerial class, has been taken over by true believers. This
does not mean all of them believe this stuff, just that there is a
critical mass of believers. The 80/20 rule, also known as the Pareto
principle, is as close as we have to an axiom in this area. Across all
human organizations we see that there is a “vita few” that exert an
extraordinary amount of influence over the whole.

What if the managerial class, having become self-aware at the end of the
Cold War, has simply landed on what we call wokeness as its binding
agent? What if adherence to one of these illogical and unnatural fads is
simply the way people inside signal their status and commitment to
others? Many, if not most, do not honestly believe this stuff, but as
social animals they do what they believe is necessary to be in the group
and enhance their status opportunities in the group.

In other words, the conservatives are right in that there are plenty of
people cynically playing along, but know this stuff is insane. They do
it for all the reasons ambitious people do things. They want to increase
their status. The wrinkle here is they operate from the assumption that
everyone else does believe this stuff, or at least enough important
people believe it that it is best to play along. Even though a majority
of the members do not believe, the whole acts as if they do believe.

What this suggests is that even if the conservatives are right and most
people in the managerial class do not believe this woke lunacy, they act
as if they do because they believe their fellows do believe it. That
means no amount of facts and reason could change their minds, because
they assume that everyone around them is genuinely woke on the latest
things. In fact, knowing the truth, so to speak, makes life more
dangerous for them in their social milieu.

This would explain the fanaticism of these people. If they were cocksure
of their beliefs, they would have little reason to proselytize. The
obviousness of their claims would be enough, so there would be no need
for enforcement. On the other hand, if these people are riddled with
doubt, but sure most around them are true believers, then stamping out
all contrary opinion and the people who present those contrary opinions
is the most rational way of defending themselves within the group.

The “group belief” option seems to comport with observation. The people
policing the borders for dissent always frame their actions in terms of
self-defense. The Twitter censors were “protecting” fellow believers
from “misinformation” and “stochastic violence” on the platform. When
what others think you believe determines membership in the whole, it is
not a big leap from there to believing that anything that causes doubt
or questions belief is a threat to your existence.

The other thing the group belief option does is explain how easily these
people flit from one set of beliefs to another. The people bellowing “my
body, my choice!” quickly shifted to bellowing “take the vax bigot”
during Covid. Not only did they not see the irrationality of both
positions, but they were blind to the contradictions. The reason is the
content in these slogans is not what matters. In fact, it is
meaningless. What matters is what the slogans signal to the person’s
social environment.

This approach answers the “woke buddy” question. Everyone has at least
one person in their life who is smart and capable, but he subscribes to
the latest madness from the cult of modern liberalism. You can explain
it to him and he will nod a long, but then go right back to spouting the
latest madness. The answer is that these noises are just group
identification. Like a cult member facing deprogramming, he says what he
must to break free, but remains in the mental space of the cult.

Finally, the irrationality of the beliefs probably enhances the group
solidary aspect of the whole wokeness agenda. Because it makes no sense
on its face, one must be initiated into the concepts. Once inside, the
member comes to feel like a member of a clerisy or possibly an elect or
even a chosen few. It would be interesting to see a demographic study on
the woke population. It would explain the overrepresentation of certain
groups in this secular cult that now dominates the ruling class.

Getting back to the beginning, the reason the FBI and other institutions
are bending the knee to this new religion is the people running these
organizations either believe this stuff or want to believe it for social
reasons. Even if the true believers are just twenty percent, they have
become the standard against which members are judged. That means your
facts and logic are, at best, pointless noise to them. At worse, reason
is viewed as a grave personal threat.

This may be why conservatives are loathe to consider the possibility
that these people really believe this stuff. If that becomes clear, then
the conservatives with the charts and graphs lose their value. If the
group belief option is true, then conservatism is a dangerous liability
to society. The rational thing for normal people is to snuff out the
remaining conservatives and then set about plotting in secret for when
the ruling class can be physically removed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="REvpzhLzE79M2DB1SrJ32A==cb7YcZxlam30xzw1VFDfMNjndzNPgbAvR89BC1bWpLVW9Xk+3FriMgNZ7LgEp5R9Z3/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Vm0lGur5EuekhGflchAikw==cb7Zsl6VXe+vhUeiaeXF5zr4Yby0JfKXY03sGOrRiRV90G4pDcuDTLvmXcDfK1hbl1G"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
