---
title: "Nature Finds A Way"
date: "2023-07-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-07-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30401"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30401"
---

Despite being our greatest ally and an obsession for Republican party
leaders, few have noticed that Israel has been in disarray for years.
Politically there is a battle between two main factions that see no room
for compromise. This has now spilled into the streets in mass protests
over a new law curbing court power. Internationally, Israel has never
been less significant. Its main patron, the American Empire, is busy
trying to start a nuclear war with Russia and China.

At the moment, tens of thousands of Israelis are <a
href="https://news.yahoo.com/israel-braces-unrest-over-divisive-083727546.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">rioting</a> over plans to overhaul the
legal system, limiting the power of the courts. This <a
href="https://europeanconservative.com/articles/news/israel-gripped-by-protests-following-vote-on-controversial-bill/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">plan</a> is championed by the
conservatives, led by Bibi Netanyahu. The point is to give the
parliament more power by limiting the courts’ ability to annul laws
passed by the parliament. Israel is a single chamber parliament where
the prime minister is the leader of the ruling coalition, so it means
two thirds of government are run by the prime minister.

There is a bit of the familiar lunacy in these protests. The people
setting fires and destroying things claim the other side is committing
acts of violence. This is the old “your speech is violence; our violence
is speech” business we have come to expect from the regime toadies
throughout the empire. They also claim that limiting democracy through
the courts is the only way to defend democracy. Democracy means rule by
the permanent ruling elite, contrary to the public will.

What is really happening here is demographics. For generations, liberal
Ashkenazi Jews has ruled Israel. Liberal in this case means pro-Western.
They aligned Israel with the West, primarily the United States, turning
it into a beachhead for the empire in the region and a staging ground
for Jewish activism in the West. The reason Republican presidential
candidates swear allegiance to Israel is because of the massive amount
of <a href="https://youtu.be/3lSjXhMUVKE" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">influence</a> Israel has in Washington.

This is changing as the number of ultra-orthodox and non-Western Jews
grows relative to the population as a whole. The simple fact is the
pro-Western population has not been having babies, while the very
conservative population has been producing around six births per female.
The guys with the fur cylinders on their heads have been winning the
most important political battle, the fertility battle. Netanyahu now
represents this very conservative demographic in Israeli politics.

These ultra-conservative voters are not particularly interested in
courting Western opinion or in buying influence in Washington. They are
focused on making Israel a Zionist paradise free of non-Jews, especially
the Palestinians. They are also not interested in the endless political
intrigue that defines the Middle East. Imagine if the Amish were
hyper-violent and they seized control of Pennsylvania. That is what is
about to happen to Israel as the ultra-orthodox take over politics.

Of course, the political turmoil and civil unrest should be making
Israel more vulnerable to Arab attacks, but no one is worried about it.
The reason is the surrounding Arab countries do not care that much about
Israel, other than as a source of Western shenanigans in the region.
Officially, the Arab world remains opposed to Israel, but unofficially
they have other concerns. The Arab-Israeli wars were a long time ago and
much has changed since then.

This reality is reflected in the population. The typical Arab in that
part of the world is indifferent to Israel and Jews, but there remains a
minority that obsess over the topic, so everyone just ignores it. The
truth is Jews and Arabs are fine doing business with one another and
living in peace. The exception is in the Palestinian territories, but
the truth is no one likes the Palestinians. They are the least
sympathetic party in the region and their only supporters are on the
American college campus.

The subtext to the unrest in Israel is the declining influence of the
Global American Empire on Israel and the region. Twenty years ago,
Washington would have stopped this legislative agenda in Israel with one
phone call. Today the Netanyahu regime has no fear of the Biden people.
They see what is happening in the world and are thinking about the world
that comes after the American empire. Israel in the post-America world
will not have the luxury of indulging in liberal niceties.

The post-American Middle East may be more stable for the simple reason
that Washington will not be pitting one group against the other. China
and Russia are ready to fill the void left by America and they care only
about business. The Russians are poised to become the dominant energy
power in the world, while China is the manufacturing base of the world.
Neither country sees unrest in their interests, so they could be a
calming influence on regional politics.

Putting that aside, the critics of the Israeli plan to limit the courts
are right to say it is an erosion of democracy, as long as you use the
managerial definition of democracy, which means rule by the managerial
class. What these changes represent is a frontal assault on one of the
main sources of power by their managerial class. The other power center
for them is the <a
href="https://www.msn.com/he-il/news/other/israels-mossad-chief-ill-be-on-right-side-of-history-if-constitutional-crisis-unfolds/ar-AA1ehCiV"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">secret police</a>. American-style liberal
democracy is on the retreat in Israel because it is on the retreat
everywhere now.

What is happening in Israel is an example of the great chain of
causality. Politics are downstream from biology and culture. Israel is a
land full of people who like wearing strange headgear as they furiously
argue with one another over what John Derbyshire once described as
“elaborate, plausible, and intellectually very challenging systems that
do not, in fact, have any truth content.” Israeli politics will not
resemble Western politics because Israeli is full of non-Western people.

In the larger sense, the happenings in Israel are another chapter in
what will be a haphazard and often chaotic retreat of the Global
American Empire. The war in Ukraine is one of those chapters. There is a
good chance that a war with China over Taiwan will be another chapter.
Like weeds growing through a sidewalk, however, the nature of the world
is slowly pushing through the cultural and political norms imposed on
the world by the Global American Empire and returning to its natural
state.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="inbBNHZPK3EG1/9o+9GiAA==cb7JpGNqE6nDHYk2gRzowyHLaZZ3wQ4O0kzPr50KT5NgNp3OG1I0NbleTgvmOeKqzYX"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="+SiTJo5tCeea29uV4YKiOw==cb75Fmk4FHR351rHyB3aFZw6WxWhCCfnZ2frPVlkBHdjTJu90RU1sFQM04WY9Qc4E2O"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
