---
title: "Election Narrative Update"
date: "2023-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30779"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30779"
---

**Note:** If you are looking for a way to do some good within the
parameters of the system, then take a look at the
<a href="https://freeexpressionfoundation.org/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Free Expression Foundation</a>. This is what civil
liberties groups are supposed to be doing, which is defending the rights
of citizens. The organization is run by a stand-up guy who believes in
the mission. They have volunteers, but fighting cases in court requires
money, so consider a donation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The next Republican debate is scheduled for this coming Thursday at the
Reagan Library in Simi Valley California. According to <a
href="https://www.cbsnews.com/news/second-republican-primary-debate-who-qualifies/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">state media</a>, the same cast of
characters is expected to perform at this event, with the exception of
Asa Hutchinson and Doug Burgum, who they forgot to invite. Why this is
being held in California is a mystery, as there is no chance a
Republican will every win the state. For all anyone knows or cares,
there is no Republican Party in California.

Putting that aside, the pre-coverage of this debate shows us that the
narrative for the 2024 election is running into serious trouble on the
GOP side. The script said that at this point, Trump would be out of the
race due to the indictments. The party would have swung behind one of
the zombies to stop Ron DeSantis, who would be desperately swimming to
the “middle” in order to maintain donor support. Instead, Trump now
looms over the whole thing like Godzilla attacking Tokyo.

The main flaw in the narrative was assuming that Trump’s support would
collapse after the string of indictments. Because the people behind this
stuff are lizard people from an alien planet, they have no way to read
public sentiment. They are left to imagine how humans would react under
certain conditions. Apparently one of their texts on humans said that
humans naturally flee when the bad guys attack their champion for the
crime of fighting back against the bad guys.

Regime media is now floating stories like <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2023/09/20/politics/republican-donors-donald-trump-primary-debate/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one</a> in which various toadies
wonder why their great plan failed to work. One of the lessons of the
Ukraine war is that these sorts of stories appear when the regime
finally comes to realize that their current narrative is no longer
operational. It is something like the stages of grief. They are now in
the acceptance phase of narrative collapse. Next is the bargaining phase
where they search for something positive from the situation.

Another problem with the narrative is that Ron DeSantis was not able to
play his role as the acceptable alternative to Trump. You may hate Trump
with the intensity of a thousand suns, but it does not change the fact
that he is the best street fighter the Republican Party has seen since
Lee Atwater. He saw right away that DeSantis was a stalking horse, so he
unleashed his supporters on him. As a result DeSantis has been <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2023/09/20/politics/cnn-poll-new-hampshire/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">dying</a> a death of a thousand cuts.

One part of the narrative has held together. The script called for the
great zombie army that is Conservative Inc. to rally to the banner of an
approved option. After some fits and starts, they have managed to get
this right. The one thing that you can always count on is for
conservatives to do what the Left tells them to do. Nikki Haley is now
the regime option in the race. She has <a
href="https://www.foxbusiness.com/politics/fox-business-poll-support-haley-doubles-iowa-putting-her-top-three"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">broken</a> double digits in Iowa, which
is probably her <a
href="https://www.semafor.com/article/09/19/2023/nikki-haley-is-riding-a-charming-focused-and-consistent-campaign-to-third-place"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">high water mark</a>, but that will be
enough to make her the favorite.

That is the reason to watch the Thursday debate. Since Neocon Nikki has
been anointed as the regime favorite, it means DeSantis has to go after
her in order to revive interest in his campaign. Given how poorly he has
done to this point, it is a lock that he does not do this and instead
attacks Ramaswamy again. For his part, the King Cobra should be ready
for Neocon Nikki to use him as a foil. Expect him to arrive wearing
garlic as that is how you keep the neocon at bay.

Ramaswamy has turned out to be an enormous problem for the regime as he
is a black swan in this story. According to official dogma, it is
impossible for a brown person with an elite education to sound like
Trump. Not only does Ramaswamy sound like Trump, he makes better
arguments than Trump and he is willing to stake out positions that Trump
is afraid to take, which are popular with normal people. They do not
know what to do with him, so they will <a
href="https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4214596-ramaswamy-sparks-furor-with-comments-on-race/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">fling</a> their poo at him.

Of course, they are falling for one of the classic blunders. The most
famous is to never get involved in a land war in Asia, but only slightly
less well known is this; never get involved in a poo flinging contest
with an Indian. Ramaswamy has figured out that the race issue is losing
its effectiveness with voters. That and it strikes people as ridiculous
to call him a white supremacist. This gives him <a
href="https://ny1.com/nyc/all-boroughs/news/2023/08/27/after-racist-jacksonville-shooting--ramaswamy-defends-denying-existence-of-white-supremacy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">room</a> to be the explicitly pro-white
candidate while not being white.

With the narrative collapsing, the question shifts to what is next. The
polling shows Trump is locked in as the overwhelming favorite in the
early contests. What we know from 2016 is that Trump always does better
than the polls, so it is fair to assume he will win handily if nothing
changes. The script calls for the removal of Trump from the ballot, for
the good of the country, so they can always play that card. Otherwise,
they have to craft a new narrative to prevent the apocalypse.

The natural fallback position would be to put a pillow of Biden’s face
and find a younger more plausible option for the other side. Gavin
Newsom was the obvious choice, but he has removed himself from
consideration. Presumably they threatened to charge him with raping
people decades ago. That leaves no one. Given Biden’s declining ability
to speak in public, we could end up with a general election where Trump
campaigns in front of huge rallies and Biden does not campaign at all.

The ultimate fallback position, of course, is a rerun of 2020. This time
Biden will top his eighty million votes in Pennsylvania alone. They have
gone to a system of <a
href="https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4212614-pennsylvania-to-start-automatic-voter-registration/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">automatic voting</a> that lets you avoid
the hassle of filling out your ballot. This is a great benefit to the
dead, who find this to be a big challenge. All joking aside, the lesson
of 2020 is they can rig the election and get away with it, so the
ultimate solution to narrative collapse is not who votes but who counts
the votes.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="IngGVllwyJ7faNk6uazFtA==cb7bIido1kWyu8u60ncOXt8GCgHTaZGQWrVnlnqY5azcnjCoGtMT25xkX30YeSUp4FN"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="07HT5Lwa7au/nqs1QzRtpw==cb7oEOZwBFg5IazastOa/KpqCBpbV23y1J4eZirtzd49gJJ9pHgevEvSJOcIcsmYNrR"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
