---
title: "What Lies Beneath"
date: "2023-09-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30720"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30720"
---

Imagine a world of perfect candor where any hint of deception or
inaccuracy is considered a blot on a man’s character. Everyone is raised
to answer every question as honestly and forthrightly as possible. When
the wife asks the husband if he thinks she is getting fat, he tells her
he does think she is getting fat. Instead of getting upset and running
into the bedroom, she excitedly hugs him because he was perfectly honest
to her regarding an extremely sensitive matter.

This Vulcan-like candor would alter social relations. For example,
stores would seek the best way to show their customers that they are
completely honest. When they put something on sale, they would say it
was because no one liked it or that they mistakenly bought too much of
it and now need to unload it. The sign at the customer service window
would read, “The customer is usually wrong.” Clerks would never say
“have a good one” to customers.

That would still leave room for deception, so the stores would insist
the product makers use candid labeling for their products. Frozen pizza
boxes would read, “It tastes like cardboard, but it is cheap and easy to
heat in the microwave.” Ingredient lists would include all of the
ingredients, even the ones that cause cancer and those would be
highlighted so the customer could see them. Organic food would not exist
as everything about it is fake and therefore a lie.

Keep in mind that this imaginary world is not enforcing honestly at the
point of a gun but as a matter of cultural preference. For some reason,
the people in this society came to believe that only through perfect
honesty can they have moral society. Therefore, the customs, folk
legends and religious practices are all geared toward enforcing this
idea that honesty is the highest virtue. Because honesty comes with
status, everyone in public engages in honesty signaling contests.

It may seem ridiculous at first, but every human society selects for
subjective qualities and against other qualities. The English prefer
interesting over boring, which is why their popular figures appear
eccentric and weird. Americans dislike phonies so popular figures try
hard to look sincere, even when lying. There is no objective reason to
prefer interesting over dull or sincere over inauthentic. Preferring
these qualities is not more or less strange than celebrating candor.

Now think about this in the American context. Walk into any grocery
store in America and the first thing you will experience is a lie.
Typically, the produce section is located at the front of the store.
There will be piles of fruits and vegetables labeled organic, but as a
practical matter there is no such thing. Even if the fruit is grown
according to the rules of the organic cult, the suppliers lose track of
it long before it reaches the store, so there is no way to know what is
organic and what is inorganic.

The stores know this. They put the best-looking stuff on the table
marked organic and jack up the price to reinforce the lie. The suppliers
know this, and the growers know it too, if you can get them to be honest
about it. Everything about that organic tomato you bought is a lie,
including your belief that it is better than the other tomato. You
reward yourself by accepting the lie. You reward the store for lying to
you and the store rewards its suppliers for lying to them. It is liars
all the way down.

You have made it a few feet into the store, and you are deluged with
lies. Venture further and you are swimming in an ocean of lies. The
packaging of food is carefully designed to trick consumers. Tens of
billions of dollars have gone into figuring out how to trick people into
buying things. Of course, everything about the American diet is a lie
perpetrated by the government at the behest of agribusiness. A man from
Planet Candor would be horrified by the frozen food section.

Now, think about what sort of government would work best in a society
run on the principle of complete candor. Monarchy could work, but it
would be less than honest to claim that the son of the king is the most
qualified to rule. A ruling council of the most honest citizens, maybe
picked by the people, would probably be best as it would reward candor
with the highest office. Candidates for seats on the council would prove
their worth through campaigns of total honesty.

In fact, democracy would work well on Planet Candor. One of the
foundational principles of democracy is that “all members must have
equal and effective opportunities to learn about the consequences and
alternatives of a proposal.” In a society where honesty is the highest
virtue, the pressure to make sure everyone is as well informed as
possible would lead to the most informed citizens. You would not have to
worry about voter fraud or ballot stuffing on Planet Candor.

This is where you might think something is wrong. America is more
democratic than any society in history and it is riddled with lies and
corruption. The man holding the highest office recently claimed he was
at the World Trade Center on 9/11. He repeatedly tells outlandish
whoppers like this about himself. He is in office because he was the
beneficiary of the most corrupt election in American history. That was
made possible by a tsunami of lies from the mass media.

We seem to have a dilemma. On the one hand, the society of perfect
honesty seems like the ideal place for democracy. On the other hand,
democracy in practice results in a society ruled by the least honest
people. When you think back to how our marketplace operates on a
foundation of lies, it suggests any open market, whether it is for goods
and service or ideas, becomes an elaborate game of liar’s poker. The
marketplace rewards deception, so you end up with a lot of liars.

There are some possible solutions to this dilemma. One is that humans
naturally want to live in a society controlled by liars. We have
steadily become more democratic because mankind is slowly reaching its
desired end. Alternatively, democracy and the marketplace turn even the
most honest people into liars. If someone unleashed democracy on Planet
Candor, it would quickly devolve into Planet Deception and come to
resemble modern America.

There is a third option. Let us suppose that Planet Candor operates on
perfect honesty because long ago a powerful force came to their planet
and told them that unless they stamped out deception, their planet would
be destroyed. Over time this belief in the risk of deception became a
central part of who they are as a people and who each person is in
relation to society. Put another way, honesty has become a religion for
them, one that leads to salvation for themselves and their posterity.

Under such conditions, the acid of democracy and the free market would
land on a society immune to its corrosive effects. All those snakes
selling organic apples in the produce section of the grocery store would
find no takers. Similarly, the fig leaf makers would have no reason to
exist. After all, those they did manage to tempt would be selected out
of the gene pool due to low status. In time, democracy would be a
mechanism to select against the dishonest.

John Adams said, “Our constitution was made only for a moral and
religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any
other.” Outside of the various forms of authoritarianism, this is true
of all governments. You cannot have an honest monarchy if the people
over whom it rules are immoral. You cannot have a benevolent dictator if
his people are liars and crooks. Morality is what ultimately controls
the behavior of the people and what makes good governance possible.

That is the source of what plagues us today. The structures we inherited
assume a specific moral foundation. When the ruling class that emerged
with the American empire in the middle of the last century exiled the
principles that made up that moral foundation, society was left without
any protection from the temptations that lie in the marketplace for
goods and ideas. The endless haggling over what we ought to do is only
possible when there is no moral authority.

It also explains the panicked frenzy by the ruling class to conjure a
moral framework to justify their behavior. The endless chanting about
diversity is not intended to convince anyone that it is a strength, but
to prevent anyone from asking who gave them the authority to fill our
communities with strangers. The weird sexual fetishes they have
unleashed are squid ink to prevent anyone from asking them upon what
moral authority they are basing their sweeping claims about society.

The great critic of the Enlightenment, Joseph de Maistre, famously said,
“Every country has the government it deserves.” Most people think this
means the people deserve punishment for supporting unscrupulous
politicians. What de Maistre meant here is the morality of society
determines the type of government. In the case of France, stripping away
the Catholic Church and the monarchy left French society without a moral
foundation for government. Tyranny is what followed.

That is what we see happening in the West. The American empire
jettisoned its moral foundations a century ago and the result is an
empire that imposes cultural and spiritual chaos on the West. Democracy
and the promiscuous lying that we see are just symptoms of the moral
hollowness of the empire. The West is now ruled by moral nullities who
demand to be treated as moral arbiters and in the end, they are left to
operate as dictators holding power by force.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="KmA7XW7EDvxOgjS/eI9jsg==cb7KygzVFHhGRsVy3SEbseEwAnkT0Yy6xgMrfmbNJ//tdBWyFvZXy42tg9evQ5Ucbsr"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Hn6Z+oB6aMB2ukbipHC2Vw==cb7oCE3ba+S91KcSCOTEuycx7ZHfWXxpdD0xyyd6qfFrvrbK0y0pLUu+jfu3dNLNe9U"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
