---
title: "The Paradox Of Liberal Democracy"
date: "2023-02-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-02-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29236"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29236"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the great awakening, a
post about the 1980’s classic comedy *Trading Places* and the Sunday
podcast. This week the plan is to do some more Ukraine stuff, given the
uptick in war news. You can sign up at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The communists were fond of picking at what they claimed were the
inherent contradictions within capitalist societies. They argued that
these contradictions were irreconcilable and would eventually bring down
the system. The accuracy of their claims is debatable, but the
examination of contradictions within a system is a perfectly valid
analytical technique. Conflicts in logic are often the cause of defects
in a system and not just political or economic systems.

In fact, software developers spend much of their lives hunting down
these sorts of errors in the code. Perhaps the cause was poor coding or
maybe it was the business logic which defined the code that was flawed.
Those bugs in the software are the result of one set of rules
contradicting or overriding another set of rules. One user enters data
and gets one result, while another user enters data and gets a different
result, despite both users expecting a similar result.

This software analogy is further useful in that the users will lose
confidence in the system if these internal contradictions are not
resolved. Systems are sets of rules and if the user of a system cannot
trust the rules, they cannot trust the system. Many software systems
have been scrapped due to a collapse in confidence. The same holds for
political and economic systems. Some communists thought if they could
exploit the contradictions in capitalism, confidence in it would
collapse.

When we look around at the general lunacy that has come to define the
West, it is often assumed that the lunatics are operating outside the
rules of liberal democracy and that is the cause of the lunacy. “If we
just go back to our constitutional principles” is the call of every
civic nationalist in the comment sections of Conservative Inc. No doubt
the people in support of the lunacy have similar claims about their
opponents not following the new rules of blessed progress.

What if the reason our age is so deranged is the rule-set that defines
the ideology we call liberal democracy? What if the crisis facing the
West is simply the result of a system that contains irreconcilable
contradictions? People are naturally reticent to think like this because
liberal democracy has been sacralized. Democracy means good, so anything
it touches must be good. Liberal democracy is even better because it
contains two words that have come to mean morally good.

If we take a step back and look at what liberal democracy means in
theory, it may help explain why it is increasingly deranged in practice.
The off the shelf definition of liberal democracy is the combination of
a liberal political ideology that operates under a representative
democratic form of government. The word liberal here means the political
philosophy based on individual rights and liberty. Individuals are equal
before the law and equal in their political relationship.

A liberal society, regardless of the political system, will be defined
by things like equality before the law and the rule of law. Further,
those laws are written down so everyone can understand them. Those laws
also codify things like the right to own property, the right to speak
and organize in order to address the government, and a market economy
that is open and transparent. There are other things that can be part of
a liberal society, but in general it is a society based in individual
rights.

Democracy, of course, is where everyone gets a say. In theory, everyone
participates equally, but this is obviously not possible in a large
society. As the political theorist Robert Dahl
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Dahl" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">showed</a>, you cannot have a true democracy in a large
society. Instead you have the features of democracy to one degree or
another. You can have free and fair elections in which everyone can
participate, even though many people will simply choose to ignore the
process entirely.

There you have liberal democracy in a nutshell. It is a set of rules
based on liberal moral philosophy where the people, through direct
voting and through indirect representation participate in the rule
making of society. Right away you can see a problem. If the people can
make the rules, then they can vote to get rid of those rules that are
based in liberal moral philosophy. The public could be persuaded that
free speech is a bad idea and vote to suppress political speech.

Now, the usual suspects will jump up and down and say this is not so
because those liberal rules are placed outside the democratic process.
They are based in nature, maybe, or rooted in the ancient traditions of
the people. In fact, they are written on a piece of paper which is kept
in a museum. That way everyone knows that those rules are off limits to
further tinkering. This is obviously not true, which is why America is
shaking itself to pieces over those timeless rules.

Liberal democracy has the same problem that any democratic system has in
that the people are the source of all authority. Those timeless rules
based in human nature are deemed timeless by people who pretend they are
based in human nature. They are not, in fact, rooted in a moral
authority outside man. Since an axiom of all democratic systems is that
no parliament can bind subsequent parliaments, all rules, even the
timeless ones, are open to question.

In theory, liberal democracy has the same problem as communism and
libertarianism, in that it has no answer for what happens when people
change their minds. It has no answer for what happens when a decent
number of people decide that those liberal rules are no longer working.
If authority lies in the people, which is true of all democratic
systems, then whatever rules you make, however you describe them, will
be subject to the whims of the people.

Communists solved this problem by creating a new class of people who
will be the vanguard of the revolution. The party makes sure that the
rules remain fixed, so that the people never get any wild ideas about
communism. Libertarians, of course, solved this problem by never coming
close to creating a libertarian society. Even in their solons where
everything exists in theory, they never solved this problem, because
there is no way it can be solved.

Interestingly, the post-Marx culturalists landed on what they think is a
solution to the internal contradiction in liberal democracy. They relied
on anachronistic language to appeal to their audience at the time, but
in the modern age,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Critique_of_Pure_Tolerance"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">repressive tolerance</a> has become the
solution to popular dissent. In modern hands, this means those who are
deemed a threat to our democracy are surrounded by the defenders of
democracy and threatened with destruction if they continue.

Putting that aside, liberal democracy has no solution within the
ideology of liberal democracy to the paradox of liberal democracy. If
the people are sovereign, it means their are the authority for all the
rules of society. That includes those foundational rules that the
creators would like to think are immutable truths. When the people are
the source of authority for the rules of society, they can change even
those immutable rules of the universe if they so please.

This is why America has become increasingly chaotic as it has become
increasingly democratic since roughly a century ago. In a time when a
limited number of men of high status controlled the rule making,
respecting those limits on the popular will was not just possible, it
was necessary for their survival as a class. Once authority began to
expand through expansion of the franchise, the cancer of democracy began
to eat at the rules and the reasoning behind those rules.

As is true of other ideologies, the only way to make them work is to
find some authority outside mankind to legitimize those fixed rules.
Theocratical liberalism, for example, could work if the holy text
codified the liberal moral code. A liberal dictatorship could work,
assuming the people at the top saw an advantage in maintaining the
liberal order for their people. Tradition could also work as a useful
authority. Even belief in the simulation could work if explained
properly.

In the end, liberal democracy suffers from the same central defect of
all radical ideologies, which is that it seeks to free man of coercion.
The liberals dreamed of a world free of political coercion. The Marxists
dreamed of a world free of economic coercion, while the post-Marxists
dream of a world free of cultural coercion. As the last radical ideology
standing, liberal democracy promises a world free of all coercion, which
is a direct threat to society itself.

It turns out that humans evolved to live in societies and societies are
nothing more than a system of rules. In order to maintain the rules,
people must often be coerced into abiding by the rules. Therefore any
ideology that promises to eliminate coercion is promising to destroy
that which makes society possible. Liberal democracy is a direct
challenge to the very idea of human society. it is a suicide pact, which
explains the the lunacy of the current age.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="H1b8DwKDcjmJNGQ3NgNspw==cb7XUyJlWuT/FyPTph68aY/F2vBIhOHOH3mWexgMxXfhrwasmMk5ohHLL+Yf85hnxZE"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="iyonp2EGeHaHc4fU20f7qw==cb7QaiUB7F1blR8vAX/UnvMVoBCoZ1OS6Rh9jzSGP8HKKHpoz7+fxJhiPDDkU5D1sfI"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
