---
title: "What Is Woke?"
date: "2023-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29726"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29726"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about Star Trek, a post about
the Bud Light imbroglio and the Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a
green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A small debate on-line was kicked off by this
<a href="https://archive.is/tdwOq/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">post</a> from the venerable Paul Gottfried regarding the
topic of Wokism. Gottfried pointed out that it is an error to confuse
this new ideology with Marxism. While many of the thinkers who laid the
groundwork for what we presently call Wokism were Marxists or came out
of the Marxist intellectual space, this new ideology is not Marxism.
Marxism and Wokism operate in separate intellectual domains and
traditions.

This did not sit well with those in the bourgeoning industry that
revolves around verbal antagonism toward Wokism. James Lindsay felt it
necessary to
<a href="https://twitter.com/ConceptualJames/status/1645466806138687488"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">call</a> Paul Gottfried an idiot while
dismissing his post entirely. Lindsay makes his living these days
peddling the <a
href="https://www.thethinkingconservative.com/james-lindsay-race-based-marxism-and-the-fusion-of-fascism-and-communism/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">idea</a> that Wokism is “Marxist-Fascism”
which is completely nuts, but it appears that he has been driven insane
in his effort to make sense of the material within post-Marx culturalism
that informs this new ideology.

It needs to be said that Paul Gottfried’s dog probably knows more about
this topic than Lindsay will ever know. Given Gottfried’s connection to
Frankfurt School theorist Herbert Marcuse, he is as close as we get to
an expert on the forerunners of this new ideology gripping the minds of
the ruling class. Gottfried is also a world-renowned expert on fascism
as an intellectual concept. Paul can be an idiot like everyone else, but
on this topic, he knows more than most.

That said, there is a tendency of people on what we call the Right to
engage in the same binary thinking we see with the people we call the
Left. That means playing the old game of linguistic guilt by
association. Since Lindsay’s intended audience has been trained to hear
“Marxism” and “Fascism” as scare words, he associates Wokism with those
two words to stimulate his audience. Wokism, Marxism and Fascism just
mean “bad” to the people in that scene.

On the other hand, there is a segment of the civic nationalist space
that insists everything can be reduced to money and power. Their theory
is that the people with all of the money and power are doing this Wokism
thing because they want even more money and power. In other words, there
is no reason to think too much about these novel cultural fads. The
people behind them do not really believe that destroying whiteness leads
to the promised land.

There is another camp that has chimed in on this topic, mostly in
response to those who chant about liberalism being the only antidote to
Wokism. The claim from this camp is that liberalism or some aspect of
liberalism, like individualism, is responsible for the phenomena we call
Wokism. Some say Wokism is just the full expression of liberalism, while
others say liberalism is the manure that fertilized Wokism. Either way,
this weird new ideology is the result of Western liberalism.

There is an interesting contrast here with the Hazony camp, who argue
that Wokism is just a new form of collectivism. He says the antidote to
this collective ideology is nationalism, which he defines as a
collective defense of the tradition, culture, and history of a people.
Those blaming liberalism, however, think the answer is a dictator acting
on behalf of the people to defend their traditions, culture, and
history. Put another way, the answer is either “good” nationalism or
“bad” nationalism.

The result of this debate is a muddled picture of Wokism that mostly
serves as a platform for whatever is being promoted as an alternative.
They all agree that Wokism is bad, but they do not agree on what it is
or why it exists. Everyone agrees that the 20th century was a disaster,
giving birth to this bizarre mind virus called Wokism, yet everyone
agrees we have to go back to the 20th century to reanimate one of the
dead ideologies, but which one is the point of contention.

Interestingly, there is little attention to the word “woke” and why it
became the preferred label of the people in this new ideology. The
generally accepted explanation for the term is that it broke out of
black politics into the broader Left as shorthand for being aware of the
reality of the system. That reality was oppression, first in the name of
white society, but then in the name of the abstract concept of
whiteness. Awareness of the reality behind this false reality is what it
means to be woke.

Not only is there nothing Marxist about the origins of the term, but
there is also nothing liberal about it either. If anything, the root is
paranoia and delusion. To be woke is to dismiss reality as a trick by
white people. You must substitute your own reality, your lived
experience, as it were, for the false reality. This is the sort of
thinking that used to be associated with conspiracy theories. At
essence, Wokism is simply awareness of the great conspiracy that lies
behind reality.

This strikes most people as insane, but there is a logic to it. The core
assumptions of the people we call the Left are egalitarianism and the
blank slate. They assume that all people come into this world with the
same potential. People are shaped by family life, society, and
experience. The great variation we see in people is due to these social
forces molding people during their life. You are a product of your
environment, which means inequality is the result of those social
forces.

Obviously, if some people benefit from the rules and others suffer, then
there must be a reason for the rules benefiting one group over another.
From a black identity perspective, this is a much better answer than
biology. The condition of blacks in America is no longer a product of
biological reality and instead the result of a system that harms them to
the benefit of white people. This not only justifies questioning the
system, but it also justifies attacking the system.

Of course, this framing can work for any identity group, real or
imagined, that views themselves as oppressed. Anti-Semites use the same
logic to explain why Jews run the world, despite being a tiny minority.
Reality itself is a part of the great trick being played upon the
oppressed. The people behind this false reality use it and their control
over the systems of power to benefit themselves as an oppressor class at
the expense of whoever is feeling oppressed at the moment.

This is something the “blame it on Marx” camp has right. Wokeness has
borrowed the idea of class conflict and applied it to identity politics.
For Marx, the proletariat was the only legitimate class, but for the
Woke, every identity group is legitimate, no matter how obscure, except
for the oppressor class. This is why white people, especially white
males, are not allowed to be “allies” unless they either adopt some
novel identity or fully confess their sins as a member of the oppressor
class.

Of course, the anti-liberals can point to the business about oppression
and claim it comes from liberalism. Liberalism has always conceded that
coercion is a necessary part of every society. The goal of politics
should be to reduce coercion, which is the argument for both popular
government and cooperative government. Taken to its logical conclusion,
the goal should be a society free of coercion, which by definition is a
society that is free of all oppression.

Wokism would amount to nothing more than bourgeois decadence if not for
the fact that rich white people are acting on it. Striking the radical
pose has been around since the birth of the American empire. Things like
black identity politics or novel sexual movements have always been
popular with the bourgeois radical, but it never amounted to much in
terms of policy. What is new is that it is aggressively embraced by the
ruling class, which should fall into the oppressor bucket.

That is the key to understanding the reality of Wokism. Why all of a
sudden are oligarchs investing in things like Black Lives Matter, which
raked in billions and did nothing but set cities on fire? Why is the
Secretary of State lecturing Saudi Arabia on their intolerance of
crossdressers? America puts the sodomite flag up on its embassies during
homosexual month. We now have months dedicated to various identity
groups, real and imagined.

In this regard, the reductionists are correct in that this new ideology
does something for the people embracing it. They get something from it.
The reductionists are wrong, however, in assuming it gets them money and
power. They have money and power, so the last thing they should want is
to undermine the system that provides them with all of the money and
power. They are getting something from this new way of thinking, but it
is not the stuff they already possess to excess.

That is the key to understanding Wokism. It is not so much what it is
but what it does for the people who embrace it. For the managerial
elite, it provides a sense of legitimacy to their place atop the social
hierarchy. For the climbers dreaming of a perch at the top and those who
gain satisfaction aping those at the top, it provides an ever-changing
set of cultural fashions. Primarily, Wokism provides a way to
distinguish who is inside and who is outside the dominant social group.

This is why you see the convert-adherent dynamic within Wokism. For some
people, delving into the esoteric thought that underlies Wokism is a
revelation that cuts them off from their old life and sets them off into
a new life. For most, it is just the thing they need to do to operate
within their social class. These are the adherents. They are often the
most aggressive at enforcing the moral code because they connect it with
their own standing inside their social class.

Of course, all elites have two primary concerns. One is the peasant
revolt and the other is the palace coup. Wokism provides a defense
against the former by putting the peasants on their backfoot, always
defending themselves against an evolving set of moral codes that violate
their sense of decency. Like the corporate HR department, Wokism is
always ready for a new initiative to change the culture by preventing
the people from discussing the current culture.

The other side of Wokism is it enforces discipline withing the
managerial elite by demanding the converts and adherent focus on the
moral code. Those people with Ukraine flags on their Twitter profile
used to have a syringe and before that a mask and before that a BLM
badge. From the entry level to the C-suites, the managerial class spends
more time keeping track of the current thing than they do in performing
whatever task they are assigned in the system.

This is not as much of a novelty as it seems. In the court of Louis XIV,
the people in Versailles often participated in humiliation rituals. A
part of who they were was their willingness to degrade themselves. It is
an elite version of the Theodore Dalrymple observation about communist
societies and political correctness. “A society of emasculated liars is
easy to control.” Wokism provides a necessary enforcement mechanism to
maintain elite solidarity.

What Wokism does is fill the role of religion for the ruling elite. If
you go back and examine the language of abolitionists or New Deal
reformers, you will find that the language is not particularly different
from the language of Wokism. The main difference is the overt references
to God and Christian morality. It is not hard to imagine the grievance
studies departments singing a Woke version of the *Battle Hymn of the
Republic* before every staff meeting.

Every elite needs a sense of legitimacy. This is what authorizes their
use of force to coerce the people into compliance. “Because we can” is
never enough. Elites must operate from “because we must” and Wokism not
only provides the moral force behind their actions but justifies their
position at the top. Their commitment to these social causes, to the
liberation of man from the human condition, is proof that they deserve
their position at the top, as leaders of the people.

Finally, we are left with the question of why this ridiculous collection
of beliefs has filled the elite’s need for an organizing purpose. One
reason is timing. The radicals that fled Europe in the middle of the
last century arrived when the elite of the new American empire was in
need of a new organizing ethos. Protestantism was no longer a good fit
as Jews took up positions in the managerial elite. A new elite needed a
new ideology, and the new radicalism was there to supply that need.

The necessity of the Cold War, however, limited the growth of this new
religion among the elites, as the threat of nuclear war required serious
men. When the fate of the world is on the line, you cannot afford to
humor the man in a dress. Of course, the conflict with the Soviets
provided all the required villains for the ruling class. In fact, a
radical complaint in the Cold War was that anti-communism sucked all of
the air out of the room, leaving no space for the new ideas.

The end of the Cold War removed that constraint. It also left a void in
the ruling elite that what we now call Wokism was ready to fill. Now
that we have reached the end of history, the ruling elite of the empire
could get on with the project of liberating mankind from the oppression
and unfairness of the human condition. Wokism is the new religion of
this new ruling elite that exists to liberate humanity. From the war on
Islam to the current war on Russia, Wokism is about freeing the world.

Many have noted that Wokism sounds like Gnosticism. That is because
embedded in human experience is the desire to transcend this life. That
sense becomes acute for those who rise to the top of society. If you
possess God-like power over your fellow man, why not take the final
step? Our managerial elite embraces Wokism because it promises to give
them power over the human condition. When you can turn boys into girls,
you have become a god.

In the end, this is where most of the critics of Wokism fall short. They
cannot accept that vagueness as the answer. They insist that the Woke
know why they believe what they believe or that they know it is all
nonsense. None of this matters. Beliefs exist because they serve a
purpose. For our present elites, Wokism fills a need, so they do not
have to think about the logic behind it. If the time comes when Wokism
stops filling the needs of the elite, they get a new religion, or we get
a new elite.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="AmR8E+JwLZ85sEXG+c/qVw==cb7gYGenGUzyL158syo1bDXVMdZL0QcVpjv5QoDP6Q3NyG/NKZeML6rDjdYqfevX1eC"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="yFB5gU9T5EzH9A63A0ChDA==cb7TNNXj8+zX14FocQM6jnsREMtuOir7hEwy31dzM7bWyEaSTTaPvyFxmP4g6XfcOEo"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
