---
title: "Back To The Future"
date: "2023-08-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30484"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30484"
---

The 1970’s are remembered by those who were around during that era as an
economically depressing time. Inflation was the defining feature of the
economy, but the gas crisis was a close second. Gas lines, inflation,
urban crime and history’s worst clothing styles was the 1970’s. When
someone wants to produce images that are supposed to capture the mood of
the period, inevitably they show people in the hideous costumes of the
era, standing at a gas station.

Nixon taking the dollar off the gold standard gets the blame for
inflation, but in reality, it was the interplay of energy and the dollar
that caused the problem. The reason we have the petrodollar is to solve
the inflation problem. This made official what had been unofficial since
the end of the war. The dollar was the world’s reserve currency because
it was used to trade energy on global markets. The Louvre Accord, which
followed the Plaza Accord, stabilized the dollar internationally.

It is not an accident that soon after the dollar stabilized and became
the default currency for international trade that the Soviet Union
collapsed. The Soviets were dependent on food imports, and they raised
the cash for food by selling energy products, mostly crude oil, on
global markets. When oil prices declinedin the 1980’s, the Soviets
suddenly found themselves struggling to raise enough dollars, which
further strained an already fragile domestic economy.

The energy – currency link is an important concept to understand when
thinking about what comes next for Western economies. A steady and
consistent flow of energy products, along with a stable dollar, is what
has allowed the West to borrow massive sums in order to underwrite the
domestic economy. We are now entering a period of erratic and
inconsistent energy flows, along with an unstable dollar. This is
largely due to the decline of the American empire.

The energy markets are the first issue. Washington’s war on Russia has
destabilized energy markets through efforts to cripple Russian energy
sales. While this has failed, it has created distortions in the markets.
For example, Germany now must import expensive LNG to replace the cheap
pipeline gas from Russia. Meanwhile, India and China enjoy cheap energy
from Russia. All of which is traded in rupees, yuan, and rubles, rather
than dollars and euros.

Added to this is the realignment of the Gulf countries. Led by the
Saudis, the oil producing countries have aligned themselves with their
most dependable partners, Russia and China. The Saudis are now willing
to trade in currencies other than the dollar, which is an enormous
change. While it does not mean the end of the petrodollar, it is a step
in that direction. It also means the dollar will not be the only
currency used in international trade, thus lowering the demand for
dollars.

Then we have the growing problems in America’s domestic energy supply
which are largely due to bad policy. The growth in domestic supply has
stopped. New investment is in decline as a result, so the decline in
domestic supply will continue. This will inevitably drive-up global
prices, but also flip North America from a net exporter to a net
importer of energy products. There is only so much oil in the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve, and it is at its lowest level ever recorded.

Of course, inflation is already an issue. Despite the happy talk from
the government, anyone who buys things sees the problem. Food inflation
remains an issue, despite low energy costs over the last year. Now that
oil is creeping back up with a target of $100 per barrel, inflation will
become even more obvious. Add in the softening of the economy and you
see the signs of stagflation, which is the combination of high inflation
and economic stagnation.

The one thing missing from this picture is brown leisure suits. While
gas lines are unlikely in the near term, reckless foreign policy could
easily result in the disputes with the Saudis turning into rocket high
gas prices. Aggression towards the Chinese will result in shortages and
inflation in other parts of the economy. This is coming at a time when
the bulk of Americans are losing trust in the economic and political
system, not just the people pretending to run the system.

That is where the parallels between the 1970’s and this period stop. The
economic and political crisis of the 1970’s was largely due to the
American political class adjusting to new global realities. Europe and
Asia were back online economically, but the global currency arraignments
were still tuned for the 1950’s. The West was also on the cusp of the
microprocessor revolution, which would require the freeing of capital
from old industry so it could flow into the new technologies.

This crisis is largely due to incompetence. The Russians were happy to
sell their energy and agricultural products to the world at a good
price. They just wanted the West to respect the territorial integrity of
the Russkiy Mir. The Chinese are happy to be the manufacture of the
world, as long as Washington refrains from trying to overthrow the
Chinse government and that of its neighboring allies. The Saudis were
happy with the petrodollar as long as America stayed out if its domestic
affairs.

All of this is happening in the shadow of a rapidly growing debt problem
magnified by higher borrowing rates. The deficit is over $31 trillion, a
number that is inconceivable to most people. Debt payments are now at
one trillion per year. The ongoing baby boomer retirement is going to
drive both numbers higher. In 1980, Ronald Reagan ran on the promise to
end deficit spending and clear the national debt. Half a century on and
the problem is worse than anyone imagined possible.

America is now entering a period with the economic and social aspects of
the 1970’s, but this time it is set in the world of the film
*Idiocracy*. The main cause is not changing global conditions, but a
suicidally incompetent ruling class. In the 1970’s, the solution was
better policies. Fifty years on, the solution is an entirely new
international order to replace the old order, which also means replacing
the American ruling class with a new ruling class capable of navigating
the new order.

What all this means is that this version of the 1970’s will bring us far
worse things than denim leisure suits and velour car interiors. Add in
the demographic problems and the picture is far grimmer than that 1970s’
picture. Instead of a 20-something in a terrycloth jumpsuit standing in
a gas line, the image of this age could be a 60-somehting boomer in a
golf shirt lined up at a food bank. In the end, we may look at the
1970’s as a warning about what was ahead for the American Empire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="29Lls61MFR9klRYqOga0aA==cb7ghAuSd/37IqiYC3OzSvPWo4eBVhGj/RWWvttEQszPnIBljYRNnm0KRBlmRaVv4Ld"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="InFwXYWuC9e9aRoh8HiyMQ==cb7fOVmmS6MrSvkMb1dUaGtcdc2BE32sBdlrBCO2vOegqGWXdIDlZRz1HOj8qcqupXu"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
