---
title: "The Emerging Uniparty"
date: "2023-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31148"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31148"
---

**Note:** I contracted German Ebola on my trip to the Fatherland so in
addition to having a rocket high fever, I have also lost my voice. I may
post something tomorrow, but it is not looking good right now.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The concept of the uniparty has been around a long time, long before
political hucksters started using it as catchphrase. The fear of the
major parties conspiring with one another to shortcut the will of the
people goes back to the 19th century. On the one hand, the two parties
should compromise, but on the other hand they should be competing for
the approval of the voters. The line between cooperation and conspiracy
is not easy to define, but it is assumed to exist.

In the modern age, the uniparty idea has mostly circulated on the Right,
because conservatives keep voting harder but always get more of the
same. When the Republicans win, they immediately fink on their voters.
When they are in the minority, they bend over backwards to help the
Democrats. The uniparty in this context is a way of saying that both
parties serve the same master. The master can be whatever you like, but
it is not the American people.

The truth is the uniparty has been in control since the end of the
Second World War when America emerged as a global empire. The “Cold War
consensus” was an agreed upon moral framework in which both parties
operated. They could tolerate the eccentric oddball here and there for
color, but the two parties made sure the people in important position
were fully onboard with the consensus. The disputes within the consensus
were about how to reach the shared goals.

This is why Ronald Reagan was so worrisome at first. The consensus on
the Soviets had evolved to be a choice between detente and appeasement.
Reagan and his team were looking to go back to the hawkish approach of
the Kennedy years. It was not just foreign policy that worried
Washington. Reagan and his team were full of big talk about rolling back
the welfare state. In the end, Reagan and the conservatives agreed to
operate within the consensus on everything.

That was not the same thing as the uniparty though. Today it feels like
the parties not only collude with one another, but they laugh about it.
The new tough talking Speaker of the House just pushed through a
continuing resolution to keep funding government at current rates with
the help of the Democrats. In fact, more Democrats voted for the bill
than Republicans. The GOP went through all that drama about picking a
Speaker only to get one who prefers working with the other party.

This is becoming more common. It is not just that the Republicans fink
on their conservative voters and the Democrats fink on their crazies. It
is that they collude with one another in the finking and do so in the
open. Twenty years ago, they put on a big show about this stuff, but now
it is as if they are tired of pretending. In a world where incumbents
win 95% of the time, why bother with the show? We may be about to see
Washington embrace the uniparty concept.

Look at what the neocons are plotting on the Republican side. They are
positioning Nikki Haley as the last shrew standing, so that when Trump
is disqualified from the ballot, she will be the party nominee. Haley
would fit much better in the other party as she agrees with them on the
important issues. The only difference between Haley and Biden is Haley
is shriller. The Republican Party is plotting to run an orange version
of Hillary Clinton and no one in the party thinks this is weird.

Of course, the reason this will happen is both parties locked shields
after the 2016 election to block Trump. If the Republicans had provided
Trump with the support he needed to get his agenda passed, it would have
been a mostly normal presidency and he probably would have won in 2020.
Instead, both parties went berserk and what followed was four years of
mayhem and now four years of a doddering old simpleton that routinely
makes a fool of himself in public.

What we are about to see is the uniparty emerge in full to both end the
Biden madness and wall off politics from the bulk of the voters. Both
parties will celebrate the election of the first hostile alien as
president. Meanwhile, most voters want something entirely different, but
that will never be on offer, so you can vote for any candidate you like
as long as she is approved by the uniparty. If you complain then War
Karen will have the tech companies hand your name to the usual suspects.

The next step from here is to just get rid of the party labels entirely.
Not too long ago they meant something, but that is no longer the case.
It is not just the disgruntled who think this but the parties
themselves. Again, with the system rigged so it is close to impossible
to get voted out of office, why would the parties need to keep up this
charade of the two-party system? When you think about it, it is
insulting. Not insulting to you but to them. No one cares about you.

One party states are common, so a one-party country is not a stretch.
Most Latin American countries are one party systems. There are
opposition parties, but they rarely win power and when they do, they are
soon deposed. France has become a one-party system along with Germany.
They have multiple parties, but the main parties all collude with one
another to keep power to themselves. For America to follow the same
path, but more explicitly, is not hard to imagine.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="/0GPMNUXaBG5MybikGt0jg==cb7CKaCeVBPqHUfv8c+RChTtePwF56qjIzxDd9PL4fyF5jSG6BWusLVRCmJhjdeoESm"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="i78zWXGR137lA8RfC77TNw==cb7MnkxreyghXkIn4XPf64Q+is+ZKSVuvdcNrngSz4z14GDPHEeiVgKcfnuXQp6i570"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
