---
title: "The Revolutionary Airport"
date: "2023-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30546"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30546"
---

The way to think of revolutions is as national bankruptcies. Like
bankruptcy, the debts are cleared so the enterprise can start fresh. In
the case of a company, the debts are the manifestation of bad decisions
by prior management. In the case of the country, the debts are the
ruling class and the system that makes them possible. These are the
results of decisions made by prior generations. Wiping those away allows
the new generation to reinvent the enterprise of society.

People are much more practical about a big sprawling corporation that go
through bankruptcy than they are a country going through revolution. In
the former case, the focus is on the mundane. The company needs to shed
product lines and business entities in order to focus on the profitable
stuff. In the latter case, all of the talk is about grand plans for
reorganizing the very nature of society. Revolutionaries want to
reinvent the people that make up society.

The better way for revolutionaries to think, at least in the planning
stage, is about the small things that make up daily life. Airports, for
example, are a thing that most people now experience with some
regularity. There is nothing more populist, democratic and elitist than
a nation’s airports. When you travel to a foreign country, your first
impression of the place is in the airport. You hear the strange new
language and maybe see some strange new things for the first time.

An airport is a symbol of a country. As a public works project, it is
one of the more complicated things a country does. It is a system that
has to guide millions of people who are often out of their element, thus
easily confused. Those people expect to be cared for as they leave for a
journey or return from abroad. The airport is not just the welcome mat
of a country, it is the welcome home sign. You can judge a nation by its
airports because it reflects the nature of society.

For example, when you travel into an organized society like China or the
United Arab Emirates, the first thing you notice is the orderliness of
the airport. Everything is clean and works as expected. In a
disorganized country like the United States, airports are often an
incomprehensible mess. The best airports are worse than the worst
airports in high functioning societies. The worst airports are what you
expect in Africa. There is a <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/us/spirit-airlines-brawl-atlanta-caught-camera-victim-clearly-smelled-alcohol-alleged-attacker"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">genre</a> of video for this experience.

Assuming things continue on the current path in the United States, what
would the revolutionary committee do to change the airports? How would
these vital ports of entry and transit hubs be changed to reflect the
sensibilities of the revolution? The point of the revolution is to
change the nature of society, so there is no better place to start than
where tens of millions of citizens frequent. How would the revolutionary
airport serve the goals of the revolution?

The first change would be how people dress in the airport. Shorts for
men would be banned inside all revolutionary airports. Men and women
would be required to dress as they would at a proper office. There is no
reason for men to be in shorts at an airport other than slovenliness.
Men arrive in an air-conditioned car and are quickly transported on an
air-conditioned bus then to an air-conditioned terminal. You can hang
meat in most airports, so there is no need for beach wear.

This is not about comfort or aesthetics, even though the latter is
important. It is about instilling confidence and self-respect back into
the people. The reason people dress up for special events like weddings
is they want to feel their best. Erasmus famously wrote, “vestis virum
facit”, which means clothes make a man. The reason this is true is how
you dress reflects how you think of yourself. The same can be said for
how we dress our people in our airports.

The next change is to ban roller bags on planes. A feature of the modern
airport experience is people wheeling bags the size of steamer trunks
around, calling them carryon luggage. Every plane is late because they
run out of overhead space and the extra bags must be stowed in the belly
of the plane. Of course, people also carry a huge second bag that needs
space. None of these ever fit properly in the bins, so people waste time
figuring out how to get them into the bin.

Watching this circus on every plane, you are reminded that the people,
and the people in charge, are no longer able to operate an airport. The
revolutionary airport will assign space to each passenger for their
carry-on. Their bag will be measured in advance and if it is too big
then they and their bag will be hurled into a crusher installed in every
airport for this purpose. This solves the immediate problems, and it
solves the problem of people who cannot or will not follow basic
instructions.

This sounds harsh, but you know that the people who carry steamer trunks
and giant backpacks are the sorts of people who cannot order off the
menu. These are people who prove they are special by making sure they
are a public nuisance in every aspect of life. Eliminating them from the
airport system by eliminating them from the gene pool turns the airport
into a selection mechanism for society. The revolution has no place for
those who cannot follow simple instructions.

Fixing the passengers is one half of the problem. The other half is the
people running the airport, especially security. In organized countries,
security is not handled by blue shirt wearing simpletons. Security is
not just a matter of forcing people into long lines, hoping that the bad
guys have less patience than the good guys. In well run countries,
airport security is close to invisible. It is there but it is woven into
the system in such a way that you barely notice it.

America is a heavily armed country. There is no reason we cannot rely on
the tens of millions of gun owners to handle security. The revolutionary
airport will license citizens to be air marshals. In exchange for their
service on flights and in the terminal, they get to fly free
domestically. This is a country where 65% of fires are put out by
volunteer fire companies and 70% of EMS workers are volunteers. There is
no reason the bulk of airport security cannot be handled by volunteers.

There also needs to be a tonnage tax at airports. Another horrible
aspect of American airports, aesthetically and operationally, is the fat
people. Frequent travelers know the joy of being wedged into a seat
between two fat people. Pass through an American airport at holiday time
and it is a circus of fat guys in shorts and fat women testing the
physical limits of yoga pants. All tickets will be hit with a BMI tax to
both limit fat people on planes and encourage a healthy weight in the
population.

In fact, this is an idea that should be extended to all food sellers.
Imagine the checkout at the grocery store having a scale. Before you pay
for your food, you weigh in and calculate the tax. Even more fun,
imagine Starbucks installing scales. Social pressure alone would lower
the national BMI. The fat tax would also be a voluntary tax, which is
the best kind of taxation. After the revolution, people will care about
how they look, because they will have pride in themselves again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="R7qeP8Qn9VJOznMhVR0axg==cb7Epl278cIs58BO2eaNXQYEkYvU0Y37HQqhbM5jHCYWkMOjuUHRN9A52S91f2R0/w2"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="h2+g75RK0tshV19NeHFfBw==cb71PJO/+OXB9GJ0II/cYjYqjxhyrID9RUXRceMkMjxZC4qOI8k1XR7DrTLaKIt1yQd"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
