---
title: "The New Iron Curtain"
date: "2023-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29803"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29803"
---

Since about the time he took over the primetime slot for Fox News,
people have been predicting that Fox would fire Tucker Carlson. The
regime toadies said he would be fired due to his reckless heresy. He
talked about taboo topics and questioned official dogma, which can never
be allowed. The so-called conservatives repeated the same lines, as is
their habit. Normal people, of course, know that anyone speaking truth
to power is not going to last long in the modern media.

It turns out that Tucker was not fired for anything he said in
particular, but most likely as a result of the lawsuit Fox settled with
Dominion Voting Systems. It is possible that as part of the settlement,
Fox agreed to get rid of people hated by the regime. The first to go was
Dan Bongino, who was sacked before the ink was dry. Carlson got the axe
Monday morning, which suggests it took them a while to find evidence to
fire him with cause, thus voiding his contract.

On the other hand, the lawsuit could simply have frightened or
embarrassed the plutocrats who own Fox News. They are regime members,
after all, which means they care first and foremost about regime
opinion. Tucker has no doubt been a problem in this regard for a long
time. This embarrassing lawsuit, punishment by the regime for Fox not
falling in line, may have frightened the Murdoch clan. Firing Tucker is
a way to win back support of their social class.

As is always the case, the hot take people are rushing forth to give
their hot take on what happened and why. Some claim it was due to a <a
href="https://news.yahoo.com/tucker-carlson-producers-discrimination-claims-002333987.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">lawsuit</a> from one of the usual
suspects that triggered the move. Zombies from Conservative Inc <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/welcome-to-post-settlement-fox-news/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">think</a> it is due to Tucker using mean
words that hurt their feelings. Others claim that the Murdoch family was
scandalized by Tucker questioning the J6 narrative. David French thinks
it is all about him because David French is a narcissistic simpleton.

The most likely explanation is that Fox either agreed to clean house as
part of the settlement or they got the message being sent by these
lawsuits. Fox getting sued over election stuff is ridiculous, but the
full might of the regime was brought to bear so that it was clearly
impossible for Fox to get a fair trial. The judge ruled against them at
every turn, so Fox had no choice but to settle. There is another case
out there as well, so they have to play ball or face bankruptcy.

This may seem farfetched but consider that the New York Times was sued
by Sarah Palin for defamation and won, despite their own <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10477345/Emails-New-York-Times-editors-reveal-ignored-fact-checkers-Sarah-Palin-trial-hears.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">emails</a> admitting that they defamed
Palin and did so knowingly. Granted, the judge in the case told the jury
to rule in favor of the Times, but it is a good example of how the
courts treat the media. It is incredibly hard to sue the media, even
when they willingly lie about you. Yet somehow the court went the
opposite way in this Fox News case.

What is happening right in front of our eyes is the weaponization of the
court system by the regime to suppress dissent. They cannot shut down a
cable channel or throw their hosts in prison, but they can lawfare into
bankruptcy any organization that violates the ideology of the regime. In
other words, they told Rupert Murdoch that he can run his operation as
he sees fit, but they will sue him into the poorhouse if he steps out of
line or fails to get rid of people who violate regime dogma.

This is merely the highest profile example of this new control
mechanism. The Alex Jones case is another example. Jones was tagged with
a billion in damages for saying nutty things about the school shooting
in Connecticut. Like the Fox News case, the particulars were just an
excuse to force Jones into a morality play in which he was the villain,
and the jury was instructed to condemn him. He never stood a chance at
trial because the trial was rigged from the start.

The same thing is now happening to VDare. The state of New York is suing
the group because they do not like their politics. You can read the case
documents
<a href="https://casetext.com/case/people-v-vdare-found" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> and what you will find is a prime example of
lawfare. What Laquanda Adams is doing is using the process as a
punishment. On the one hand, it will cost VDare millions of dollars to
defend themselves. On the other hand, it is an effort to scare away
potential donors who may be hauled into court as well.

New York did the same trick to the National Rifle Association. They used
the court system to batter them into bankruptcy. This is made easier by
a court system filled with judges who think this is a great idea. Even
if a judge is uncomfortable with these Stalinist tactics, they
understand power. If they want to stay on the bench or move up the
ranks, they have to do what the regime demands. If the regime can take
down Fox News, they can take down a judge.

Lawfare is not a new thing. Shakedown operations like the alphabet soup
gang have been using lawfare for decades. They would jurisdiction shop
for a court that would hear their novel legal theory. Then they would
judge shop for one of their co-ideologues and before long a heretic is
in an unwinnable court case. The most recent example of this sort of
grift is the Charlottesville civil cases. The whole stinking affair was
an affront to civil society and the rule of law.

What is happening now is that these small-time rackets have been
institutionalized into a tool of the regime. Since they can use the
court to take away all of your money for any reason they like, they can
suppress the speech they dislike by threatening to impoverish anyone
that entertains unapproved speech. Since the law is the last resort for
the weak seeking protection from the powerful, the regime has
effectively closed off the last civil route to challenging regime
policies and programs.

In effect an iron curtain is descending across American society. On one
side are the regime leaders and their toadies. They get to indulge in
the material benefits of the shrinking American pie. On the other side
are the common people struggling to come to terms with what these people
have done to their country. For now, the real power of that iron curtain
is that the people on the losing side refuse to believe it is there and
instead keep operating under the old rules.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.Â  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="tPuFdXCgPASYbo7424U+bw==cb7dfY1QErrdJIXQh+na9SkgWCyPdDrsjakKD+8weqbvVxb/ySmJeMrc1p6U4cp7kov"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="M/g3VdwCrUBIjL14ouFMcA==cb7+U6RhLOMmKbu65FFO3+x9u4Fxt890+RPfTux7N2QhZgTwllfa0Pr+t1RgEfXiHfq"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
