---
title: "An Imperial Disaster"
date: "2023-02-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-02-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29351"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29351"
---

One of the most studied and debated events in human history is the
decision by the Athenian empire to send an expeditionary force to
Sicily. This happened in 415 B.C. during the middle of the Peloponnesian
War between the Delian League led by Athens and the Peloponnesian League
led by Sparta. Athens decided to send military support to allies on
Sicily who were opposed to the dominant city state of Syracuse, which
also happened to be an ally of Corinth.

The [Sicilian
Expedition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sicilian_Expedition) is one of
those events that offers something for everyone interested in the
ancient world. The politics involved in the decision to send the
expeditionary force are fascinating. Then you have the military side of
things, which is one of the first examples of politics undermining
military effectiveness. Of course, the political psychology around the
war to that point is also important. Much of Athenian politics had been
shaped by war.

The decision to send the navy to Sicily would turn out to be the turning
point in the war with the Spartans. The expedition was a spectacular
failure. In fact, it is on the list of great military disasters in human
history. The defeat not only permanently weakened the Athenians
militarily, but it also crippled their political culture. The politics
of the region quickly moved against Athens, leading to the overthrow of
the democratic system and the eventual defeat to the Spartans.

Like all great events in history, if you ask ten people with an interest
in the topic, you will get eleven theories as to what happened and what
it means today. Academic careers have been made studying the war and the
events surrounding it. There is also the fact that Athens, despite
losing the most important war in human history, continues to cast a
shadow over the West. Sparta, on the other hand, is largely remembered
for being a cartoonish version of a warrior state.

It matters to us today because the Global American Empire models itself
after the Athenian empire. The Athenians had a moral certainty about
themselves and what they did based on their form of government. Their
system was superior, therefore whatever they did to spread their system
must be righteous. Of course, spreading their system often meant
overthrowing the rulers of neighboring city-states and installing their
system, led by people friendly with Athens.

We see the same thing with the American empire. In fact, it has become a
defining feature of the system. For the last thirty years, Washington
has been trying to overthrow governments around the world in defense of
democracy. There is even an organization called The Foundation for
Defense of Democracies, which works with various tentacles of the
American empire to overthrow governments around the world. The business
of America is not business. It is regime change.

Like the Athenian empire, the American empire has found a way to embroil
itself in a war with a land power. This proxy war with Russia over
Ukraine has little to do with the facts on the ground in Ukraine and
everything to do with the politics that drive the expansive polices of
the American empire. Like the Peloponnesian War, this is just the latest
phase of a war that goes back to the defeat of fascism, which is the
analogue for the defeat of the Persians by Athens and Sparta.

Like all historical analogies, this one is far from perfect, but it does
provide a lens through which to view current events. Looking at this
fight with Russia as a continuation of the Cold War helps explain the
actions of the people involved. For the people driving American foreign
policy, the main enemy was always Russia. In fact, they were at war with
Russian long before they set foot in the new Athens. World War II was
just another chapter in that long fight.

This might seem like a stretch but look at the people running foreign
policy for the American empire. The people named in Seymour Hersh’s <a
href="https://seymourhersh.substack.com/p/how-america-took-out-the-nord-stream"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">piece</a> on the bombing of the Nord
Stream pipelines is a who’s who of neoconservatives. All of them are
members of the same club, which is led by Robert Kagan. The wife of
Robert Kagan is Victoria Nuland, who runs Ukraine policy for the empire.
She is also the person who engineered regime change in Ukraine in 2014.

Proof that the universe has a sense of humor is the fact that Robert
Kagan is the ideological leader of the war party. He was born in Athens
Greece. His father was Donald Kagan, “the Sterling Professor of Classics
and History Emeritus at Yale University and a specialist in the history
of the Peloponnesian War.” His <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Peloponnesian-War-Donald-Kagan/dp/0142004375"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a> on the Peloponnesian War is
excellent. His <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Nicias-Sicilian-Expedition-History-Peloponnesian/dp/0801413672/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a> on the Sicilian Expedition is
also quite good, but more aimed at an academic audience.

Robert appears to have read none of his father’s books, as his cult has
led the American empire into its own version of the Sicilian Expedition.
The decision to bet on Ukraine is turning into a catastrophe. Instead of
sending triremes to aid a supposed ally in order to undermine an
opponent, as Athens did when she sent that expedition to Sicily,
Washington has sent its prestige and military production capacity to
Ukraine in a futile attempt to undermine Russia.

Much like the Sicilian Expedition, the Ukraine war has become a dynamic
all its own, sweeping up everyone in the empire. The Europeans, which
should know better, have gone along with Washington. In the process,
they have revealed themselves to be nothing more than a collection of
flunkies serving Washington. The rules-based world order that Washington
has claimed to defend has also been exposed as a rigged game to serve
the interests of the empire.

Probably the biggest parallel between these two events is how the
political class in both cases failed to consider failure as an option.
When news of the disaster reached Athens, no one believed it. No one had
prepared the Athenians for the possibility of defeat, much less a
catastrophe. Once reality sunk in, panic gripped the people as they
processed what the disaster meant for the war. Everything about the
Sicilian Expedition assumed victory was inevitable.

Something similar is brewing for Washington. For a year the war party
has been feeding the political class stories about the Russians running
out of weapons and Russian troops being forced to fight naked in the
snow. Political leaders are given scripts with big talk about total
victory and the dissolution of Russia. The public has been told nothing
about the reality of the war. Once news of this disaster makes itself
fully known, we may see panic and disbelief in Washington.

Again, historical analogies are never perfect. At best they help
contextualize current events by providing an objective viewpoint.
Washington is not Athens. Robert Kagan is not Alcibiades and there is no
one playing the role of Nicias. Instead, the empire is led by spoiled
children of the managerial elite that rose along with the American
empire in the aftermath of Word War II. The disaster for this empire,
however, will be just as real as it was for the Athenian empire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="0BYqWxFZ71LLoLwUXqr21w==cb7ym18i505cKQa6+kfNimxNxM0xzQKHd/09wSN9JVuWYRYI948+r6HLKri0zSuKhrj"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="GC/bNAgsgdXXw6Twpe6xOA==cb7XJlC2vmgicZr1JRKhXtxeIxVyv81PnO8v3zg8TCEICo+dHSu/Ya+bmNKvKqAXMPm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
