---
title: "The Death Of The West"
date: "2023-06-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30032"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30032"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about a disgusting and vulgar
film with no redeeming qualities, a post explaining all of the letters
and symbols in the slogan of the new religion and the Sunday podcast.
You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since the French Revolution, the West has been cursed by a political
framing that operates along an axis. At one end we have the Left, the
people demanding radical change to liberate humanity in some way. At the
other end is the Right, the people not just opposed to change, but the
defenders of the natural order. Both ends see the other as the bad guy
in the relationship. For over two centuries, all political movements
have been forced to pick a spot on the axis.

This often leads to some ridiculous alliances. Libertarians are supposed
to be the polar opposite of communists. Hitler is the polar opposite of
Stalin, which then puts Hitler in the libertarian camp. This causes
those sympathetic to libertarianism to claim that Hitler was actually a
leftist. After all, he was a socialist! While this is idiotic, it does
underscore the problem with the Right-Left political axis. It fails as a
way to describe politics over a long period of time.

It also precludes right-wing radicalism. By making change a left-wing
phenomenon, it means the right-wing must always be for stasis. This is
popular with the Left, as it lets them pretend to be the good guys, but
it also turns the other side into mindless reactionaries with no reason
to oppose change. It is also wrong in that the Right, in all of its
forms, does not oppose change. What the Right opposes is experimentation
that treats institutions as arbitrary objects.

There is a bigger problem with the Left-Right political axis. It
eliminates the possibility for right-wing radicalism. If the only people
who can contemplate a radical reordering are those who embrace change,
then the logic of the political scale says that it is impossible for
right-wing people to imagine radical change. Yet we know that people on
the Right, however defined at the time, often want radical change. It
may simply be a rollback of prior change, but it is still change.

For example, most people defined as right-wing in the current year would
like to see the sexual revolution rolled back at least forty years. A
growing cohort thinks it is necessary to roll things back to the 1950’s.
A small, but growing portion of the right wonder if we should roll it
all back to the very beginning. If a right-wing Joe Biden comes to power
and rolls back the sexual revolution, even if it is just to the 1980’s,
most people would see that as a radical change in the culture.

In fairness, you could call these people reactionaries. Granted, their
reactions are incredibly slow, taking at least a generation to form, but
strictly speaking they want to return to some point in the past, not
break with it. Left-wing radicals imagine themselves making a clean
break with the past and creating something new. The fact that it is not
new in the least is another matter. One side wants to break from the
past while the other side wants to return to what it imagines is the
past.

That seems to solve the problem, but what about the people who think we
must make a break with liberalism in order to save Western people? These
are not people seeking a return to some point in the past. Some joke
about the return of monarchy and feudalism, but they are not serious
about it. Instead, they see the future as a clean break with liberal
political traditions. The people now calling themselves post-liberal
think we must produce something new to replace liberalism.

Adrian Vermeule, the Harvard scholar, and champion of common good
conservatism is not entirely clear about the details of his post-liberal
order, but he is quite clear in his rejection of liberalism. Patrick
Deneen, who is a Notre Dame political science professor, has a [new
book](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0593086902) in which he argues
for overthrowing the liberal order and replacing it with a dictatorship
of working-class, by which he means the people who actually work and
sustain the culture.

Read what these post-liberals have to say about what we would consider
to be the status quo and they certainly sound like radicals. Unlike the
standard model of radicalism, they are not challenging the human
condition. There is no post-liberal man in their conception of the
future, other than to argue that mankind will be free of the utopian
claims that lie within the liberal order. Mankind will be liberated from
the relentless coercion of its liberators.

Dissidents, of course, seek something similar. The main difference is
that the Dissident Right is willing to address the demographic issue. To
be on the Dissident Right is to wrestle with the question of what kind
of society is possible with the demographics we will have in the
not-too-distant future? More important, are the possible options
tolerable and if not, what must come next? Like the post-liberals, the
Dissident Right is ready to leave the old liberal order in the past.

For all the usual reasons, the dissidents and post-liberals get called
fascist by the people who claim to be on the Left. It is proof that the
universe has a sense of humor that the most dogmatic defenders of the
status quo and the holders of power are the people who claim to be on
the side of revolutionary change. In the modern age, the antifascists
are sponsored by major corporations, who are in a close partnership with
government and the centers of cultural production.

Putting that aside, if we broaden the definition of the term
“liberalism” to include all Western thought since the late Middle Ages,
then we are left with a universe that includes Marxism, libertarianism,
liberal democracy, anarchism, fascism and all the combinations of these
ideologies. To one degree or another, all of them imagine a world where
mankind is freed from the human condition. What we now call liberalism
is the final form of this long ideological struggle.

This gets to a truth about the modern world and its opponents. That
political axis that has been with us since the French Revolution is
increasingly incoherent because it assumes something that is not true.
It assumes that ideology is a constant of the universe and therefore
politics is a war between competing ideologies. In reality, ideology is
a novelty. For most of human history, the moral questions were decided
by religion, not by men with utopian schemes.

What the incoherence of that old political axis may be telling us is
that we are reaching the end of the ideological age. What the
post-liberals are doing, even if most do not realize it, is challenging
the moral claims of liberalism. It is not an accident that the champions
of post-liberalism are overtly religion. Both Deneen and Vermeule are
traditional Catholics. Their post-liberal order assumes the moral
questions have been answered by a revived traditional church.

The signs of the post-ideological age are most evident on the global
stage. The last ideological state is at war with Russia because Russia
rejects liberalism. The Russians are happy to borrow from the West but
wish to remain Russian. The West is preparing to attack China for
similar reasons. China’s capitalism with “Chinese characteristics” is
unacceptable to the West. Soon, the rest of the world will join the
enemies list for the crime of rejecting the liberal moral order.

For over two centuries, the West has been defined by that political axis
that was born out of the French Revolution. What most people think of as
the West is that long ideological struggle that has given us what we
call liberal democracy. With the end of the Cold War, the struggle was
over and liberal democracy won. In reality, the Cold War was the
penultimate struggle of a dying age. What was born with that political
axis will die with the final rejection of it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Qeghhgn3688chnypONHiLA==cb7Okuf8G7ou5yID7VveMXA6YDZ34fng0VfVA+IZ/kQtzhvz8VExICFleDmXNY3ufsh"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Gswj23y9lgc/8d75odxT8A==cb7sEfgUKqckdkbgJwHAAtVIMOGwM4evTgVxl0a+PAF2oOkf2++yb7WK0CfCQRnTPOE"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
