---
title: "The Crisis Of Trust"
date: "2023-06-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30112"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30112"
---

The primary concern for any ruling elite is to remain the ruling elite,
which means they must always look out for the peasant revolt. By
definition, ruling elites are a minority population that rules over the
majority. The relationship between the elite and the masses must be
asymmetrical, which is why there are no elites that are poorer than the
people over whom they rule. Combined with the numerical disparately this
makes managing the relationship a primary concern for elites.

Second, but still in the primary group of concerns, is the palace coup,
which is a way of saying instability in the elite class. There is a
hierarchy within every elite and elites are composed of humans with a
fixed lifespan. This means the people at the top of the elite class will
not be there forever. This gives hope to younger members at the bottom
who have ambitions about rising up the ranks. Every ruling elite needs a
way to control this so that the elite can appear unified to the masses.

To see how this works, one only has to consider the most common form of
rule in human history, which is monarchy. The king must always balance
the needs of the people against the needs of his family, but he must
also balance the interests of the prominent families against one another
and his own interests. The king does not want angry peasants showing up
at his castle, but he also has to make sure the nobility thinks he is
their best bet to remain a nobility.

This is the key to the monarch’s success. The nobility, the church and
the peasants all have to see the king as their best chance at peace and
prosperity. If any of the three begins to see the king as the cause of
their troubles or a threat to their position, they no longer have a
reason to support the king. Maintaining the balance, therefore, requires
the king to be the very symbol of order. It is only in an orderly world
that you can be sure that your interest will be protected.

In the modern age, the same rules apply, but they are expressed in more
abstract and arbitrary terms. For example, the party in charge is
responsible for keeping a good economy, which is not always easy to
quantify. Even in the best of times, there are people unhappy with the
economy. In the booming 1980’s, the working classes were not happy
because their jobs were being sold off to foreigners. The middle-class
was thrilled because their jobs were booming.

That three-legged stool on which monarchy rests, the nobility, the
church, and the peasantry, does not work in a liberal democracy. No one
is loyal to anyone in liberal systems because we are all individuals.
What fosters cooperation is individual loyalty to a set of ideas that
define the system. The three-legged stool of monarchy is replaced with
economics, security, and culture in a liberal democracy, which is held
together by trust in the official holders and the institutions.

If you look at American elections going back since the dawn of this
liberal democratic empire, they have always been about the same topics.
Economics is always a top concern of voters and the pols seeking their
vote. Security is a close second, expressed as crime fighting or foreign
policy initiatives. The third item always on the list is something from
the culture war that never ends. Elections turn on which side is most
trusted at the moment on these items.

Go back to the beginning and you see it in presidents. Eisenhower was
trusted on foreign policy because that was the top concern. Kennedy won
in 1960 because the culture was becoming the top concern and Nixon was
not viewed as a trustworthy political actor, despite his competence on
other issues. Nixon won in 1968 by appealing to Southerners on cultural
and security grounds. He also won votes from other regions due to his
foreign policy credentials.

While democracy obscures elites from the people, the superficial aspects
of the system operate by the oldest of rules. The people will generally
support those who are most trusted on the pressing issues of the day. If
it is the economy, then the side viewed as sympathetic to that issue
will do well. When people are concerned about the culture, then those
viewed as normal will triumph over those indulging in cultural
experimentation and novelty.

This brings us back to the needs of the ruling elite. The dynamics of
democracy are supposed to address both of their primary concerns. On the
one hand, it is a useful feedback loop to keep the peasants from
revolting. Instead of angry peasants showing up at the castle with a
list of demands, the peasants select the options presented by the ruling
class on election day. The rulers then know where to fix their attention
and the peasants feel like their concerns are being addressed.

Of course, elections and the industry around them help solve the other
problem within the elite, which is the palace coup. Elections are a sort
of scoreboard used by elites to settle differences between the sides. It
also helps them gauge how the peasants are responding to elite
initiatives. This prevents elites from imposing polices that are good
for the elite, but hated by the peasants. It reinforces the survival
logic that must guide the internal behavior of all ruling elites.

If we look back at the two great revolutions in Western history, we can
see how this natural order was at the center of the revolt. In
pre-revolutionary France, the peasants were facing increasing pressure
economically. The nobility was increasingly at odds with the king. The
church was coming under pressure by the changing cultural landscape
brought on by new ideas. All three legs of the system were faltering
while trust in the king was declining.

Tsarist Russia faced a similar crisis. On the one hand, the peasants
were under pressure from the changing economic conditions of the empire.
On the other hand, the urban working class was demanding reform. The
conservative culture was failing the peasants, but it was in opposition
to the workers. The fracturing culture threatened the position of the
nobility. Instead of being that which held the system together, the Tsar
was increasingly viewed as the problem.

When you look at the current crisis, you first see that the feedback
loop that allows the elite to take the temperature of the peasants is
broken. The elite stopped trusting the election system after 2016. The
elite response to this collapse in trust resulted in the peasants losing
trust in the system in 2020. In other words, the trust system is
collapsing on both sides of the relationship. This is what makes the
debate over economics, security, and culture so bizarre.

The disconnect can be seen in the issues. The people are worried about
the collapse of the American system, but the elites are pushing radical
cultural fads like pedophilia and ritual child mutilation. The people
are increasingly concerned for their safety, but elites are unleashing
black criminals and promising global war. Inflation remains the top
concern for Americans, but both parties ignore it. The political system
and the voters are two ships passing in the night.

When you look at the other half of the elite concerns, the palace coup,
it is clear that the elites are highly paranoid about one another. The
behavior of the secret police toward the political class reflects that
loss of trust in the political system. The increasing narrowness of
debate within the media reflects the general fear of being seen as
disloyal to the system. The people at the top are not just paranoid
about the peasants but they also fear their own people.

Following the loss of the Russo-Japanese war, a delegation of liberal
reformers led by an aristocrat named Sergei Trubetskoi went to the Tsar
and told him that the people still trusted him, but they could no longer
tolerate the chaos. In other words, it was not the policies of the Tsar
that were causing civil unrest. It was the failure of those polices to
restore order. Therefore, reform was needed to restore trust. The Tsar
seemed to agree and then set about doing the opposite.

What followed was increased activity by the secret police and the
unleashing of gangs loyal to the regime. Like Antifa, the SPLC, the ADL
and the other regime aligned toadies and thugs, the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Hundreds" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Black Hundred</a> set upon anyone suspected of
questioning the Tsar or the tsarist system. Disorder was met by elite
policies that created more disorder. Tsarist Russia was plunged into a
spiral of declining trust by the one thing that held the system
together, the Tsar himself.

The relevance to this age should be obvious. The current unrest is not
due to incompetence or perfidy among the political class. That is an
issue, but that has always been a feature of the liberal system. The
cause of the current unrest is a collapse of trust in the system itself.
In order to preserve their status, the elite is acting outside the
agreed upon rules. This further erodes the peasant’s trust in the
system, which feeds the elite distrust of the peasantry.

America is rapidly approaching that point where the calls for reform
contradict the demands for order. The elite can initiate reform, but
this puts their position at risk, so they view calls for reform as a
physical threat. Therefore they choose to impose order, which is viewed
by the peasants as a threat to their safety. Those two irreconcilable
forces, reform and order, end up on the same track heading for a crash.
This is never settle by the ballot box, but by the cartridge box.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="uf58tO6sp5kIQtRUgYxAeQ==cb7BDz8wui3Md/For8Qp89tXucWCw6zA/anaBqsq2Yxgm6wQVF0Aq5dNSSaYAFinsbf"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="nOUZjoHc1CjZqlttjXoYsQ==cb7VDyjj8AzldV82Ot0v6g3u7HOcGesopSY4mtD7AOKS/caF30UHD2Pf8y4CRXQjkYj"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
