---
title: "A Haunting In Canada"
date: "2023-09-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30826"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30826"
---

“There is a specter haunting the West, the specter of fascism” could be
the opening line to a manifesto from just about any group in the modern
West. Three generations after fascism ceased to exist as a real
political and intellectual movement, it hangs over the Western mind like
a terrifying fog. Every issue in the political debate is there because
it relates to fascism in some way. It either defines who is and who is
not a fascist, or it is assumed to be a precursor to fascism.

In every political debate, the people we continue to call conservatives
are defined by their fear of being called fascists or an equivalent
label. Racism, for example, is nothing more than a crude synonym for
fascism. The people we call the Left have a deep sack full of terms that
essentially mean fascist. If they call you an extreme right-wing
extremist, they really mean you are a fascist. Of course, fascist now
simply means “outside the moral consensus” as defined by the Left.

It is not just a rhetorical game. Western liberalism is now just a
reactionary, but still revolutionary, cause that has evolved around fear
of fascism. All of the weird cultural fads are driven mostly by a desire
to strike out at the people the culture warriors assume to be fascists.
These are the white people who are trying to live normal lives in
middle-class suburbs. Woke is not for anything. It is against fascism
and all of its manifestations, which can be anything.

Eric Hoffer famously wrote that “Mass movements can rise and spread
without belief in a God, but never without belief in a devil.” This is
clear when you look at what has happened to Western liberalism. Long
stripped of its Christian moral foundation, it staggers on in opposition
to one devil after another. The devil can take many forms but strip away
the covering and what lies beneath is always an Austrian painter in the
imagination of the Western mind.

This is a purely negative identity. Western liberalism no longer has an
internal, independent definition for itself. Those concepts still linger
in the past, occasionally referenced by the people we continue to call
conservatives, but only as a way of trying to slither out from under the
boulder labeled “fascism” that has been hurled at them by the people we
call the Left. Both sides agree that everything they do not like is
Hitler and Hitler is their forever enemy.

You see it in the recent scandal in Canada where all the best people
were seen cheering a guy who turned out to be a former Nazi. Yaroslav
Hunka, who is 98, got a standing ovation after House of Commons Speaker
Anthony Rota called him a hero during a Friday visit by Zelensky. Rota
called him a hero because he was told that Hunka fought the Soviets in
the war. Since Western liberals now think Putin is Hitler, Russians are
Nazis, so Hunka must be a hero.

The haunting of the Western mind by the specter of fascism is right
there in that ridiculous performance. Because Putin is Hitler, it means
Russia is the new Third Reich, which makes Ukraine the symbol of the
West. Zelensky has been transformed into Churchill, but not the drunken
degenerate version. He is the lion of the West version who rallied the
forces of good against fascism. To the dullards who put the event
together, Hunka connected the present to the past.

In reality, Hunka was and remains a Banderan, a follower of Stepan
Bandera, who was a Ukrainian ultra-nationalist in the middle of the last
century. Bandera collaborated with the Nazis because he hated Russians.
Ukrainian nationalism is and remains, like Western liberalism, a
negative identity. It is haunted by fascism because they see fascism as
the great enemy of Russia, which they hate as much as the Western
liberal thinks he hates fascism.

Of course, the question is how did this Ukrainian fascist end up in
Canada after the war and remain undetected? He is wanted by Poland for
war crimes. It turns out that the West welcomed a lot of these guys
after the war.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Demjanjuk" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">John Demjanjuk</a> was a famous example from the 1980’s.
He was the center of a moral panic, mostly over the prospect of running
out of real Nazis due to the actuarial tables. All the best people
turned up to point their bony fingers at Demjanjuk.

That gets to the reality of fascism and why it haunts the West. Fascism
is impossible to define, in part, because it is the universal bogeyman.
Both communists and liberals have spent generations heaping every sin
imaginable on fascism. Those sins, of course, are the things these
ideological camps fear most about themselves. With communism in the ash
heap of history, fascism is now just the warted, gnarled face of Western
liberalism’s worst fears about itself.

Another reason fascism is impossible to define is it was never really a
standalone ideology, but a reaction to ideology. Fascism would never
have existed if not for the apparent failure of liberalism and the very
real threat of communism, especially the Bolshevik variety. Fascism was
an ad hoc defense against cultural and spiritual genocide by people who
saw both Western liberalism and communism in their raw form as they
evolved in the 19th century.

This is why modern liberalism looks strikingly like fascism. We live in
an age where the lines between the state and capitalism are impossible
to see. Corporate America and the apparatus of the state are two heads
of the same hydra. The media, the academy and entertainment are the
other heads. The body that controls them is managerialism, which looks a
lot like fascism. If James Burnham were alive today, he would easily
make the connection between the two.

For a long time, people have wondered what would happen when the last
real Nazi or alleged victim of the Nazis is no more. In the next decade
that whole generation will be gone, leaving no more devils for
liberalism to chase. Similarly, people have wondered what comes after
liberalism reaches its end point. Both questions seem to have the same
answer in that one cannot live without the other. When both are gone,
the long nightmare of the West will finally come to an end.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3kaeIk7dY4euOkTMKhOR+g==cb7T6Xg/3BZ6J8QUR5RcOjGyKanLWrHMijxM/imByVPhFKm3AqNqS3UryFkZie0ow7k"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="R9NXQ5qNAixMzYmcbUdIug==cb7k8Trd6sRzH1xIVdURm5fNg01gAaqSKSaT2FkDKD/9arwE3sx5PU+Nd+OW8jT6xc2"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
