---
title: "Goodbye To All That"
date: "2023-01-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-01-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29223"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29223"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about gay germs, a post about
the purse fight between Ben Shapiro and Steven Crowder and the Sunday
podcast. This week the plan is to do some more Ukraine stuff, given the
uptick in war news. You can sign up at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the comments of my last
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29152" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">response</a> to Michael Anton, someone
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29152#comment-338555"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">quoted</a> a passage from one of Anton’s
<a
href="https://amgreatness.com/2022/12/17/natural-right-and-the-traditional-reproach/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">posts</a> in our back and forth. For the
sake of brevity, no doubt, the commenter clipped out some of the
original text. There were a lot of good comments in that post, but that
one stuck with me because of the bit about not wanting to be ruled
without consent, which is a topic I have addressed in many posts,
podcasts and even a speech I gave last autumn.

I rummaged through his post and found the exact passage. Here is what
Anton wrote in the first part of that paragraph, “I don’t want to be
ruled without my consent and I don’t want to submit to a fake
aristocracy. Those are, in fact, among my chief objections to the
present regime: it rules me without my consent, and it rules not for the
common good but for the private good of a fake aristocracy.” That is a
pretty clear statement of the ends he seeks with his natural rights
arguments.

As an aside, what is a fake aristocracy? He never bothers to explain
what makes one aristocracy fake and another authentic. The closest he
gets is, “This points to a fundamental problem with hierarchy. The trad
Right rejects nature as the standard for politics because, they say,
nature is abstract, universalist, corrosive, etc. But for a hierarchy to
have any meaning, it must be based on some evaluation of higher and
lower, better and worse.”

Higher than what? Have meaning? Who in the hell is the trad Right? Note
that he employs cognitively meaningless statements to illicit an
emotional reaction from the reader in order to trick him into a false
conclusion. You see, the bad men like fake hierarchy which is bad
because fake is a bad word, so putting it next to the word hierarchy
makes it bad too. This sort of linguistic guilt by association is
clever, but it is what makes his writing so muddled.

Putting that aside, what about this consent business? Specifically, his
demand to live in a society in which he is ruled only with his
permission. That is, after all, what it means to consent to something.
When you consent to something you are voluntarily giving your permission
for someone to do something. Sure, you may have needed some convincing,
but consent assumes you have a choice. To consent to something, you must
voluntarily grant your permission.

When we say “consent of the governed” we mean the permission of those
over whom some group of people will rule. That sounds good, because
Americans have been conditioned to associate that phrase with positive
ideas. It is right there in our holiest of holy documents, the
Declaration of Independence. “Governments are instituted among Men,
deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.” The
goodness of government only flows from the consent of the people.

Now, before we go much further, we have to address the elephant in the
room and that is the fact that the signers of that document were lying.
Most of them owned other human beings and none of them bothered to ask
the freemen in their employ about their decision to revolt against the
king. When it came to forming a new government, they had two tries at it
and never once sought the consent of the governed. It was a nice
sentiment, but the framers were practical men.

That naturally leads to a question. Is such a society possible? Is it
possible to have a society in which men are free of coercion? After all,
that is what Anton is rebelling against in that post. Consent is
permission for something to happen or a voluntary agreement to do
something. The alternative to consent is coercion, which is the use of
force or the threat of force to obtain compliance. How would one
structure a society in order to eliminate coercion?

Here is where we must notice something important. A consensus is not the
same thing as majority rule. If ten people get together to decide on
where to get lunch, the consensus is the place everyone can accept. The
final choice may not be the first choice of anyone, but it is on the
list of acceptable choices. If six people pick the lunch spot, pull guns
on the other four people and force them to go along, then that is
coercion, even though the majority voted for the lunch choice.

In other words, if you put things before the people and ask them to
decide, you will most likely have some people who oppose the majority
decision. In fact, some of those dissenters may categorically reject the
choice of the majority. No amount of persuasion or enticement will
change their minds. If the choice is where to go to lunch, no great
shakes, but if it is how much to pay in taxes or whether to go to war,
the dissent becomes a serious issue.

Right away we can see two problems. One is that a society of any size is
going to have irreconcilable disagreements. Anyone who organized a lunch
order knows how hard it is to reach a consensus. In the end, dissent
must be overruled. The other problem is that putting matters to a vote
will always result in coercion. The majority will force their
preferences on the minority. Since in every vote there is a minority and
the composition of that minority changes, everyone is subjected to
coercion.

No matter how much consideration the rulers give to the opinion of the
people, no matter how hard they try to get the consent of the governed,
some people will simply refuse to give their permission. The choices at
that point for the majority, as well as the rulers, are stasis, anarchy
or coercion. No society larger than the Dunbar number can operate
without some coercion. At any given time, some people will be compelled
by the rulers to do that which they would prefer not to do.

Now, the few remaining libertarians will no doubt chime in and say that
a libertarian or an anarchist society would be free of coercion. After
all, all human interaction would be voluntary and individual. While such
an arrangement would be free of coercion, it would also be free of all
of the things we associate with human society. It is just random humans
living in walking distance of one another. It is why there are no
libertarian or anarchist societies outside of East Africa.

To be fair to Anton, let us assume he knows this and what he really
means is he wants a society with the least amount of coercion. Humans
are not perfect so what we create will always fall short of perfect. The
societies we create will therefore be as flawed as the people who make
them. The question then turns from how to create a coercion free society
to how to reduce coercion. How should one organize society in order to
reduce coercion to the minimum?

Proof that the universe has a sense of humor, is that nature provides us
with the answer to this question. Evolutionary biology tells us that
people are most cooperative with those who are closest to them
genetically. If you populated an island with Michael Anton clones, they
would operate like a multi-celled organism. Each member would
intuitively know the preferences of the other, because they would have
the same preferences, due to their genetic sameness.

Obviously, that is not possible, but luckily nature provides us with
lots of close examples to use as a proof. We know that the first human
organizations were kin groups and that larger human societies were built
on related kin groups. Ten thousand years ago related kin groups began
to settle around stable food sources in order to defend and exploit
those food sources. We also know that within these groups men would die
for two brothers or eight cousins.

At first blush it might not seem that inclusive fitness has much of a
role in reducing coercion in human society. What does your willingness
to die for your people have to do with coercion? Well, consensus and
cooperation require sacrifice. It does not always require you to
sacrifice your life, but when you volunteer to cooperate or you agree to
a compromise, you are sacrificing something in order to do it. It is the
glue that binds the two sides in the transaction.

In other words, it is not just like-mindedness that fosters cooperation
through sacrifice, but it is like bloodedness. This is what nature tells
us. If you are looking to increase cooperation and therefore reduce
coercion, you want to decrease biological distance between the members.
Put another way, the key to being ruled with your consent is to live in
a society populated by and governed by your people or people who are no
more than distant cousins. Diversity is the death of consent.

Interestingly, Anton seems to know this. In the <a
href="https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/digital/the-flight-93-election/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">essay</a> that made him famous, he wrote
the following, “Third and most important, the ceaseless importation of
Third World foreigners with no tradition of, taste for, or experience in
liberty means that the electorate grows more left, more Democratic, less
Republican, less republican, and less traditionally American with every
cycle.” Note he used to argue from tradition and now he argues against
tradition.

When you go back and read the *Flight 93* essay, you cannot help but
note a difference in tone and substance. Assuming Anton knew his own
mind when he wrote that essay, he certainly knew how the phrase “third
world” would be read. His deliberate use of the phrase “no taste for”
makes clear that Anton thought at the time that non-European people were
unfit for a society based in European values and traditions. There is no
other way that can be interpreted.

So, what changed? That passage quoted at the start offers a clue. Here
is the second part of that original passage. Anton wrote, “I still think
whatever you’re planning won’t work; or, to be more precise, I don’t
think you’ve done much planning at all. I don’t think you’ve even begun
to think through how you’ll organize your new post-natural-rights
society, which is why I expect it either to be a mess or else to revert
to natural rights without admitting it.”

Let us unpack those two sentences. Anton says he is sure that what I am
planning will not work. Then he says I am not planning anything at all.
In fact, he says I have not even started planning, but he is sure that
when I get around to planning, it will be a mess or I will end up
planning whatever he is planning. This is the content of just two
sentences written by one man, but it reads like the work of a committee
of people not on speaking terms with one another.

Putting that aside, I think we have a clue as to why he has issued a
fatwah against me and those on this side of the great divide. It is not
that he disagrees with the point I made at the start of this exchange.
It is that he thinks it should not be said. He prefers to prattle on
about elves carrying natural rights because that is less likely to get
mean words from the people who control the moral framework. In other
words, he feels he must submit to their moral coercion.

In this <a
href="https://amgreatness.com/2022/10/24/natural-right-and-historicism/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> responding to Paul Gottfried’s
argument in favor of the Anglo-American tradition, he notes that he and
Paul are not Anglos. Anton is Mediterranean and Gottfried is Jewish.
Here is what he wrote, “Neither of us, therefore, is Anglo, and neither
is related by blood to any of the men who founded the United States, or
even were Americans at the time of the founding. It seems to me, then,
that neither of us can be, strictly speaking, heirs to the
Anglo-American tradition.”

That is an interesting passage for a number of reasons. As far as this
topic, it may explain why he has reverted back to the banal civic
nationalism that he seemed to reject in the *Flight 93* essay. Even
though the logic of his own arguments leads to something like Yoram
Hazony’s ethnic nationalism, this creates a problem for the people in
charge and that creates a problem for Michael Anton. Instead he is
looking for a way to argue within the prevailing moral orthodoxy.

That explains that muddled passage about what he thinks of my plans. He
is not arguing against my reasoning. How could he? His arguments from
Straussianism arrive at the same place as my arguments from evolutionary
biology. It is that he assumes that I will soon realize that saying
these things out loud is bad for business. In other words, he is
projecting his own fears about his position within the conservative
industrial complex onto me and the empirical right.

That horse left the barn a long time ago. It turns out that I am far
less tolerant of coercion from “fake aristocrats” than Michael Anton. In
fact, the starting place for understanding dissident thinking is the
assertion that conservatism failed because it was supposed to fail. The
men in it traded their souls for expensive homes, fancy suits and the
company of people they must treat as their betters. The dissident right
is the rejection of that form of politics.

In closing, I will return the favor and offer Mr. Anton a bit of advice.
The project to achieve conservative ends within the neoliberal moral
framework has been tried by smarter men than either of us. That project
began when Buckley capitulated on race back in the last century. It is
why conservatism has been a failure. When you accept the moral claims of
your opponents, you inevitably accept their conclusions, which is why
conservatism managed to conserve nothing.

The reason Michael Anton and his cohorts in the conservative ecosystem
feel the need to address dissidents directly is they are losing control
of the narrative. Every day more and more people wake up from the 20th
century. Much of that awakening is driven by demographic and cultural
reality, but another part is the realization that the causes of these
problems are not political or economic. They are systemic. The system is
failing because it rests on false assertions.

Even though Anton has hurled a lot of invective my way, I bear no ill
will toward him, now that I have reconsidered his position. The fatwah
he has issued against me will be up on the wall next to other fatwahs.
In fact, I wish the entire crew the best of luck, even though Chris
Buskirk and Ben Boychuk refuse to reply to my e-mails. When you live in
the valley of the damned, you get used to such behavior. After the
revolution, I will see that you get sent to a good camp.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="c4WHWoN3DLx7j3CZrBrHNQ==cb7HKYsSv1AQ73l71uKX24CVo4LCC6vtxBPCgbTahRpva1A55HkoNbyOfW7qJ1VoRci"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="QInMOjLh6nBKUaqQTScHcA==cb7+gXU6sQ+/WNW04TgEIacav9OCiq0XU5EkXXLphDvpGWO/5xe16UnS/U1PH1aer8T"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
