---
title: "The Road To Ruin"
date: "2023-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30973"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30973"
---

When studying the two great revolutionary events in European history,
the thing that always jumps out is how revolution was something of an
accident. In both cases, the ruling class had chances to avert disaster.
The sovereign had people in his inner circle or just on the edge of it
who warned about the brewing trouble. In the case of Tsar Nicholas, his
ascent to the throne was due to the ongoing unrest. Yet, in both cases
the ruling class never missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity.

Dig further into the many unforced errors and the root cause is often a
stubbornness on the part of the king, the tsar, or the aristocracy. They
looked at every small compromise as a potential slippery slope. Instead
of taking advantage of opportunities presented to them by their
disgruntled subjects, they dug in their heels and made themselves seem
like the unreasonable party. As a result, they left themselves little
room to make necessary reforms in order to head off disaster.

We may be seeing something similar in the battle to select a new Speaker
of the House, which is now in its third week. Kevin McCarthy was booted
from the post to start October because he broke all but one promise he
made to secure the job. The one promise he kept was to reduce the number
of votes required to bring forth a motion to vacate the chair, as in
remove him from the job. Because he broke all of his other promises,
this was the avenue to remove him.

The House Republicans are now struggling to find a replacement. The
first choice, one supported by the donor class and the Democrats, was
Steve Scalise, but he reminded the rebels in the party too much of Kevin
McCarthy. Like McCarthy, Scalise owes his existence to his ability to
spread donor money around to those who fink on Republican voters on
behalf of the donor class. Trading one fink for another would have made
the Freedom Caucus complicit in the finkery, so they demurred.

Next up is Jim Jordan, who is not exactly Tiberius Gracchus, but he is a
serious man who is a capable political operator. He shares many of the
views held by the Freedom Caucus and the back benchers of the party.
This is why the people in charge tried to bump him off years ago with a
phony sex scandal. They are now trying to <a
href="https://abcnews.go.com/US/rep-jim-jordan-turned-blind-eye-sex-abuse/story?id=104060698"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">revive</a> that smear campaign to derail
his Speaker bid. The zombies in the Republican caucus have now been
activated against him.

Lost in the jibber-jabber and scheming is the fact that the donor class
opposes Jordan primarily due to his politics. The Republicans sell
themselves to their voters as a conservative party and Jordan is what
you should expect from the sales pitch, but the donors <a
href="https://thehill.com/opinion/campaign/4262314-a-resounding-no-for-jim-jordan/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">oppose</a> him because he is the sales
pitch. They <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/18/us/politics/republicans-speaker-jim-jordan-democrats-elections.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">argue</a> that having a Speaker who tries
to act on the party platform is bad for business. In other words, they
admit the party platform is nothing more than a scam on their voters.

The truth is this is a fight of symbolism, not real policy. A Speaker
Jordan will not be substantively different from Speaker McCarthy or
Speaker Pelosi. Spending bills will be a bit more transparent, and they
will not drop minutes before the vote. The bills themselves will not
change. From the perspective of the economic elites who control the
political system, they lose nothing with Speaker Jordan, other than a
bit of their pride for having had to make this small concession.

That is the core issue. It is the same issue that turned the Trump years
from a golden opportunity into an ongoing crisis. The people who are
actually in charge could have gotten any deal they wanted from Trump. He
would have signed off on amnesty, for example, as long as he got his
wall money. The people in charge could not bring themselves to give a
rube from the shtetl this tiny concession. Instead, they made war on him
and the public as a whole.

We are seeing the same thing in the House. McCarthy’s string pullers
were furious that he gave in on those small items to secure the gavel.
They were apoplectic when he started to follow through on them. Lost to
the mists of time is the fact he promised to release the J6 tapes in
full. He gave Tucker Carlson a small taste and official Washington was
incensed at this gesture toward transparency. He was forced to fink on
the rest of his promises and blow up his Speakership.

Of course, all of this is possible because House elections have no
impact on ninety percent of the House members. Only about forty seats
are ever in doubt, so the only risk for the other four hundred members
is falling out of favor with their party leaders, which means falling
out of favor with permanent Washington. Make the donors angry and you
get a sex scandal, an N-word scandal or something similar, along with a
well-financed primary challenger.

This is what happened to Steve King from Iowa. He was solid on
immigration, so the party had him knocked off. Kevin McCarthy colluded
with the New York Times to post a fake story claiming that King used the
N-word on a call. Immediately, McCarthy stripped King of his committee
assignments and sponsored a primary challenger. By the time the truth
came out about the call, it was too late for Steve King. Every
Republican voting against Jordan has that story on their desk right now.

Of course, there are other issues working against Jordan. He has been
skeptical of the Ukraine project. Far too many people in Washington are
getting rich off that racket to tolerate skepticism. The reason the
neocons have been able to push this project this far is they bolted it
too the money laundering machine that is foreign aid. The money goes out
to some foreign country and much of it returns in the form of consulting
contracts, defense contracts and lobbying deals.

The biggest problem is the oldest problem. Like the ruling elites during
revolutionary France and Russia, the ruling elite of the American empire
are convinced the state exists solely to guard their interests against
the Dirt People. Therefore, any concession, no matter how trivial or
symbolic, is a threat to the system. In the hive mind that is official
Washington, Jim Jordan leads to Donald Trump which leads to angry mobs
erecting a gallows on the Capitol lawn.

History, however, suggests the opposite. Through the nineties, the
economic elite got almost everything they wanted, by giving the hoi
polloi a few crumbs now and again to perpetuate the myth of American
democracy. Then the crumbs were replaced with rat poison, as the ruling
class turned increasingly hostile and paranoid. Like the peasants in
prior revolutionary eras, the best explanation we have for the behavior
of our rulers is they hate us and want us dead.

All of this is a glimpse of what lies ahead in 2024. The people
unwilling to budge on the Speaker issue are not going to budge on the
Trump issue. The road to ruin for this ruling elite is the same road as
that of prior elites. They are becoming increasingly ossified and
stubborn. They miss every opportunity to lower the temperature because
even small concessions are viewed through the lens of contempt for the
people over whom they rule. The end of this road is the gallows.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="anV4KcKCWmcXdYYQSfI1UA==cb7F4PdlXrluIzW1yQTRB0gemkentwhXDv89J1EbI7qccRV+i+Wr0KkxRsFdTSK+MX5"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="mkd+sxQY0e0Zio4dBj+0lg==cb7Bg/iXUU0BiafnjXcINLAahEB+XjEcCBSqGCMcdPwS+AMaNhFliO+0oA7pmvC7JxW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
