---
title: "Staircase Wits"
date: "2023-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - IQ
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30712"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30712"
---

Whenever the downward trend in Western intelligence gets discussed, the
focus is always on the right side of the curve. America is no longer
able to get to the moon because NASA is full of diversity, but it also
lacks the smart guys it used to have to solve the necessary problems. In
other words, the West is no longer able to make these great leaps
because the decline in human capital has reduced the number of geniuses
that are always needed to make those leaps.

At the heart of this line of thinking is the assumption that a society
can only be successful if it is moving forward toward something and
expanding in terms of material prosperity and cultural progress. This
may be true, but it is one of those assumptions that has been handed
down so many times that no one remembers who made the original claim or
why they made it. Why must the economy always expand? Why must humanity
expand its domain to the stars?

One reason to ask those questions is to think about the other side of
the bell curve that gets neglected in these discussions. What happens to
a society when the supply of stupid people increases? The model of
societal intelligence is always a smooth normal distribution, so when
the number of smart people declines it means the number of stupid people
must increase. The curve moves left. What is the impact on society when
the curve moves beyond some critical point?

The easy answer is Somalia. East Africa has some of the lowest averages
IQ’s in the known world so it is used as an example and a warning.
Without the interference of the more developed countries of the world,
East Africa would quickly move back to a lightly populated land full of
pastoral people. The societies of East Africa would look like what we
think the world looked prior to agriculture. Life for the people who
lived there would be nasty, brutish, and short.

There are a number of problems with this line of thinking. For starters,
the West is not going to suddenly drop thirty IQ points. It is a
process. According to Ed Dutton and others who have tried to quantify
Western IQ decline, every ten years we are losing about one IQ point.
Put another way, we are about three hundred years from reaching the
level of East Africa if nothing changes. The fact is Western man was
never at this point and will never decline to that point.

More important though is the fact that people do not live on the smooth
bell curves preferred by those who like modeling things. Model makers
are the sort of people who like a tidy universe, so they move back from
reality as far as they need to in order to get a model of the subject
that is neat and tidy. Smooth normal distributions make for
aesthetically pleasing graphs, so it is assumed that everything that
needs to be measured will result in a normal distribution.

That is not how intelligence works in daily experience. Instead, it is
like a weird set of stairs on which people are various IQ groups stand.
The people who are in your IQ group are the people you see every day.
The people a step above and below are people you will experience less
often. The people several steps above and below are people you rarely
encounter. When you do encounter them, you do not notice until something
happens the requires intelligence.

For example, when an averagely smart person stops at a sandwich place
for lunch, he may run into a low IQ person working there. The guy tasked
with keeping the floors clean and stocking the shelves might be a dumb
guy. The shop itself is run by a smart guy and he has people mostly at
or just below normal level, but he has a few guys a step or two below
that for the menial work. If it is a sole proprietorship, then the owner
is probably a step above the average person.

This is where to think about the decline in intelligence. In many jobs
like this, the owner used to depend on people from the normal step to do
the work. Many were young in their first real job. Many were part-time
people. These jobs were designed for people at or close to the average
IQ of the West. The few people a couple of steps below were supervised
officially and unofficially by the normals. Normal people served the
normal customers close to their level.

Now, when the curve moves left, the supply of people who can fill the
jobs at the sandwich show will also decline along with the supply of
guys who can build rockets to take people to the moon. Sure, many of the
jobs can be staffed with people a step or two down the IQ staircase, but
something else happens too. The demands on the guy running the place and
the remaining normal people increases. Suddenly, customers of the
sandwich shop experience
<a href="http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/sft.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">smart fraction theory</a>.

This is where that staircase image is important. The confusion at the
sandwich shop resulting from an overloaded smart fraction means the
people on that large average step make direct contact with people
several steps below them. They suddenly have to deal with people with
whom they lack a common understanding. Assumptions about things like
timeliness and efficiency are missing. All of a sudden, lunch becomes a
safari into an alien world of
<a href="https://twitter.com/kunley_drukpa/status/1701359445945536629"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">incomprehensible ineptitude</a>.

For all of human history, as far as we know, the people of sub-Saharan
Africa existed like people everywhere. The typical African lived his
life on one of the steps on the IQ staircase, rarely experiencing anyone
beyond a step above or below. Then Europeans arrived and the African was
suddenly confronted by people several steps above the experience of the
average African. Europeans did not just have better stuff. They had an
alien and incomprehensible way of thinking about things.

The West is now experiencing the reverse. Through generations of
dysgenic cultural policy and mass migration from the global south, your
typical European is like the typical African centuries ago. Instead of
people with magical abilities to conquer nature, the normal person is
experiencing people lacking the basic ability to function in even the
most basic jobs. It is not that the sandwich shop is disorganized, but
that the people working there are too stupid to be organized.

Roll this out across society and European people are not only
experiencing a decline in their own IQ, but they are experiencing people
with an IQ several steps below them on a daily basis. Intelligence
suddenly moves from the periphery to center stage for the average
European person. This means it becomes even more acute for the people a
step above them for whom the experience is even starker. Most Europeans
are about to go on safari in their own societies.

Just as contact with the West has permanently changed the identity of
sub-Saharan Africans, this new process will change Western people and
society. If you cannot run the sandwich shop along Western lines due to
the decline in intelligence, the guy running it must find a new
solution. The dilemma of the sandwich shop owner will play out across
that vast middle step on the IQ staircase. The people on that step will
have to suddenly recognize the staircase itself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Re/ISgCAJB3SoXAphvHuMg==cb7gNVnR+WSfe4tPJwx0iTeiaElB+9Vs1Oh03KZhEFOMXKZNLv/XLvlIKXYrQhmuseR"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="3/vg12EU8YeETsRc0FDEFg==cb7UUpTPFTFa4jlrx7aJDapHHMnDPnTqg9ELFGlrlDnbq86G2X04R0BIYk3fDHfReOP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
