---
title: "Virtue And Justice"
date: "2023-10-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30925"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30925"
---

In the Western world, concepts like justice and virtue are thought about
as objective things, as if they have been handed to us by God. You
cannot have personal justice as it is a thing that exists independent of
you. You can have personal virtue, but that just means you voluntarily
abide by a set of objective rules. The modifier in that phrase is for
emphasis rather than to shift the meaning of the word. To be a virtuous
person is to live by a set of rules that apply to all individuals
individually.

This is most obvious in the way we use the word justice. It is often
treated like a god that must be made happy or bad things will happen.
The internet is full of videos where an idiot is breaking the law in a
flagrant and gratuitous way only to come to a bad end by his own hand.
The popularity of these videos is due to the notion that this proves
justice will always be served. Justice is like a ledger and in the end,
both sides of the ledger must sum to zero or else.

Justice is the great balance between right and wrong. There are things
that are right and things that are wrong. If you do something wrong,
like break the law, then the needs of justice say you must be punished.
It is not the cops or the prosecutor or the judge punishing you because
they are upset by your actions. They are punishing you because justice
demands it. They may even have sympathy for you, but justice is justice
and criminals have to be punished.

Something similar exists with virtue. The virtuous person abides by the
rules of society and maybe the tenets of his religion. Our sense of
virtue in the West is a very republican one in that it is based on your
relationship with the social systems, not how you serve your family,
your community, or your people. The virtuous person adheres to the rules
and defends the institutions without regard to personal consideration.
It is why every politician claims to be a public servant.

Of course, the word “public” is entirely impersonal. The reason you
never hear a politician say he serves his people is there is no sense of
a people. There is the public, this abstract collection of individual
economic units, who have nothing more than a transactional relationship
with one another. In this way, the public servant is not serving real
flesh and blood people, but an implementation of them. The public is the
interface for whatever lies behind it.

This was not always the case in the West. Justice, for example, was a
personal matter for pre-Christian people. If a guy in the next village
killed one of your people, justice required you to kill him or one of
his people. On the other hand, your people might decide that it is not
in their interest to exact revenge this way. Instead, they decide to
kill the cattle of the other village. Justice was both a personal and
collective concept that was only loosely tied to universal concepts.

In Germanic societies, they had trial by combat. In a dispute between
two people, justice would be determined by the two parties fighting it
out. The idea was not that the gods would pick the winner in the name of
justice, but that justice was a personal thing to be imposed on others.
It was not the duty of the ruler to sort this out for the two parties in
a dispute. His job and that of society was to set the conditions for the
two sides to figure this out for themselves.

When it comes to virtue, the reverse was the case. The measure of you as
a person was not against an objective set of rules for individuals, but
wholly in the context of you as the member of a people. You see this in
Homer where the heroes perform great deeds on behalf of their people.
The Norse legends have similar tales. Virtue was all about your service
to your people. It was simply impossible to be a virtuous man without
contributing to the defense and prosperity of your people.

This is why exile loomed so large. Death was a terrible end because you
were forever exiled from your people, so you could no longer serve them.
Exile was the next worst for the same reason. It also brought the
torment of living with the fact that you are denied the opportunity to
serve your people. Virtue was defined by you fulfilling your potential
in service to your people, so it was simply impossible to be virtuous
outside the context of you as a member of a people.

There are still some flickers of this sense of virtue in the modern age.
Men who volunteer for the army are thanked for their service. Military
honors are often tied to selfless commitment to fellow soldiers under
duress. We have parades for cops who get killed chasing criminals.
Again, politicians call themselves public servants so they can pretend
to be virtuous. All of this, however, is limited to a narrow space of
life and measured against a universal standard of justice.

This contrast in the old views on virtue and justice with the modern
views is obvious when you look at the current war between the Jews and
Arabs. Hamas committed an atrocity against the Jews because their
justice demanded it. The Jews are the enemy of their people and justice
demands they strike at their enemies. The men who no doubt volunteered
for the mission will be celebrated, because they accomplished a great
feat in the war against the enemy of their people.

For their part, the Jews are following the same path. Twitter was full
of Jewish commentators demanding vengeance. They were not demanding
justice in the way in which modern Western people think of it. Look at
how Washington reacted after the 9/11 attacks. The promise was to go
after the people responsible. George Bush did not promise to carpet bomb
Kabul. Jews around the world and the Jewish government are promising to
exact vengeance on the people of Gaza.

The contrasting views on virtue are also obvious on the Jewish side.
Diaspora Jews conflate their sense of virtue, which is service to their
people, with the Western sense of virtue and demand you give over
everything to their fight with one of their ancient enemies in the
Levant. A similar mindset drives the neocon demand that the West risk
nuclear war in the Ukraine. Note that they speak of Russians as the
enemy, not the Russian state or the current form of government.

That last bit is vital to grasping the differences. The sanctions regime
was specifically aimed at the Russian people. The hope was that
sanctions would collapse the economy and throw the population into
starvation. We see the same thing happening with Gaza, as the IDF bombs
residential areas. In both cases, the point is to harm the people,
holding them responsible, not specifically their leaders. In both cases,
it is assumed the leaders are acting in service to their people.

It is tempting to think that modern Western views on virtue and justice
are superior to these older forms, but there is much to favor in what we
see in the Levant. If the Palestinians adhered to Western views, they
would no longer exist as a people, at least not in the Levant. Most
would have fled to new lands and lost their identity. The Jewish people
would have gone away a long time ago. Their old school views of virtue
and justice have allowed them to exist in the most hostile places.

The test of these two outlooks is happening within the West. As
non-European people flood into the West, bringing their Bronze Age
mindset on virtue and justice, they are challenging Europeans and their
universalist and individualist mindset. Will the former naturally give
way to the latter or will the latter have to be imposed by force on the
former and is this even possible within the framework of the latter?
Will Europeans just have to return to their old ways to preserve
themselves?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="D0NRVMvKU7gLzmsuOVVWGg==cb7fY3qc5YAvazGLczizA7nAsxP4dEXhOxarzVK22VTemROSd/MVCwSQ9hSVen9KLJI"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="YIswvsupPksFlQgc2MDjMw==cb72c5W6xC9sLlBuswVnMgDrk97uI2q+vnIu+h32tBPH66S+ghbro9cYaeHJZO2w/7s"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
