---
title: "The Sales Job"
date: "2023-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31017"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31017"
---

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Note:**</span> Last week a friend of
ours, Jeff Winston, passed away leaving behind a young wife and a baby
daughter. Jeff was the founder of White Art Collective, a group of
musicians and artist who collaborated on artistic endeavors. A
<a href="https://www.givesendgo.com/hiraethfund" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">fund</a> has been set up to help Jeff’s wife and
daughter. There is no excuse for not hitting the goal this week, so
please kick in a few bucks to the effort.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the business world, it is rare to encounter anyone who is skeptical
about marketing as a general concept. These people do exist, mostly in
the accounting department or in the technical support areas of
accounting. They have some sense of the real economic benefit of
marketing campaigns, so they tend to be a bit more skeptical of the
claims, but they have little say in the matter. The boys and girls in
the C-suites are all sure marketing is the key to success.

This is why history books are full of bad ad campaigns. Even the dumbest
ideas will win over some people, because it is assumed that all
attention is good attention, so even a terrible ad can work. It is also
why you rarely see marketing people get sacked for terrible ideas. The
one notable exception are the white people who run afoul of the morality
police. Put one <a
href="https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/michigan-state-university-apologizes-hitler-image-displayed-video-boar-rcna121594"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">picture</a> of Hitler on your gigantic
scoreboard and you will be fired before the game is finished.

A good recent example is the Bud Light controversy. It should have been
obvious that hiring a pervert to sell working class beer was a bad idea.
The customers for Bud Light are working men who want cheap beer. These
are not the sort of people who squeal with excitement over the latest
bourgeois decadence. Sure, the friends, colleagues and superiors of the
<a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-12001387/Bud-Lights-fire-marketing-VP-takes-LEAVE-ABSENCE-Dylan-Mulvaney-controversy.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">horse-faced woman</a> who cooked up the
idea thought it was marvelous, but they would not be caught dead
drinking Bud Light.

It took the executives of that beer company weeks to figure out that
they had a serious crisis on their hands, primarily because they have
been conditioned to think that anything that gets attention is good
marketing. It never occurred to them that their customers would not want
to be associated with a pervert. Instead, they were caught up in the
excitement of having “gone viral.” It was only after the mockery reached
the clouds that they fired the people responsible.

The truth of it is, most of what passes for marketing is nonsense. There
is little empirical evidence to suggest it boosts sales. If Coca-Cola
stopped running television ads, would people stop buying their products?
Clearly not as the brand is globally recognized to the point where it is
a generic term like Kleenex or Zipper. Coca-Cola could discontinue all
advertising for a year and not see a change in sales. In fact, that
would be a great <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/p-g-slashed-digital-ad-spending-by-another-100-million-1519915621"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">marketing idea</a> and it would surely go
viral!

The same sort of psychosis grips politics. It is assumed that the
formula for success works backward in that you start with having gained
power. If you have power, you can do what you want, but you first must
get power. That means winning an election, so you have to focus on that
project. In order to win the election, you need to get the votes and
that means getting the attention of the voters. In order to do that you
need to market your candidate to the rubes out in the hinterland.

This is why the Ron DeSantis campaign is now circling the drain. They
assumed that they first needed to make him a household name, so they
contracted those who claim to know how to do this. Those people then <a
href="https://revolver.news/2023/10/desantis-horrible-online-strategy-cost-him-his-largest-donor/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hired</a> lots of “social media
influencers” who would talk about Ron DeSantis as if he is their old
pal. Never mind that many of them are weirdos and conmen. After all, any
attention is good attention and these social misfits have proven to be
great at getting attention on Twitter.

Hiring a gold-plated phony like
<a href="https://twitter.com/mitchellvii" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Bill Mitchell</a> sounded like a great idea because he
supposedly has half a million followers. It should have taken them five
minutes to see that the follower number is fake. His account gets less
engagement than many abandoned accounts, but what he does get is usually
mockery. Even among the hardest of hardcore Trump fans Bill Mitchell was
a ridiculous person when he was pitching himself as super-MAGA man.

The same logic was behind hiring
<a href="https://twitter.com/emeriticus" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Mexican Bill Mitchell</a>. You can easily imagine the
conversation when they made this decision. “He was on Tucker so those
mouth breathers will listen to him.” They never stopped to think that it
would be rather obvious that his support was purchased. That and his
influence with Trump supporters was contingent on his support for Trump
and his last name. When he was MAGA, he was the “barrio Nazi” but with
DeSantis he is just Pete.

Of course, all of this rested on an assumption that is probably false.
That assumption is that Twitter has an impact on public opinion. For
those on Twitter every day, it certainly feels like it is the public
square. To those not on Twitter every day, the vast majority of people,
it is like every other social media platform they ignore. There is a
reason that conversations in the real world about Twitter tend to be
derisive. Twitter is not reality, but an alternative reality with little
impact on reality.

This is probably true of the internet as a whole. Those old enough to
have been online before the mouse recognized this reality forty years
ago. Going back and forth with strangers on Usenet was a fun diversion
from reality. You and everyone else were playing a role in a simulated
world. When your internet time was up, you went back to work and forgot
about it. Then when you had free time, you would pick up that thread
about who is
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin%27s_law" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">really</a> the Nazi in the debate.

Like marketing in the business world, social media has become an article
of faith in politics that is never questioned. Of course, you have to
have a social media presence and of course you need to hire social media
strategists. Imagine a big company not having a marketing department! It
is the same mentality in politics, and it rests on the same assumption
which is probably not true. At the minimum, the truth of it is far more
limited than everyone assumes.

In the end, reality matters. If you are selling station wagons just when
Chrysler introduced the minivan, no amount of marketing is going to
change the fact that the minivan was a better family vehicle. If you are
selling Ron DeSantis in the age of Trump, no amount of social media
influencing is going to change the fact that he is just another
conventional politician in an unconventional age. The best marketing is
a product that sells itself, whether it is cars or politicians.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kEEn/2H1D+/ojM3OmSAspw==cb7W4yqJVZepU0omyPV95u7pFKIHpJF2t4nhEtl4B/KkldoKd2Hq5QLmO/MGNeqRg7F"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="t4wJR4vthTZ0bsajQM0e1A==cb7EqL5W45Cmy4gyAiFzcZP+rY735r70qSSDviPswASkkUpFVfAgsWqJNKRitbU0tDi"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
