---
title: "Antiracist Constitution"
date: "2023-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30243"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30243"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the movie Amadeus, a
post about Affirmative Action and the Sunday podcast. You can sign up
for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note:** American Renaissance is having its annual conference in August
at the usual location in Tennessee. It is a great event and anyone who
is interested in the sort of politics discussed here should make it
there at least once. You can sign up for the event at the American
Renaissance
<a href="https://www.amren.com/2023-american-renaissance-conference/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">website</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the typical person thinks about the law, he thinks about it as a
list of behaviors that are prohibited. You cannot fish during certain
months, for example. You are not allowed to drive over a certain
velocity. The law is a list of limitations on what you can do as well as
a list of things others cannot do to you. This is largely true as a
practical matter, but the law is more than a list of prohibitions. It is
a moral system that turns those limitations into a habit of mind for the
citizenry.

Although the law often looks chaotic and self-contradictory, it is a
system made of properties and methods. The properties are things like
constitutional rights, precedents, and legislation. These are statements
that are treated as facts. Your First Amendment right to assembly is
assumed to be a fact of nature. The Court’s decision that the First
Amendment does not permit you to yell fire in a crowded theater when
there is no fire is now assumed to be a truth in the Constitution.

The methods are the rules that govern how the people inside the law
interact with those properties as well as the other people inside the
legal system. The courts have processes for adjudicating disputes
between citizens, for example. The government has to meet certain
conditions when they infringe on the rights of a citizen. All of us
exist inside the legal framework, as it is the implementation of the
moral framework of our society and the framework determines how we
interact with one another.

This is the starting place for reading this new
[booklet](https://www.amazon.com/How-Got-Our-Antiracist-Constitution/dp/B0C9FXZZDG/)
titled *How We Got Our Antiracist Constitution: Canonizing Brown v.
Board of Education in Courts and Minds*, which is part of the Claremont
Provocations Monograph Series. The author is Jesse Merriam, who teaches
government at Patrick Henry University. His focus is on the history of
the famous Supreme Court case *Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka*,
which has transformed not just the law by the Constitution itself.

The author starts with a short history of the famous case. This is one
of those things that will be a revelation for most readers. Even though
the case was decided in 1954, the process started a generation earlier
when a young communist radical received a million-dollar inheritance
from his father. He was going to reject it, but the founder of the ACLU
convinced him to use the money to fund left-wing causes. This was in
1922, long before normal Americans thought about civil rights.

This money was used to start the Garland Fund, which gave the NAACP
$100,000 to begin the litigation that eventually led to the Brown
decision. The author does not spend a lot of time on it, but the point
is clear. The civil rights movement was not something organic and
spontaneous. It was a long-term project organized and financed by
wealthy and important individuals. They set out to change the moral
framework of the country and committed their lives to the cause.

That brings us to the heart of the topic. The author walks the reader
through the process by which a legal decision becomes canonical and then
how that status in the law warps everything that comes after it. In the
law, “canonization” is “the process by which a single Supreme Court
decision comes to control constitutional theory, debate, and
interpretation.” A case can become so important that it changes the
methods by which the Court views the Constitution itself.

This is a three-step process that starts with the construction phase.
This is when the new moral principles are introduced to the moral
framework or old moral principles are challenged as antithetical to the
core principles. *Brown* was the end point of the construction phase
where two new principles were added. One is that diversity is a
constitutional good. This is why diversity is a strength. The other new
principle was that discrimination, private or public, is always
unconstitutional.

The next phase is what the author calls submission, which is the process
“whereby critics of the initial decision capitulate to the new
paradigm.” The author provides data on how conservatives changed over
this phase. He counted negative stories in National Review before and
after Rehnquist was nominated to the Court. He also looks at opinions on
*Brown* during this period and notes that they went from uniformly
hostile to neutral and then accepting.

The submission phase with regards to *Brown* is a great primer on what
lies behind the internet meme “the conservative case for…” These new
moral claims are first embraced by the people with control of the
institutions. That power is then used to select against critics, which
has the desired effect of selecting for those willing to bend their knee
to the new moral paradigm. What has shaped conservatism over the last
several generations is this process of submission to the Left.

The final phase of canonization is weaponization. This begins “when the
former critics marshal the decision and its values for their own legal
and political agenda.” As the former critics incorporate the moral
principles in their own arguments, the case then becomes a controlling
moral authority. Those former critics of the new morality transform
themselves into its champions, often trying to stake out positions that
are more extreme than those of the original advocates.

Again, the author dives into the writings of conservatism to provide
examples of how they now embrace the moral claims of *Brown*. This is
the origin of another well-worn internet meme, “democrats are the real
racists.” For a generation after *Brown*, opposition to this decision
was central to conservative arguments. Over the last thirty years
*Brown* has taken center stage in conservative arguments in favor of
diversity and opposition to discrimination.

The final result of this process is that the original Constitution has
been hollowed out and in place of the rights-based moral order we now
have the twin moral demands that have come from the logic of the *Brown*
decision. Not only are your enumerated rights subject to the “Brown
test”, but the federal system established by the Constitution has
collapsed in order to comply with the new moral paradigm, leaving us
with what the author calls the antiracist Constitution.

The author does not get into this, as it falls outside the scope of the
essay, but the new legal framework created by *Brown* reflects the new
moral framework that has come to dominate the thinking of the ruling
elite. Diversity as the primary good and discrimination as the primary
bad haunt every aspect of modern life. Not only must you avoid
discriminating against members in the league of the oppressed, but you
must also swear allegiance to diversity.

This is fundamental to the new religion which imagines the end point of
social progress as the open society. If all people are inherently equal,
then the differences we see must be due to social structures, which
means that people are infinitely malleable. This is the universal truth
of mankind. Thus, we have the holy trinity of the new religion,
equality, the blank slate, and universalism. The logic of *Brown*
reflects this spiritual sensibility as well as the ultimate goal of the
open society.

This is a topic of critical importance for dissidents, so this booklet
on the *Brown* decision and its canonization in the law is an important
entry point. As the author notes, the road forward is not in fighting
the tentacles that have grown out of *Brown*, but to understand how we
got to this point. In order to remove the tentacles of *Brown v. Board
of Education* from the neck of society, the moral claims that lie behind
the decision must be understood and then defeated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="val0gF4DxPSnCQqU8IXOMA==cb7s7qoBgps7GpYX8xFgKRAW9IM9f0JR59KIDPemT/hmdQij/c83XRKaSA/GY+3aZvX"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="oHPUz4Qw8Qh1pivrG45N1g==cb7b3crEohnsyNx3y5Bg5Cm6Le2j2e+hW+AWRdEUhjv7kVLzx6abNaulY0eOAEaLuqw"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
