---
title: "What Is Happening Inside Russia"
date: "2023-06-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30210"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30210"
---

“Once you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains, no matter how
improbable, must be the truth” is a famous quote from Sherlock Holmes.
While it can easily lead to the logical fallacy called the false
dilemma, it is useful in arriving at a set of possible solutions to a
problem. You first remove the answers that are impossible then think
about the range of solutions that remain. It may not yield the exact
right answer, but at least you avoid the wrong answer.

Such is the case with the Russian coup. Last weekend the head of the
Wagner PMC, Yevgeny Prigozhin, announced he was going to march on Moscow
with his troops and forcibly remove the Minister of Defense, Sergei
Shoigu. He quickly amended that claim to saying he was staging “a march
for justice” to demand the removal of Shoigu and his top deputy Valery
Gerasimov. Then a few thousand of his men drove up the highway toward
Moscow, stopping at a nearby city.

Some sort of negotiation was initiated by the Kremlin, which led to a
deal brokered by the head of Belarus, Aleksandr Lukashenko. The “coup
leaders”, including Prigozhin, would not be arrested. Instead, they
would head off to Belarus with a contingent of the Wagner fighters.
Presumably, these are the fighters who went with Prigozhin. The rest of
the Wagner groups would be offered a deal to sign contracts with the
Russian military or go back to civilian life.

In the history of military coups, this is the weirdest. An ironclad rule
of putting down coup attempts is you punish the leaders of the coup in
such a way that terrifies anyone thinking about staging a coup. The
ghoulish punishments of the past came about in response to attempts to
topple the king. The English used hanged, drawn and quartered, for
example, as a special punishment for treason. Cutting open the traitor
and pulling out his internals while still alive made a big impression.

Prigozhin going into semi-retirement in Belarus does not make much sense
if he was staging a genuine coup. Whatever he was up to, the Kremlin has
decided that his goal was not regime change at the top. Further, they
decided that no one else thought it was a genuine coup either, so they
were free to be lenient. In fact, it appears that the Kremlin has
decided that extreme leniency serves their interests. Whatever happened
here, we can reasonably assume it was not a coup attempt.

Another possibility is that this is some sort of four-dimensional chess
maneuver to get the Wagner group into Belarus. From there they can
attack Kiev. We can eliminate this option as the number of Wagner forces
headed to Belarus is small, just a few thousand, so they are not
attacking anything by themselves. To attack Kiev, you would need several
hundred thousand troops. Kiev is a huge city with lots of defenses and
tens of thousands of Ukrainian forces in and around it.

We can probably eliminate the other 4-D chess theories as well. The
Russians are not fond of these sorts of public relations stunts. If for
example, the Kremlin wanted to get rid of Prigozhin, they would not put
on a show like this. Similarly, if Putin were looking for a way to sure
up his position with regards to the hardliners, he would not risk
letting them stage a coup. The right answer lies within the domain of
people acting in what they thought was their own interests.

Starting from the least likely, the first possibility is that Prigozhin
was operating as some sort of double agent. He was talking with
Washington about staging a coup or maybe he was talking to the
Ukrainians. In reality he was working with Moscow to help flush out some
conspirators in the Ministry of Defense. Prigozhin’s march to Moscow was
his final favor to Putin before he heads off to retirement. The drama
worked as cover for the Kremlin as they rounded up the real
conspirators.

This is possible, but very much in the four-dimensional chess zone, so
it is probably the least likely answer. Putin’s position is secure, so
he would not have to do this sort of *Game of Thrones* stuff to deal
with troublemakers. He has made plenty of personnel changes during the
last year, so he could arrest a couple of traitors. That and there has
been no word on anyone being arrested. Russia is a modern country. If
someone important disappears, everyone soon knows about it.

There is the possibility Prigozhin went mad. Like Colonel Kurtz, he lost
touch with reality and this half-baked coup was the result. The fact
that most of his troops refused to participate is an important data
point. According to reliable sources, only a few thousand Wagner
fighters went on the march. Given the increasingly erratic behavior of
Prigozhin and his prior insane statements, this is a strong possibility.
He went mad and the Kremlin simply found a peaceful way to manage it.

A similar and slightly more plausible option is that Prigozhin allowed
his dispute with Shoigu to get the better of him. His genuine complaints
about the conduct of the war were spoiled by his public airing of those
complaints. His support within the military collapsed and he found
himself with two bad options. One was wait to be fired and the other was
to force his way into a better deal. In the end he gets to retire in a
form of house arrest in neighboring Belarus.

Another version of this is that Prigozhin misjudged his support within
the Kremlin, and he overestimated his public support. He made his move
thinking he had a strong hand but once he reached Rostov, reality became
clear to him. The reason the Kremlin quickly offered him a golden bridge
out of his predicament, is they were confident they had the situation in
hand. It also suggests they anticipated this was a possibility and were
ready to end it without bloodshed.

Further support of this option is the way the Kremlin quickly moved to
offer Prigozhin a way out of his dilemma. Russian forces had already
circled Wagner at Rostov, with the Chechens on their way as a sign of
unity. It was if they anticipated this possibility and not only prepared
a response but had time to consider how it would look to their friends
and allies. Independent polling also suggests this went over very well
with the Russian people. Putin’s popularity is at a record high.

While the evidence suggests Prigozhin either acted from madness or
hubris, there is one wrinkle that is worth mentioning. The usual
suspects rushed out to post their fantasy version of what was happening
as the events were unfolding. Many stated that they knew about this plot
all along. Senior Kagan cult member Anne Applebaum had a <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2023/06/russia-civil-war-wagner-putin-coup/674517/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">narrative</a> out on the first day. Note
that her husband, a Polish diplomat, posted on Twitter about the Nord
Stream bombing as it happened.

The Russians have used this to claim that Prigozhin may have been
working with outside forces, strongly suggesting Washington was
involved. The Biden people have been rushing around to deny these
claims. The reason is they see that it will give the Kremlin an excuse
to escalate in response. Yesterday the Russians bombed a hotel in
Kramatorsk, which housed foreign mercenaries. The subsequent video
revealed a lot of Americans digging through the rubble.

It has been clear for a while that the hardliners are not happy with the
pace of the war, but Putin has been reluctant to go harder on Ukraine.
He has also been the least bellicose of the Russian leaders with regards
to Washington. Putin has always been in the dovish camp regarding the
West. This Prigozhin incident may have opened a road for Putin to take
toward the hawks. This Kramatorsk attack could be the start of a new
period of escalation by Moscow.

In the end, we do not know the real story behind these events. All we
can do is eliminate the impossible. Once you do that, we are left with a
picture of the Russian leadership that is trying to avoid World War
Three, but also balancing internal politics in order execute a war of
attrition with the West. The end result of this Prigozhin incident will
not be the end times as imagined by the Kagan cult, but it could lead to
a more aggressive stance by Moscow toward the West.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="j1mQwm4QwNLhtHLkleUIhQ==cb7klOmuboV+bNXiTd8LthxIPPhn4R8OLOW2fZgRyjeEWVaGkoQxSkvCKsEOyyA3p80"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="qXNuApVXkQkzi2wATTp4GA==cb7d0cW6ci3vwc/cyk6UPL/O+TWLoa7eSIRcOu4rOVs6fEuoq9lSO8xFaCOmjFb61oc"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
