---
title: "Sailing The Three C’s"
date: "2023-11-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31101"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31101"
---

There are three aspects to problem solving that seem obvious when stated
but are not always obvious to philosophers of problem solving. One is
that you have to identify that there is a problem, as in an unwanted
result. The next step is to then narrow in on the possible causes of the
problem. The final step is to then produce a list of possible
corrections to these complaints and causes. In the world of problem
solving, this is known as Complaint, Cause and Correction.

If you are a working man who does productive things for a living, this
is something with which you are familiar. If you fix big scary trucks
for a living, every day someone points at a big scary truck, hands you a
list of complaints and you then set about finding the causes of those
complaints and their corresponding corrections. If you are a philosopher
of big scary trucks, then this is a bit of a mystery. You wonder how any
of this fits in with your particular school’s philosophy or ideology.

This disconnect is obvious in politics. The Republicans have been vexed
by one primary complaint for close to a decade. The people they want to
swindle into voting for them do not like them very much. In fact, they
went so far as to vote for the one guy the party said was off-limits in
2016, Donald Trump. Despite the party’s best efforts to rid themselves
of this troublesome man, the rank-and-file voters still prefer him over
whatever the party offers as an alternative.

In other words, the party’s complaint is that the voters refuse to
support the blocks of wood the party is selling and they support the guy
they hate. This turned up in the local elections yesterday, where the
Republican Party underperformed again. They even put up a based black
guy in the Kentucky governor’s race, but the Democrat still won, in a
state that is reliably Republican. In Virginia, the party failed to win
the state house, despite their claims about the governor’s popularity.

Going back to the big scary truck idea, the complaint is that it is the
wrong sort of big scary truck, and the driver wants his old truck back.
You, the big scary truck fixer guy can certainly figure out the cause of
the complaints. The company bought the wrong truck, or the driver is a
knucklehead. The trouble is you have no correction for these causes, so
the complaint must remain unaddressed. That is the problem for the
Republican Party as it sinks into irrelevance.

The philosophers of political problem solving, like the philosophers of
big scary trucks, will immediately point to their favorite correction.
No matter the complaint, no matter the cause, they will argue that the
correction is to do whatever it is they are paid to promote or what
their ideological school promotes. They will skip that middle part, the
cause, and maybe even recast the complaint to their liking. This is why
politic punditry is endless rounds of more of the same.

There will be some who pretend to be smart by focusing on the cause.
They will roll out some polls claiming that the party does not appeal to
this group of new people or this other newly labeled identity group.
They will argue, for example, the GOP lost support among young female
Tinder users in Ohio. They failed to capture the one-legged lesbian
Elvis impersonator vote in the Northern Virginia suburbs. The point of
this analysis is to avoid looking too closely at the complaints and the
causes.

The place to start for this result and what will be a similar result in
the 2024 election is the complaint portion of the work order. If you
asked white people to list their top-5 complaints with the party, none
of them can be found in the op-ed section of major news sites or in the
talking points of candidates. For close to a decade now these voters
have been pilloried by the diversity rackets. The party’s corrective to
this in Kentucky, a very white state, was to offer up Jeb Bush in
blackface.

That is the problem of the party in a nutshell. It no longer pretends to
care about the complaints of its voters. They refuse to even discuss
most of them. The reason Youngkin won the governorship is because
outside groups and grassroots volunteers were outraged at the diversity
stuff in the schools. As soon as Youngkin won, he fell silent on all of
this stuff and began dreaming of bigger things. Why would those voters
come out and support his party in the next election?

It would be one thing if the party spent time properly discussing the
complaints of their voters but failed to arrive at suitable corrections.
The voters could at least kid themselves into thinking these guys will
eventually land on the right correction, even if it is by blind luck.
Here is the campaign <a href="https://nikkihaley.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">website</a> of Nikki Haley, who is the preferred option
by the party for 2024. Note there is nothing on site to indicate why she
is running or why it should matter to you. It is just stock phrases and
photos.

Here is the <a href="https://rondesantis.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">website</a> of Ron DeSantis, who thinks he is
Trump-lite. Like Haley, there is nothing on the site but gibberish. At
the top is what looks like a campaign slogan. “I am running for
President of the United States because I want to lead our Great American
Comeback. Our country is going in the wrong direction. We see it with
our eyes and we feel it in our bones…” Lead to where? Back from what?
Which direction is it headed and what is the right direction? Who knows?

To shift gears slightly, the salesman for the big scary truck repair
facility has a job similar to a politician. He tries to convince people
to use his service. As a salesman, he has been trained to rely on logos,
ethos, and pathos. That is, he combines logical arguments in favor of
his service, with his and his firm’s reputation, along with emotional
arguments to close the sale. “You know we can do a good job for you, and
you will sleep better knowing you signed with us.”

If the Republican Party were operating the big scary truck shop, the
salesmen would be festooned in the flags of foreign countries and
showing the prospects pictures of the one black guy they have working in
their shop. Meanwhile, the mechanics would be spending their days
driving penis pictures on the work orders. No one would do business with
them because no one would understand the point of their business or know
why they should do business with them.

In fairness, the party leaders probably know this at some level. They
are smart and clever in the rat-like way that is common in politics.
They surely see that they are running a generational bust out. The
demographic that makes the Republican Party possible is sinking into
permanent minority status. The goal here is to keep them from noticing
while the party squeezes the last drops from the racket. The big scary
truck shop will then be set on fire for the insurance money.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="yc2DQBSiYbNSn5C2j+/2iQ==cb7rDa4oCDRCYq0puTb9hfvX0/xxQhAhwOZLo6mSqgofQ/HMPqFs13HD/gMeFb4SQxV"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Dvef7AhPOF4PmlvuADW73A==cb79XNP10eTfgoAPGLCZDhrasVNC4Cfuz43gTObFeoWs7taKSDFxNfOX8QChaVAojwm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
