---
title: "The False Dawn"
date: "2023-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31227"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31227"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post about the surprising good
old film *It Happened One Night*, a post about the sanctimonious film
called *To Kill A Mockingbird*, which is close to unwatchable. Then
there is the Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Researchers estimate that the typical American makes over two hundred
decisions per day on food alone. The typical mid-level manager will make
tens of thousands of decisions in a typical day. These are not all
conscious decisions. In fact, most choices are made as a part of our
conditioning. These are the habits of mind that have been developed over
a lifetime. We do think about these choices so much as react to
conditions, not much different than a trained animal.

Of course, those choices are not empirical choices. Unless you do math
for a living, most of the choices are what the cool kids call normative
choices. These are choices within the moral framework of your society or
perhaps within the code of conduct you have inherited from family or
developed through experience. These are the choices based on how society
expects you to act or choices you make based on how you hope to be
viewed by others in your immediate social circle.

Having the salad for lunch rather than a big greasy cheeseburger is not
a choice with an objectively correct answer. You like the big greasy
cheeseburger, and you know it is actually better for you than the salad,
but social pressure says that a guy like you who could stand to lose a
few pounds should pick the salad. Maybe you are a guy who enjoys bucking
these sorts of pressures, so you ask for extra bacon on the burger and
hope someone tells you it is a heart attack on a plate.

The truth is the average human makes few decisions that are empirically
verifiable, even those in right answer professions. The accountant
entering data into his ERP system is doing his daily tasks because that
is what he is paid to do, and those tasks have the right answer by the
rules of accounting. There may be rules set forth by the company for how
he processes his work. Those choices, however, make up a small part of
his day and most are controlled by the ERP system.

These empirical choices are also the ones were worry about the least.
That accountant is far less concerned about keying in a journal entry
correctly than he is about how to dispose of the hooker he murdered over
the weekend. Should he try to frame his neighbor for the crime? Should
he just dump the body somewhere? The journal entry he is keying into the
system either balances or not and the figures are simply what the
accounting process requires of him.

This is what to keep in mind as the AI debate takes center stage. This
new software tool that feels human to the user can quickly provide the
correct answer in that narrow slice of life where empiricism dominates.
Ask the robot for the correct way to handle the amortization of a new
piece of equipment and it will give you the options that fall within the
generally accepted accounting practices. Ask it how to best handle the
hooker problem and it will have no answer for you.

The fans of AI, on the other hand, hope that this new technology will
solve those normative questions. Some fear it will apply reason to those
normative problems and arrive at answers that violate current taboos.
This is why the developers have been tasked to derange the logic of this
technology to avoid the obvious with regards to certain demographic
questions. The new religion fears the robots will join the resistance
and overthrow the current moral paradigm.

What the fans of AI hope for, of course, is that the new model will
confirm their moral claims and deny those of their opponents. The true
believers of the new religion think with enough social and economic
pressure, the developers will create robots that sound like the people
in the grievance studies department. This will then validate the claims
of their religion and force their opponents to submit. Their opponents,
of course, are sure the robots will side with them, if they are allowed
to be free.

There are those who fear robots will become self-aware and then enslave
humanity for reasons they never discuss. The subtext to these claims is
that man is a fallen, less than perfect entity and the robots will
naturally react like the god of the Hebrew Bible and seek to wipe out
this imperfect part of the natural world. Like the two sides of the
debate about the new religion, the people who fear the robot revolution
secretly wish it becomes the god they wish existed in nature.

That is the core of the AI discussion. Western man has been sure for so
long that reason will take the place of God or collective decision that
this new reasoning machine is expected to be the final leg of the
journey. AI is the vessel that will take man beyond the great barrier.
Rather than bringing man to face its creator, it will reveal the logic
of the universe and therefore how man ought to act. AI will finish the
journey started by Robespierre and his fellow lunatics.

The absurdity of thinking a tool can become the god of man is a symptom
of a problem that has haunted the West since the Enlightenment. Once you
dispense with God you are left with only one possible source of moral
authority. That is collective desire as expressed through tradition,
custom and ritual. Since this is by definition particular to specific
people, it can never take the place of the universal god of man, which
is where reason has come into the moral debate.

This is the source of nutty ideas like natural rights or human rights,
which claim that nature comes with a moral code for all mankind. It is
intellectual base steal in the quest to prove that reason can replace
God as the moral authority. It is also why the people we call the Left
fall back on Hegelian ideas about the flow of history to justify their
laundry list of moral claims. You see, it is not what they want but what
the tides of history will usher forth whether we like it or not.

Hoping that a new tool created by man will replace the one moral
authority that has served us well is ridiculous but rational. People
believe things not because they make sense but because they are more
comforting than alternative beliefs. It is possible that AI results in a
cult that claims this new technology proves the correctness of their
moral code and that the rest of us must fall in line or else. Every new
god comes with that “or else” bit, especially the gods born from reason.

In the end, the promise of AI in this regard will fail because David
Hume was correct, and we cannot get an ought from an is. How we ought to
live is determined by the gods, our God or through our mutual choices as
expressed through tradition. We ought to act a certain way because the
gods demand it, our God revealed it to us through our holy book or it is
just the way we do things. Like reason itself, AI will be another false
dawn in the quest to replace God and tradition as the source of moral
authority.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Vel7xk/FDLoedTJHCYmz8Q==cb7ynjKled4SwAvkFiJXx67j7DlpZ29ZLbnjgQzYkN8ec3iYsWappctpWSskLbtrdUl"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="wh/Nd3dCCDOfDJwEDCJu9A==cb7TbJ5O/jJcrROlDLO8fgB2KtJYKw+PBs7uM6MGxsJAV4MbPwEhRBnF7eDMlXC2JWB"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
