---
title: "The God’s Three Questions"
date: "2023-11-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31214"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31214"
---

Fundamental to all human organizations are three questions that must be
answered in order for the organization to survive. A group of people who
come together by chance with no reason to be together will go on their
way. A mob at a sporting event is there for the game, but once the game
is ended, they disperse. The only point of them gathering in the stadium
was to see the game. Even that reason, however, was temporary and was
never intended to bind the fans together.

The first question for every human organization is “Who are we?” This is
the most basic and if not the most important question. The answer could
be something mundane and temporary like a sporting event, but this is an
answer that assumes the gathering of people is intended to be for the
mundane and temporary. A more lasting answer is one that provides the
members with a reason to continue working together. A fraternal
organization, for example, has an answer that is timeless.

That answer will then be linked to the second question, “To what end?”
The people at a ball game come together to see the game and to cheer on
the team. Since the founding answer is expected to be short-lived, the
second answer is as well. The group that assembles near the old railway
station with the password “sic semper tyrannis” for the purpose of
organizing a rebellion has a longer-term point of their organizations,
so the answers to these two big questions have a longer view.

The final and most important question that all human organizations must
answer is the one of authority, “Who says?” The answer to this question
is usually assumed, but rarely considered in the open. The people at the
ball game do not talk about who says it is a good idea for them to come
together and cheer for the team. Similarly, when the civil authority
banned public gatherings during Covid, everyone just accepted that they
had the authority to do so. The state is usually the answer here.

Those guys meeting near the old railway station to plot the overthrow of
the government, however, cannot just assume the question has been
answered, because ultimately the purpose of their group is to provide
the answer. Maybe they think the civil authority has offended the gods
or is violating the traditions of their people. The answer to “Who says?
for them is those gods or traditions. There is some moral authority that
provides them with the justification to rebel against the civil
authority.

At a more mundane level, the people who assemble in the park on the
third Saturday of every month for the purpose of cleaning the park also
have an answer. They are getting together because they are the Third
Saturdays Park guys, and the point of their organization is to keep the
park clean. Their moral authority for doing so, the answer to “Who says
they can do this” is their understanding of their civic duty. By the
morals of their society, they feel a duty to clean the park.

To see how this works in American society, think about the civil rights
movement, which has come under renewed scrutiny of late. As if by magic,
America went from a rights-based society in which the citizens were
sovereign to one ruled by a self-perpetuating elite charged with
enforcing a regime of equity and diversity. The words on the original
paper, which is supposed to be the moral authority, are still there in
the museum but as if by magic new words on new papers now prevail.

This is the <a
href="https://lawliberty.org/forum/how-civil-rights-law-changed-america/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reality</a> of civil rights legislation,
particularly the founding court case of the movement, Brown v. Board of
Education. A group of men came together in the name of what they called
civil rights, with the purpose of overturning the rights based moral
structure of American society, so they could insert a new answer to that
fundamental question of society. The answer now is the law requires that
all public policy bend toward the goals of diversity and equity.

It is an amazing trick, but it shows how powerful even a small group can
be when they have answered the three big questions. That power only
grows when they are able to undermine the majority confidence in the
traditional answers. The new moral regime of civil rights looked
attractive to people who had slowly been disabused of their long-held
answers to the three big questions. Once Americans stopped believing in
their rights as Americans, they were ready to believe in anything.

From a different angle, you can see how the three big questions can vex
a movement before it gets started. Christian nationalism is largely a
reaction to the moral degeneracy of the current age, but it seeks to be
a positive alternative to the prevailing order, which it struggles to
define. You can see that here in this <a
href="https://americanmind.org/features/what-is-christian-nationalism/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in the American Mind, which
tries to flesh out what is meant by Christian nationalism. Another take
is this <a
href="https://americanmind.org/features/what-is-christian-nationalism/taking-christian-nationalism-seriously/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> that addresses some of the
points of the first post.

Christian nationalism fails the first test as it is unable to provide a
coherent answer to the question, “Who are we?” As you can see in those
posts, they are not even sure what they mean by Christian, much less
nationalist. The plan seems to be that they will rally a majority around
some vague criticism of the present condition in order to gain political
power, which they will then use to order society to their liking. Their
answer to that third question will presumably be the ballot box.

For a human organization to live past its initial enthusiasm of the
moment it must answer the three big questions. Who are we? What is our
purpose? By what authority have we come together to act in concert? This
is why reactionary movements always fail to rollback what they oppose.
The object of their efforts either evolves to evade their critique or it
evolves a moral authority based in itself, like we see with the civil
rights movement, that the reactionary cannot defeat.

If there is to be a revolt against the modern age, the people doing the
revolting will first have to tackle the three big questions. In other
words, the opponents of the present order must learn from the creators
of the present order, the people behind the civil rights movement, and
fashion a new moral framework that rests on a moral authority that the
movement will defend to the last man. In other words, to defeat the old
gods, one must build a movement around a new god.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="vrmoz+YZ1c20qCwjqSGA9Q==cb7HHqAduK5blpGfsk5lblFQK9UCLCAbCbEOnC2SwWVuxdfNE/frEDH1G9FWN6cBl8n"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="pKNpWOjpAwjZ/7EdR3K5dg==cb7k2sX1WRfwalYAFFuIMihkcVQbvIZmWZdEvc+ndS85kEK10D+Q1Ch3I1hXgNc0XrW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
