---
title: "The Animal Farm Option"
date: "2023-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30114"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30114"
---

**Note:** American Renaissance is having its annual conference in August
at the usual location in Tennessee. It is a great event and anyone who
is interested in the sort of politics discussed here should make it
there at least once. You can sign up for the event at the American
Renaissance
<a href="https://www.amren.com/2023-american-renaissance-conference/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">website</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Way back when the Democratic Party stepped into the 2020 primary to make
sure Bernie Sanders would not be the nominee, there were two questions.
The first is why they selected Joe Biden, a broken-down old weirdo with
limited appeal? They seemed to have better choices. The other question
was how realistic was it to expect Biden to live through the election,
much less his first term?

The answer to the first question is that he is stupid and controllable.
Joe Biden was always known for being one of the dumber figures in
Washington. Age has not improved that, so he was the one option who
would not ask too many questions. Barak Obama often made jokes to his
staff about Biden being an affable simpleton who would say whatever he
was told to say.

In fairness to Biden, American presidents are figureheads, for the most
part. They are the spokesman for a group of people. This group is their
donors, institutional backers and party allies. The president is the
spokesman for the team he represents. In office, that team fills the
thousands of jobs in the executive branch, formulates policy and
provides the president with options and advice.

The two main problems with Biden were that he was so old he would not be
a very good spokesman and he was so stupid he would say the quiet part
out loud. This was balanced out by the fact that he no longer had the
ability to understand what was happening around him. This meant the team
could do what they liked without worrying that the boss would take
exception.

That answers the first question. The second question is more complex.
Surely, they knew Biden was declining mentally. That was obvious. The
thing about losing your faculties to old age is it can go quickly. They
probably knew he was not suffering from Alzheimer’s, so they figured he
could be propped up for at least one term. The media could be counted on
to cover up much of it.

The bigger issue is his physical health. The presidency is a fulltime
job that requires long hours even for a puppet. There is a reason that
presidents seem to age so quickly over their first term. Even if Biden
is not making any decisions, he still has to maintain an appearance
schedule. Many men can keep the pace into their late seventies, but it
was clear in 2016 that Biden was not one of those men.

The logical answer to this problem then was to drag his dying carcass
across the finish line to get rid of Donald Trump then figure out how to
dump Joe Biden. The only problem with this idea was the next in line is
Kamala Harris. She makes Joe Biden sound like Cicero. Worse yet, she has
the behavioral instincts you have come to expect from video of the
waiting area of Spirit Airlines.

Maybe that is why they decided to run Biden for a second term. Perhaps
they convinced themselves that he was physically fit enough to make it
another four years. Maybe the doctors said they can keep his brain
functioning enough to make it seem like he is aware of his surroundings.
Maybe they had no other answer and just decided to kick the can down the
road.

That is what makes the bribery scandal puzzling. Someone put the
information about this bribery scheme into the hands of the Republicans
and told them to use it. Chuck Grassley is one of the most compliant, go
along to get along, people in Washington, so if he is on the Senate
floor accusing the sitting president of taking bribes from foreign
actors, it means he has institutional support.

At this point, people may wish to believe that a brave whistleblower has
supplied this information to the Republicans, but that only happens in
Hollywood. The FBI could easily have disappeared the documents so that
Congress could never demand to see them or even ask about them. The FBI
has no reason to participate in this highly choreographed outrage
<a href="https://youtu.be/cPOG8Pf-8uQ" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">show</a> starring Ted Cruz.

The question is, why are the people who have spent generations framing
innocents and derailing ambitious politicians now undermining Joe Biden?
Have we reached the point in the Praetorian Guard phase of the empire
where the FBI changes rulers simply as a way to show they can change the
ruler when they please? Is this part of a scheme to remove Biden from
the ticket in favor of another option?

The answer may be less specific and more about process. It is clear that
both parties and official Washington have grown weary of the primary
system. For starters, it means the army of consultants and
choreographers spending time with the Dirt People in God-awful places
like Iowa and South Carolina. Grubbing around in these backwaters for
votes is unbecoming of a ruling elite.

The bigger problem is the unpredictability. Fortifying a general
election for democracy is not too difficult, as we saw in 2020. You just
need to target a few relatively small states with enough resources.
Fortifying the entire primary process for democracy is much more
complicated, expensive, and unpredictable. Maybe it is time to return to
the old convention model and select nominees in the shadows.

It is clear the Republicans are headed this way. They have been quietly
changing rules at the state level anticipating another Trump run. The
party will rule him ineligible in the fall and have his delegates become
super delegates controlled by the central committee at the convention.
This not only solves their Trump problem, but it also solves their
problem with the base, which increasingly hates the party.

This Biden bribery story may be the road the Democrats take to move
their nomination process out of the primaries. Sometime during the
primary process Biden decides to drop out of the race. Maybe it is the
bribes or maybe it is his health. The Democrats, pointing to the
Republicans as a model, take the Biden delegates under control of the
committee and select the nominee at the convention.

The media will be told to promote this as the next evolution in our
democracy and a huge hit with the voters. The ratings for the
conventions will be huge! This will be proof that the concept works and
both parties will rapidly move from the primary system back to a
convention model where insiders in both camps select nominees acceptable
to the other camp of insiders. The voters are then left to choose.

If this sounds farfetched, just look through the farmhouse window. Mr.
Pilkington and Napoleon are having a good time because neither of them
is concerned about your thoughts on the subject. They are more concerned
that the other is cheating at the game they are playing. One way to
solve that problem is to make sure neither is tempted to make an appeal
to the masses.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="vXH3bfvkQeyAbY5D6hCzdg==cb7PO84FoMhEeaW6ggd6fP3W5XQh01WcdV9sso2FkMCEW1FYi0OEXF26s5F2RDVUVfv"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="gzBbQldlV8xyrAdayU2wew==cb75FkRn+mXUyUnDFhaVPrFaqaYczOY/ovzoOWgZwj15G1BflAwB0lSlXjaKWF1obGr"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
