---
title: "Iranian War Drums"
date: "2023-10-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31048"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31048"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post about the declining
intelligence of American film audiences, a post about driving in
hell and the Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Way back in the Bush II years, there was an open debate about whether to
invade Iran after conquering Iraq. This was right around when the war
against Iraq started, and some people noted that the neocons had
ambitions beyond Iraq. For their part, the neocons were quite open about
going from Baghdad to Tehran. After all, Iran was part of the “axis of
evil” that included Iraq and North Korea. The Bush team made no bones
about wanting to regime change all of them.

Of course, the plan to take out Iran was predicated on the plan to take
down Saddam and “liberate” Iraq. Dick Cheney famously said that the
Iraqi people would greet the American military as liberators. Bill
Kristol in the run up to the war said, “This is going to be a two-month
war, not an eight-year war.” In other words, the war plan with Iraq
assumed the people would revolt against Saddam and the then the Iraqi
army would either collapse, surrender or join the revolt against Saddam.

This was a critical part of the Iran concept. Once Iraq was defeated
then secured as an America possession, it would be the launching pad for
the Iran phase. That half million man American army in Iraq would secure
bases for American air power and begin the process of rebuilding the
Iraqi army. The new Iraqi army using modern Western weapons supplied by
their new benefactors would then be part of the new coalition of the
willing which would launch a war on Iran.

Obviously, the Iraq war was not what the neocons imagined. The people
certainly had their complaints about Saddam, but they were not sitting
around waiting for Uncle Sam to liberate them either. A significant
portion dreamed of an Islamic state after the fall of Saddam, not a
liberal democracy. The war became a guerilla war that dragged on until
Team Obama finally put an end to it in his first term. The dreamed of
war against Iran had to be tabled by the neocons.

The reason to care about any of this is there is a lot of loose talk
about starting a war with Iran over the war between Hamas and Israel.
Without any evidence at all, the neocons have laid the blame at the feet
of Iran. In this new narrative, Iran controls Hamas, so Iran must have
known about the attack in advance. The plan is to bait Israel into
attacking Gaza, so Hezbollah can then attack from Lebanon. This could
then lead to Hitler returning to lead the Arabs against Israel.

In response to these fantastical claims, the Biden administration has
sent two carrier groups to the eastern Mediterranean. There are reports
of two other carrier groups headed to the Persian Gulf. These reports
are based on rumors as the empire does not announce this stuff in
advance. Word gets out among the crew of the ships and eventually makes
its way to the internet. The only thing for certain is one carrier group
is in the eastern Mediterranean right now as a show of force.

The deployment of two carrier groups would be an overreaction to the
situation in Gaza, but four would be a clear signal of something. The
reason this could be important is that part of those old war plans for
Iran was the deployment of four carrier groups to the region, two in the
Mediterranean and two in the Persian Gulf. They would be used in the
first phase of a planned attack on Iran. Maybe it is a coincidence, but
the regime likes to work in symbols, so probably not a coincidence.

There is a belief among some people that the neocons in the regime are
looking at this Gaza situation as a chance to dust off the Iran war
scheme. Rather than a warning to Iran, this is an effort to bait Iran
into greenlighting Hezbollah, which would be the excuse to unleash an
air assault on Iranian facilities. This would then warrant a full-on war
with Iran with the demand for regime change. The one thing we know about
neocons is they never abandon a project, so this makes some sense.

There are a few problems straight away. One is the old war plan back in
the Bush II years said that it would require 1.6 million ground troops.
Iran is a big place with lots of challenging geography and it has a big
army. Despite decades of sanctions, it has highly sophisticated air
defenses and a range of missiles. It is hard to know how its army would
perform in a real war, but analysts think it would perform better than
the Iraqi army due to better discipline and morale.

That was twenty years ago. Since then, Iran has become expert at the use
of cheap but effective drone technology. They gave the Russians this
technology last year, which has altered the battlespace in Ukraine.
Hundreds of “flying Doritos” overwhelmed Ukrainian air defenses,
exhausting their supply of surface-to-air missiles. There is a very good
chance that Russia returned the favor by supplying Iran with improved
air defense systems and maybe even advanced missile technology.

Then there is the fact that Iraq would not be an ally in this war. In
fact, Iraq could side with Iran and attack American assets in northern
Iraq and Syria. At the minimum, Iraq would stay out of the fight. There
is no reason to think the Turks would agree to host American ground
forces. There would be pressure on the Saudis and Kuwaitis to be the
launching pad, but the Saudis hate the Biden people. In other words, a
war with Iran would be a <a
href="https://www.militarytimes.com/news/2019/06/04/what-war-with-iran-could-look-like/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">bloody complicated mess</a> – at best.

Surely the Pentagon understands this, and they have communicated this to
the neocons running regime policy. The only thing the military could do
in a wider war in the region is attack Iranian facilities from air and
sea. They cannot launch a ground invasion and they could not hope to
topple the Iranian regime. There is a good chance that the Navy would
lose some expensive assets. Iran has only grown stronger since this
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millennium_Challenge_2002"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">wargame</a> resulted in a lost aircraft
carrier.

This raises the question as to what the regime is doing in the Middle
East. They lack the resources for the long dreamed off war with Iran.
There has been no effort by the regime to build international support
for a war. The usual suspects are on American television screaming for
blood, but they do that every day. Lindsay Graham exists solely to go on
television and call for war somewhere. In other words, it looks like
this is a big show that is not intended to lead anywhere.

If the plan was to put on a big drama and draw all of the mass media
attention to it, then it has been a great success. The Gaza story has
not only blotted out other news, but it has also triggered convenient
domestic stories, like the pro-Palestinian protests. The usual suspects
are wasting everyone’s time with claims that those marches are the
prelude to the return of everyone’s favorite villain. All of a sudden,
there is no room for stories about Ukraine or the economy or anything
else.

Alternatively, this could be another example of a regime that is both
out of gas and low on intellectual capital being dragged along by
events. Their Ukraine plan is a great example of how poorly they
understand the world. They were sure Russia was just a gas station
pretending to be a country. All it would take is some sanctions and some
American weapons and regime change was guaranteed. They could be making
the same errors with Iran as they made with Russia.

Alternatively, they could be thinking that the threat of war is just
what is needed to get invited back into the game. The empire has been
losing ground in the region for decades and is now down to a few barely
allies. The Saudis are clearly thinking beyond the American empire.
Israel is the last ally in the region and the one thing everyone else
agrees upon in the region is that Israel is a bad neighbor. Maybe the
threat of war is a reason to invite the Americans back into the
discussion.

In the end, this will probably be looked upon as another event in the
closing chapters of the Global American Empire. The Middle East is ready
to move on from America and America is running out of resources to
remain in the region. If this crisis ends in war, it will be another
serious blow to the American war machine. If it results in peace it will
come through the work of regional players with the help of Russia and
China, thus further sidelining America in the region.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="XL3nboz8wucC9DBLlQ2sUg==cb7FEDQAvRewX4VWFaEzrjuio7Np67lb9Zee4DzVPH9hwngnqrI16y33U1SMLDBsO7V"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="welrJGam9jyngvrIiXm+zA==cb7827/4TW+MdfOvF7UbuRwSt7nID6tURKLW7z8oqW2uYaidFleQfOkrZbDwffCeM2u"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
