---
title: "Alien Liars"
date: "2023-06-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30058"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30058"
---

One of the weirder aspects of the Biden administration is their zeal for
pushing the idea that space aliens are regularly visiting earth. This
week a regime media outlet pushed this <a
href="https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2023/06/ex-intel-official-government-hiding-alien-tech.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> about a whistleblower’s claims
regarding crashed alien vehicles. This builds on prior stories put into
the media by the Pentagon regarding unidentified flying objects spotted
by miliary pilots. Tucker Carlson
<a href="https://twitter.com/TuckerCarlson/status/1666203439146172419"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">mentioned</a> this in his debut video on
Twitter this week, as part of his show on government lying.

Even by the standards of this age, the space alien stuff is weird. The
whole space alien thing ran its course decades ago. People with a need
for escapist fantasies can just claim to be a third gender now. They get
special privileges and most important, the validation they seek. Why
bother with claims about getting probed by little green men when you can
throw on a sundress and prance around Target? The current year has
plenty of options for the mentally disturbed.

Putting aside the motivations behind this stuff, the question is whether
there can be any truth to the claims. Is it possible for intelligent
life from another planet to visit earth and is it possible for us to
know about it? People naturally assume the answer to both questions is
yes, but that is wishful thinking. Once you consider the physics
involved, the odds that we are getting alien visitors drop
significantly. The odds of us knowing about these visitors fall to zero.

The first thing to consider is where these aliens are located. If what
we know about life is correct, then the conditions for life must exist
on many planets. This is just a matter of calculating the probability of
a planet having the stuff that we see on earth. If there must be many
earthlike planets in the universe, there must be at least one that has
produced life as we understand it. If a planet can support life, it
means it will have evolved life and, in some cases, intelligent life.

We have been scanning the heavens for such planets. The most Earth-like
planet that we have found so far is called Kepler 452b. It got this name
because it was spotted by the Kepler Space Telescope. Kepler 452 is a
sun-like star that is roughly 1,400 light-years from Earth. The planet
we call 452b is in orbit around this sun in what is called the habitable
zone of the star. This means the planet is close enough, but not too
close, to contain liquid water, which is a prerequisite for life.

Right there we see the first problem for space aliens. If they have
mastered the ability to visit our planet, it means they are travelling
1,400 light years. If we assume they can travel at near the speed of
light, that takes 1,500 years to make the trip, assuming no bathroom
breaks along the way. You can already see the problem. Either these
extraterrestrial visitors have figured out how to exceed the speed of
light or they have lifespans that dwarf the human lifespan.

Let us consider the last option first. Bowhead whales live much longer
than humans, so they are an object of study for this reason. This
species has a genetic mutation that helps repair damaged DNA. They also
possess a gene that seems to aid in the repair and regeneration of
damaged cells. Taken together, these make the animal highly resistant to
diseases like cancer and extend its life. It may be possible to apply
these mutations to humans, thus extending human lifespans.

The longest-living vertebrates on earth are Greenland sharks. The oldest
known specimen is estimated to be 390 years old. Currently, people
studying these animals think their base lifespan is around three hundred
years, but it is possible that they can live as long as six hundred
years. As with the Bowhead whales, there is probably a set of genes that
allow this animal to avoid disease and repair its DNA. That could mean
humans will one day use the same technology to extend human life.

The point is, we are probably inching up to the point where we can
extend human lifespans well beyond what nature provides. More important,
we will soon be able to slow the aging process. What would be the point
of living to 150-years-old if you are decrepit and fragile like Joe
Biden? Even so, that is a long way from the lifespan we will need to
visit Kepler 452b. Assuming our space travelers will want to come home,
it means living thousands of earth years.

If the people of Kepler 452b are visiting earth, it means they have a
conception of time and space that is far beyond our comprehension. Think
about the man who dedicates his life to a project. He sets out knowing
it will take a long time, but he also assumes it will be finished or at
least show progress before he dies. Realistically that is a project with
a fifty-year arc. Now imagine a man who sets out on the same project,
but his target date is five thousand years into the future.

This brings us to that other issue, the speed of light. Currently, we
have no idea how to keep humans in space for more than a relatively
short time. Zero gravity does weird things to the human body over time.
Bones stop producing new bone tissue, as bones are no longer needed to
fight gravity. For some reason, the immune system begins to slow and
perhaps even stop functioning altogether. Then you have the radiation of
space that damages human DNA.

This means our space alien friends have either figured out a way to
conquer these problems so they can remain in space for thousands of
years or they never had to contend with these problems. That means they
are a life form that is beyond our comprehension, or they have conquered
the limits of space-time. In the former case, it would mean they exist
so far outside our understanding that we may not be able to see them,
because our brains lack the ability to conceive them.

More likely and much spookier is that they have conquered space-time.
This means that our conception of space-time is human specific. What we
think of as reality is an interface we have evolved in order to navigate
the much more complex reality that lies beyond our human ability to
comprehend. These space aliens made the leap either to a novel interface
that lets them travel vast distances in a short period of time or they
exist outside our reality altogether.

As you can see from examining the space and time issues, the odds of
these tales about space aliens being true are extremely low. Either the
space aliens have lifespans so long that it places them outside of our
ability to conceive of them or they exist outside of our conception of
space-time. Even if we wish to pretend this is not true, it means they
have advanced technologically beyond what we can imagine. They would
have little trouble concealing themselves from us.

That brings us back to the real question with regards to space aliens.
Why is our government suddenly trying to revive interest in the topic?
Given the massive corruption and perfidy on display, we have to assume
their motives are not good. These people lie about everything, so maybe
they just like lying. Rolling out these fake space alien stories is how
they entertain one another. Who knows? Maybe they are plotting to
unleash a fake space invaders story on us.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="/8eh2C3oBNDgtwvwyQJZuw==cb7rdGAJTqEADJTD/Djqu+Fj1Cs2tdCX1kxDspoGn1AqfvAtszCp8MRfowrtbvjO09Q"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="s6vtz3Lg+Z6ak2ezZo/YPg==cb7DoybTvmquWtYlLsMn85bS1HdhHg15KfqUu12kERzWN0sNasKjMVG0BhOtrz++HPK"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
