---
title: "Travelogue: Germany"
date: "2023-11-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31135"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31135"
---

I have been to the Frankfurt airport a number of times, but I have never
done any adventurizing in the city itself. It is not a German city high
on the tourist list because it was pretty much leveled in the war. When
it was rebuilt, it was supposed to be a modern city and the financial
hub of the country. Instead of restored old buildings it has all the
modern things we expect to see in a modern city. As a result, it has
little in the way of tourism, relative to other German cities.

That is not all bad. It is a very convenient city. The train system is
efficient and logical, along with being exceptionally clean. I saw one
bum in the train station. There are no maniacs pushing people off
platforms while the cops look on and laugh. If you drive, parking is a
bit of a pain, but that is true in all cities. Street parking is an
adventure, but there are plenty of public parking garages. Getting
around is not much different from driving in other cities, except the
signs are different.

The one big difference from driving in America is petrol is $10/gallon,
after you convert from euros to dollars. That was for the cheapest
level, which was too good for the Opel that the knock-off car rental
place gave us. There is simply no way America could survive fuel prices
at those levels. Germans tolerate it, because they are German, and they
have no other option. Their political class is as moronic as ours, which
means there is no way to vote down gas prices…

I saw fewer mask people in Germany than Iceland. The mask people in
Iceland, however, were foreigners, so maybe it evens out. Judging by the
airports, the Europeans have fewer mask lunatics than America. It must
not have caught on as a subculture with them like it has in America. The
good thing about the maskers is that come the revolution, we can find
them quickly and send them off to the camps. There is something creepy
and weird about people wearing masks in public…

The migrant population in Frankfurt is not what I expected. At the hotel
it was all Brazilians working the front desk. The taxi drivers were
Poles or Ukrainians, with a smattering of Pakistanis. My guess is the
city is built for finance, so the services are for finance people, which
makes certain migrants less desirable. Maybe it is just that the guys
from MENA and Africa looked at the travel sites and saw that Frankfurt
was not a highly rated city, so they went elsewhere.

The presence of Poles and Ukrainians in service sector jobs means
service is worse that you find in other European cities. They act like
they are doing you a favor and are often deliberately hostile to
patrons. The German service workers are the opposite, as they are
efficient and polite. They do not have a strong tipping culture in
Europe, so that changes the relationship between server and patron.
Those who understand Americans, will go the extra mile for you…

Perhaps it was the part of the city, but I did not see a lot of young
people out and about in the evening. It was an older crowd. Europeans do
tend to go out later and end later than we do in America, even older
people. Even so, I did not see any young people anywhere, other than
people with small children. There were a lot of people pushing
strollers, which is not something you see in American cities. You raise
kids in the suburbs in order to get them into better schools…

It was a bit cool one evening so we ducked into a small Christmas
market. It is too early for the bigger markets, but there are some small
ones. These are open areas ringed by stalls selling food and drink, with
lots of Christmas trees. They sell something they call Glühwein, which
is what the English call mulled wine. The word means “glow wine” because
of how it makes you feel. I am not a wine drinker, and the stuff is as
sweet as candy, but it really does hit the spot on a cold night…

The point of being in Frankfurt was to attend the NFL game. Old friends
I have not seen in too long converged on the city for the game. I have
no interest in the NFL, but it was a good excuse to get together. The
city has embraced the NFL for some reason, so it is a good place for the
league to hold games. There are social clubs all over for the different
teams. We saw one guy who had bought a pickup truck and decorated it
with the colors of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.

It is not just a novelty for them. They have taken the time to learn the
rules of the game and they now have youth leagues for football. Colleges
now come to Germany to scout for players, mostly linemen. Germans are
big people, and they are smart people, so if you need offensive linemen,
it is a good place to look. Germans feel a strong connection to the
United States. There are a lot of Americans in Germany, so it makes
sense that the biggest American sport would take root.

The game was a great time. You take a train to the stadium and along the
walk to the facility from the train stop are stands selling beer and
food. There is a strong party atmosphere, despite the lack of
tailgating. The pre-game had a local hero, Sebastian Vollmer, who played
for the Patriots. Then they brought out the cheerleaders, which the
Germans girls seem to lover. I saw a lot of pretty German girls dressed
as cheerleaders in the game, which is a great idea for obvious reasons.

Just before the game, they played the American anthem. A female soldier
performed it and by the time she was finished it was clear she was
getting chocked up. That was because the crowd was singing louder than
her. It was one of those times when you are reminded that Americans are
great people, even if our leaders are the worst people who regularly
turn the virtue of patriotism into a vice. Patriotism is a virtue, and
your fellow citizens, by and large, are good people.

After the American anthem, they played the German anthem, which
surprised me as this is not common custom around the world. The Germans
fans seem to have embraced this like they have embraced the NFL. They
were loud and enthusiastic for the anthem of their people. It was a good
reminder that underneath the silly bubble coats they love wearing, there
are the same people who gave the world Mozart, Beethoven, Goethe, and
Karl Marx…

At one point during the game, they played what has become the anthem of
West Virginia, John Denver’s, *Country Roads. *I have no idea why they
played this song, as one team was from Boston and the other from
Indianapolis. The game was being played in a cosmopolitan city in the
heart of Europe. The whole crowd erupted and sang it all the way through
to the end, even though the game started. I took that as a sign from God
that everything is going to be okay…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Sk3l5agtndYJbHu0ChYanQ==cb7HRkZqXO6hHIQOXY0U6C3WAkmqU8fX6gN5s0+iiNIwWLXm3xoZsbI/HpT7SeNaMxV"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="xvEBnrz6pPMF+6qLAXEpMA==cb71/unzV2fa3mEpEUPawqLtWPWVvW8O4Mgtrza2CFQZFMBh2a50YixOpOgPcjldC8F"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
