---
title: "White Authority"
date: "2023-12-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31302"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31302"
---

Was the founding generation of America full of white nationalists? This
is a <a href="https://twitter.com/joeldavisx/status/1736560888197636565"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">claim</a> popular with some white
nationalists. They argue that North America was settled by white people
who set out to create a new society for white people and once they
achieved independence from England, they created a white society. They
will point to statements and actions that suggest that early Americans
consciously and deliberately planned a society exclusively for white
people.

Oddly, this is the exact same claim made by anti-whites in support of
the demands for reparations and what they call “restorative justice.”
The starting point for understanding the anti-white argument is their
take on the social contract. They claim that because civilization was
created by white men, it must have been created to serve the interest of
white men, which must have come at the expense of non-whites. In other
words, they agree with the white nationalists on this point.

Putting aside the claims by the anti-whites, which are all ex post facto
arguments to support their current thirst for vengeance, are the white
nationalist correct when they claim the Framers as their own? There is
no disputing the fact that the European people of the 17th and 18th
century had little interest in other races. They certainly did not think
the races should mingle. They thought it perfectly normal to own human
beings, so their views on equality were, at best, narrow and rhetorical.

The best argument in favor of the white nationalist claim about the
intention of the Framers is the preamble to the constitution. “We the
People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union,
establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common
defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of
Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this
Constitution for the United States of America.”

The word “posterity” is critical. Then as now, this word means future
generations of the current people and the people who chose that word
were white. They chose to capitalize it, which in that age was a form of
emphasis. They were making clear to the people of the states that the
point of the new government was to protect and promote the people and
their descendants. The Naturalization Act of 1790, one of the first acts
passed by the new government, drives home this point.

The problem here is that Congress repealed this five years later in
favor of the Naturalization Act of 1795. They kept much of the original
bill, but then three years later they modified it again with the
Naturalization Act of 1798. More changes followed as Congress wrestled
with how best to solve the main problem, which was the lack of human
capital to exploit the country’s natural resources. 18th century America
was rich in natural resources, but short of people.

In other words, the point of these acts was not to protect white people
or keep out non-whites, but to manage the problem of how to bring in new
settlers – and that is what was needed – but to do so without
undermining the current population. Race and ethnicity were not the
primary reason for these acts. In fact, the people of this age could not
image what we think of as a multi-racial society. Such a thing not only
did not exist, but at the time it could not exist. It was simply not a
consideration.

That brings us to the main problem with this line of reasoning. The
people of this time had different conceptions of race. This is not to
say race is a social construct, but that the meaning of words change
over time. For 18th century man, words like “white”, and “race” were
used differently from today. For the Framers, white often meant English,
while race meant ethnicity. Our modern idea of “white”, meaning broadly
European, would have seemed strange to Thomas Jefferson.

Further, the concept of white nationalism would have puzzled the people
of this age because it is a solution to a problem they could not
imagine. If you went back in time and told them that millions of
non-whites would be flowing into the country every year, they would have
thought you were insane. The movement of millions of people, regardless
of race, was inconceivable. There were only four million people in
America when the Constitution was being debated.

Now, the white nationalist would no doubt argue that if the Framers
could understand the problems that modern Americans face, they would
certainly embrace the concept of white nationalism as a solution. There
is no way to prove or disprove it, so it is merely a gratuitous
assertion. It is fair to assume that the Framers assumed and expected,
therefore would have wanted, the country to look like them in terms of
race and religion, long after they were gone. They wanted this for their
posterity.

There is a deeper issue at work here. Like the anti-whites who claim
original sin as justification for their present behavior, the white
nationalists pointing to the Framers are looking for a moral authority.
They think that the Framers are unassailable, in moral terms, so if the
Framers were white nationalists, then it follows that white nationalism
is a moral good. What are you going to do? Take down the statues of the
Framers and strike their names from the history books?

That aside, the mistake is to assume a person can be a moral authority.
The Framers were not gods or God’s representatives. They were just men
sorting through the challenges of their age with the knowledge of their
age. They were not moral authorities then and they cannot be moral
authorities now. The challenges of this age will need to be sorted by
the men of this age. Their moral authority is simply their collective
will to create a safe and prosperous society for their posterity.

Maybe white nationalism, however it is defined, is the right answer.
Pinning white nationalist down on what the term means is not always
easy, but maybe in there is the right answer for the plight of white
people in North America. That will be determined as all such things are
determined. Can it actually meet the challenge and are the trade-offs
acceptable to the people adopting it? This is not a question for the
dead, but for the white people living in the here and now.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="L1xTXI0DoM7X6o8m/5K3kA==cb7lTU7AQTMZjNMnQafMIlwZLMcQGnmMs5Y5wX4j/gdb0/4NuKwF1sZU6tGuv19z67Y"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="SZ9G5irRlR82YipW4j9I9A==cb7Ok7JekXLzQDjtZyWU+KpKftWjrmNitLl7OYbUvaM/GHt2S0aUTNrvA/F/8uWZ1A5"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
