---
title: "Midnight Cowboy"
date: "2023-10-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31028"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31028"
---

**Note:** Today is a house hunting day, which means I am out at the
crack of dawn to head off to the hills in search of a new lair. Instead
of rushing something in the few minutes I have before leaving for the
day, I am re-posting a green door item. This is a film review I recently
did that feels like a nice break from the usual routine.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The concept of the antiwhite is new to most people, but it has been
bubbling under the surface of American culture for a long time. In
movies, it often turns up in the “moral complexity” of quintessentially
American characters. The prototypical American cowboy, for example, is
also a villain. Alternatively, the American dream is turned into a
nightmare for the protagonist of the film.

It is not a direct racial assault on white people, like we now see on
movies and television, but more of a bank shot. Some aspects of society
are criticized, often by inverted reality, as in the case of *Easy
Rider*. Normal people are turned into violent monsters, while two bums
are the heroes. *The Searchers* introduces the concept of racism as a
defining feature of American society.

By the late 1960’s, there was no need to obscure the intent. American
life was portrayed as seedy and degenerate, the result of the original
sin of some “ism” or maybe the falsity of the founding myth. There is
the sense that the general terribleness of the period was deserved.
Cities were festering sewers riddled with crime and degeneracy because
that was the real America.

Probably the peak of this seedy realism was *Midnight Cowboy*. It is the
story of a young guy from Texas named Joe Buck, played by Jon Voight. He
quits his menial job and takes a bus to New York City for reasons that
are never explained. He immediately decides to make a living as a male
prostitute, targeting middle-aged women. His first efforts fail, but he
gets the hang of it and finally gets lucky.

This totally naive guy from Texas is shrewd enough to become a hustler
but not smart enough to make money at it. He also gets suckered by a
crippled conman named Rico, played by Dustin Hoffman. Rico introduces
Joe to a pimp, for a finder’s fee, but the pimp turns out to be a
religious fanatic. Joe flees this situation and goes looking for Rico
but is unable to locate him.

Joe runs out of money, so he gets tossed from his apartment and decides
to let a gay guy give him oral sex in a movie theater, thinking that the
gay guy is going to pay him for the privilege, but that is now how
things work. Joe eventually finds Rico, who lets him stay in his
condemned apartment. They become partners with Joe slowly taking care of
Rico, who has some sort of respiratory disease.

Eventually the two of them decide to leave New York City for Florida, so
Joe picks up a gay guy and murders him for his cash. They use the cash
for a bus ticket to Florida, but Rico is now extremely sick. At some
point Rico soils himself, so Joe buys them new clothes at a rest stop,
but Rico has died. The close of the movie is Joe hugging his dead friend
as the bus trundles along toward Florida.

The message of the film is clear. White America is a myth, just as Joe
Buck’s cowboy act is a myth that he created for himself. In realty,
America is a faker, a fraud, a hustler that can only be redeemed by
dropping the act and turning gay. This is a movie made by and for people
who hate themselves, their country and would have been better off
killing themselves and their intended audience.

That is the main reason the film is on the top-100 list. Another reason
is it started the process of normalizing sodomy. It is not just an
antiwhite, anti-American film, but it is a homosexual film that seeks to
normalize homosexuality, by making Joe Buck a victim of a system that is
intolerant of homosexuals. If midcentury bourgeoise decadence could have
come to life and made a film, this would be it.

It is impossible to express how much I detest this film, but it is not
the worst film on the top-100 list and it probably does belong here for
artistic reasons. The message is vulgar and degenerate, but the
production and acting are extremely good. Despite the obvious plot
holes, Jon Voight makes Joe Buck believable. Dustin Hoffman plays
himself, so he is quite credible as a skeevy hustler.

Like *Taxi Driver*, which I also hated, *Midnight Cowboy* is important
because of what it represents on the historical timeline. When the robot
historians attempt to retrace the steps that led to the collapse of the
American experiment, they will no doubt look at the popular
entertainment of this period for clues. Within a single generation,
America went from the pinnacle of cultural achievement to the world of
Midnight Cowboy.

That said, if you can avert your gaze from the political messaging and
step outside of our current political context, it is a good film. Joe
Buck has a story to tell, and we get enough of it to fill in the rest.
He is a tragic figure, but he is not without redeeming qualities and we
get the sense that redemption is possible for him. That is a lot to do
in a film and that speaks to the skill of the people behind it.

In the end, it is all about the main question. If you have not seen this
film, should you take the time to watch it? Even though I hate this
film, I do not regret having watched it twice now. There will be no
third viewing, but if you can stomach the politics and the ugliness of
it, it is worth watching for historical reasons. At the minimum, you
come away with a sense of the time and place in which it was made.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="6LL6pUoVcHGxf/tRJbGW+Q==cb7t3rOUbyNS64mkobBKfvjAqVJP5cFF/3QttKV7zXJ8p1bjFdiEgVZQHuVsychG0eU"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="1760hi46xlHq1NppBO870w==cb72rlZxctOVLPYGiOTpWxdrpA59swlbqNKxzOVs+alC/WPL4RlQVdFM4ZW7voHDfaM"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
