---
title: "Walking With Death"
date: "2023-10-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30858"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30858"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post about the classic
Hitchcock spy thriller *North By Northwest*, a post the idiocy of
politics and the Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a green door
account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The other day on a long walk I came upon a dead deer lying across the
sidewalk that must have been recently hit by a car. The animal was lying
stretched out, as is always the case for some reason, head and neck
arched back with one big brown eye looking up innocently at anyone who
came upon it. There is a sadness in the look of a dead deer, even when
the death comes at your hands. Despite this reality, millions of deer
hunters are preparing for the coming season.

On my way back I saw a couple of older boys, maybe even their late
teens, looking at the animal from a distance. They took turns taking
pics of each other in front of it, always from a safe distance, as if
they thought the animal would roar back to life and attack them for some
reason. Even at a distance, it was clear it disturbed them. As I
approached, they warned me that there was a dead deer in my path, which
suggested this was a novel experience for them.

A few moments of banter between us confirmed that they had never seen a
dead animal this close. At first that seemed unbelievable, but they
probably spend most of their days inside playing games or in controlled
experiments we call school, so the odds of seeing anything in nature are
low. At that age, their experience with death is their character dying
in a video game. There are no sad lifeless eyes looking up at them in
whatever game is popular at the moment.

Of course, there is no youth hunting to speak of in the built-up areas,
so it is unlikely those two young men will experience death that way. In
the United States only about five percent of young people hunt. The
numbers around urban areas on the coasts are probably so small that it
cannot be measured. There are more males under the age of sixteen who
identify as trans now than those who hunt. Those two young men are less
disturbed by crossdressing than they are by death.

Much of what we call progress in the last three centuries has been about
insulating ourselves from the reality of the human condition, especially
death. Few people know where food comes from or how it is possible.
There is a growing sense among the urbanized populations that what they
call meat is a crime against Gaia, in the same way that your car is an
offense to the mother goddess. Fake meat exists to exploit this growing
unawareness of the cycle of life.

We are not far from the point in science fiction where humans who reach
their expiration date mysteriously disappear, sent off to the recycling
plant. One day Uncle Bob is struggling up the stairs and the next day no
one talks about Uncle Bob. He was picked up and loaded into a wagon
overnight. Rich people are racing to find the magic elixir that will let
them avoid death or at least stay young until the end, because progress
means reaching a point when we overcome death.

There is a good chance that the present lunacy is made possible by the
apparent insulation so many feel from the reality of the human
condition. In a world where the consequences of flouting nature are
brutal and personal, one must respect the reality of the human condition
and pass that respect onto the next generation. The man with a son makes
sure his son learns the reality of death at a young age, usually by
having his son take the life of an animal hunting or farming.

In an age where life and death are abstract concepts, there is no need
to think about it, much less talk about it with the next generation.
This removes the essential element for understanding the arc of life,
especially the arc of your life. When you see every day that all living
things have an end, often a brutal end, you can understand that life is
a beginning, middle and end. Since the middle part is the only bit you
can control, you never lose sight of it as it is how you will be judged
in the end.

Death has another value that we have lost. It is the thing that binds
people together in the common struggle of life. When every man is aware
of the death sentence that was issued to him at birth, he is keenly
aware of the death sentence that hangs over his family, his neighbors,
and his community. Just as he must struggle every day to reach that
predetermined end point, he must struggle with his family and neighbors
in order to give the next generation the chance for their struggle.

For most of human existence, the answer to the great question – who are
we? – was answered every week at a funeral or execution. That last bit
is something lost to the mists of time, but it was an essential element
of social life. The punishment of the guilty was part of the glue that
held society together. The condemned was not just hurried away like
Uncle Bob but brought before his neighbors to be expelled from the life
of society in the most extreme way possible.

The public execution had another value. As Joseph de Maistre observed,
the executioner absolves the condemned man of his sins and sends him out
of this life as an innocent man. At the moment of death, the price is
paid and at that second, he moves from guilty to innocent. His last gasp
takes all of his sins with him. It is not the executioner who has
absolved the condemned. The executioner is the agent, the tool through
which the community acts to cleanse itself of sin.

In this way, familiarity with death brings familiarity with life and
sin. The former comes easy, but the latter must be relearned almost
daily. When life, your life, has a clear end and that end can come in a
variety of ways, those ways provide a different sense of purpose to each
life. The purpose of the man swinging from a rope is different from the
man dying to defend his people. Death provides clarity about purpose and
therefore clarity about the crimes against that purpose.

All of this is lost in the modern age. Few young men will ever hold in
their hands the still warm, but lifeless body of an animal. They will
never see the executioner perform his duty to his people. Death is an
abstraction. The closest people get to it is through the unreality of
the digital world. In that realm, death is a problem to be overcome,
while in the physical world it is a thing that no longer exists, because
it is just assumed that one day, before your last day, death will be
overcome.

In a world of that sort of certainty, there is no reason to think about
the purpose of life or the crimes one should avoid committing against
that purpose. In a world full of people with no purpose other than
momentary pleasure, the society in which they operate must be a sterile
playground. Anything with meaning must be stripped away as it could lead
to unpleasant thoughts about the lack of meaning and purpose. To defeat
death, we must first defeat any notion that there is a meaning to life.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Mr2R0b8Ey0reRG1c38mzIQ==cb7N3UVLSPx+hOgfUzTYdT6VLADmb9bf0RLezSo6UBOpHDeJl145vQP9drVc9C8d5uV"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="A0L+k8OBkNabg5HkK3n6Bg==cb7Mh28a5rtYOg9tD+ZlPGS/bReOWZ1Gl0VGFUxGsw+40VG7919NTvMLY51zOWFB/P+"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
