---
title: "Send In The Clowns"
date: "2023-11-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31168"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31168"
---

**Note:** Thinking about doing a mailbag show for Friday. If anyone has
an interesting question, post it up here or on Gab.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

President Harry S. Truman famously said is a speech at the end of his
career that if it is a choice between a genuine Republican, and a
Republican in Democratic clothing, the people will choose the genuine
article. He was giving a pre-election pep talk to his fellow Democrats
who were downcast at their prospects in 1952. His point was that if you
proudly give the voters an alternative to the other option, they will at
least consider what you have to say and may even vote for you.

It is interesting to note that the two parties were having a uniparty
problem way back in the middle of the last century, but it is the nature
of democratic systems. Like all markets, they eventually converge on one
dominant market player. It is why we have one operating system maker,
two mobile phone makers and so on. In the marketplace, people seek
safety, which is a form of protection. As Robert Nozick noted,
protection must always lead to a monopoly or something close to it.

Like consumers in a grocery store staring at rows of the same product,
people will flock to novelty, even if the market prefers predictability.
We are seeing this in Argentina where the voters elected what can best
be described as an autistic Austin Powers character as their next
president. Javier Milei won Sunday’s run-off against Peronist former
Minister of Economy Sergio Massa. It was a stunning victory for a man
who promises to radically change the Argentine economy.

Javier Milei is the next in line in what has become a tradition that
started with Beppe Grillo a dozen years ago in Italy. He was the former
television comic who formed a joke party to run for office, which
quickly turned into a social phenomenon. Getting back to what Truman
said, given the choice between people acting like clowns, the voters in
democracies have repeatedly picked the genuine clowns. Trump, Bolsonaro,
Meloni and now Milei have come to power this way.

That is not to say that these eccentric candidates have not come with a
real platform and a genuine list of issues. It is that their primary
appeal is their eccentricity. A more traditional presentation would have
failed, even if the issues were popular, because part of the problem for
voters is the dreadful sameness of the candidates. One of the ironies of
“our democracy” is it produces gold-plated phonies. The least relatable
people on the planet are popular political figures.

Of course, it goes deeper than just a desire for authenticity. The
unspoken truth of politics for the last thirty years is the sense that
something is deeply wrong, despite the relative material prosperity. One
reason so many were so quick to embrace the Covid madness is the sense
that we were about to get what we deserved. Mother Nature was about to
balance the scales with a great plague. These eccentric candidates are
something of a search for absolution by the voters.

There is also an end of time issue with many of them. Italy has been
convulsed with populism since Beppe Grillo because no one is able to
answer the big question that hangs over every human society. Why does it
exist? Italians no longer have a reason to exist, which is why they have
stopped having children. People like Grillo and now Meloni offer some
hope for a purpose. Their anger and eccentricity are a little bit of
light in the gathering darkness of their civilization.

This may be the case in Argentina where they have been ruled by a
combination of kleptocrats and maniacs for generations. One party steals
the nation’s resources on behalf of international interests in the name
of fiscal discipline until the people grow weary of it and replace them
with the maniacs. These are the socialists who then start printing money
to buy happiness until inflation gets out of control and the banks stop
lending them money or accepting pesos for debts.

This is where Argentina is now. They currently have inflation at 120%, a
swelling debt crisis and a stagnant economy. In addition to being an
entertaining weirdo during the campaign, Milei promised to dollarize the
economy, de-unionize the private sector, cut taxes, and restore private
property rights. He calls himself a libertarian, but he has not promised
to give free weed and porn to children or convert to Bitcoin. Perhaps he
is saving that for his second act.

This is where Milei will turn out to be like the other eccentrics that
have paraded across the stage of democracies over the last decade. There
is little chance he will get any of his agenda implemented. The two main
parties still control all of the important institutions, so they will
collude to block his initiatives. Another feature of democracy is the
controlling parties are incentivized to not address genuine problems.
The metastasizing social ills are the systems’ defense mechanism.

In the end, that may be the function of these eccentric populist
characters that are turning up in democratic politics. They gain support
mostly because they are a break from the dreary reality of the system.
If voting is not going to lead to good public policy, then at least it
can lead to amusing failure. If food prices rise faster than you can
count pesos, then maybe having autistic Austin Powers staring back at
you through the television will take your mind off things.

So far that has been the result. Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement
accomplished nothing, other than helping the EU sidetrack genuine
reform. Trump and Bolsonaro, of course, were stymied by the system.
Meloni’s angry housewife act remains popular, but her administration is
the same as her predecessor. What all of these eccentric characters are,
in the end, is proof that there is no voting your way out of the
problems of liberal democracy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="zpGBCXpbVfLo58ZomWp+rg==cb7NpX0nXYhBKiFHwUBuQ6RNZpJn1/ZaYtbA5UvYZacUrvZphDdMLWjTXHU6wgW1WUF"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="FDCOfLAO1HcNIGuy2IjyDg==cb7G2CtXooaUczYiru6KJ7NdamY7+RKnlDpcgxzplk3bc3gOwhJu+rC7HRcg0RJE+M8"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
