---
title: "Next Phase Of The Ukraine War"
date: "2023-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30011"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30011"
---

It has been a year since the Russians began the process of shifting from
a limited military operation to a full-scale war. After the Ukrainians
withdrew from settlement talks in Turkey, the Russians realized the West
was in it is for the long haul, so they had to adjust to this new
reality. The first thing they did was appoint General Sergey Surovikin
to take control of military operations in Ukraine. Then came a
mobilization of 300,000 additional forces to support the war in the
Ukraine.

What followed was a campaign of missile attacks on Ukrainian power
plants, rail hubs and strategic infacilities. Then came the mass use of
UAVs to overwhelm Ukrainian air defense systems. This was all part of
the general shift from a quick conflict aimed at a negotiated settlement
to a long grinding war of attrition. The purpose of this new Russian
strategy was to slowly destroy Ukraine’s ability to conduct offensive
operations with an eye on eventually destroying their military.

A year into this new war, the results are close to what many predicted
when the Russians shifted to this model. The West lacks to military
industrial capacity for this sort of warfare, so the supply of weapons
to Ukraine has declined. Meanwhile, the Russians degraded Ukrainian air
defenses to the point where they can now stage constant air raids on
Ukrainian supply lines. The long talked about Ukrainian offensive has
been indefinitely delayed as a result of these attacks.

It is hard to know what is happening inside Ukraine due to the tsunami
of propaganda from the media and the volunteer army of regime toadies
online. Trivial events are rolled up into glorious narratives that have
no bearing on reality. When the Wagner forces captured the remaining
high-rises in the city of Bakhmut, Western <a
href="https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/russia-claims-bakhmut-victory-ukraine-encircle-troops-wagner-putin-rcna85509"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">sources</a> reported that Ukraine was
staging a counter attack to encircle them. In reality the Ukrainians
were simply staging a fighting retreat from their positions.

That said, it is becoming clear that the Ukrainians are in trouble
militarily and the end may be closer than many realize. For starters,
Zelensky now spends most of his time outside the country. Some have
speculated that he thinks the end could come at any minute and would
prefer to be elsewhere when it happens. For over a year he was doing
zoom sessions from his bunker to entertain Western media. Over the last
month he has found any reason to be outside the country.

General Zaluzhnyi, the man in charge of the Ukrainian army, has been
mysteriously absent for over a month. One short video of him was
released, after the Ukrainians put out a series of fake stories about
his whereabouts. The man in charge of the defense of Bakhmut has also
been keeping an unusually low profile. As with Zaluzhnyi, General
Oleksandr Syrskyi was fond of entertaining Western media. Over the last
month he has not made any media appearances.

Then there is the new tactic by the Ukrainians of launching drone
attacks against civilian targets inside Russia. The first attack was a
month ago that targeted the Kremlin before the big Russian holiday. Then
there was the very weird attack on a border village with Ukrainians
pretending to be anti-Putin Russian militants, using American equipment
to stage an uprising. Last weekend, there was a wave of primitive drones
sent at Moscow, with a few striking apartment buildings.

Of course, the weirdest thing to happen recently is the long running
hype about a Ukrainian counter-offensive that was due a few months ago.
It was supposedly set for March, but then was delayed due to weather.
Then it was delayed until early May due to logistics and then delayed
again for unknown reasons. Meanwhile the Russians have intensified their
attacks on Ukrainian supply lines. Maybe one has to do with the other,
but no one seems to be interested in the answer.

Maybe this is all 4-D chess, but the parsimonious answer is that things
are starting to unravel in Ukraine. A year of increasing Russian attacks
on Ukraine’s military industrial system has degraded their ability to
fight. Two months ago General Milley <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/09/us/politics/leaked-documents-ukrainian-air-defense.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">said</a> Ukrainian air defenses were near
collapse. A couple of weeks ago a New Yorker pieced <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/09/us/politics/leaked-documents-ukrainian-air-defense.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">confirmed</a> speculation that Ukraine
was short of ammunition. The spike in Russian air activity over Ukraine
suggests they now control the skies.

The weird behavior of Ukrainian leadership and the decline in activity
by the Ukrainian military suggests their capacity to fight is critically
low. The sudden use of insurgent-style tactics, championed by Kyrylo
Budanov, head of Ukrainian intelligence, may signal a shift in Ukraine
in response to reality on the ground. What Zelensky and his generals may
be preparing for is something like what happened in Iraq. The military
collapses, but in a way gives rise to an organized insurgency.

This may be the final play by Washington. The neocons have been <a
href="https://www.politico.com/news/2023/05/18/ukraine-russia-south-korea-00097563"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">circulating</a> a Korean-style end to the
war. The Russians keep and hold their positions and the Ukrainians, with
Western support, hold their positions. There is no logical reason for
the Russians to accept something they have for something they do not
want. If they keep fighting, they will soon break the spirit of the
Ukrainian army and prevent the West from resupplying them with new
weapons.

On the other hand, if Washington turns the west of Ukraine into a
launching pad for Ukrainian terrorist attacks on Russia, maybe the
Kremlin is willing to consider a deal similar to the Korean solution.
There is history for this. In the Second World War Ukrainian nationalist
worked with the Nazis to attack Russia. Today’s Ukrainian nationalist
consider
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stepan_Bandera" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Stepan Bandera</a>, the leader of the nationalists
during the war, as a hero and example to follow.

This shift would have several benefits. One it would give Washington an
excuse for not dealing with the issue. Useful idiots like Lyndsey Graham
could be counted on to call the terrorists “freedom fighters” as he did
with ISIS. It would reduce the cost to Washington, as terrorism can be
funded at a fraction of a land war. Primarily, it would require Russia
to keep fighting after the Ukrainian army was defeated. You can see the
appeal of this to the neocons.

It is unlikely that the Russians would accept a Korean-style
partitioning of Ukraine, if it means NATO operating in the rest of
Ukraine. The neocons probably assume this, so they will move ahead with
their insurgency plan. Since this will no doubt spill into EU countries
like Poland and Germany, which have millions of Ukrainian refugees now,
this has the added benefit of keeping Europe dependent on Washington.
Terrorist chaos on the border of Europe is good for the neocon cause.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="JPRKQ1ce1JT17L8czLww1A==cb7SxOZo7724ULNwK6sbRmteCKJRSAlmURmzl4b6TRxqh65uiP/1F4Xte9oKcys2HAA"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="tfQKaVDwCgohMEjegznzjg==cb7Y97YWNujc6fC08CuZAOPBGlLeVsZSNC5k11saDJ3AgMXAacMUPRvaRPcj5wb1mY6"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
