---
title: "The Kids Are Not Alright"
date: "2023-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30510"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30510"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the difficulty in making
quality science fiction movies and two posts about the American
Renaissance conference. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Every new generation gets the usual treatment from the usual suspects,
always in an effort to prepare the way for their integration into the
culture. The naming of generations is like the naming of weather events.
It is part of shaping a narrative. Of course, it is also a way to sell
the new generation cultural products by flattering them with claims that
they are special unicorns here to make everything right. Generational
politics is a way to condition the young to conform to the cultural
norms.

The Zoomers may be an exception to this rule. They are getting the usual
treatment from the usual suspects, but unlike prior generations they
have been raised as consumerist bugmen from birth. Consumerism is a part
of their identity, not an activity to be encourage. Popular culture and
consumer goods define them on an individual basis, but also signal their
participation in subcultures within the generation. They do not require
a “buy signal” as that is coded into their DNA.

This is also a generation raised by women for a female dominated
culture. Gen-X is arguably the first feminized generation. The explosion
of divorce in the 1970’s meant that many of this cohort were raised by
mothers in female led homes. The surrounding world, however, was still a
male oriented world. This started to change with Millennials who came
along as society rapidly feminized. The Zoomers were not just raised in
the <a
href="https://www.firstthings.com/web-exclusives/2023/02/what-is-the-longhouse"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">longhouse</a>, but for the longhouse.

Then you have the totally novel socialization of Zoomers. For as long as
man as lived in settled societies, children were socialized in
unsupervised play, with some guidance from parents and other adults.
Helicopter parenting with the Millennials changed this, but the internet
revolutionized it for the Zoomers. Mom was content to let the kids play
video games in their room. They were safe. Meanwhile, the kids were
learning to deal with other humans through the internet.

One result is that there are two distinct groups within the Zoomer
generation that have nothing to do with class or education. One group
played sports or grew up doing outside activities, while the other group
grew up online. The former group is better socialized and far less
engaged in popular culture. The latter, a much larger portion, is
socially awkward, defined by consumerism and most important, wildly
unrealistic about themselves, the world, and their place in the world.

The difference between online socialization and real-world socialization
is easiest to see with the males. Males learning the male role on the
playground got in fights and had to navigate physical space using the
limitations of their mind and body. Getting beat in a physical game by
someone who is not only better but will always be better is a humbling
experience that is an important lesson in life. Getting in a fight on
the playground, regardless of the result, shapes your behavior.

Zoomer males socialized online never experience this. Their character in
the game can be whatever they imagine. This is why male video game
characters are cartoonish caricatures of the idealized male form. Unlike
on the ball field or the playground, the worst thing to happen to you
online is your character dies. Maybe you get blocked from a chat room.
You just respawn as a new character. There are no real consequences, so
perceptions and expectations are never tempered.

One result of this is the Zoomer males sound like middle-aged single
women when they engage with the public. Scan their online spaces and it
is the sorts of complaints you expect from women. That is, they make
everything about their feelings about an issue, rather than the issue
itself. Nick Fuentes does a show that is mostly him complaining about
the world being mean to him. The Groyper livestreaming space is a low
production value version of daytime talk shows.

This jumps out when it comes to sex. Close to 20% of this generation
claim to be something other than sexually normal. Some of it is fashion,
particularly with the females, but much of it is simply a result of
socialization. Both males and females have been raised in such a way
that the normal interaction between the sexes has been short-circuited.
Identifying as trans or pansexual is much easier when the normal
interaction between the sexes has been made weirdly difficult.

Female Zoomers have been raised on a steady diet of Nth wave feminism
for a world run by women. They think they can do all the you-go-girl
stuff they get in the classroom and the popular culture. The trouble is,
none of that you-go-girl stuff prepares them to land a boyfriend, much
less a husband. Yet, that age old desire to be a woman and find a man
remains. The result is a generation of females frustrated by the sexual
marketplace, with nowhere to turn for advice.

Male Zoomers, raised to believe that females are the dominant force in
the sexual marketplace, have not developed the social skills to interact
with females. They assume the female should pursue them. Compounding it
is the deluge of porn that has washed over them growing up online. Their
sexual attitudes have been perverted to the point where many of them are
incapable of interacting with a human female. Instead, they date anime
characters and simp for female livestreamers.

Another novel feature of the Zoomer generation is that their social
capital is virtual, rather than practical. Status is about online clout.
This can be in the form of followers on social media or traffic on a
livestream. In the analog age, expensive display items indicated money,
which provided status. In the digital age, the digital man wants
internet clout, which signals his status. Nick Fuentes lives in his
parents’ basement and has never touched a woman, but he has clout, so he
is important.

This explains the endless boasting. Zoomers in the real world are quiet
wallflowers, but online they are obnoxious braggarts. It is why they
worship Donald Trump. So many of them have embraced his boasting style
because boasting is an important part of getting clout online, so why
not emulate the greatest shit-poster of all time? This is why Nick
Fuentes says he is the most censored man on the internet. The absurdity
of the claim is the point because it gets attention and therefore it
gets clout.

This also explains the unearned confidence. The generation least
prepared for the world as it is and wholly unprepared for what is
coming, is convinced they will take over the world and impose their
will. Again, this gets back to being raised by video games and
livestreams. You can always beat the game, so they assume they will beat
the game of life. They find it ridiculous to think otherwise. Those who
came before them are just losers who sucked at video games.

Something that ties it all together is the lack of seriousness. Again,
Zoomers engage with the world for the sole reason of gaining online
clout. To gain clout first requires getting attention. Getting attention
means finding a novel way to present yourself online, so anything goes.
It also helps if you can get the attention of other clout merchants, so
the result is ridiculous clout chasers aping the antics of clout
merchants. The clout market is a freakshow as a result.

Gen-X came into a world that was never going to cater to them, so they
were prepared to be ignored by the massive boomer population before
them. Millennials came into the world lacking many basic skills, but the
world they entered was stable and prepared to assimilate them. Zoomers
have been prepared for a world that only exists online and they are
entering a world that is in crisis. The result is the real world is not
ready to reprogram the Zoomers for success in reality.

More important, this cohort is going to live their prime years in a
society that is in both steep cultural decline, but also economic
decline. Reality has a way of fixing the mistakes of society, but
reality is not ready for the Zoomers any more than the Zoomers are ready
for reality. In the fullness of time, this generation may be the
inflection point of Western society. They are both the end product of
the long unfolding social crisis in the West, but also the last hope for
arresting it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="lYGSDA828JXx4c7Zzgh8yg==cb7DO4qXckcEsoY4NLxSbUoZ8IiijaIcgWBSiuQJONUZk4bFHLbFQojYDZFew3pdB2u"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="SPSWsxgsjAopNDseVDCh/Q==cb7GRtYCtxNo4qQ5E2UC6XUbJ9U7sGkbNZmcRkuTx0cexI+9b5snYefhFamIdVtcUU1"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
