---
title: "The Emotive State"
date: "2023-11-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31084"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31084"
---

**Note \#1:** A young fellow I met at a secret handshake meeting has
published his <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/aw/d/B0CJH45WF7/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0?ie=UTF8&amp;sr=8-1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">first novel</a> and I would like you to
buy many copies and recommend it to everyone. If you are a fan of the
fantasy genre, then give it a try and let me know your thoughts.
Supporting the people on our side, especially in the arts is the best
political thing you can do.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** Behind the green door I have a post about house hunting, a
post about the robot art critics of our future and the Sunday podcast.
You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you look back at the government propaganda of the Second World War,
you will see that it was rather generic in how it framed the enemy. The
propaganda about the Germans was not much different from what was used
in the prior war, except this time the Nazis were often portrayed as
stupid. The Japanese were portrayed as absurdly Asian looking and
monstrously cruel. Both were described as villainous aggressors who had
no reason to launch their war on the world.

In other words, there was nothing special about the bad guys relative to
prior bad guys, other than some superficial differences. There has
always been a circular logic to wartime propaganda, going back to the
Greeks. The bad guys are bad because they are the enemy, and they are
the enemy because they are bad. What makes them bad, of course, is they
do things we would never do, and they never do the things that we know
good people are supposed to do.

Fast forward to the present and villains are either Hitler or Bull
Connor, who have morphed into a Janus like creature that haunts every
conflict. The foreign villains are always going to be Hitler, while
domestic villains are the generic racist. Saddam Hussein and Osama bin
Laden were Hitler, despite the obvious differences, while every white
conservative is a fledgling Bull Connor. Donald Trump managed to be
both, despite his Zionism and love of black people.

The language of public discourse now sounds like wartime propaganda
because we now live in the age of emotivism. The term “emotivism” comes
from an early 20th century school of ethics that claimed all ethical
sentences are actually expressions of emotional attitude, as in positive
or negative. When a speaker says something is good or bad, he is not
stating an objective fact, but merely expressing his own emotional
attitude toward the object in question.

Like a lot of 19th and early 20th century ideas around ethics and
philosophy, this one fell out of favor due to its lack of utility. You
cannot build a grand moral theory if morality is a subjective construct
that arises from tradition or superstition, so there must be some
universal and objective morality. Similarly, you cannot make a career in
ethics if ethics are nothing more than conditioned responses. There must
be some universal ethical code buried in the desert that must be found.

That does not mean the emotivists were correct when they made their
sweeping claim about ethical statements. Just because the war
propagandists say the bad guys are bad as a way to generate support for
the cause, does not mean everyone who says the bad guys are bad is
merely acting on their conditioning. Nor does it mean that everyone
saying the bad guys are bad is a propagandist. It is possible to think
the bad guys are objectively bad and do so without emotion.

Even so, it is a useful concept when thinking about how modern humans
interact with one another in the public space. America is an empire
built by war, so it is built for war, and therefore it is always on the
hunt for war. As a result, generations of Americans have grown up in a
wartime culture, which means the public square has been flooded with
what amounts to wartime propaganda. There is always a war, which means
there is always an enemy that demands you jeer at it.

Public discourse in this age is not about presenting facts or contesting
various claims, but about displaying your allegiance to a perceived
moral divide. The white people installing the “Hate has no place here”
signs on their lawn would never live within a bus ride of black people,
but they feel they must show the world that they are on one side of the
racism line, the good side. The yawning gap between their emotive
gestures and their lived experience does not register with them.

This is why the people we call the Left love the word extremism. The
word is meaningless but in the mouth of a Cloud Person it is ridiculous.
They accuse normal people living normal lives of extremism, because
those normal people do not want to dress their son as a girl. Logically,
it is nonsense, but emotively it is highly appealing as it not only
expresses the users state of mind toward the bad people, it amplifies
the distance between the speaker and object.

Of course, this is why everyone is Hitler now. It is not that Hitler is
the evilest person in history or that he is an outlier in political
villainy. Stalin, Pol Pot, Mao, and many others were much bloodier and
villainous. Unlike those other baddies from history, Hitler lets the
speaker express a clear emotional state. That emotional state, of
course, indicates your emotional commitment to a collection of people
and ideas. Calling someone Hitler is like violently crying at a North
Korean state funeral.

That is the way to think about public discourse in the emotive state.
The ambitious and self-conscious are always looking around for a way
express their “boo/hooray” instincts to the crowd. When the pro-Israel
people rushed to their nearest platform to claim Hamas is Hitler, they
were letting the world know their emotional state on this issue, not
expressing an ethical or moral position. That is why the language
spiraled into the absurd as they competed with one another.

That last part also helps explain the weirdness of public discourse.
Since every issue is instinctively understood to be an opportunity to
express an emotion, there is a natural competition to see who can be the
most emotional. Piety in the emotive state is no longer about adherence
to a set of ethical rules, but a consistency in showing the popular
emotional response to issues. Instead of sacrificing a bull to the gods,
the great and the good have a good cry at a candlelight vigil.

A biproduct of this emotionalism is that politics are purely
performative. There is no practical point to any of it, as the primary
motivation is to be seen expressing the best emotions at the time. While
the mob sorts through their own emotional response to the emotive
performances, the people with real power go about exercising that power
to maintain and enhance their power. Politics has become the
[feelies](https://www.cliffsnotes.com/literature/b/brave-new-world/summary-and-analysis/chapter-11)
from the novel *Brave New World*, rather than a marketplace of ideas.

While this is useful to the people with power, it may be short lived.
There is a limit to how much raw emotion one can tolerate. Every day
there is some new thing that everyone must emote about in public. Just
as drug takers find they need increasingly powerful doses to get the
desired effect, the emotive need increasingly stronger emotional
responses. Like the drug taker, the end of this road is the inability to
feel anything other than the lack of agony.

All human societies are moral societies. The rules governing virtue
provide meaning and purpose to individual lives. The emotive state, in
contrast, channels the natural desire to do the right thing, however
society defines it, into the onanistic act of crying in public over
violation of the right thing. As a result, the good life has no point,
other than an endless crying jag. There is no point to this way of
living, which may explain the catastrophic social measures of modernity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4AathPop73WYHFYIrX+iIg==cb7uXvntgiEjx2WptOyR2Pa7UK1pklt12iWBWgxw5vfBa0fL4i74JrPRiiVV4HsTkSe"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6Cfx2+5KS/KdnLW9oO3JeA==cb72fbpHk5Ii97rHE8PyqDyE/xzFtlJStewiDLTF22/3DgHtRGD0PMtdRMCiedUYlF+"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
