---
title: "A Warning From The Past"
date: "2023-11-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31089"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31089"
---

On August 30, 1918, Vladimir Lenin had just given a speech at the Hammer
and Sickle arms manufacturing facility in Moscow. As he was leaving, a
woman called out his name and he stopped to see who was calling to him.
Why he would have done this is unclear, as by this point Lenin was the
most important man in Russia. He had lots of people who wanted a minute
of his time. Nonetheless, he stopped to address the woman, who produced
a pistol and shot Lenin three times.

The woman was not just any woman. She was Fanny Kaplan, who had been
involved in radical politics since she was a teenager. She was a member
of the SR’s, a very radical group that had been aligned with the
Bolsheviks at times. She had spent time in a Siberian labor camp for
having taken part in terrorist bombing attacks in Kiev, as well as other
activities. She had been released by the Bolsheviks after the February
revolution and gone right back to radical politics.

Lenin survived the assassination attempt, although he was never quite
the same physically or psychologically. This was terrifying to Lenin and
his inner circle not just due to the attack itself, but what it
represented. The Bolsheviks were no longer the revolutionary force from
the left, but the established order that had to contend with threats
from all corners of the political space. The Bolsheviks had real power
so that meant wielding that power to maintain that power.

There was also the issue of how Kaplan was able to get so close to Lenin
in order to take a shot at him. Lenin had security, but it became clear
that the SR radicals had friends and sympathizers in the security
apparatus. The Cheka was filled with people who were not entirely loyal
to the Bolsheviks. Many had been aligned with coalition partners, like
the SR’s. If revolution was going to stay alive, it meant the system had
to be purged and that meant unleashing political terror.

This was an important step, especially given the fact that Lenin and the
Bolsheviks were students of the French Revolution. They knew how the
terror worked out for the Jacobins and they were determined to avoid the
same fate. Yet from the perspective of Lenin lying in a bed with a hole
in his neck and a bullet in his shoulder, the only logical path forward
was to unleash the forces of political terror. The same logic would
eventually motivate Stalin to follow the same course.

The reason this matters at all to those living in this spot on the
space-time continuum is that the people in charge of the empire are
facing similar choices. In fact, they have been in this spot since the
2020 coup. In the fullness of time, that election will probably be
looked at the same way as other radical coups in revolutionary times.
Maybe Trump is actually our version of Kerensky, the radical liberal
reformer who tried to head off the radical socialists but was eventually
defeated by them.

Putting that aside, what mattered to Lenin as doctors patched him up was
his perspective on the situation. The same can be said of the regime in
the aftermath of the January 6th protests. Like Lenin and the
Bolsheviks, the people who engineered Biden into the White House
suffered from a similar lack of confidence. They had pulled off the
great coup, but they were still unsure of their position. People
climbing barricades brought to mind people more radical than themselves.

In other words, the people now in charge of the system see themselves as
radicals, facing threats from all sides as they seek to consolidate
power. This may sound a bit nuts but radicalism is powered by strong
belief. Even when they have total control of the state, radicals will
believe themselves to be the underdog, fighting a much more powerful
enemy. You see that in this
[advertisement ](https://twitter.com/WillRollinsCA/status/1717327791774150946)
by a former J6 prosecutor, who seems to think he is David facing the
Goliath of MAGA.

Mr. Rollins sounds deranged and delusional, but he believes what he is
saying not because the facts support those beliefs. He believes because
there are no better beliefs for him to hold at the moment. That is one
of those things about political believers that normal people struggle to
grasp. These people genuinely believe what they say, and they will not
drop those beliefs when you present facts and reason. They will only
abandon those beliefs in favor of better beliefs.

This is why it is foolish to think that the people we call the Left are
running out of juice or having second thoughts. This is not how the
revolutionary mind works. Those <a
href="https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/05/biden-polls-battleground-state-00125448"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">polls</a> we now see showing Biden losing
to Trump in the key states are not intended to boost your spirits, but
to terrify the radicals. It is a reminder that there is always a
Kerensky, or a Trump in this case. More importantly, there is always a
Fanny Kaplan, so the radicals better not lose focus or let down their
guard.

This is why they continue to persecute the J6 people. Almost three years
on and they are still hunting for new victims. It is why there will be
renewed efforts to eliminate Trump from the ballot. The bizarreness of
the New York court case against Trump should be a reminder that that the
radicals will never let something as petty as facts or the law get in
the way of their efforts. Every setback is a reminder that they must
renew their efforts to complete the revolution.

The regime is Lenin, lying on a couch with two holes put there by
someone with help from the inside. The reality of that thinking is not
important. What matters is the belief that the revolution is in mortal
danger. Our revolutionaries are just as aware of the past as the prior
revolutionaries, but they are just as trapped by the dynamics of
revolution, so they will be compelled to follow the same path. What lies
ahead is not a break from the madness, but a renewed assault by the
radicals.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="OtOjejORowoEYGYe0Hdp6A==cb795QHCaN4VMXmR3HXwqUaC/ON3u2JGFy164f7fyA0KB9n0pnqbMKxkEiW7GD7gDpC"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="kS94mNbnwgcXiJ0tBthlSw==cb7A7NjpF+kS8KcNe3k8uAdP3Juuojv0YjHLCDRk3ME0yJ+8pJrhexLzjJztRBWG2RV"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
