---
title: "Who, Whom?"
date: "2023-07-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-07-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30397"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30397"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the rather boring Amazon
movie *Air*, which is about sneaker pimps, a review of the classic
comedy, *The Philadelphia Story* and the Sunday podcast. You can sign up
for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Imagine you are suddenly thrust into a world where you and everyone else
in this world has a unique religion. Everyone has their own moral code,
and everyone has a unique way of demonstrating that moral code. There is
a finite number of moral principles, so there can be a lot of overlap in
this area. On the other hand, there is an unlimited number of ways to
exercise your beliefs, so everyone can easily see the differences
between themselves and the rest.

This would be a rather strange world, but it would also be an extremely
dangerous world as soon as everyone figured out that some of the people
had within their religion an extreme intolerance of other religions.
Some people may have as a part of their religious practice the forced
conversion of non-believers. Others may look at everyone as fair game as
far as murder. Some could be cannibals. Quickly everyone would realize
they are in an extremely dangerous world.

At the same time, some people would figure out that their moral code is
pretty close to the code of some other people. They may have different
practices, like feast days and which animals they sacrifice on those
days, but when it comes to the important things they are on the same
page. While these people may not want to change their practices, they
will quickly see the benefit in cooperation and compromise. They can
team up to defend themselves against the cannibals and killers.

While mutual defense is one reason to cooperate, another reason is to
create a mechanism to identify those with whom they can cooperate and
those who must either be avoided or defeated. You cannot get anything
done if you are never sure if the guy coming down the road is harmless
or dangerous. Quickly this new world would sort itself into tribes of
people with similar moral codes cooperating with one another in order to
avoid being prey to other people.

At this point, these loose associations for mutual defense will undergo
a transformation in order to work. Some will fall into disarray and the
members will be picked off by other groups through conversation or
predation. Some groups will reorient themselves into a unified
organization in order to convert the rest. Others will do the same in
order to resist being converted by others. In other words, the world of
individual religions will quickly give way to a world of group religion.

It is not an accident that this religious model follows the same pattern
as urban street gangs in the last century. Organized crime was not just
based on ethnicity. They relied on a moral code to hold them together.
It was not enough to be Italian, Jewish, or Irish to be a gangster. You
had to adhere to a way of life. The reason these people thought of their
fellow gangsters as family is they shared the same moral code. It is
also why they would kill one another. The code was bigger than men.

Morality in any human society tends toward monopoly. In our fictional
world of individual religions, the first thing to happen is compromise
for mutual benefit resulting in a consolidation of moral codes into
moral tribes. Those tribes, if they could not physically separate to
prevent conflict, would inevitably come into conflict until one tribe
was able to dominate the other. Barring geographical barriers, in time
this imaginary would have one moral code and one way to express it.

There is another thing going on here other than mutual protection. A
moral code only works if you believe it is correct. This means you must
think other moral codes are incorrect or you are leaving open the chance
that your code is wrong. Intolerance of competing morale codes and
religious expression is a requirement of faith, for no other reason than
to reinforce your own faith. By definition, a moral code must be
intolerant of other moral codes in order to remain a moral code.

At this point it is tempting to think this is wrong because in the real
world you get along well with the Hindu guy across the street. You are
not a Hindu, but you are fine with him being a Hindu and he seems to be
fine with you being Jewish. In reality, the reason you two get along is
you are both sublimating your religion to the moral code of American
society which says you must accept different secondary religions. One
part of your primary religion is pluralism, whether you know it or not.

It is also why the people in charge aggressively hunt down people who
hold beliefs that they see as dangerous to their beliefs. They
automatically view white nationalists, for example, as violent, because
from their perspective, people with such contrary beliefs must be
violent. The beliefs of the white nationalist are incompatible with the
moral code of the new religion. As we saw in the example above, the
inevitable consequence must be confrontation between the two camps.

This is what makes the present situation so dangerous. The moral code of
people putting child molesters and crossdressers into the schools is
incompatible with the moral code of parents. As we saw in our simple
example, they must always see one another as hostile because there can
be no compromise. There is no middle ground between those who think men
should be allowed to mutilate children and those who think children must
be protected from those men.

It is also what makes the new religion so aggressive. Much of what
defines it is the belief that it must conquer the moral codes of other
groups. To tolerate dissent is to question the one true faith. To
aggressively stamp out dissent is a public act of piety that reinforces
belief. Not only is peaceful coexistence not possible, but peaceful
separation is also not acceptable to the new religion. In this clash
between moral codes, the only question that matters is who will overcome
whom?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="TiaqcTTCytHdTxlFiBnP3Q==cb7Xrhd8+3BKOrIEOhc4w48OM/JpmC2L+wlLFVwdTYGt3YAVqxP8jY7uAZvLjEykfuj"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="E11aSoqyihxF1yXO2YBgEA==cb7zUnSYeMIMPjhrvCAI+im1eZ9uesY7vW54+2xF8YSmtCcK6fO6M2aWZF5fPXrVjRH"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
