---
title: "The Agony Of The Script Writers"
date: "2023-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30967"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30967"
---

The great philosopher Mike Tyson famously said, “Everyone has a plan
until I punch them in the face.” He was, of course, paraphrasing the
great Prussian field marshal, Helmuth von Moltke, who said, “No plan
survives contact with the enemy.” That is an abbreviated version of the
original. Some version of this expression no doubt exists in most
languages, as it is an essential part of human existence. All plans
suffer from the faults of the people making the plans.

We may be seeing this unfold in the Levant, where the Israeli plan to
exterminate Hamas and anyone near them is running into trouble. The
narrative unleashed on the public was that the attack on the drug rave
near Gaza, in which an undetermined number of people were killed, was
the red line. The Israelis were now justified in taking any and all
necessary steps to eradicate this threat. All media nodes were activated
to whip up support for maximum vengeance against Gaza,

Curiously, it was not just Israel whipping support. The Washington
regime swung into action with more than just words of support. Every
administration official was sent out to cry in public while demanding
blood. Word was leaked to regime media that Washington told Tel Aviv
they had a green light for anything. They sent two carrier groups the
eastern Mediterranean in support of the project. Top diplomats were sent
to Israel to express their unwavering loyalty to Israel.

As an aside, the dispatching of two carrier groups to the eastern
Mediterranean only makes sense if Washington expects to be in an air
war. Given that Hamas lacks an air force, it must mean they are thinking
about a neighboring country. There has also been talk about moving
another attack group to the northern part of the Indian Ocean, within
reach of Iran. You do not need these assets to launch a rescue mission
into Gaza and they are not needed to supply Israel with weapons.

You do not have to be a suspicious person to think that maybe there was
something else going on here rather than just a response to a terrorist
attack. Israel and the Palestinians have been at this for half a
century. This Hamas attack was an unusually successful action on their
part, but it was not that unusual. They stage these raids all the time,
which is why Israel spends enormous amounts of American tax dollars on
the world’s most advanced border security.

One possibility is that this Hamas attack was catalyst for a larger
narrative developed in Washington for when the time was right. Israel
would be seen as pushed into a corner with no choice but to preemptively
strike at its enemies. These enemies would be aligned with Iran, which
would then come to the aid of them. This would trigger a wider war with
Iran, which would be when the United States joined in to attack the
nuclear, missile and drone facilities in Iran.

That skeleton of a narrative was quickly filled in with the Hamas
attack. Note that regime media was filled with claims about Hamas being
an Iranian proxy and that this attack had to be planned by Iran. In
reality, Hamas gets its support from Qatar and was a creation of
Washington and Tel Aviv. Iran has provided support over the years, but
they have little control over Hamas. Few people know this, so these
details could be bulldozed by the wave of claims to the contrary.

Israel immediately went to work dropping bombs on Gaza, while saying
quite plainly that the intent was to drive the people out of Gaza.
According to the pro-Israel media complex, the Palestinians have
forfeited their right to exist by their ongoing support of Hamas, so
Israel had the right to use any means necessary on them. The rhetoric
and immediate actions were over the top, but most likely intended to
elicit a response from Iran in support of the Palestinians.

Looking at the rhetoric, Washington must have been thinking that Iran
would greenlight Hezbollah to launch cross border attacks from Lebanon.
They spent a couple of days warning against such an act. Israel launched
some attacks into Lebanon, probably on the same assumption. They also
launched an air raid on the Damascus airport, probably for the same
reason. The script said Hezbollah would attack so Israel just assumed it
would happen and acted accordingly.

Outpacing the script is something we have seen with Ukraine. Washington
created a narrative for the Ukrainian offensive last spring, which said
that they would burst through Russian defenses and reach the Sea of Azov
in a few weeks. This would set off a crisis in Moscow, maybe even topple
Putin. They were so sure this would happen they even planned a peace
conference in Saudi Arabia, without inviting Russia, in order to
determine the terms that would be imposed on Russia.

The great Ukrainian offensive was a disaster, complete with images of
burning Western tanks and video of Ukrainian soldiers trapped in mine
fields. Instead of marching to the Sea of Azov, the Ukrainians marched
into thick minefields without air cover and were destroyed by Russian
air power and artillery. It took months for this reality to sink into
Washington, so they continued on as if the script was reality. Only
recently have they abandoned the script they created last winter.

That is something to keep in mind with this new script. Iran did not
take the bait and has instead called for negotiations. Hezbollah has
stayed quiet, despite the Israel attacks on their facilities in Lebanon.
Instead of offering an excuse for the regime to launch attacks on Iran,
the Iranians are backing the play of Russia and China to find a
diplomatic solution to the Gaza problem. Washington remains committed to
their bit, but it is clear that the Middle East is not playing its part.

Where things go from here is hard to say. The Arab world is slowly
figuring out that they are being gas lit by Washington. Biden’s trip to
the region was scaled back to just a goodwill visit to Israel. This is
happening as the world debates who dropped a missile on a hospital in
Gaza, killing hundreds of civilians. Israel says Hamas bombed
themselves, while everyone else says it was Israel. Odds are it was
Israel, and it was simply a mistake, which happens in war.

Then you have the fact that the IDF does not want to enter Gaza. A
ground campaign would be a bloody and expensive project. There is no
guarantee of success, given the history of such efforts. There are up to
half a million fighting age men in Gaza, which is one of the most
densely populated places on earth. Imagine a guerilla war in Manhattan
and you have a good idea. It took the Russians six month to take
Mariupol and that is a city a quarter of the size of Gaza.

Instead of an excuse to bomb Iran and maybe Syria, the narrative writers
are slowly getting boxed in by the diplomatic efforts of Russia and
China. Putin has had one-on-one talks with all of the players, including
Israel. China is coming in with promises of financial support for the
peacemakers. Meanwhile, Washington is saber rattling and carrying on as
if their script for this project is reality. It is not a good look and
probably why Arab leaders refused to meet with Biden today.

Washington now finds itself on the wrong side of a war that no one
really wants, especially the Israelis. As is the case with all of the
narratives dreamed up by Washington, this one does not come with an exit
ramp. A week of fiery rhetoric in favor of righteous retribution and
threats to anyone saying otherwise has left the administration with few
options. As with the Ukraine offensive, they may be forced to pretend
everything is going according to the script.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NX1kow0+JhLwi+z7+u88xw==cb7fZWKzmSvbkNnPXE0EoTCzIOY9EvJgAg2hdjPyU0S7we70DUV+tZAEh4YyPL4Jped"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="TiSCAcqC1A1tLl5B4SundQ==cb7wpcsHLxzHFJ4jWiA/UYbwCgD3UprXaFF17uGuayeLWcx2lwXxvmzpw0kZtukHOPs"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
