---
title: "The Not So Great Game"
date: "2023-10-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31022"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31022"
---

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Note:**</span> Last week a friend of
ours, Jeff Winston, passed away leaving behind a young wife and a baby
daughter. Jeff was the founder of White Art Collective, a group of
musicians and artist who collaborated on artistic endeavors. A
<a href="https://www.givesendgo.com/hiraethfund" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">fund</a> has been set up to help Jeff’s wife and
daughter. There is no excuse for not <s>hitting</s>
<span style="color: #ff0000;">exceeding</span> the goal this week, so
please kick in a few bucks to the effort.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the driver of the car carrying Archduke Franz Ferdinand got
confused about the route and had to stop and turn around, no one thought
this would be the moment that changed history. No one who knew Gavrilo
Princip to that point would have imagined that he would be the man who
changed the world. He was the son of poor rural peasants and should have
grown up to be a poor rural peasant, but instead fate led him to that
cafe just as the car of the Archduke arrived.

Of course, Gavrilo Princip was not a victim of circumstances. He
willingly joined Young Bosnia, a radical separatist group. He was part
of the planned conspiracy to kill the Archduke, who was on tour from
Austria. For its part, Austria-Hungary decided to issue a démarche to
Serbia known as the July Ultimatum, which led up to the outbreak of
World War I. They made the assassination look like it was planned and
executed by the Serbs, rather than pan-Slavic separatists.

The Great War and the events leading to it are a useful example of how
the participants in a game will not deviate from their strategy on the
assumption that they know the strategy of other players and therefore
think their initial strategy will result in the optimum outcome, despite
the initial results. The fact that the players did not fully understand
the thinking of the other players and their desired outcome was not part
of the set of possible outcomes led to disaster.

This is something to keep in mind when trying to understand what is
going on in the present-day great game. We now have two hot wars
involving proxies of the Global America Empire, Ukraine, and Israel.
There is a third war in the planning phase using Taiwan against China.
American planners are sure they know the strategy of Russia and China,
so it is full speed ahead with the grand plan to defeat these two
adversaries and bring about the long-promised end of history.

We got a glimpse of this last summer when the imperial planners mapped
out the great Ukrainian offensive that was supposed to break Russian
defenses. They were sure they understood how the Russian army would
react in the field. They were sure they knew how this would impact
Russian domestic politics and global politics. When it was clear from
the start that things were not unfolding according to plan, they stuck
with the strategy, assuming it would result in the desired outcome.

We are getting another glimpse of this in the Levant. Like the group
that plotted the assassination of the Archduke, this Hamas cell that
plotted the attack on Israel was acting outside the game. They relied on
old analog techniques to coordinate their efforts, thus avoiding
detection by Israel and other players in the region. This attack is a
new element to the game, but the players are all acting on the old
strategy, under the assumption that they know what everyone else is
doing.

For example, the United States has sent at least two carrier groups to
the region as a threat to Iran, which is assumed to be backing Hamas.
There is no evidence to suggest Iran had any role in this event, but the
American side is undeterred in their belief that Iran is the primary
instigator in the region. In fact, the entire American strategy in the
region depends on this assumption. The United States has issued an
ultimatum to Iran assuming they must respond in a specific way.

It is an interesting example of asymmetric thinking. Like the great
powers of Europe before the Great War, you get the sense that American
planners want a war with Iran, so they are acting in a way that will
bait the Iranians into acting. Israel gets to indiscriminately bomb
Gaza, Lebanon, and Syria, but if anyone in the region reacts to this,
then the United States will consider it an act of war. Like the Serbian
government in 1914, Iran is slowly being boxed in by events.

Of course, all of this is operating within the context of the greatest
of great games, the challenge to the unipolar order ruled by America.
Russia and China are sure they know the strategy of America, as American
leaders are public about it. They seek to regime change both countries
and turn them into provinces of the empire. The same holds for the
lesser powers like Iran and maybe even India. For its part, the imperial
schemers are sure they know the plans of their intended targets.

That is the lesson from the Great War. When all sides are sure they
fully understand the strategy of the other players and they remain
convinced their strategy will get the optimal result but all of them are
wrong on both counts, disaster follows. The world seems to be inching
toward this exact scenario. Everyone is increasingly sure of how the
game must play out, so they are locking in their strategies. They are
doing so despite events routinely showing them to be wrong.

There is another piece though, one that may prevent the players of this
great game from blowing up the world. Great cataclysms like the Great
War seem to require a bit of chance to keep the game going. Gavrilo
Princip was not the cause of the Great War, but it is hard to imagine
events playing out as they did that summer if he had not been in that
cafe at that very moment. Throughout the war, bits of randomness worked
to keep both sides locked into destruction.

Those random events worked to continue the game because all sides were
locked into a myopic view of the game. In this version, the only player
suffering from this is the Global American Empire. The rest of the
players seem to understand that the West is acting on an internalized
script. The way to avoid catastrophe is to avoid playing the designated
role in that script. Russia has managed this in the Ukraine war and Iran
seems to be doing this so far in the Gaza war.

That said, one should never be too optimistic about these things. The
Thirty Years War happened. The Napoleonic Wars happened. The Great War
happened. The Second World War happened. The theme in all of them was
the players became convinced they had the optimal strategy, because they
thought they knew the strategy of the other players in the game. History
says that creating such conditions is easier than it should be, so this
great game could end poorly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="/bSFQ9O6JTz5LENL3qX6UA==cb7bDBAPZcxiLTRXQAAy4tHf5ZwZwpv8nT/d+mpmt4kzPf4Hj1h8kUEVN5vjktJ9qfQ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="VZxrRuzAsq57MEyAxz0yTQ==cb7KfIdKdNUpO4eGZFpdDXtoYJEu9kAQYA4t110HYRH2w6FaOvOQFLSmGHaCF4gWEJx"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
