---
title: "War With Russia"
date: "2023-09-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30759"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30759"
---

Until recent, few people outside of the Kagan cult and the Pentagon
thought about fighting a war with Russia. The former has thought of
nothing but such a war since the Roman legions crossed the Alps, while
the latter is tasked with wargaming every imaginable scenario, no matter
how unlikely. Otherwise, war with Russia stopped being a concern with
the end of the Cold War. The only wars anyone needed to think about were
the wars against pipsqueak countries in the Middle East.

Of course, the West now finds itself in a proxy war with Russia in
Ukraine which could easily tip into a direct war. Former Vice President
and current 2024 candidate Mike Pence is <a
href="https://www.newsnationnow.com/politics/2024-election/pence-if-ukraine-doesnt-stop-russia-us-may-have-to-fight/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">promoting</a> the idea of sending
American troops to Ukraine. Other than Trump and Ramaswamy, all of the
candidates for 2024 want a hot war. The Kagan cult, which runs Biden’s
Ukraine policy, is doing all it can to provoke the Russians into
something they can use to trigger
<a href="https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/topics_110496.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Article 5</a>.

Assuming war happens, could the West actually win such a war? Until this
year, no one thought about this question, outside of the Pentagon. The
United States had the world’s best military by far. It has been assumed
that a war with Russia would mean certain defeat for the Russian army.
The real question was whether the United States could beat both Russia
and China at the same time. After eighteen months of war, the answer to
the question of war with Russia is not so simple.

For starters you have to deal with the nuclear issue. Russia has 6,257
nuclear warheads and the United States has 5,550. Both sides have more
than enough to obliterate the other side. Given the performance of the
Russian missile fleet in Ukraine, we can assume that their ICBM’s are in
good working order. This means that any conflict that reached the
nuclear level would end in both sides being reduced to a premodern state
at best.

Both sides know this and both sides know the other side’s process for
readying a nuclear launch. Both sides have short-range nukes, but the
real county killers are the ICBM’s, so as long as both sides maintain
current protocols, neither side would have a reason to pull the trigger
on total nuclear war. That leaves some room for using tactical nukes on
the battlefield without triggering the end of the world. In fact, both
sides would assume all aircraft are nuclear capable.

This is the issue with putting F-16’s into Ukraine. The Russians would
have to assume they are flown by NATO crews because they would have to
be flown from NATO bases and use NATO communications networks. Further,
the F-16 is capable of carrying nuclear weapons, so their appearance
over Ukraine will be assumed by the Russians to be NATO seeking to
deliver nuclear weapons to the battlefield. The Russians would then be
allowed to do the same thing.

If we assume both sides understand the risks of nuclear weapons, a big
assumption given the behavior of the Kagan cult, it is possible for NATO
to send troops into Ukraine to directly confront the Russian army. Both
sides managed many proxy wars and some direct wars with the other side’s
proxies during the Cold War, so it is not unthinkable that they could
have a direct war without it going nuclear. Both sides could see an
advantage in agreeing to such terms.

If we put the nuclear issue to one side for now, we are back to that
original question about beating the Russian army. What the last eighteen
months has proven is that the Russian army is not the Iraqi army.
Washington spent close to ten years training and equipping the Ukrainian
army for this war. They have poured untold billions into Ukraine over
the course of the war. The West has levied massive sanctions on Russia
and yet it is becoming <a
href="https://www.newsweek.com/we-can-no-longer-hide-truth-about-russia-ukraine-war-opinion-1826532"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">clear</a> that the Russians are winning
the war.

One reason for this is the way in which the American military wants to
fight is not how this war is being fought. This is a land war between
peer armies. NATO would run into the same problems that Ukraine has
experienced. They would be sucked into a war of attrition that is
conducted from entrenched positions. This is the lesson the US Army War
College has drawn from the war. In <a
href="https://press.armywarcollege.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3240&amp;context=parameters"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this paper</a> released last week, they
explain some of the realities of a war with Russia in the Ukraine.

The first thing the authors note is the human cost to the American army
would be nothing like it has ever experienced. According to their
analysis, the United States would suffer more losses in two weeks than
it has suffered in twenty years of war in places like Iraq and
Afghanistan. They estimate at least three thousand dead and wounded per
day. Note they are using Ukraine as an example, which gives a hint as to
the real losses Ukraine has suffered in this war.

They also note that NATO would quickly have to tap into its reserves,
but this is a bit of a problem as those reserves do not exist. They
estimate that NATO would need a reserve force of about 450-thousand men
to start the war. The current number is less than 100-thousand men.
Attrition war need lots of men, but modern armies need lots of trained
men, so the West would need time to build their reserves. Of course,
Russia has been doing this for over a year now.

Then you get into material factors. The West has run out of weapons to
send to the Ukrainians after eighteen months of war. Granted, the United
States still has lots of tanks and fighting vehicles in its inventory
for use in a war with Russia, but the lesson so far is those stocks are
not enough. Ukraine has burned through thousands of tanks and fighting
vehicles. They have used millions of artillery rounds and lost hundreds
of Western supplied artillery pieces.

This <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/13/us/politics/russia-sanctions-missile-production.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">article</a> in the New York Times gets to
the heart of the issue. The economic sanctions have done nothing to
limit Russia’s ability to wage this war. More important is the fact that
Russian has a greater military industrial capacity than the West. She
also has unused capacity that can be quickly converted to making
weapons. Russia can make more of the stuff she needs to fight than the
West can make, which means the West will have to ramp up production.

Therein lies the problem. There are no factories that can be quickly
converted to military use like the Second World War. That means building
new, but that also means massive new costs to the West. In that Times
article it notes that it costs the West $5,000 to $6,000 to make a
155-millimeter artillery round, but it costs Russia about $600 to
produce a comparable 152-millimeter artillery shell. Now apply this math
to tanks, and fighting vehicles and you see the problem.

Obviously, war with Russia would mean the West would have to reorganize
to fight a war of this scale, but is it possible? Would the populations
tolerate the necessary changes to the economy and society? Reorganizing
America for total war when most of the country hates the rest of the
country is a tall order. Is such a scheme even possible in Europe? Even
if we brush aside the internal problems, could the West manage to pull
it off in time to avoid defeat?

Thirty years ago, Pat Buchanan ran for president, campaigning, in part,
against the de-industrialization of America. One of his points was that
nations win wars on their industrial capacity, not their service
industry. The same people demanding war with Russia today were gleefully
auctioning off the industrial base thirty years ago, telling the working
men that they needed to flip burgers. Now that the warmongers need those
working men, they are in China, not Pittsburgh.

This is the reality dawning on the world as the Global American Empire
flounders in its war against Russia. The Global American Empire is now
in decline and the rest of the world is seeing what the Army War College
is trying to tell the ruling class. The empire no longer has the
capacity to maintain the empire. This is why the endless bluffs from
Washington now fall on deaf ears. The question now is not what happens
in a war with Russia, but what happens after this war with Russia.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="HViB+syOBLYOWiOUWt5tGA==cb7q+gmFMhjHTVxrt2bfURfULhvusjNAyP5Cit+MB9SMqRLLMLMCl0lGGyoioC/kOGZ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="HjNSC7TWbaCTMnXybNsHyA==cb7I/omWOKUzCQ8CMQ9fAIprQtP88DXN+B9rSdNlNFzDHiKLsXXwSaw5RmuQST4tW58"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
