---
title: "The Low Trust Model"
date: "2023-10-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31009"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31009"
---

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Note:**</span> Last week a friend of
ours, Jeff Winston, passed away leaving behind a young wife and a baby
daughter. Jeff was the founder of White Art Collective, a group of
musicians and artist who collaborated on artistic endeavors. A
<a href="https://www.givesendgo.com/hiraethfund" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">fund</a> has been set up to help Jeff’s wife and
daughter. There is no excuse for not hitting the goal this week, so
please kick in a few bucks to the effort.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A little more than two weeks ago Hamas launched their daring raid into
Israel, killing many Israeli soldiers and civilians. The Arab – Israeli
story has been on the back burner for a long time, due to relative calm
between the various sides. The imperial wars in the region have ended,
so the American political class has not had a reason to talk about how
much they love Israel recently. This attack unleashed a great deal of
pent-up Israel enthusiasm from the Cloud People.

Right after the raid, the Israel lobby in the United States swung into
action, launching a massive public relations campaign in support of
Israel. There was a contest between the chattering skulls over who could
be the most extreme in their demands for vengeance on behalf of Israel.
Like the response to the death of George Floyd, the reactions from all
corners of the managerial class felt coordinated. The usual suspects
were all using the same canned lines on social media.

That may explain why this massive public relations campaign has not had
the effect the narrative writers expected. Two weeks on and most
Americans are more interested in the NFL scores than Israel and Gaza.
Then you have the large pro-Palestinian protests breaking out all over
the West. Washington had about ten thousand people turn up to wave the
Palestinian flag. Famous people like Dave Chappelle and Greta Thunberg
have made anti-Zionism fashionable again.

When you look at the
[polling](https://news.gallup.com/poll/472070/democrats-sympathies-middle-east-shift-palestinians.aspx),
support for Israel is just over fifty percent, but this is due to
unwavering support from old white people. Outside of that group support
ranges from “a pox on both sides” to mild opposition to Israel. Among
the young and left-wing, the Palestinians are becoming the cool new
victim group. College campuses are suddenly having to deal with students
supporting the people their donors are trying to kill over in the Gaza
strip. It is, as the cool kids say, problematic.

Clearly, the all-out media blitz has not had the expected result. The
political class is still playing its role, as if the people are
clamoring for it. Nikki Haley is running around promising to blow up the
world if elected president. She wants to
[rename](https://iowacapitaldispatch.com/2023/10/20/nikki-haley-says-she-would-support-israel-strengthen-u-s-military-as-president/)
the Defense Department into the Offense Department. While she is clearly
a psychopathic simpleton, her echolalic babbling is falling on deaf
ears. It turns out that even the sorts of people who care about GOP
politics are not moved by Israel.

One reason for this is that this media relations campaign looks like the
public relations campaigns around previous moral panics. This looks like
the George Floyd hoax or the Russian collusion hoax or the white
nationalist hoax. It is the same actors playing the same roles with a
new bogeyman. This style of gaslighting can only work so many times
before gaslighting fatigue sets in with the public. These calls to arms
over the latest bogeyman are becoming background noise.

There is also the fact that there is simply too much information and too
many people skilled in peddling their own reality. The Israel lobby has
billions of your money to spend on these campaigns, but there is a
massive guerilla army of online volunteers working to counter them. The
internet is full of pics showing bombed out buildings and dead Arab
children, along with carefully constructed context. The misinformation
war has been joined by this volunteer army supporting the Arabs.

Of course, there is the moral problem at the heart of it all. Yes, Hamas
killing women and children in that raid is terrible. Yes, Israelis have
a right to be angry and want retribution for the terrible act. No,
revenge and retribution are not things Westerners have been conditioned
to accept. Pulverizing Gaza as revenge for the raid strikes most Western
people as barbaric. Appeals to our empathy is not going to change the
fact that Israeli is blowing up hospitals now.

There may be another factor, something that underlies all of these other
reasons for the failed media campaign. That is the reputation of all
public people has collapsed due to their constant lying and tolerance of
obvious lies. All the people chanting “Death to Gaza” are people who sat
quietly while their fellows told outlandish whoppers about Trump, his
voters, white people, Covid and many other topics. Many of these
[people](https://twitter.com/benshapiro/status/875730927002963968?lang=en)
have enthusiastically held abhorrent positions.

A good rule of life is to assume that people who lied to you in the past
are lying to you in the present and they will lie to you in the future.
The public square has been so polluted by official lies and people
willing to repeat them in public that many people now assume everything
is a lie. If Ben Shapiro was happy to lie about Covid, why would he be
telling the truth about Israel? Why would anyone accept what the Biden
administration has to say about anything at this point?

This is an underappreciated aspect of what happens to people when they
transition from a high trust society to a low trust society. Send a
middle-class man to prison and he will be victimized by the system until
he gets smart. He then goes to the extreme, assuming that he can trust
no one. In time, he figures out that he can trust certain people, but he
can never trust the system. Low trust societies have the same sort of
trust relationships that you will see in a high security prison.

That may be what we are seeing in America. For some people, it is
assumed that everything from the system is a lie. Old people still trust
the system, but young people have no faith in it. On the other hand,
many people are learning to trust those who have earned their trust. All
the highly choregraphed media in the world is no match for the word of
that guy who has proven to be on the level. In fact, the media campaigns
are creating the environment for this trust model to flourish.

This is not a novelty, as much of the world functions this way. In the
Arab world, for example, not one accepts official sources at face value.
It is assumed that the official story is cover for the real story. Arabs
love conspiracy theories. In Eastern Europe, people treat politics as a
separate sphere with separate rules. Seventy years of communism taught
them to understand that the people in charge serve their own interests,
not the interests of the people.

It is only in the West where people came to expect honesty from the
ruling class and consistency in the rules of the system. The civic
nationalist concept of good government is a WEIRD concept. The term
WEIRD here means Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich and Democratic.
It works as long as the societies and their ruling elites remain
demographically Western. That is obviously no longer the case, so it is
no wonder that the West is evolving a new model.

In the end, the aphorism credited to Lincoln, “You can fool all people
some of the time and some people all the time. But you can never fool
all people all the time” works better as a warning, rather than a
description. A ruling class that keeps trying to fool most of the people
most of the time ends up fooling themselves into thinking they are
fooling everyone all the time. The end result is a ruling class that has
the trust of no one and must rule by force until the end.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="hGMN0FdxAZ7rKQxKRf9+0Q==cb7KICMeBLbiEDZrot1kBnWmQ3DqLrJ/PXFHiCoD2JkSneuSl+ajZ1NhiLTGXsTJxt3"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="f/KW0q7CKotr1bfJq/KKuA==cb7DWeQaHQ8Ds/oWFQnrwAxnnmd3s2SvqwKEnvRmcYbsgXE96eY6PBV5eelutyNvr8K"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
