---
title: "The Death Of Philosophy"
date: "2023-04-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29677"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29677"
---

**Note:** There was no Sunday Thoughts this week, as it was Easter, but
you can get two hours of my soothing tones here in this <a
href="https://bloodsatellite.ca/2023/04/212-the-5-am-man-behind-the-curtain-which-means-ilu-in-the-charismatic-pastor-who-thinks-you-get-anything/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">interview</a>. Around the two hour mark
is when I enter the show. There is some written content behind the Green
Door. You can sign up for an account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

I will be on the Paul Ramsey show this Wednesday. Because I am such a
terrifying figure, I am not permitted on YouTube, but Paul does his show
on <a href="https://rumble.com/c/RAMZPAUL" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Rumble</a> for the second hour, which is when I will
join.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The word philosophy comes to us from Greek, meaning “love of wisdom” but
as a practical matter it is the study of knowledge. The great
philosopher Emil Faber said that knowledge is good, so it may be
tempting to look upon the death of philosophy as another sign that the
West is in decline. Ours is no longer a culture that can produce great
philosophers or even properly understand those of the past. Philosophy
is just another victim of cultural decline.

On the other hand, the West got along for a long time without
philosophy. In fact, the West was able to rediscover philosophy due to
advances in material life prior to the rebirth of philosophy. We used to
call the period after the fall of Rome the “dark ages”, but we now know
it was not particularly dark. A new order was rising and eventually it
would provide the human capital and resources to rediscover the Greeks
and then build on what they had left to the world.

In other words, there is something else going on here. Alchemy is no
longer practiced because it was replaced with something better.
Astrology is still around, but it is for the stupid and superstitious.
Perhaps like those things, philosophy has simply served its purpose and
is no longer useful. It is often assumed that philosophy is a good in
itself, knowledge for knowledge’s sake, but humans are still tool
makers, so maybe philosophy is not an especially useful tool anymore.

Modern philosophers claim that they seek to understand fundamental
truths about the human condition, the natural world, man’s relation to
other men, and his relationship to the natural world. They break it down
into metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, logic, and the history of
philosophy. In order, these are the big questions of philosophy. Is
there a god? What is knowledge? What is good? What is good reasoning?
What is the history of these questions and who said what about them?

A more compact way of describing philosophy, however, is that it is
composed of three main branches of inquiry. There is natural philosophy,
which is the study of the natural world, including the nature of man.
Then there is moral philosophy, which is the study of how men ought to
act. Then there is metaphysics, which is mostly jargon-filled pedantry
and gainsaying that leads to nothing. The last branch has come to
dominate the philosophy departments of Western universities.

There are two reasons for the death of philosophy. One is that natural
philosophy was overtaken by science. This is a point that Stephen
Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow make in the book, *The Grand Design*.
Hawking observed that philosophy had failed to keep up with science, so
it had nothing useful to offer about nature. More important, the
development of ideas like M-Theory meant that science offered the
promise of explaining the *why* questions, as well as the *how*
questions.

The truth is, philosophy has nothing useful to say about the workings of
the natural world, including the workings of the human animal. For a
while, they tried to draft on science with things like the philosophy of
science, but it was nothing more than academic appropriation. One can
argue that early philosophy laid the groundwork for science, but science
has no need for that groundwork today. It is an entirely separate field
with its own internal dynamics.

More importantly, modern science requires mathematical aptitude that is
not present in moral philosophy. In order to understand the diversity of
the human animal, you must understand genetics and evolution. While a
philosophy student can dabble in those areas, his primary field of study
operates outside of the domains of math and science, which is why
philosophy is no longer relevant to the human sciences. This gap becomes
much larger when you move to physics.

Moral philosophy, in contrast, is still with us. It has been an
unequivocal disaster for Western civilization. Primarily concerned with
conjuring an authority not named God, moral philosophy has been
responsible for the terrifying and monstrous ideologies that made the
20th century a bloodbath. Given the direction of liberal democracy, it
looks as if the quest to replace God as the ultimate authority could
very well end in a series of mushroom clouds, erasing humanity from the
planet.

Would the world have been better off if Hegel had never lived? Without
Hegel, we do not get the young Hegelians, which is where Marx got his
crackpot ideas about historical materialism. Tens of millions have been
butchered in an effort to get on the right side of history. Imagine if
we had the good sense to shutter the philosophy departments after Locke.
Maybe the world would have been spared the terrors of man’s new god, the
right side of history.

The aphorism, “If God is dead, then everything is permitted” is
attributed to Dostoyevsky’s *The Brothers Karamazov*. It is a pithy
truth, but Dostoyevsky had much more to say on the subject. If there is
God, then he is the ultimate authority for both *how* and *why* of the
world. If not, then what is the authority? Philosophy has no answers for
how the world works. That has been taken up by science. As to why why
the world works as it seems, philosophy has no answers.

The point here is that philosophy has nothing to say about *how* the
world works and its efforts to explain *why* it works have been a
disaster. Further, as Hawking explained and as Donald Hoffman has
discussed, science may very well be on the cusp of explaining the why of
it all. Even if moral philosophy had not murdered itself in the search
for a new God, science appears to be heading for an empirical
replacement for the why we needed God in the first place.

What is left for philosophy is metaphysics, but even here, science is
slowly stripping it of its intellectual legitimacy. Questions like do
people have minds? and do people have free wills? are now in the domain
of science. This is why philosophy is now left with jargon and onanism.
It has nothing to contribute to the stock of human knowledge, other than
the ongoing process of cataloging the history of philosophy, which
increasing reads like a suicide note written by Western civilization.

Training young people in philosophy is no different than teaching them
alchemy or offering them astrology as a science option. Tarot card
reading is less destructive, as the person claiming to see the future
remains within the possible. It is the philosophy departments that have
perpetuated the lunacy of perfecting the human animal and creating an
earthly utopia. No one ever decided to immanentize the eschaton because
their fortune teller had a vision of the future.

That last bit is why philosophy is dead. As a replacement for religion,
particularly Christianity, it offered up a vision of a post human
condition that turned out to be worse than the human condition. It
amplified the worst aspects of the human animal in pursuit of
fantastical visions of the future. Christianity staggers on, because it
still can offer hope, regardless of conditions. Philosophy has run out
of hope to offer and is largely to blame for the present crisis.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="RxKqJMSxDLOCHKcB6v4O1A==cb7Cs/CmeWxHwvIj3MiPJdEVS1gOoX35sFbSvVFwK0LxGDEQPjsnAujs1uY1LC42OKR"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="WaSxZ96Os7EoZNCWBd5fxA==cb7xQfPd0byvsJ65pfB8ZIoyB5Cv6ZTbiRe6YwETRIQJ/btppP0rxxcoQOq3uV/qNul"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
