---
title: "Numbers"
date: "2023-10-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30885"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30885"
---

If you were a young person in the 1980’s and caught up in the swelling
conservative movement, you needed to know the numbers. Conservatism, to
a great degree, was about making rational arguments which meant starting
with the numbers. Things like the budget deficit, economic growth, crime
rates and inflation were a common part of the conservative counter to
progressive claims. At its most basic, conservatism was rational while
liberalism was emotional.

For a while it seemed like the conservatives had carried the day on this
issue as the public discourse slowly mirrored conservative discourse.
When public figures talked about politics and social issues, it was
about the numbers. The media would make a day of covering the latest
speech by the Fed chair. Alan Greenspan became a rock star who gave
speeches to huge crowds. Every politician made sure to have the
Congressional Budget Office bless his latest idea.

Through the Bush years, economists took the place of the court
astrologer, providing empirical authority to every normative claim. This
reached its peak in the first Obama term when they said that every
dollar spent by the government created more than a dollar of economic
activity. A line of people with impressive sounding credentials provided
the math of this claim. This was the argument in favor of the massive
spending program unleashed by the Obama administration.

It was not just politics that got the numbers treatment. After every
Super Bowl, the media would spend a day or two crunching the numbers to
prove that you were the only weirdo who did not set aside the day to
watch the big game. Television ratings were a mainstay of media
coverage. The stock market became the central measure of social
happiness, with cable channels dedicated to telling us the numbers and
what the numbers meant for your happiness.

Today, no one discusses the numbers. Someone arguing for a policy on the
grounds that it is good the economy sounds like someone arguing for free
silver. In fact, it is the primary criticism of Conservative Inc. They
do not care about crossdressers chasing your son around the playground
or the tidal wave of brown people pouring over the border into your
neighborhood. They care about the carried interest deduction and locking
in tax cuts that few experienced or remember.

What is the current projected federal deficit? Without googling it, few
people would know, and most people would not bother to do it. The same
is true of the total federal debt, which used to be a headline topic.
How much does the Federal government owe and to whom do they owe it?
Washington is embroiled in a huge drama right now set off by the Federal
budget debate and no one bothers mentioning that about forty percent of
what they spent is borrowed.

One reason no one talks about the economic numbers is they have become
inconceivable large, so they have no impact. People can grasp a million
and they can sort of grasp a billion. Being a millionaire would be nice
and being a billionaire would be awesome, but trillionaire? It is
probably better than billionaire, but what is bigger than anything you
can imagine? The thirty-plus trillion federal debt is a meaningless
number because it is outside of what most people can imagine.

There is a bigger issue that applies to all the numbers. Decades of
lying about the numbers have made all of them suspect. The totally fake
economic data pumped out in the Obama years sunk the credibility of the
court wizards. When those people with impressive credentials put on
their serious faces and said that taking money from you and giving some
of it to your neighbor would grow the economy, even the most innumerate
started to question the math.

It is not just the big stuff where lying has undermined the trust in the
numbers that used to be the guideposts of society. Television ratings
are obviously bogus or not as meaningful as claimed. If the people
making the content cared about ratings, they would not have smeared
their feces all over popular content. Ad makers would not have replaced
most of the white people with nonwhites. They certainly would not have
every white woman paired with a black guy.

Probably the most egregious offender of the numbers are the tech
companies, who clearly fake all of their numbers. How many users are
really on Twitter? No one knows but we know the official number is a
lie. We can clearly see that the follower counts and impressions are
fake. Before buying Twitter, Elon Musk made the rather obvious claim
that the site was riddled with bots and fake accounts. Once the deal
closed, he stopped talking about the bots and fake accounts.

There is more to the general fakery than the unreliability of the
numbers. It is that it reflects a collapse in trust. When the government
claims inflation is under control, but you keep seeing your expenses
climb, you are reminded by the numbers that the people in charge cannot
be trusted. When some new personality bursts on the scene claiming to
have a huge audience, but no one you know heard of the guy until last
week, you cannot help but wonder if it is a lie.

The numbers of life are not supposed to tell us what we ought to do, but
to be a measure of what we are doing. If we cannot trust the numbers or
the people issuing the numbers, then we cannot know what they are doing.
We have no way of judging what is being told to us or if it is on the
level. The only logical response is to assume the numbers are fake and
the people issuing them are lying. A society with unreliable numbers is
a society run by unreliable people.

Of course, this is most clear in politics. The most important numbers
are the votes counted on election night. The logic of democracy is that
everyone gets their say, then everyone votes and the side with the most
votes wins. Along the way polling tells us how the various arguments and
people are doing. If all of these numbers are fake, then what is the
point? If the numbers at the soap box and the ballot box cannot be
trusted, you are left with the numbers in the cartridge box.

Since the end of the Cold War, American society has travelled along an
arc that started with a trust in the numbers and the people behind them
to a place where no sane person trusts the numbers or the people behind
them. That is probably why it feels like this pirate ship of a society
called America is sailing into dangerous waters. Odds are just numbers,
and the odds say that in a world without reliable numbers, the most
likely outcome is the ship eventually sinks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kEcXbNbhaQjq4T3bu27uWg==cb7csNs3jqWqBEdua2Q9P3jwo5c133A9DoJY0AUh7eiNpLUao7g4aO9pxNiVhP3/2My"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="oN3e3D4nt0/3YjJtGQzmKg==cb7pLIjAxjZnK1bARukrL9CbE9RzBsJcfSjJfjlGatOVaSVAH3OCBliPCRA7FPX6lDA"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
