---
title: "Orphan Child"
date: "2023-12-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31232"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31232"
---

After the Bay of Pigs debacle, John F. Kennedy supposedly said, “Success
has many fathers, but failure is an orphan.” Whether or not he actually
said it is unknown, but the expression has been with us ever since.
Supposedly it was an updated version of the Tacitus line, “It is the
singularly unfair peculiarity of war that the credit of success is
claimed by all, while a disaster is attributed to one alone.” Kennedy
was pithier but Tactus captures the truth of the matter.

We are seeing this with the Ukraine war. The news from the battlefields
is uniformly bad for the Ukrainian army. The West is slowly <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2023/12/04/nato-chief-warns-of-bad-news-for-ukraine-after-failed-counteroffensive/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">coming to terms</a> with the reality of
the much publicized counter-offensive, which ended in disaster soon
after it was launched, but the West spent the last few months in denial.
Ukraine does not publish numbers as far as casualties, but independent
guessing suggests they lost between seventy and one hundred thousand men
in the counter-offensive.

As the overall condition of the Ukraine military comes into focus, the
recriminations are beginning to turn up in Western media. This <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2023/12/04/ukraine-counteroffensive-us-planning-russia-war/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">long story</a> in the Washington Post is
a good example of the general tone. Washington is looking to place the
blame on the Ukrainians, while the Ukrainians are placing the blame on
their Western backers or on one another as the situation warrants.
Europe has yet to join the blame game, but in time they will no doubt
blame the Ukrainians.

Another pithy expression that is useful regarding the Ukraine debacle is
“You learn more from your failures than your successes.” Washington
never learns from its failures, which is why they have the Ukraine
debacle, but the rest of us can gain some insight into how our pollical
leaders stumble into these disasters by looking at some of the major
blunders in this war. How they managed to reach this point speaks to how
they view the world and their role in it.

The first major blunder was getting into a land war with Russia. This is
right up there with “Never getting into a land war in Asia” and the
slightly less well-known “Never go in against a Sicilian when death is
on the line.” The Russians are bad at many things but when it comes to
fighting a land war, they are exceptional. When they view the land war
as an existential threat it quickly becomes a great patriotic war and
the whole of Russia organizes to defeat the enemy.

This is what the West managed to do in what should have been a low-grade
border conflict between Russia and Ukraine. The West made this into a
game of the world against Russia and the Russians accepted the
challenge. The sanctions regime was clearly intended to hurt average
Russians, which made it easy for the Russian leadership to recast this
conflict as this generations great patriotic war. That war is with the
West, not just the Ukrainians.

The question is why did the West do this? The reason is they assumed
Russia was too weak to fight an actual war. They came to this conclusion
not based on observable facts but on the power of their own rhetoric.
They kept saying that Russia was a “gas station masquerading as a
country” so often that they believed it. Instead of looking at what was
happening in Russia, the West told themselves appealing stories about
what would happen if they blew hard enough on the Russian house of
cards.

This gets to the second colossal error of the West. The Russians crossed
into Ukraine with a force of about one hundred thousand men with the
assumption the West would demand a peace meeting. They were not prepared
for an actual war. Ukraine, on the other hand, had an army of over three
hundred thousand regular army troops and another three hundred thousand
reserves. Russia, the attacker, was outnumbered three-to-one one by
Ukraine, the defender.

In the spring of 2022, the Ukrainians had a chance to smash the Russian
army if they went on the offensive. It would have come at a price, but
they could have pushed the Russian back into the Donbas and maybe out
completely. Instead, the Ukrainians dug into defensive positions along
the line of contact. This gave the Russians time to reorganize their
lines into more defendable positions and begin the process of building a
much larger force to take on the Ukrainians.

The reason Ukraine did this is they were repeatedly told by their
Western backers that Russia could never sustain an army in the field for
long. The best people ran to their favorite media outlets <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10869009/Russian-army-COLLAPSE-amid-huge-losses-30-000-troops-confidential-UK-report-says.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">predicting</a> an imminent Russian
collapse. The intellectual everyone in the West considers a seer <a
href="https://www.americanpurpose.com/blog/fukuyama/preparing-for-defeat/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">claimed</a> early on that Russia would
not just lose but disintegrate as a result of the war. The fact that
Fukuyama has not been right about anything in his career has not lowered
his status in the West.

Here again we see that the West blundered into a catastrophic mistake
not because they misread the evidence but because they confused their
own magical thinking about the world and their role in it with reality.
People with what passes for impressive credentials in the managerial
class spun fabulous tales about the imminent collapse of Russia and
those tales became reality for the war machine. Meanwhile, the Russian
army used this time to prepare for what we see happening now.

This brings up the third colossal error. Having figured out that Russia
was not going to disintegrate in the face of what amounted to an
internet cancel campaign, the West prepared Ukraine for a big arrow
offensive. They conscripted close to one hundred thousand fresh troops,
trained them in NATO tactics and supplied them with NATO weapons for the
purpose to driving the Russians out of the Donbas. This was the great
spring counter-offensive that kicked off in the summer.

In the early hours of the offensive, columns of Western armor barreled
into the Russia outer defensive lines in the south with the aim of
driving to the Sea of Azov. Instead, they bogged down in massive
minefields. The mine clearing equipment provided by the West turned out
to be useless for the task, so the armored columns were trapped in the
minefields and obliterated by Russian artillery. A large area in the
south is called Bradley Park because it is full of destroyed Bradley
fighting vehicles.

It is impossible to overstate the failure here. The Ukrainians not only
lost the entire army assembled for the task, but they stripped their
lines in order to supplement this army on the expectation that it would
smash through the Russian defenses and those reserves would then flood
into the breech. Instead, these reserves were thrown into what was
called a meatgrinder. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians were killed and
maimed in order to capture one tiny village in the south.

What is even more stunning than the enormity of the failure is the fact
that Western military planners were so slow to accept reality. Even as
it was clear that the Russian defenses were too strong, General Milley
was <a
href="https://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-breaks-first-line-russian-152800546.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">talking</a> like it was just a matter of
time before they collapsed and Ukraine rolled to victory. Even after
thousands of videos appeared online of burning Western tanks, Western
generals kept saying that things were on schedule for a glorious
victory.

The result of this catastrophe is Ukraine no longer has offensive
capabilities and is struggling to maintain its defensive positions in
key areas. The massive losses of men and material cannot be replaced.
Ukraine is <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/19/europe/ukraine-difficulties-in-military-recruitment-intl/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">running out of men</a> to conscript for
the war and the West is out of equipment to send them. This is why we
are seeing reports in Western media talking about who is to blame. No
one wants to be the father of what is going to be a collapse of Ukraine
in 2024.

The theme throughout this two-year debacle is that the people making the
decisions have substituted a preferred reality for actual reality. These
are the type of people John Derbyshire once described in another context
as those who are “awfully good at creating elaborate, plausible, and
intellectually very challenging systems that do not, in fact, have any
truth content.” For the last two years their version of reality has
crashed into a reality that rests on the truth, not narrative.

The Ukraine debacle is a microcosm of what plagues the West. The people
in charge are long on credentials that are meaningful only within the
artificial reality that is the managerial class. The result is an echo
chamber populated with credentialed idiots who compete with one another
to produce the most pleasing sounding narrative to describe what they
imagine lies outside their reality. They live in a simulation but seek
to impose what they experience on the world around them.

These are the same people now <a
href="https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2023/oct/20/editorial-federal-judge-and-prosecutors-imprison-d/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">operating</a> the court system based on
their paranoid fantasies about invisible enemies and <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/08/21/business/airline-safety-close-calls.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">staffing</a> the air traffic control
system to match their image of the inclusive society. What lies ahead
for the West is what we are seeing in Ukraine which is the fantasies of
a delusional and deranged ruling class smashing into the reality of the
world, all paid for by the common man. Reality is that thing that does
not go away when you stop believing in it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="nsf41Xp0Q9j6mG2Lz3WuSw==cb7gq8hMnmYzYqCi4Oxz4JAZho48qt2tWrRwFhS1bQHG/kD4qrzgwezdsmNFrNz+3jg"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6qoUoegvJZYAYnrcnDH9ag==cb75oaoA8flZn4H4/oOA09zyVATo9Ic84K3YmEsTPX1nzW6plHfdkc16DUZXG4wdwcv"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
