---
title: "The Argentine Question"
date: "2023-11-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Immigration
  - Libertarians
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31219"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31219"
---

The subtext to the improbable election of Javier Milei revolves around a
question that has haunted Argentina for generations. Why is this country
such a mess? For as long as anyone can recall, Argentina has been
synonymous with South American disfunction, to the point where the name
of the country is often used as an epithet to criticize first world
countries. There was even a Broadway play based on the life of a famous
Argentine lunatic named Eva Perón.

The first place to start is the ruling elite. If you do an image search
of “Argentine leaders” you get a collection of images that would answers
the same question if you replaced Argentina with Italy or Spain. Like
most South American countries, the ruling elite looks like the colonial
elite that founded these countries. In some of these countries, they
have been ruled by a small set of families since the 16th century when
their ancestors arrived from Spain.

In other words, you do not see the Venezuela problem. In some of the
more dysfunctional countries in the region, you have indigenous leaders
rising up to claim some power, which always ends in disaster. They tend
to be Marxists, but the illiterate sort that just understand the theft
and violence parts. Venezuela is a rich country in terms of natural
resources and location, but the smart fraction was chased off long ago
by indigenous lunatics, so it is a basket case.

On the surface, Argentina does not have this problem. The most notorious
ruler of the place was the Latin fascist Juan Perón. Anyone who has been
around international organizations like the IMF or World Bank knows the
sort. Perón was a populist and demagogue, but he was also highly
educated and sophisticated. His politics were a populist suit her wore
to garner support, but he was a man of the European elite that has run
the country since forever.

The point is the ruling class of Argentina is not a lot different from
the ruling elites you see in better functioning countries. Perón is
typical of the ruling class in that his family tree has Spanish, French
and English ancestry. Go through the <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_heads_of_state_of_Argentina"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">long list</a> of Argentine rulers and all
of them trace their roots to the old country. You never see any
references to Africans or Amerindian ancestry. The rulers always look
like the sort of people who spend their career at places like the UN or
now the EU.

In other words, Argentina is a country rich in natural resources, has a
prime location on global trade routes and has an educated and
sophisticated ruling class. On paper, it should be one of the more
prosperous countries in the New World. Instead, it has been defined by
government incompetence, corruption, and some of the most outlandishly
terrible economic policies on the planet. Argentina has become
synonymous with every failed economic policy to come out of the academy.

One clue as to why Argentina is a mess is the people. The average IQ of
the population is 87 according to the
<a href="https://www.worlddata.info/iq-by-country.php" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">most recent data</a>. People will quibble about this
score, but it is best to think of these numbers comparatively. Japan
clocks in at 106, so that means the Japanese are more than a full
standard deviation smarter than Argentines. Even if the measures
themselves are not precise, which is surely the case, the margin of
error will be similar for every country.

To give this gap some clarity, imagine a population full of people who
could test into law school or business school. Assume they have not
actually attended college or graduate school, but their test scores
indicate they could do it. Now take a population of high school dropouts
whose test scores indicate they are going to struggle getting their GED
while in prison. That sounds a bit extreme, but the typical prisoner in
the United States is going to have an IQ similar to the typical
Argentine.

Now, take that collection of smart people and make them the talented two
percent of the population and the collection of dumb guys is the
population. For starters, the average IQ of the population will not
change much. The average IQ of the population jumps about one point with
this new smart fraction. Make it the talented ten percent and the
average IQ jumps three points. In other words, in our experiment, that
smart fraction is not going to change things very much.

The way to think of every human organization is to imagine a man
carrying a sack full of ro9cks up an incline. The steeper the incline,
the slower his pace. The more rocks in the sack, the slower the pace.
The smaller the man, the slower the pace. The man is the smart fraction,
while the sack in society. The incline will be the natural resources
available to that society. The greater the resources, the softer the
incline, while fewer resources gets a steeper incline.

Japan is a big man with a small sack, but facing a relatively steep
incline due to Japan being an island nation. Even so, Japan is a rich
and modern place due to the large smart fraction and the relatively
small dumb fraction. On the other hand, Somalia is a tiny man dragging a
boulder up a cliff wall. The smart fraction, such as it was, now lives
in Minnesota leaving the rest to make what they can from very little. No
amount of clever political theory is fixing Somalia.

This explains why Argentina remains an ungovernable mess. Of course, the
good times in the country have often been under non-democratic rule.
When you combine democracy with a low-IQ voting base, the result is
populist demagogues who promise to use their power to overcome nature.
The pattern in Argentina is authoritarianism, followed by democracy,
followed by populism, which leads to collapse and the return of the
authoritarian to restore order.

Javier Milei is toward the collapse portion of the cycle. This enigmatic
weirdo, whose first act after winning election was to convert to Judaism
and make a pilgrimage to the Hassidic community of New York, is in the
populist tradition. He has decorated his populism with libertarian
slogans, but what the voters heard was that he will take from the elites
and give to the people. Given the IQ of the population, most could
probably not be able to tell a libertarian from a rhinoceros.

Given his backers, there is a good chance that Milei will succeed in
pushing through his changes, as they have been done before. He will put
the economy on the dollar, and this will stabilize prices for a spell.
Then the shortage of dollars will lead to borrowing from his backers in
dollars. Those bonds will then be passed off onto American pension funds
and other institutional investors. This will continue until the
Argentine government can no longer make its interest payments.

What Argentina tells us is what every ball coach knows. It is not about
the X’s and O’s, but the Jimmy’s and Joe’s. In the realm of sport, a
great coach can only do so much with bad players. His great coaching and
brilliant strategy will always run into the limits of his players. In
the realm of human society, the political and economic systems will
always be limited by the available human capital. it is why the Nordic
countries made socialism work, while Argentina cannot make anything
work.

There is another useful lesson here for people in the West. The people
running Argentina have always known the math of their human capital.
This is a truth that is spoken about openly in the homes and offices of
the ruling class. Despite the limits it puts on their ambitions, this
gap between them and the masses is what keeps them in the elite, ruling
over those masses. It turns out that being a smart fish in dumb pond is
a pretty good path to the good life.

This is one reason Western elites love low-IQ immigration. It is like an
acid on the middle-class, diluting the layer just below them. Sure, mass
migration means the subways are unusable and much of the cities are too
dangerous for cafe life, but it beats having to compete with smart
strivers from the middle ranks. Western elites look at Argentina and
envy their rulers. No matter how stupid they are, they never have to
worry about being displaced by people with genuine talent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="N9W945XWaJXYKCi4EoTO/w==cb7fweJbnh1fGCRwo6bJ6+ZlhR9AJ0Er0lYP3uGOuYjLEFG/bIKBSmp6RMqwQCkaIOB"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="u42nl/3OIGfxjOBb4Ds6kA==cb7spoHVojUO6qaL+qQC67lCto+2cY1cXBN5CgFcSTcMzCVhuk/PuATRdw2oRgI8WpS"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
