---
title: "Universally Left And Right"
date: "2023-09-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30765"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30765"
---

One of the many problems that plague this time is the poverty of
language when it comes to our politics. We remain stuck with the
language of the past, even though the political and ideological
structures of the past are no longer relevant. The use of antiquated
language forces people to use those old mental structures, which in turn
means jamming the present into the molds of the past. The most obvious
example is Left and Right, which have lost any real meaning.

Is Ben Shapiro a conservative? He calls himself a conservative, but
Steve Sailer calls himself a conservative too. While they may agree on
many practical things, it should be clear that they have different
motivations. Ben Shapiro’s conservatism is driven by a desire for what
is good for his people, while Steve Sailer thinks his positions are good
for the country of his birth. They get lumped in with many other people
on the Right, but they clearly have different political goals.

Therein lies the main problem with the most basic of political labels.
Steve Sailer and Ben Shapiro assume that the rules of morality are
rational. If they are rational, then we can reason our way to the
correct morality. If we can do that then there is no reason that
everyone cannot do the same thing. This is also the position of people
like Karl Marx and John Rawls. It is the view of the current Left. They
think they have found the right moral system and you just need to
realize it.

Right there is the central problem of this age. We hold onto terms like
Left and Right but have forgotten why they exist. The Left used to be
those who said that the rules of morality must be rational, because the
natural world is rational. The Right said morality is based in Scripture
and the will of God but shaped by tradition. Scripture does not cover
everything, so history, tradition, and custom fill the gaps. Those items
are central to understanding the central morality of Christianity.

This is the fundamental difference between Left and Right that has been
lost, resulting in the incoherent use of the terms today. Both the
modern Left and the modern Right assume that there is one universal
moral code that is rooted in reason. Because morality is rational, it
applies to everyone, just as the rules of math apply to everyone, so it
means it is the duty of those who know to educate those who do not know
in the same way we spread other knowledge.

This is what Paul Gottfried and others have been trying, unsuccessfully,
to <a
href="https://chroniclesmagazine.org/recent-features/polemics-exchanges-september-2023/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">explain</a> to Michael Anton over the
last year. His “natural rights” argument must lead to that which he
claims to reject, because it relies on the same assumptions and logic as
that used by left-wing radicals for centuries. Once you assume morality
is based in reason, you must assume there is one universal morality. The
next steps from there do not matter as they all lead to the same place,
death camps.

Of course, this must lead to the end of tradition. If morality is based
in reason, then it means past practice is a form of trial and error,
mostly error. The way we used to understand morality, say basing it in
local custom, must be wrong because reason has brought us to a new and
better understanding of morality. Tradition, history and custom, if they
have any value at all, are a warning. Those who cling to antiquated
moral claims based in tradition are rejecting reason.

This explains another bit of incoherent vocabulary. The people
celebrating diversity are the least tolerant of diversity. The reason
for that is diversity for them is a narrow tool, a wedge to be used to
separate people from their history, traditions, and customs so that they
can more easily be herded into the new moral framework. Diversity is a
means to an end, not an end in itself, even if they claim otherwise,
because there can be no diversity within a settled moral order.

The biggest problem that arises from universal morality based in reason
is that it must come with a duty to impose that morality on others. This
is the central insight of Nietzsche, who argued that once you conclude
that morality is rational, you must accept it is universal and therefore
binding on everyone. This divides the world into moral and immoral
actors, where the moral actors are judged not on their individual
compliance with moral reason but their willingness to enforce it.

If reason tells us that everyone can and must have the same morality,
then there is no room for things like national borders. Borders are
about dividing people based on how they think they ought to live. People
over there live the way they do because they think that is how they
ought to live, while the people over here live as we do because it is
how we ought to live. The border dividing the two people is to preserve
these moral differences, which flies in the face of reasoned morality.

Similarly, free association is about separating people, which rests on
the assumption that people may be different not just in their
superficial characteristics but in how they think they ought to live.
The men’s club exists because men do not think like women and therefore
must have a different moral outlook. Logically, it means they must have
different roles in determining how we ought to live. If the moral
questions have been settled, then this form of association is
unacceptable.

What all this leads to is a way of sorting people in the modern age. If
you are sure morality is based in reason, then you are in one camp,
along with Locke, Rousseau, Karl Marx, and John Rawls. If you think
morality lies outside the domain of reason and is instead based in the
supernatural or tradition, then you are in another camp along with
people like de Maistre, Burke and even many of the Framers. One camp is
on the Left and the other is the Right.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="/jVNJk7lRSmRv82ZFJl8bg==cb7BkoLnCzNl8GwY5er3EZZN8f7OQ8kxXdRG34o4wYYMbQF9GPhQJH34nYSzsLUFSUi"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="vUgY4jKob1zxmAu8b7fdKQ==cb7FDgu4mLzP6vdifIHwW9BWu8mCqskKgzV8KXHtwAHV9u971g9SiPKW5e6FiwbrFBx"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
