---
title: "Happy Thanksgiving"
date: "2023-11-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31184"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31184"
---

Thanksgiving is arguably the greatest American creation, despite being
the one thing we have not tried to export. Around the world there are
American outposts selling degeneracy of various sorts, along with the
supposed ideals of the American empire, but you will never get a sales
pitch on Thanksgiving. It speaks to the nature of the current ruling
elite that gratitude is not something they think about when trying to
change the minds of people abroad.

Regardless, the long holiday that is upon us is special. It is a long
weekend of doing little more than giving thanks for what we have as
individuals. We do not give thanks to our overlords for anything. We do
not give thanks for our stuff. We do not even give thanks for the great
fortune of being an American. It is much simpler and more honest that
all of that. It is a day to be happy that you are alive, you have
friends and family and you are able to enjoy those things.

What makes the holiday better than most is that it is at least a four
day weekend and is slowly becoming a weeklong affair. Within living
memory most people had to work Friday if they wanted to get paid for
Thursday, but that is long gone. Most employers give their people
Thursday and Friday off, except retailers, of course. Many offices now
close up early on Wednesday. All week offices are light on staff as
people use their personal time to extend the holiday.

If we had any sense as a people, we would make the whole week a national
holiday, maybe even shutter retail for a few days. Friday is the start
of the Christmas shopping season, so giving the retail people a few days
off in advance would be the decent thing to do, but our greed heads will
never go for it. Big box retailers now force their staff in on Thursday
night to get ready for Black Friday. After the revolution, the people
doing this will be hanged first.

The funny thing about Thanksgiving is it does not celebrate any of the
things that have come to define America. There is no soulless gift
giving. Christmas has been turned into an orgy of material
self-indulgence. It is reasonable to say that what goes on in this
country around Christmas is grotesque. Our other holidays are civic
affairs designed to celebrate the government or warmongering. Usually,
they are on a Monday so we get a long weekend, but they have no meaning.

Thanksgiving is unique in that it is about you as a person taking time
to think about the good things in your life. The big traditional meal
with friends and family focuses the mind on those human relationships.
Even in these easy times, life is hard, so taking time to count your
blessings is a gift you give yourself. Being grateful is one of those
odd things that just makes you feel good. Having a long holiday to eat
traditional foods and be grateful is an amazing thing we have created.

It is the gratitude part of it that gets to the heart of the current
crisis. All around us are people doing nothing but showing their
ingratitude. America is filling up with ingrates who do nothing but
complain. One can possibly understand the ingratitude of black people,
but the endless complaining from new arrivals is maddening. Even worse
is seeing useless weirdos freeriding on society complain that the rest
of us are not thanking them for being parasites.

Joe Sobran put it best. “The white man presents an image of superiority
even when he isn’t conscious of it. And, superiority excites envy.” That
is the heart of the matter and probably why we invented Thanksgiving. It
is our nature to build and create, which is why we are naturally
grateful for what we have. A people who built a great civilization out
of nothing have a lot to be thankful for, so having a long holiday to
take our time and be grateful makes a lot of sense.

Even now, with all that is going on, we have plenty of reasons to take
the next few days to count our blessings. The Good Lord in his wisdom
has provided us with enemies who possess none of the qualities we
respect. They may have inherited power, but they lack the ability to
wield it responsibly. Like men on death row, our betters walk around
with an expiry date on them. It is a long struggle, but we know that in
the end we will prevail and for that we must be thankful.

Of course, we also have the community of dissidents that is slowly
forming up to provide fellowship and support as we struggle though this
age. Those of you who were at AmRen last time certainly know what I
mean. You come back from such things humbled and grateful, because you
have been reminded of how fortunate you are to be alive in this time. To
be blessed with a life of struggle, to have a reason to be better each
day, is the greatest gift of all.

I want to thank everyone who comes to this site to read what I have
written or listen to the Friday shows. Special thanks to the many people
who fill up the comments every day with commentary that is often better
than my posts. This is one of the best comment sections on the internet.
It is something people often say to me. Posting will be light the next
few days, but the comment section will be open as always. Happy
Thanksgiving to everyone and thank you for all that you do.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="mJLDYMI3clpmMQ2HbpAQRA==cb7rUp2ImXg9q5YOlc0o0OCVXK2RRGdT3Cz7LZzW7FYhUGNaIMVVWxjbqfqbXworRA5"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="qz0H9Qu4hevAIR1bcA0pqw==cb7X3pf9tPTYFxw7Yh44+2s44PJclpp6fbjRfrEF++nwZ3hpja6ebqlgs3wD0tus2M6"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
