---
title: "Ukraine Intrigue"
date: "2023-12-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31274"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31274"
---

**Note:** For those into literary fiction, there is a relatively new
publisher in Texas that would like your attention. They asked me to post
a link to their site. Presumably they know what they are asking, so here
is their <a href="http://www.fallingmarbles.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">site</a>. With Winter Solstice upon us, maybe there is a
gift for the literary person in your life.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Determining what the regime is plotting is often a guessing game, as the
regime has turned itself into the father of lies. The people in
positions of authority lie even when the truth would serve their
interests. As a result, we are left to look at what is going on around
the regime, how various players are reacting, in order to guess at what
may be happening inside the black box that is Washington. We just got a
dose of that this week when Zelensky arrived rattling the tin cup.

Everything about the trip was weird, compared to what has been the norm
regarding Ukraine over the last two years. His arrival was not met with
a big ceremony and the media was not flooded with Ukrainian agit-prop.
The closest we got on that score was a <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2023/12/12/politics/russia-troop-losses-us-intelligence-assessment/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">press release</a> to C-level crazies in
fringe media. Six months ago, these stories were regular features in
regime media. Instead there were <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/11/us/politics/us-ukraine-war-strategy.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">grim stories</a> about Ukraine at a cross
roads militarily and politically.

Adding to the intrigue is the fact that Zelensky was not invited to
Washington, even though his trip was certainly arranged by the Kagan
cult. They first had him show up in Argentina at the swearing in of
their new ruler. Since he was in the neighborhood, he decided to swing
by Washington just as the Biden administration is begging Congress for
more money for Ukraine. This week is the last week to get a package
passed as Congress goes on an extended break.

That is the other bit of weirdness. House Republicans suddenly grew a
spine for the first time in generations and have refused to give Biden
more money for Ukraine without getting significant concessions on
immigration. In fact, they are holding up Israel money in the process,
which is no doubt angering the usual suspects. The administration
refuses to separate out Israel money from Ukraine money and the House
refuses to consider a bill that combines the two.

The final bit of weirdness to the drama is they had Zelensky make the
rounds in order to guilt Congress into relenting. The thing is, he only
met with the Senate and reportedly the meeting did not go well. He did
not meet with House members, presumably because they would be even more
hostile. He closed his trip with what was expected to be a tongue
bathing from Fox News zombie Brett Baier, but the producers gave Bair
some real questions to ask, which
<a href="https://twitter.com/BretBaier/status/1734730521756717385"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ruined</a> the effect.

Taken in total, it was a disaster for Zelensky. It is not just being cut
off by Congress but the way it was done. He now has to go back to Kiev
empty handed and with the impression that Washington no longer loves
him. His main card in Ukrainian politics right now is he keeps the money
flowing. If he is not keeping the money flowing and he is not on good
terms with Washington, then what is his point? Why keep him around if
all he does is strut around in gym clothes?

That may have been the point of this trip. Back in Kiev there is a power
struggle between the Commander-in-Chief of Ukraine’s Armed Forces,
Valeriy Zaluzhnyi, head of the secret police Kyrylo Budanov and
Zelensky. Some generals are siding with Zelensky, and no one really
knows where Budanov stands, but the bulk of the officer corps backs
Zaluzhnyi. What really matters, of course, is which faction is backed by
Washington and that is why this trip matters.

It is possible that the Kagan cult has determined that Zelensky is a
liability, and they need to find a replacement. If it appears that
Zelensky has fallen out of favor and that is slowing the flow of cash to
Kiev, then there is a good chance that the anti-Zelensky factions will
come together and topple the government. In this context, a military
junta run by Zaluzhnyi makes some sense. He is on good terms with the
Western war machine, and he has credibility with regards to conducting
the war.

On the other hand, this may be a bit of 2-D chess. By now everyone in
the White House has to know that Ukraine is lost. The question now is
how to manage the endgame, especially in light of an election in eleven
months. The last thing the regime wants is scenes of Russian tanks
entering Ukrainian cities this summer. If the army overthrows Zelensky,
the administration can claim the failure is due to Republicans cutting
off funding which resulted in a coup and then collapse.

This sounds a bit farfetched, but keep in mind that Washington overthrew
the Ukrainian government in 2014. Everyone in Kiev knows this. That is
why stories like this
<a href="https://www.kyivpost.com/post/24272" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">one</a> in a CIA front operation are important. The Kiev
Post is not in Kiev. It is one of the many nodes of disinformation
operated by the regime. Stories about a third coup in Kiev coming from
such a source are intended to send a message. Zelensky’s palace could
soon be the closing scenes of the movie *Scarface*.

One always has to consider ineptitude in these matters. It could simply
be that the Biden people have poorly managed all of this and the botched
trip to Washington was just one more self-own. Mike Johnson is as green
as grass, so he is trying to earn some street cred by holding the line
on Ukraine money. The Biden people handed him this gift of trying to tie
Ukraine money to Israel money, so he is using this impasse to make
pleasant noises about immigration.

Taken as a whole, the best we can say for certain is some elements of
the regime are now moving into the endgame phase of project Ukraine.
Whether or not they have internalized how this will end is hard to know,
but clearly some elements are thinking about how to manage the
inevitable defeat of Ukraine. Given the implacability of the Kagan cult,
this suggests Zelensky brought the gift of palace intrigue to
Washington, as the tribes duke it out over how to manage Ukraine.

In the end, none of it really matters. Moscow has ruled out negotiations
with Kiev and is in no mood to do Washington any favors. For the
Russians, Ukraine is one part of a larger war against the Global
American Empire. That means they will continue to manage the Ukraine war
in light of that larger conflict. The fate of Ukraine is no longer in
the hands of Washington. Once important people in Kiev understand this,
the war ends along with the current Kiev regime.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="+f/X6jmsiOPeTEpCmxdZ3A==cb7RHG4wYVYHt0ytrUb9i6Ny3am4i+3hK++XV2rMtUhUJwYPCEw5z6domCKw0dzzTt7"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="wv0zKn8ryQJufXdE6rNwGQ==cb7AurDHot88k7gOFR7o4k/F5CyHRK1Wv3ei7CS1FJ8TxvR5XiLjkBIiVHF3ujkb3sa"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
