---
title: "A Culture Of Corruption"
date: "2023-03-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-03-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29455"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29455"
---

What we think of culture is a system and a system is a collection of
rules for how interdependent group of items interact with one another.
This results in the whole possessing a set of unique properties. An
accounting system is a set of formal rules based on the accepted
standards of accounting. The habits of the accounting department, the
culture of the department, is an unwritten set of rules for governing
the behavior of the people in the department.

Most of life is governed by the unwritten rules. You can see this in
something as simple as driving a car. In the United States, the written
rules of the road are the same from state to state, but the unwritten
rules are quite different. In Texas, drivers will stand on the brakes to
let someone merge into traffic, while in Massachusetts people regularly
drive on the shoulder to prevent it. The driving culture in New England
is different from the driving culture of other parts of America.

Cultural shifts, changes in those unwritten rules, happen when key
players within the culture decide to violate those rules. Maybe it is
self-interest that drives the change, or maybe it is simply the
declining utility of the old rules, but important people begin to
violate those unwritten rules. Because humans are social animals, the
rest follow the lead of the important people and the culture changes.
The fashion industry has counted on this reality since its inception.

A classic example of a cultural shift was Watergate. The sorts of
shenanigans done by the Nixon people during the 1972 election were
considered normal and then all of a sudden they were declared beyond the
pale. Prior to that time, the FBI was prohibited from getting directly
involved in politics. Then all of a sudden, they were plotting with the
Washington Post to overthrow the president. Those unwritten rules of
political conduct suddenly changed and Nixon was removed.

Another example from politics comes from the 1990’s. Current affairs
programming followed a set of unwritten rules. It was supposed to be a
calm exchange of views, hosted by a moderator who pretended to be
objective. The Clintons showed up in Washington and this changed. All of
a sudden Clinton people were flinging their pooh at the moderator and
anyone else on stage. It did not take long before this became the new
normal and now all shows are pooh flinging contests.

This week, Tucker Carlson is doing shows on the hidden surveillance
tapes from the Capitol on January 6th. These tapes had been hidden from
public view by the Democrats until the Republicans took control of the
House. Kevin McCarthy, the new Speaker, let the production team of the
Tucker Carlson Show review the 40,000 hours of footage and this week
they are reporting on it. They also have permission to show clips of
that hidden footage in their reporting.

So far, nothing earth shattering has been revealed. The guy who showed
up wearing animal skins, the QAnon Shaman, is seen being given a guided
tour by the police, who seem to be having a blast leading the guy around
the building. The QAnon Shaman is now in prison, doing four years for
allegedly leading a violent insurrection. He was not allowed to have
access to this footage in his defense, because in America the accused
are no longer entitled to defend themselves in court.

This is where you see one of those cultural shifts. Most people reading
this remember when such a thing would be a massive scandal. The judge
and the prosecutors would have been reviled as fascists for denying this
man a right to a defense. Of course, the media would have been demanding
the footage from the beginning. Instead, they are up in arms over Tucker
having access to the material. They fear he may create a “dangerous
narrative” using these tapes.

The media was always biased. We used to be more mature about this and
accept that politics is about friends and enemies. In the colonial
times, everyone knew the bias of the newspapers and thought nothing of
it. Then all of a sudden there was a culture shift and we were supposed
to pretend the media was neutral. They were the fourth estate, speaking
truth to power. We have just experienced another culture shift. The
media is totally corrupt, using power to obscure the truth.

Another example of the culture shift is in the tapes. Tucker showed a
scene from the J6 show trial in Congress. One of the politicians showed
a clip of Senator Josh Hawley running from the building like a little
girl. It turns out that the video was heavily edited by the Democrats.
Hawley was with a group of other pols being herded out by the police and
he was the last guy to leave. In other words, the Congress doctored a
video and presented it under oath to the public as fact.

Everyone has always accepted that politicians lie. The reason they lie
is to get elected, avoid scandal, or avoid responsibility. In other
words, self-interest. This is the nature of all human activity and
everyone accepted it. Doctoring video and presenting it as fact in order
to promote a crazy narrative is something different. In a prior age, the
people involved would be facing criminal charges. After all, they
charged Roger Clemens for lying to Congress not so long ago.

More importantly, they doctored video to make a sitting Senator look
like a sissy and then used the hearing to broadcast it to the world. It
appears they worked with the media to promote this lie. Ten years ago,
this was so beyond the pale that no one would have considered it. Now
all of a sudden, the culture controlling the House and Senate has
changed and this is now the new normal. How long before they move onto
assassinating one another?

None of this is startling for people on this side of the divide, but it
underscores an important point about the current crisis. The corruption
at the top is so deep and so pervasive that the time for reform has now
passed. How can the system reform itself when the people running it are
so thoroughly corrupt? How could a genuine reformer work with people who
are so corrupt? How can you fix the rules when the culture has evolved
to reject the very idea of rules?

In the fullness of time, the ape historians will look at the 1980’s as a
time for choosing, when the political class struggled to redefine
itself. They could have gone down the road of reform and prepared for
the word after the Cold War. Instead they signed on with the Clintons
and the road to perdition. That has led to the flowering of a culture of
corruption at the top of the political order. That is why J6 terrified
them. They have known this long before that protest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="qVvP63a3fG4VIVa7HDf+iA==cb74WCzU0btijmgcnGxsoxYm5snuVcOkBL0PZPWIQqzrI7XolwAXnVItRgEn4o+AJn4"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="3tc6Buusl7tYY3KZjc/GIg==cb78v9rxvC0zktn/tZFzf6gCo3WgyTpNb3bD0KHV0652Aj2jKC4F2uIE83G71XT2nRR"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
