---
title: "The Cult Of The Elite"
date: "2023-03-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-03-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29470"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29470"
---

Every society has a moral code, a collection of unwritten rules that
govern the behavior the members toward one another and with the outside
world. A moral code, of course, is a collection of rules reflecting the
moral preferences of society. These things and activities are good,
while these things and activities are bad. The authority for these
preferences can be the gods, tradition or what the rulers prefer.
Fashion, after all, is just the sartorial preferences of the people in
charge.

Despite what conservatives insist, the moral code of a society is a top
down affair, imposed by the people in charge. Their preferences start at
their primary preference, which is to remain in charge. That means the
preferences the rulers impose on their subjects reflects their
interests, at least how they see their interests. It is not a perfect
link as elite society is as subject to evolutionary pressure as the rest
of society, but it is a good place to start in understanding the elite.

Since a moral code regulates behavior, we can look at behavior and do a
bit of reverse engineering to get a peak at the code. What are the
things the elites do that point to what they prefer and not prefer? It
is not what they say, as people say what they think they are supposed to
say. This is especially true of elites. What matters is what they do as
this indicates what they value. One thing libertarians got right is the
concept of revealed preferences. Actions are what matter.

For example, we have the constant lying from official Washington. They
lie about everything to the point where it is the norm. No one is
bothered to be outraged as it is just how the things are now. It is the
line incorrectly attributed to Alexander Solzhenitsyn, but written by
Elena Gorokhova. “The rules are simple: they lie to us, we know they’re
lying, they know we know they’re lying, but they keep lying to us, and
we keep pretending to believe them.”

Obviously, truth in the empirical sense is not important. Dig deeper and
you see that the lying is mostly in service to narratives that define
the world of Washington. In other words, they are not lying to deceive
so much as lying to support a version of reality that is preferred at
the moment. They see the truth and the lie as means to an end, judged
only on the ends. What counts is the narrative, while facts are just
props in the narrative structure, used only when needed.

What this tells us is the people inside the political system are not
hostile to the people, but indifferent to them. The lying is not an
effort to trick the people into supporting one thing or another, but
mostly about internal considerations. Even the lies over Covid, which
were an effort to shape behavior, were actually in service to the
narrative they created around the virus. Immiserating millions of people
was a happy accident, but never the point of their lying about Covid.

We have a couple of recent examples that are useful in understanding
what truly matters to the elites. First is this <a
href="https://lawandcrime.com/2020-election/right-wing-hoaxers-robocalls-targeting-black-voters-violated-voting-rights-act-and-kkk-act-federal-judge-rules/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">case</a> involving a couple of fringe
goofballs using robocalls to mock black people. Americans receive
billions of bogus calls, despite it being illegal, but these two
warranted special attention. The judge makes clear that if they had
mocked Irish people, for example, it would have been fine. They targeted
black people and no one is allowed to mock the gods.

We have this <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-11836293/Two-American-men-kidnapped-Mexico-lengthy-rap-sheet.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">case</a> of four black people who drove
to Mexico so one of them could get cosmetic surgery, but they got
carjacked instead. Sadly, thousands of Americans are attacked by
Mexicans around the border ever year. Of course, tens of millions of
people from around the world stream over the border. This not only
damages the lives Americans near the border, but it has ruined life
around the country. This is cheered by the political class as the
browning of America.

This case is different. You see, the four people involved are black and
no one is allowed to lay a hand on our sacred black people. Lady Bugs
Graham is now <a
href="https://thehill.com/policy/international/3887479-graham-says-he-will-introduce-bill-to-set-the-stage-for-us-to-use-military-force-in-mexico/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">demanding</a> we go on jihad against
Mexico as retribution. Official Washington is suddenly ablaze with angry
rhetoric about what is happening south of the border. Mexicans kill
white people every day in America, but when they killed a couple of
black people, they crossed a line in elite moral code that must be
addressed.

Of course, anyone paying the least bit of attention could come up with a
dozen such cases where elites are moved to action because an issue
involves black people, but they are indifferent when it involves white
people. Candace Owens is a millionaire because she tells white people
they are good boys, very good boys. Even so, this Mexican case is
threatening to change policy regarding Mexico. It is not just a show to
signal their virtue to one another.

A century ago, Paris was gripped by something called *negrophilia* which
is derived from the French *négrophilie *that means love of the negro.
The beautiful people would collect African art and hang out at Jazz
clubs. Much of it was driven by exposure to black troops from America
and Africa during the war. The controlling factor was the desire of the
avant-garde to feel trendy and separate from the bourgeoise. It was all
superficial and eventually was replaced by new fads.

Today’s version is something more than a fad. It is not just a weapon to
be used against the remaining white people. What we are seeing is
antiwhite, but it is not necessarily hatred of whites that is the source
of this new moral code. Instead, it seems to be a genuine worship of
black people, as if they are magical beings. Our elites now think they
will be judged by how well they take care of black people. Who will do
the judging is never spoken, but that just adds to the mystery.

That last bit is important. Much of what we see from our elites fits the
pattern of religiosity, but it lacks the explicit supernatural
authority. They never say why they worship black people. They never
point to an authority for this behavior. It is just assumed to be there
at the center of things. Perhaps that is what gives it power in the
minds of these people. Their moral code is now a mystery cult in which
it is essential to not know why you embrace the moral code.

A million years ago in another context, John Derbyshire made the
following observations about cults. “To those inside \[a cult\], it
appears to be a structure of perfect logical integrity, founded on
unassailable philosophical principles, while to those outside it seems
to some degree nutty; to some other degree hysterical; and to some yet
other degree a threat to liberty.” This sounds eerily accurate with
regards to the worship of nonwhites by our ruling classes.

What we are seeing is the evolution of a cult of the elite, in which
salvation is sought through the worship of that which symbolizes the
antithesis of the West. This explains the extremism of these people. How
can you be satisfactorily anti-Western? How can one be satisfactorily
worshipful of black people? What is the outer limit of the rejection of
biological reality? There is no answer to these things, so cult members
keep looking for an even more extreme expression of these values.

Returning to where we have started, an objective examination of elite
behavior reveals a bizarre moral code that is out of sync with reality.
That gap between what they believe, their moral preferences, and
reality, is the measure of their virtue. In other words, the way to
understand elite behavior is to imagine a cult founded on the rejection
of human reality and then that cult gains control of society. That is
the condition of the West and it is probably not going to cure itself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="DD2e/HZ0l221L5dxEETabQ==cb71pGZ6trbKtDbBfTnhBXGOb2RMMb2THAC8uMXV7sATi/e8QTF/IiSJW8/CXyFpJk+"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="z5nQDjxKrDqG+DotZ38tMQ==cb7DJzSnztihhnijPbI1Fm9w171X6hxYNWjD/fpnbMDXPgjaAy0J2as7pow0vTzrCp/"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
