---
title: "Managerial End"
date: "2024-01-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31425"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31425"
---

**Note:** The Sunday podcast is back!. It will be an evening performance
until I get settled in the new place. There is a post about the cost of
groceries and a post about driving the Jeep Gladiator for a week.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last week someone posted a
<a href="https://twitter.com/knewter/status/1745760948097327572"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">video</a> of herself getting fired by
Cloudflare via a zoom call and the video went viral. It has nine million
views at this point. The reason the video caused such a stir is it
touches on many of the things that people find unpleasant about the
current age, but either lack the language to discuss or feel they should
not be discussing out in the open. That last part turns up in the
resulting thread as people naturally turn it into a black hat versus
white hat issue.

That last part is the most obvious, but the least interesting. Whenever
these sorts of topics arise on social media, conservatives begin
rhythmically chanting phrases like “toughen up snowflake” or “pull
yourself up by your bootstraps.” What they are instinctively doing is
rallying to the defense of the giant corporation as they have been
trained to do by conservatism. When challenged, the retort is some form
of “The world does not owe you anything”, which is complete nonsense.

The basis of all human societies is reciprocal obligations. Social
contract theory rests on this assumption. Monarchy rests on a collection
of reciprocal vertical relationships that bind the king to the lowest
peasant. The social club assumes the members will be loyal to the club
and its members. In return, the members get benefits from the club and
fellow members exclusive to them. A club that has no duties to the
members is not a club, but a random collection of strangers.

This is the central defect of conservatism. When the people we call the
left claim society has some new moral duty, conservatives never
challenge the moral duty, but instead fall into a form of bourgeois
anarchism. Terrified of challenging the left on moral grounds, they
instead argue that society has no duties at all. In the case of the
mega-corp screwing its employees, they say the company has no duties to
them. Conservatism is always an answer to a question no one asked.

Putting that aside, you see the horrors of managerialism in that video.
Clearly, senior management screwed up and hired too many new people.
Instead of admitting this and reducing their staff, they send out
flunkies from middle-management to chant nonsensical gibberish at people
via Zoom call. Odds are neither of these two zombies could name a single
metric they reference or what it means. For them these are abracadabra
words that make the employee go away.

The woman getting let go has a reasonable expectation. She was hired
under a set of conditions, and she met her end of the bargain. At one
point she concedes that the company has a right to change the bargain.
They over-hired and now need to trim the staff and her name was picked
from the hat. If they were honest with her the video probably never gets
posted. It is clear that the woman is not offended by the firing so much
as by the lying about it.

This is one corrosive effect of managerialism. It turns everyone into a
sociopath by forcing them to lie even when the truth makes more sense.
The two zombies chanting corporate catchphrases are doing it so as to
avoid being on the other end of one of these zoom calls. Like the Nazi
camp guards given a choice of being a guard or being one of the guarded,
millions of Americans are forced to be terrible people in
middle-management positions, doing the bidding of management.

This is why we get the weird language. It is a way for the people at the
top to manipulate their flunkies into doing this stuff. Instead of
cutting jobs they are enthusiastically reducing newly discovered
redundancies. They are not eliminating a department and the people in
it, they are efficiently implementing a new compelling initiative in
furtherance of corporate goals. No one can be upset at these words
because they are stripped of anything meaningful to humans.

Managerialism, whether on the small scale like at a corporation, or at
the large scale as in a society, is a system that seeks to socialize the
cost of decision making while subtly privatizing the benefits. Senior
managers enjoy the bulk of the benefits but spread the cost of failure
across the organization. It does this by distributing the decision
making across senior management. No one person at the top gets the blame
when things fail, because it is always a group decision.

We see this in politics. The banks fail and the Fed has to print up
trillions to bail them out and no one gets fired, much less jailed.
Instead, all the top people agree that the system failed in some way.
Top men are tasked with addressing this system failure, which of course
pays them handsomely. After the banks get bailed out and things return
to normal, the bankers congratulate themselves with bonuses.
Managerialism is an aristocracy with none of the social benefits.

This is not without consequences, and we see it in politics. When no one
in the managerial elite is ever held accountable, the selection pressure
for membership in the elite shifts from aptitude to obsequiousness. You
see this in every established corporation and in the government. The
people at the top are increasingly incompetent while increasingly
obsequious. Politics is packed to the gills with oleaginous grifters
because the system selects for such people.

While it is true that the Pareto principle works in the elite as it does
everywhere, eventually that smart fraction within the elite is
overwhelmed by the growing number of sociopathic grifters slithering
into the elite. Again, we see this writ large in politics where
incompetence and failure seem to be the goal. The logical end of
managerialism is a committee room stuffed with narcistic simpletons
waving their credentials at one another as the riots rage outside the
committee room.

This may be one bit of subtext to the statue toppling. “No one builds
statues honoring committees” is an old truth that haunts managerialism.
Statues to great men offend the managerial elite not just because those
men were white. It offends because it is a reminder that it is great men
that make the world, not the boring mediocrities who come to dominate
managerialism. The latest thing is just a convenient excuse to remove
the shadow of the great men that haunt the mind of the manager.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Ydp33gw7zp9ZOg4BukoyjA==cb7DM0Yp5IU6QG+eDkjzHWCv0CftjeksqrvqYpadaG4AH4jDF/qDY8eRyCGP1KcgOEA"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="uYpBb7WAD5kyDCH324VM5g==cb7kTFywlzLSxYNPT8IRNkgWIL4Z1n8kqX6+YXyB+DWrC+C4UnHlDN1WwzsYYZLup8V"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
