---
title: "Radio Derb November 08 2024"
date: "2024-11-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-11-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32999"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32999"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m57s Victory for the normies
-   08m59s Bonfire of the talking points
-   14m32s Window of opportunity for troublemakers
-   18m21s The squirrel election
-   25m37s Compulsory voting? Strewth!
-   32m50s Landscaper wars
-   34m49s *Sci-Am* editor speaks
-   38m03s The Amish vote
-   40m21s Signoff with the Chairman

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62673495/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     Yeah yeah, I know: it’s a little early for
Christmas. I just wanted to come in with jubilation, and there’s nothing
quite as jubilant as the *Hallelujah Chorus*. That was the London
Philharmonic conducted by [Sir Adrian
Boult](https://icaclassics.com/artists/boult-adrian-sir), whom I once
saw conduct in person.

This is of course your jubilantly genial host John Derbyshire, on the
air with edition number 970 of Radio Derb. The previous 969 podcasts —
audio and text transcripts both — are all archived at my personal
website johnderbyshire.com. From the “Navigation” box on my home page
just click on “Opinions” and then, at the “Opinions” page, click on
“Radio Derb.” There they are, hours of happy listening.

As Master of
the [Metadata](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-10.html#03) I
can in fact tell you precisely how many hours: 621, plus 39 minutes and
22 seconds. Sit back and enjoy!

Also on my home page are instructions on how to support my work using
snail mail, PayPal, or crypto, or via Zelle direct to my bank. To make
a *tax-deductible* donation, earmark a check with my name and mail it
to: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759.
Thank you!

The occasion of my jubilation is of course the triumph of my party, the
Republican Party, in this week’s general election. I shall open with
some comments about that.

<span id="more-32999"></span>

**02 — Victory for the normies**.     My main takeaway from this
election was its *normality*. I think I’d been reading and hearing too
many dire predictions of *abnormal* things that might happen, some of
which I’ve aired here at Radio Derb.

Would the regime, smelling defeat, go shamelessly all-out on the
vote-rigging, as they may have done in 2020? Or stage some
foreign-policy or military crisis to make themselves look busy and
competent?

Or would it perhaps be a really close finish, resulting in both sides
bringing forth legions of lawyers to argue their case —
“See? *We* won!” … “No, look at this! *We* won!” — with lawfare raging
for weeks on end while the nation’s business languished in chaos. After
all, lawfare is the Establishment’s first resort where anything
involving Donald Trump is concerned.

In the event, nothing at all untoward happened. It was just
a *normal* election. My lady and I went out to vote after dinner. There
were no lines at all, hardly anyone else there voting, in fact. Our
polling station closed at nine p.m.; this was about 8:30.

Then we went home and watched the early results on TV. I nodded off
after a couple of hours and took myself to bed. Mrs Derbyshire, who’s a
night owl and anyway much more interested in retail politics than I am,
stayed up watching until well into Wednesday morning. Then she came up
to bed, jabbed me awake with an elbow, and said: “Trump’s won.” I
grunted my satisfaction then went right back to sleep.

Breakfast time I put on *Fox News* and, sure enough, Trump had a solid
lead in the College and the GOP looked good to take the Senate. I spent
Wednesday morning flipping between TV and X, occasionally chuckling with
pleasure.

So just a normal election. Also, when demographic numbers started to
come out, a norm-*ie* election, with us normies driving the result.

Traditionally in two-party systems there’s a “sandwich effect”: top and
bottom against the middle. It seems to me the bottom layer of bread for
the sandwich — poor underclasses with not much education — is thinner
than it used to be while the top layer — well-off, well-educated
voters — is thicker. The middle of the sandwich, though — non-rich,
non-poor, home-owning, family-raising nine-to-five men and
women, *normies* — is just as thick as ever, perhaps thicker, and swung
the election to itself.

Both Presidential candidates behaved decently well, though Trump better
than Harris. Trump gave [a fine stirring
speech](https://www.newsweek.com/donald-trump-victory-speech-full-transcript-1981234) at
2:30 Wednesday morning from his headquarters in Florida.

Harris supporters held a watch party Tuesday night at Howard University
in D.C., Harris’ alma mater. ABC News tells us that, quote: “The evening
started out with music pumping and crowds dancing,” end quote. Harris
herself didn’t show up, though, even when it was clear she’d have to
concede. The party broke up at last with disappointment and tears after
an announcement that the concession speech would be given at 4pm
Wednesday afternoon.

For that the candidate *did* show up, although half an hour late. [The
speech she
gave](https://www.msnbc.com/top-stories/latest/harris-full-concession-speech-howard-university-trump-rcna179039) was
spirited and defiant. It was too long, but not obnoxious in any other
way, and more coherent than most of her speeches.

So yes: a normal election, with a victory for the normies.

Too much normality can of course be dull, complacent, even oppressive at
times, stifling originality and bold enterprise. These aren’t those
times, though. The Great Awokening of the last dozen years has tried to
break too many norms: men can have babies, crime should be legal,
national borders are cruel, gasoline is poison, government should pay my
debts, … we normies have had enough of it.

Time to re-establish some traditional, well-tried norms. Time for
some *normality*.

**03 — Bonfire of the talking points**.     We should of course be
magnanimous in victory and not gloat. That’s not easy, though. I spent
all of Wednesday quietly gloating.

The key word there, however, is “quietly.” It would indeed be unseemly
for Trump and his staff, or senior Republicans, or congresscritters
elected on Trump’s coat-tails, to gloat. *Public* gloating is out of
court. We private citizens, though, in the privacy of our chambers,
scrolling through one of those online montages of lefties shrieking and
wailing — [Matt Walsh has put one
together](https://x.com/MattWalshBlog/status/1854159587009597594) — can
I think be excused.

And when we pause our private gloating and *think* about the election,
it was indeed a big event — normal in how it played out, but more
significant than usual. The word “historic” is not out of place.

One of our big political parties, the GOP, has gone through a major
change in just a few years. It’s hardly recognizable. It seems like just
yesterday that George W. Bush, Mitt Romney, Mitch McConnell, Mike Pence,
Liz Cheney, were big Republican names, basking in the favor of their
party.

Today they are wandering around dazed, bumping into the furniture. There
must be *something* they have in common with Donald Trump, J.D. Vance,
Elon Musk, RFK Jr., and Tulsi Gabbard, but you’d have to think hard to
come up with it.

What about our other big party, the Democrats? They worked the
identitarian handle successfully for two election cycles, giving us
Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012 — our first black President! They tried it
again with Hillary Clinton in 2016 — our first female President! … but
it flopped. The candidate was lame and unconvincing.

They tripped over their feet in 2020, desperately promoting
congressional lifer and grifter Joe Biden as the Working Man’s Friend in
order to outflank Bernie Sanders. In the chaos of the COVID pandemic,
and likely assisted by some strategic vote-rigging, it worked.

Once in the White House, though, it turned out that Biden had no program
at all other than to cancel, negate, annul, and reverse the policies of
his predecessor. His administration was all negativity. We have spent
four years in [the World of
Null-T](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2021-01-22.html#03).

This year, bereft of anything positive to offer the nation, the
Democrats cranked the identitarian handle again. Kamala Harris — our
first black female President! When it became clear that Harris’ head was
just as empty as Joe Biden’s, the plan flopped.

Does the Democratic Party need a major re-alignment, as the Republicans
did a few years ago? Is Kamala Harris their John McCain — in the same
relation to identitarianism as McCain was to neoconnery? Is there a blue
equivalent of Donald Trump out there somewhere who will lift the
Democrat train back onto the electoral tracks?

I bet there is. And I bet that the Democrat talking points of today — a
woman’s right to choose, the rich should pay their share, diversity is
our strength! — will, a decade or two from now, sound as stale and
implausible as George W. Bush’s “No Child Left Behind” project and his
promise to “disarm Iraq and free its people.” I predict a bonfire of the
talking-points.

That’s politics. It doesn’t stand still. Your talking points today could
be the other party’s ten years from now; although it’s much more likely
they’ll be cold ashes in what’s left of the bonfire.

**04 — Window of opportunity for troublemakers**.     Presidential
Inauguration Day is of course Monday, January 20th next year. That’s 73
days from today as I speak — ten and a half weeks. Congress convenes
January 3rd, certifies the election result January 6th — we all
know *that* date by now.

That’s a good span of time, long enough to give the President-elect time
to pick his cabinet and put together some kind of starting program; long
enough for new congresscritters to rearrange their personal affairs
around spending time in D.C.

That’s all good and sensible, but those lame-duck weeks offer
opportunities to trouble-makers.

There’s a batch of several thousand trouble-makers in southern Mexico as
I speak, people from all over the world looking to break in to the
U.S.A. across Mexico’s northern border in defiance of our laws. They’ve
been penned down south there by the Mexican government this past few
months to help the Biden-Harris administration look good.

Now there’s no longer any point in that, Mexico will open the gate of
the pen and the invaders — sorry! the “asylum seekers” — will head north
to our border, aiming to make the crossing before January 20th.

Another category of trouble-makers is the leadership of nations looking
to take advantage of temporary American weakness. If Xi Jinping wants to
blockade Taiwan, Vladimir Putin wants to get *seriously* nasty with
Ukraine, Iran wants to kick over the traces somehow in West Asia, or
North Korea in East Asia, here’s a window of opportunity.

Would the decision-makers in the Biden Administration respond firmly?
They might, but there’s nothing in it for them. Three months from now
they’ll be back at their ranches. Their main concern at this point is
not to be held responsible if things go pear-shaped. Heck, let the new
guys deal with it

And then there are domestic trouble-makers looking to pull off another
2016: another Russian-misinformation hoax, perhaps, or something more
original, to preoccupy the new administration with defending itself
against Special Prosecutors for a couple of years.

Might our so-called “national security services” — the FBI, CIA, NSA,
DIA, … do you have any idea [how *many* of
them](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Intelligence_Community#List_of_members) there
are? — might they try something like that?

Of course they might. It worked last time, didn’t it? I wouldn’t be
terrifically surprised to learn that right now, somewhere in the
Swamp, [50 former intelligence
officials](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/521823-50-former-intelligence-officials-warn-ny-post-story-sounds-like-russian/) are
already licking their lips and unscrewing the caps of their pens.

**05 — The squirrel election**.     Five podcasts ago, on October 4th, I
had [a segment about
squirrels](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-10-04.html#05c) —
the first time I’ve ever turned my attention to those little critters, I
think.

That was prescient of me. There is a case to be made that, if elections
need a mascot from the animal kingdom, this week’s was the Squirrel
Election.

The first hint of this came at breakfast time on Sunday, November 3rd.
That was two days before what we were told was to be a historic
election. I sat down to breakfast with my *New York Post*, America’s
newspaper of record. What should I see totally dominating the front
page? [A
squirrel](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/NYP20241103.jpg)!

The news story was about Mark Longo and his wife Daniela. The Longos
made a bundle of money with pornographic pictures of themselves on
social media. They used that money to buy a 350-acre property in upstate
New York, from which they now run a nonprofit animal rescue operation
currently hosting 300 animals.

Two of those animals were: a squirrel named P’Nut and a raccoon named
Fred. P’Nut had been taken in seven years ago after his mother was hit
by a car; Fred the raccoon was left at their front door four months ago.

P’Nut the squirrel lived full-time in his own room in the Longos’ house
because, according to Mark Longo, quote: “He never developed the
instincts to survive outside.” End quote. Fred the raccoon split his
time between an outside enclosure and a room in the house.

Mark Longo is a master of social media: Instagram, Facebook, TikTok,
OnlyFans, and of course X. He’s used these outlets with great success to
publicize P’Nut the squirrel, and to a lesser degree Fred the raccoon.
P’Nut, says the *New York Post*, captured the hearts of three million
social-media users.

I guess there are a lot of people out there with a lot of time on their
hands. Whatever: it turns out that keeping squirrels and raccoons
indoors is illegal in New York State. Someone ratted to state
authorities about the Longos … Sorry: I mean, someone *alerted* the
authorities.

Wednesday, October 30th, a convoy of vehicles from New York State
Departments of Health and Environmental Conservation showed up at the
Longos’ property with search warrants. Ten government agents spent five
hours going through the house. P’Nut the squirrel and Fred the raccoon
were of course found. [They were taken away and
euthanized](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/31/nyregion/peanut-squirrel-pet-seized.html).

That was the front page story on my Sunday *New York Post*. It was all
over the other papers, too, and huge on social media. [Elon Musk posted
about it](https://x.com/elonmusk/status/1852738470017700051) and
Presidential candidate Donald Trump [issued a
statement](https://x.com/Huberton/status/1852749920442167569/photo/3).
This was the big story all weekend, two days before the election.

Tuesday and Wednesday of course the election got everyone’s attention
and P’Nut the squirrel — ex-squirrel, former squirrel, late
squirrel, [whatever](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4vuW6tQ0218) — got
correspondingly less coverage.

Then on Wednesday afternoon Kamala Harris came out on a stage at Howard
University, her alma mater, to give her concession speech. She was half
an hour late showing up, so that the assembled crowd and we TV viewers
were staring at an empty stage as they waited. Not *altogether* empty,
though. At one point, shortly before Kamala arrived, [a squirrel
scurried across the
stage](https://x.com/LauraPowellEsq/status/1854275970041360541).

I’m not sure what the universe is trying to tell us here, but it’s
something to do with squirrels. I therefore name this the Squirrel
Election.

A brief footnote to all that. The story about P’Nut the squirrel in
Sunday’s *New York Post* quotes Mark Longo thus, speaking about the
government agents who ransacked his
house, [quote](https://nypost.com/2024/11/02/us-news/caretaker-of-peanut-the-squirrelreeling-over-five-hour-raid-of-his-house/):

They asked my wife, who is of German descent, what her immigration
status was. They asked if I had cameras in my house. They wouldn’t allow
me to go to the bathroom without a police escort, who then checked the
back of the toilet to see if I was hiding anything there.

End quote.

Why were the government goons asking about Mrs Longo’s immigration
status? New York is a sanctuary state.

Possibly, in the lunacy of current immigration law non-enforcement, the
goons were protecting their rear ends. If it had turned out that the
lady *is* an illegal alien, they might have backed off and ended the
raid for fear they’d be tagged as having persecuted a terrified,
harmless “asylum seeker.”

And then perhaps whoever it was that reported the Longos to state
authorities would have been prosecuted by New York State Attorney
General [Letitia](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-07-26.html#02) [Lardbutt](https://x.com/CitizenFreePres/status/1854621842981765248) for
“hate speech” …

Am I being too cynical? You can never be too cynical.

**06 — Compulsory voting? Strewth! …**     A couple of segments ago I
spoke about a bonfire of the talking points. Well, there is one
Democratic Party talking point we’ll be hearing a lot less frequently,
at any rate until 2028.

This is the talking point about how the Electoral College system
delivers unfair results, as when candidate X wins the popular vote but
loses the College.

This has happened just five times in our nation’s history, most recently
in 2016 and 2000. It didn’t happen at all in the entire twentieth
century, so it’s not exactly a pressing issue; but it makes a good
talking point when there’s some dead air to be filled in a speech or TV
interview. Abolish the Electoral College!

Did it happen this time? Did Kamala Harris win the popular vote but lose
the Electoral College? It’s highly unlikely.

We don’t yet have a full tally for the popular vote. When I looked just
now, with 92 percent of the vote counted, Trump was up more than four
million over Harris, a better than six percent margin. So for Harris to
win the popular vote I will say with good confidence: no chance.

So perhaps we’ll hear no more about the need to abolish the Electoral
College, at least until the next election.

And on the general topic of electoral mechanics, I’ve been getting
emails from the Antipodes. They’re not directly related to our election
this week, but I’ve found them interesting enough to be worth sharing
with you.

In last week’s podcast, November 1st, I mentioned a conversation I’d had
with my son on the subject of *compulsory* voting, like they have in
Australia. It seemed to me to be a good idea, but my son
disagreed, [quote from
him](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-11-01.html#04):

A lot of people don’t want to vote. If you make them, they will mess up
the ballot paper, or vote for the craziest fringe candidate, or just
vote at random.

End quote.

That got me two emails from listeners acquainted with Australia’s
elections. Yes: Radio Derb’s scope is world-wide.

First email, quote:

In your latest Radio Derb you note your son’s concern that compulsory
voting, as we have here in Australia, can lead to some undesirable
outcomes.

There is an extra twist. We have preferential voting, which means that
instead of placing an X next to our preferred candidate, we are required
to number *every* candidate in order of preference. So people forced to
vote, but with no interest in doing so, will often just number the
candidates in the order in which they are listed on the ballot paper.
This is called [the Donkey
Vote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donkey_vote).

Our Electoral Commission decides randomly the order in which candidates
are listed on the ballot paper. Thanks to the Donkey Vote it is
estimated that gaining the top spot on the ballot paper can yield an
extra 1 or 2 per cent of the vote. It is a matter of celebration for the
candidate who gains this coveted position.

End quote.

\[This correspondent links to several illustrative examples from
Australia: [here](https://www.southernhighlandnews.com.au/story/7710475/labor-candidate-takes-top-position-on-whitlam-ballot-paper/), [here](https://www.sgst.com.au/news/nationals-brett-tessari-draws-top-spot-on-ballot-paper), [here](https://www.couriermail.com.au/news/queensland/whitsunday/jarratt-wins-top-spot-on-ballot/news-story/0305c88132102d90568e03c8c8fc0b8b),
and [here](https://hawkesburypost.com.au/greens-candidate-danielle-wheeler-secures-top-spot-on-hawkesbury-council-ballot/).
Also [one from
Ghana](https://empoweringghana.com/god-placed-us-in-the-top-spot-bawumia-responds-to-ballot-paper-placement/).\]

Second email, quote:

Regarding compulsory voting, I’ve both voted and been a scrutineer in
Australian elections.

You don’t technically have to vote. You have to turn up, get your name
crossed off, and collect a ballot. It’s secret from there, so what can
they do?

The main effect is to get unengaged citizens to a polling station to
avoid the twenty-bucks fine. Being unengaged, they usually just vote for
the one candidate they’ve heard of. Thus, sending out Christmas cards
and nonsense like that can make a big difference. “Oh that’s the guy who
sent me a Christmas card, I’ll vote for him!” I’ve literally heard this.

Blank ballots or donkey votes (voting 1-4 down the line) exist but are
not that common. Those are mostly new migrants who don’t speak English.

Protest votes by people enraged at being forced to vote (or whatever)
are extremely rare. Out of many thousands, I only saw one. The boxes
were unnumbered and they’d scrawled “THE ALIENS ARE COMING” across the
paper.

End quote,

Reading those emails, I come to the conclusion I always end up at after
scrutinizing different voting systems: none of them is waterproof, nor
even anything close to waterproof.

Here in the U.S.A. I’d be happy to settle for one-day, one-place voting
with compulsory i.d. to be presented — and with of course sensible
alternative arrangements for invalids, citizens overseas, and so on.
What’s the argument *against* that?

**07 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  A follow-up here to a segment in my October Diary under the
heading “[Landscaper
wars?](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-10.html#06)”

In that segment I mentioned the number of landscapers at work
leaf-blowing, grass-cutting, tree-trimming, etc. that I pass on my
morning walk with my dog.

Then I wondered aloud whether, since landscaping is plainly a very
competitive business here in the Long Island suburbs, there is
ever *sabotage* — one firm trying to cut down the competition by
disabling other firms’ equipment.

Of all the replies I got by email, this was the nearest thing to an
affirmative, quote:

I do IT contracting and tech support for a landscaper … I don’t know if
he was ever sabotaged, but based on the physical security and
surveillance setup at his facility, he is certainly prepared for it.
Maybe he has learned from experience and has grown to the point he can
afford to protect his assets.

End quote.

The several other emails I got from people who know the landscaping
business all said that the only illegality these firms worry about is
theft of their equipment by employees, especially immigrant
day-laborers.

*Item*:  I have posted regular laments for the decline of *Scientific
American* magazine, which I read faithfully all through my late-teen and
early-adult years. My most recent such lament was [in the September 20th
podcast](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-09-20.html#05b),
following that magazine’s endorsement of Kamala Harris for President.

In case you think I over-stated my case there, permit me to share with
you some of the reactions to this week’s election result by Laura
Helmuth, Editor-in-Chief of *Scientific American*.

I am taking them from a post at X by Michael Shermer, so I’ll preface
them with *his* preface. Michael
Shermer, [tweet](https://x.com/michaelshermer/status/1854376119769739476):

I wrote a monthly column for *Scientific American* for 18 years and
could not have been prouder to have been part of that 150-year old
standard-bearer of science and the search for truth. Those days are
gone. *Sci-Am* is now a shill for far-left woke progressives. Here is
the Editor-in-Chief.

End tweet.

There follow re-tweets that Michael has taken from Laura Helmuth,
Editor-in-Chief of *Scientific American*. First re-tweet:

I apologize to younger voters that my Gen X is so full of fucking
fascists.

End tweet. Second re-tweet:

Solidarity to everybody whose meanest, dumbest, most bigoted high-school
classmates are celebrating early results because fuck them to the Moon
and back.

End tweet. Third retweet:

Every four years I remember why I left Indiana (where I grew up) and
remember why I respect the people who stayed and are trying to make it
less racist and sexist. The moral arc of the universe isn’t going to
bend itself.

End re-tweets.

Thank you, Michael. Trust the science, listeners! Trust the science and
trust *Scientific American*!

*Item*:  Finally, it’s not just in New York that the storm-troopers of
state agencies are liable to kick down your door. It happens in
Pennsylvania, too.

Back in January The Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture [stormed the
farm of Amos
Miller](https://www.lancasterfarming.com/farming-news/dairy/raid-on-farm-sparks-debate-over-raw-milk-oversight-and-government-overreach/article_002d5ebc-ba30-11ee-8f53-6f93227a52c2.html) in
Lancaster County. Miller, said the State, had violated federal rules on
milk production, privately selling raw milk to willing customers.

Amos Miller claims religious reasons for ignoring the federal rules; his
supporters, who are numerous, also argue that the rules are petty and
unnecessary.

Wait a minute: Lancaster County? That’s full of Amish, right? Right.
Amos Miller himself is Amish and his fellow Amish have been up in arms —
metaphorically speaking, of course (the Amish are strict pacifists who
refuse to serve in the military) — about the January raid, and about
government overreach in general.

Pennsylvania, we’ve been hearing, was crucial to the result of this
election. There are a lot of Amish there, so presumably their vote has
likewise been crucial.

So how did the Amish vote? Overwhelmingly for Trump, [we are
told](https://nypost.com/2024/11/05/us-news/amish-turn-out-for-pennsylvania-vote-in-unprecedented-numbers-source/),
although [the exact numbers have been
disputed](https://www.aol.com/no-arent-180-000-amish-224807607.html).

The Amish have one of the [highest fertility
rates](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8417155/) of any
American demographic — somewhere between six to eight children per
woman. If current fertility rates persist, [the U.S.A. will be majority
Amish](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Religion/inheritors.html) three
or four centuries from now. Politicians would be wise to keep an eye on
their voting intentions …

**08 — Signoff**.     That’s all I have for you this election week,
ladies and gents. Thank you as always for your time and attention, and
for your emails and your encouragement.

Today’s podcast has completely exhausted my appetite for politics, so
for signoff music I shall fall back with a grateful sigh on something
merely seasonal. Here’s the Chairman of the Board.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
