---
title: "Reality, Politics And IQ"
date: "2024-03-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - IQ
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31663"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31663"
---

One of the stranger parts of fringe politics is the fetish by some who
deny the accepted view of Ashkenazi intelligence. Long before empirical
support for the claim was available, Americans assumed Jews did so well
because they were smart and they worked hard, avoiding the vices that
can lead to failure. For the last half century or so, psychometry has
provided another primary cause. Ashkenazi Jews have, on average, a
significantly higher intelligence than the rest of us.

There is a subculture within the anti-science subculture that denies
this. Much like those who deny the reality of evolution, they spend
their time picking nits at the claims by the HBD people with regards to
Jews and intelligence. More often than not these are people who have
only a superficial understanding of the material, but they are sure
there are gaping holes in the Jews-are-smart argument. This <a
href="https://forbiddentexts.substack.com/p/the-myth-of-jewish-high-iq"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> from a person calling himself
Academic Agent is a good example of the genre.

The argument in that post is not original. Some versions of it have been
kicking around for a long time among antisemites. For some reason, they
cannot accept that their favorite enemy is winning because they are
smart, among other things. Perhaps losing to a tiny minority of morons
feels better for some reason. <a
href="https://thuletide.wordpress.com/2020/12/20/ashkenazi-iq-as-high-as-they-claim/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is a more sophisticated version
of the same argument.
<a href="https://voxday.net/2018/04/29/the-myth-of-jewish-intelligence/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is a much less sophisticated
version of the same argument from Vox Day.

Putting aside the motivations for this line of reasoning for a second,
the question at the core of it is what is the proof of Ashkenazi
intelligence? The HBD people have been responding to these arguments
against Jewish intelligence for a long time as well and it turns out
that the answer comports with observation.
<a href="https://cremieux.medium.com/the-jewish-advantage-f320be537a9a"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is one that goes through the
test data and
<a href="https://www.aporiamagazine.com/p/pinpointing-jewish-iq"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a> is an updated version from the
same author. The person called Thuletide linked above has admitted his
error <a
href="https://thuletide.wordpress.com/2023/01/04/correction-on-ashkenazi-iq-is-it-as-high-as-they-claim-genetic-evidence-indicates-that-it-is/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

While the data supports the argument that Jews are the most intelligence
ethnic group this leads to another question. What is the gap? This
matters as the general claim is that Jewish success is primarily driven
by a large IQ edge. Some have argued it is a full standard deviation,
while others say it is closer to half that.
<a href="https://www.sebjenseb.net/p/jewish-iq-not-a-myth"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is a post diving into that
debate and the data supports the lower figures. Genetics is also
pointing to a gap of roughly half a standard deviation.

None of this should lead one to believe that the only reason Ashkenazi
Jews perform so much better than everyone else is intelligence. The fact
is, IQ is roughly half of what determines life outcomes for people.
Personality traits, culture and dumb luck all play a role in the success
of a person. Naturally, this applies to groups of people. It is just
that having all of the good behaviors is never enough. One has to have
the right genetic stuff, so to speak, in order for the other stuff to
make a difference.

If the parsimonious explanation for Jewish success is high intelligence,
plus things like Jewish culture and clannishness, why are some
antisemites determined to “debunk” the claim that Jews are smart? Again,
if you think your enemy is a blockhead and your enemy is winning, it
does not speak well of you. Logic says the antisemites should be
embracing the Jewish IQ narrative, maybe even using it as a reason for
excluding Jews from their proposed societies.

The most likely reason here is the need to think of politics in purely
moral terms, which is what Carl Schmitt observed with the friend-enemy
distinction. Friends and enemies are not determined by the facts of the
various political positions. Those political positions indicate moral
positions. Friends are the good guys, striving for the good moral ends,
while the enemies are the bad guys, those who either seek to prevent
reaching the promised land or have evil intentions.

Another way to see what is happening here is to look at the news
coverage of a new book called “White Rural Rage: The Threat to American
Democracy.” The <a
href="https://www.msnbc.com/opinion/msnbc-opinion/trump-white-voters-2024-election-rcna141156"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">authors</a> have been making the rounds,
peddling their brand of bigotry to the entirely sympathetic media
figures interviewing them. Replace “white” with “Jewish” and these guys
would be famous antisemites. They are making the same argument, just
swapping out the ethnicities and their relative roles in the moral
drama.

In other words, the reason the antisemites keep attacking the Jewish IQ
stuff is they associate intelligence with good things, but they cannot
allow their enemy to have good qualities, so they have no choice but to
strip this from their enemy. The antiwhite bigots do the same thing, but
instead assign what they view as negative qualities to their enemies,
things like rage or closed mindedness. You cannot hate people you
respect, so politics requires you to demonize your enemies.

What all of this points to is the impossibility of the diverse society.
Those guys peddling their antiwhite act to like-minded media drones are
telling us that they cannot live in the same society as rural white
people. The antisemites are a bit more candid about it, as they have
been marginalized for a long time. Even so, when they argue against
Jewish IQ, they are saying that they cannot live with Jews. Repeat this
with more groups and you end up in a war of all against all.

Putting the purely political, there is a larger different reason behind
the IQ-denialism you see in posts like the one from Academic Agent.
Intelligence as a biological fact strikes them as determinism, which
contradicts their liberal conditioning. For most of human history humans
knew the apple to did not fall far from the tree, so the idea of men
having superior genetics would not be shocking. In fact, it is the
assumption that is the foundation of inherited rule, the norm for
mankind.

Liberalism, however, assumes both equality and malleability. In order to
have a liberal society, everyone must be able to participate in it. This
means everyone must have the ability to participate. Since we can see
that all men are not equal in talents, the only acceptable explanation
is systemic. This means a genetic basis for intelligence or identifiable
human qualities is intolerable. If we are our genes, then the liberal
project comes crashing down under the weight of biological reality.

Given that most of the liberal skeptics have liberal priors, it stands
to reason that some of them will embrace views that seem to contradict
their anti-liberal claims. That is what you see with the people arguing
against Jewish intelligence. They are not necessarily antisemites or
even anti-science. It is that that they cannot accept the fact that you
cannot will yourself beyond the limits of your biology. They do not
accept the Jewish IQ claim because they cannot accept it.

In the end, this is the great struggle of this age. On the one hand is
the reality of the human condition and on the other is the liberal
assumptions about the human condition, which are crashing into
biological reality. What science is telling is that our ancestors were
right about the human condition. The differences in people, individually
and collectively, are immutable. That may be inconvenient for the
liberal mind, but reality is that thing that does not go away when you
stop believing it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ZvqQKvs0azXJWp1XhhE61g==cb7b/M4PpSD3lyoRd9C953+B5i+NhrxXN/U1grwiFtL+QHySKBNfS++u38HgRx1IEPK"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="cqUxahuuweWBfuKLFC6dYA==cb7Qsld3kbirNezQqKiuvukay2NDiR5MG45239aszhJJqdlG25sLSsQ6kT9CAGiVj5b"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
