---
title: "Dr. Strangelove"
date: "2024-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31919"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31919"
---

**Note:** I have something to attend to this morning, so what follows is
a post from behind the green door that everyone hated. In this review of
what many consider the greatest cinematic satire ever, I reveal that I
have no sense of humor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Human communication rests upon a vast set of shared assumptions about
the world that are just assumed by speaker and receiver. When the
speaker says, “I am low on gas”, the receiver responds with, “There is a
gas station at the next exit” because he assumes that the driver
mentioned the gas level because he will soon need to gas up the car, so
he is asking for the location of the next gas station. In that simple
exchange lies a lot of shared assumptions.

This is why comedy does not travel very well. In the old days, comics
would do bits on how they travelled to other countries to do their act
only to confuse the audience with jokes that made no sense to them. Bob
Newhart did a bit on how Germans could not understand why a bald man was
called “Curly” and a fat man was called Tiny”, which played on the idea
of shared assumptions. The joke itself relied on the American audience’s
shared concept of the German personality.

Today, jokes about the Germans being exacting fanatics would not make
much sense to young people as Germany has no meaning to them. If they
have ever met a German, it was online, and he spoke perfect internet
gibberish. The shared assumptions about the cultural differences between
Germans and Americans has been lost over time, so jokes based on those
assumptions stop being funny for the same reason jokes about phonebooths
make little sense to a Zoomer.

That came to mind while watching Dr. Strangelove, a film many critics
claim is the greatest comedy in the history of film. It was released at
the height of the Cold War and is a satire on the fears and assumptions
about the Cold War. The Cuban Missile Crisis was still on the minds of
people, so a satire on nuclear war would have relied upon the shared
assumptions regarding the issue at the time. For someone not alive when
this was made, those assumptions are a mystery.

I did not laugh a single time during the whole film. I was never hostile
to it, but I could not get any of the jokes, no matter how hard I tried.
I even stopped the film and read the wiki page hoping for some clues. I
wound up reading a number of old reviews that did not provide much help.
They just assume you get the jokes and never bother to explain any of
them. The closest you get are mentions of Sellers making sport of Adlai
Stevenson in his role as President.

For those who have not seen the film, it is about a rogue general in the
1960’s who launches a wave of B-52 bombers armed with nukes at the
Soviets. He does it in such a way that no one can recall them without
his code. The rest of the film is about the President and his advisers
debating about how to stop Armageddon. Peter Sellers plays three roles
in the film. He is the aide to the crazy general, the President and a
weird Nazi scientist who is the President’s science advisor.

The central conflict in the film is how to stop the bombers. The plan is
to tell the Soviets so they can shoot down the bombers, but we learn
that the Soviets built a doomsday device that will go off if even one
bomb lands. I would like to say at this point hijinks ensue, but there
are no hijinks. The closest we get is when the crazy general tells his
aide Mandrake (Sellers) that he believes the Soviets have been
fluoridating American water supplies to pollute the “precious bodily
fluids” of Americans.

Again, the film did not make me angry. It is just that the things being
mocked are outside my frame of reference. Making sport of the nuclear
protocols of the 1960’s may have been outlandishly funny in 1964, but
not now. I am not even sure that was what was being mocked. I did pick
up that they were mocking country people, as Slim Pickens plays the role
of the main bomber pilot, and he plays it like he played the role of
overseer in Blazing Saddles.

That brought to mind something else. Jewish comedy falls into two broad
categories, mockery of majority social norms and self-defeat. The comedy
here was of the first type, but those majority social norms were killed
off a long time ago. That is why this film no longer works as a comedy,
unless you were alive at this time. The one bit that you can still
pickup is the mockery of normal white people like the character of Major
Kong (Pickens) or General Buck Turgidson (George C. Scott).

Otherwise, the jokes not only fail to land, but they fail to register as
jokes. Even Peter Sellers comes off as if he is playing it straight,
despite the fact he is best remembered for his over-the-top performances
as Inspector Clouseau in the Pink Panther films. I did sort of get that
he was making fun of Nazis in the role of Dr. Strangelove, the crazy
German scientist who is the President’s science advisor. As President
and aide to the crazy general, he comes off perfectly normal.

In the end, it is a well-made film. This may be why it is ranked so
high. Kubrick managed to get three great performances from Sellers, who
was known for being a bit unstable and an alcoholic. He tricked George
C. Scott into playing his role in a way that Scott never would have done
otherwise. Reportedly, he did this by first having Scott ham it up as
practice, then film it the way Scott wanted it done. Kubrick then used
the film from the hammy practice sessions.

Interestingly, Sellers was slated to play four roles. The studio only
agreed to back the film if Sellers was in all the major roles, which is
crazy. Sellers got hurt so he could not get into the bomber to play
Major T. J. “King” Kong. The role was initially offered to John Wayne
who ignored the offer. Then Kubrick got Slim Pickens to do it, but
without telling him the point of the film or giving him the script. He
wanted Pickens to be Pickens from the many Westerns for which he was
known best.

The film is made in black and white. Even though the satire does not
work on me, I can see why they did not do it in color. It would have
come off as farce rather than satire if it were in color. That may be
why it does not hold up. The jokes were probably subtle for the time, so
after sixty years they are impossible to spot, especially being shot in
black and white, which has the effect on a modern audience of projecting
seriousness, rather than lightheartedness or silliness.

In the end, I did not hate it. Frankly, I am not sure what to make of
it. It is well put together and the acting is first rate. If there was a
bit more character development, it would be a solid drama. It was
intended to be satire, so the characters are intentionally
two-dimensional, but they are well-written and performed by great
actors. Otherwise, there is nothing here to love or hate. It is one of
those films you probably love if you are a film historian, but as a
regular viewer is nothing special.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="FklQH+hX6VGWNMRw8XcbXw==cb7aoBVSKlYlIy8VwGUt3LoFoASEbpNBSn1xBXluqgsazCQRj0Kn0WgJ7+VISkbCAsf"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="3WfYQvWeWf9U/zyGgznPXQ==cb72qmFKN47slqHcnztyE7nHY1r0r0hCR+DVKuRD+kW5ZrLM5Cbw2unmqZ1oY/bmq6q"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
