---
title: "The People They Desire"
date: "2024-09-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32711"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32711"
---

A change that has happened in the culture of the West that has gone
largely unnoticed is the concern for psychological states. A generation
ago, what mattered in most cases was the material state of things.
Governments cared about the economy in terms of measurables like
inflation and GDP. Now they care about how “marginalized groups” are
feeling about their social status. Large employers now worry about
employee wellness, rather than financial benefits.

This is a shift from the objective to the subjective. Inflation is a
thing you can measure, even if there are disputes about how the measures
are done. Prices are either rising, falling, or remaining the same. The
impact of inflation on the psychological state of consumer is another
matter. There is no way to objectively describe such a thing, much less
produce a metric for it. The only thing to go on are the opinions of
people who claim to be experts in these sorts of soft areas.

You see the same shift in the workplace. In the prior century, managers
focused on objective measures like productivity and the cost of labor.
The manager in charge of benefits focused on driving down the costs of
those benefits, while increasing the value to the employee. Now the
point of a benefits plan is to increase employee wellness, which cannot
be measured, only assessed. More importantly, there is no way to connect
employer behavior to the result.

In every organization of scale, and society as a whole, the focus of
attention has shifted from things that are easily measured and
understood in terms of practical impact, to things that are not
quantifiable. At the same time, it is increasingly assumed and asserted
that these intangibles are more important than the tangibles. The
practical impact of inflation on the household budget is not important,
but whether a political candidate can show they share your values is
monumentally important.

You can see this change in how Harris and Trump present themselves.
Trump has rattled off a list of things he says he will do if elected,
like eliminating taxes on tips and overtime, which he says will boost
the middle-class. These are claims that rest on the agreed upon math of
economics. Harris, on the other hand, talks about her plan in soft,
intangible terms. What matters to her, and what she thinks matters to
you, is that she
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QKpsrcgGic0" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">shares</a> your values as a middle-class person.

Notice that no one ever tries to explain exactly what they mean by
“share your values” or describe the actual values. Is it even possible
to share the values of another person, since values are subjective? This
sort of therapeutic language is deliberately vague, as it is entirely
emotive. When someone says she shares your values, she is saying you are
on the side of good and she is on the side of good. There is nothing
more being communicated with those words.

This shift from the objective to the subjective goes beyond how the
political candidates present themselves to the public. Increasingly,
people and events are viewed not in practical terms but in the context
of an evolving set of normative standards that have no clear truth
value. What is “wellness” and why do we care? Ask ten people and you get
ten answers to those questions. Wellness is a thing we believe exists
and it is either good or not good and good is what we should want.

Another example is the reaction to the Israeli terror attack on Lebanon.
Blowing up random people is supposed to demoralize Hezbollah. This is a
claim that has been repeated, even by Israel haters. Why would anyone
think this and so what if it gives some Hezbollah guys the blues for a
few days? What is supposed to happen as a result of this case of the
sads? Not only does no one know, no one asks. The practical issue is no
longer of interest. It is all about the psychological.

The Ukrainians launched an attack on the Kursk region of Russia last
month and according to everyone involved, the main <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/cia-mi6-gaza-ceasefire-mideast-russia-2b81c6143f2a04ceebb2a98b2cdba7cd"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">purpose</a> was to “psychologically
impact Russian civilians” and embarrass Putin. Again, why would anyone
think such a result was likely or would matter? Did they think Putin
would delete his Twitter account and call off the war, because he got
owned on the internet? The answer must be yes, as this has been a theme
in the West since the war started.

What we are seeing is an orientalization of the culture. Saving face and
losing face are things that we associate with East Asian societies. An
important person is found to have failed in his duties, so in order to
avoid losing face and shaming his family and associates, he kills
himself in a ritualized fashion. His honorable choice in the end
absolves him and his associates of his dishonorable behavior. This means
behavior is controlled within this cultural construct.

In the West, this shame/lack of shame concept has been embedded into the
binary politics of progressivism. Someone like Hillary Clinton, for
example, is terrible at all of the practical things related to politics,
but she upholds the honor culture of progressive politics, so she is an
honored elder of our politics. Trump brings shame to the democracy and
refuses to let himself be killed, so he deserves assassination. The fact
that he is good at politics and is right about most things is
irrelevant.

One reason for this is the feminization of the ruling class. Relations
between men are controlled by honor and duty. Relations between women
are based in shame, so as women have taken over areas of the ruling
class, the values have shifted from a foundation in honor and duty to
one of shame. In a world run by people biologically tuned to care about
looking good, how things look is paramount, so it is no surprise that a
feminized ruling class now cares about saving face.

Probably the biggest fact, however, is the ruling class of the American
empire has not had to worry about the duties of a ruling class for a
long time. By the end of the Cold War, the domestic stuff was on
autopilot. As long as the Fed controlled the money supply, recession and
social unrest were not a concern. The only remaining concern was
relations with Russia and once the Cold War ended, foreign affairs
stopped being a game controlled by adults.

That last bit is the important part. Along with the feminization of the
ruling class has come the infantilization of politics. It used to be
said that “politics ain’t beanbag” but now it is closer to dodgeball.
Instead of serious men making decisions with practical consequences,
politics is now a playground for adult children. The reason our politics
reflect the language and attitudes of the academy, is like the academy,
the political class is an adult daycare center.

This is why the information space is full of assertions about soft
concepts like the morale of guerilla fighters in Lebanon or the
political class of Moscow. It is also why facts and charts have no
impact on public attitudes. Increasingly, the sensibility of the general
public reflects the sensibilities of the adult babies who parade across
the screen, pointing and jeering at one another. People may not get the
government they deserve, but the rulers get the people they desire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3syjvQsiGyPukbkSs51uwg==cb7iGGX0ds5vp4WPC45TnLcLKScHo28V6pLwKgJhMx7rKegfjl8HnoR3KzBS2GYGJo/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="0Gp4myowoG++N2NZragA3A==cb7/Tfs8Y1FgCFzomqd9aUGQTNjIp2qGcKFZJ9BpdQBpwRGzXnvlrhGTz6TDoHM+oaO"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
