---
title: "The Consolidation – Disaggregation Cycle"
date: "2024-11-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-11-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33026"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33026"
---

A recurring dynamic within the ongoing technological revolution is the
process in which the forces of centralization sweep up the various nodes
within a particular area into a dominant organization or industry.
Centralization follows the initial success of some new technology or use
of a technology. Once a set of dominant players control a market, the
forces of decentralization kick in and pick away at it. It is like the
expanding and contracting of the universe.

In the early days of computing, you had big machines maintained by an
army of engineers at special facilities. As more computers were created,
the next step was to network them into the first distributed network.
What followed was the age of the mainframe and midframe, which
centralized all the users of an organization into one main computer,
which they accessed via terminals. The original internet was a
consolidation of these machines.

The PC started to nibble away at this structure. Instead of the user
storing all his data on the central machine, he kept it on his local
machine. He shared his data with others by copying it onto a disk and
then walking it over to that user using what was eventually called
sneaker-net. Soon, the local area network allowed the office to share
resources and disconnect from the mainframe. The internet then allowed
those offices to share data with one another in a distributed network.

Of course, the forces of centralization roared back as servers came to
dominate the office network and then the organizational network. As
quick as everyone had a personal computer, they were soon forced to make
it fully accessible to the impersonal network and then make it little
more than a terminal attached to the organization’s network of servers.
This soon led to the return of the mainframe era, which was pleasantly
renamed cloud computing.

This consolidation – disaggregation cycle is a pretty good model for the
history of human civilization, so it makes sense that it plays out in
technology. In the disaggregated world, there are those who see a
benefit, personally, morally or philosophically in bringing the
disparate parts under one roof. At some point in the consolidation
process, there are those who begin to see a benefit, personally, morally
or philosophically in breaking the blob into pieces or creating
alternative pieces to the blob.

A good model for this is the internet community. The first “social
media” was the BBS created in the early days of computing. The Bulletin
Board System was modeled after the old-fashioned bulletin board. The
main difference was that when someone posted something, others could
post replies and then others could reply to those replies for as long as
the topic required replies. Sites like 4chan are pretty much just the
old BBS with a cheap graphical interface.

The problem with the BBS was that it did not take long before the topics
grew too diverse to organize, and the users started to hate one another.
Soon groups of users started to spin up new boards for their specific
topic or to get away from a rival fraction they used to war with on the
old board. The central board broke into a million bespoke boards
organized around the tribal instincts of their users. It is not hard to
see how humans spread around the globe once you understand this.

What we now call social media has been defined by the consolidation –
disaggregation cycle that is the nature of humanity. Just as the
centralized BBS splintered into many small communities, subsequent
technology followed the same pattern. Big email groups eventually broke
into small email groups. Usenet, a technology that aimed to solve the
limitations of the BBS, went from a set of large channels into an
impossible to track number of small channels.

The message board, which made it easier for the tens of millions of new
internet users to be herded into communities online quickly followed the
same pattern. The big forum for sports soon broke into forums for
specific sports and then forums for specific teams and then rival tribes
within the team fanbase. The main driver was always the inability of any
group of people larger than the Dunbar number to interact with one
another inside an internet community without conflict.

We are now seeing another round of this with microblogging. After the
election, the doxers, deviants and lunatics that came to dominate
Twitter in the pre-Musk age have jumped ship to something called
Bluesky. They have all sorts of reasons ranging from technological to
conspiratorial, but the main reason is they cannot face the reality of
their moral turpitude, so they are seeking shelter among the
like-minded, in a similar way described in the study, *When Prophecy
Fails*.

In one of life’s amusing ironies, they can thank Andrew Torba for the
opportunity to create their own fever swamp. The tireless efforts by
Torba to keep Gab going, despite the relentless attacks by the crazies,
was the first step in the disaggregation phase of the modern social
media platform. Gab became a fun refuge for those excluded from Twitter,
something like Alfred’s fort at Athelney, from which he waged his heroic
resistance to the great heathen army.

Gab surviving and thriving in its inimical way was a proof of concept
that opened the door to the coming disaggregation. Mastodon and now
Bluesky are hoping to attract niche communities that seek an alternative
to Musk’s Twitter. The people into “right wing” conspiracy theories
first tried mastodon, but found it too challenging, so they have landed
on Bluesky, which is easier for them to navigate. They can now share
their conspiracy theories in a “safe” environment.

Twitter will remain the dominant player, owing to the fact it is owned
by Musk, and he is besties with the new president. Advertisers are
returning to the platform, so it will probably start to turn a profit or
at least break even. The ascendent economic interests want one central
platform, so they will support it, but those forces of disaggregation
will keep gnawing away at it. Nature, at least human nature, does not
like centralization, at least not the reality of it, so disaggregation
always prevails.

That is the engine of history. Whether it is family dynasties, empires,
authoritarian regimes or the unipolar world order, the desire to
centralize and control always crashes into the rocks of disaggregation.
The tribal nature of man, evolved over millions of years, has not been
completely beaten out of after ten thousand years of civilization, so
conflict and separation are baked in the cake of human organization.
Separation, peaceful or violent, is always the end of the story.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="0Pbcm/DcWN40CVHDAd9b6w==cb7zLTbdB2cV3D6C2JuNcgDJ8wMmPql8efH5BVctNdEN3dx1O+gDholmUqWS3urpT9N"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="fw6Nq7L1KI3Ja+c/46ZyIg==cb7/6dJN1Ogd9LL5GQhOi9RT6y/EzsuBT3YUH7A0pMmj7DmO65IeHfB3TnJNCAUYw6h"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
