---
title: "Radio Derb December 20 2024"
date: "2024-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33262"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33262"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m51s Drone panic
-   06m55s This land is their land
-   11m05s End student visas
-   16m28s Zero-based immigration policy
-   21m43s Chauvin gets a break
-   24m22s How they spend our money
-   26m14s VDARE’s Christmas message
-   26m58s Signoff: Not a Christmas song?

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/63423289/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air for Christmas! That was
the voice of the great American soprano Leontyne Price giving us *Hark!
The Herald Angels Sing*; this is the voice of your suitably genial host
John Derbyshire with reflections and commentary on the week’s news.

First, those mysterious drones.<span id="more-33262"></span>

**02 — Drone panic**.     From early December on, my local news media
here in New York were running stories about mysterious lights hovering
above night-time New Jersey. The lights were generally described as
coming from “drones,” but nobody seemed to know for certain
just *what* they were. If the authorities — the FBI, Homeland Security,
the Federal Aviation Administration — if they knew, they weren’t telling
us.

I assumed it was just a hysteria of the sort our media are drone to …
sorry: I mean *prone* to in periods when there isn’t much political
news — for example, when one federal administration is packing up to
make way for a new one. Drones were the new Qanon, another hysteria I
could never summon up any interest in.

It didn’t help that the drones seemed mainly to be seen over New Jersey.
To seasoned New Yorkers like your genial host, New Jerseyans are the
dimwitted country cousins; like the Irish are to the English, or New
Zealanders to Australians. Do you think 180 is a high IQ? You do? What,
for the whole of New Jersey? (ta-*da*!) And so on. That reality-TV
show [*Jersey
Shore*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1563069/?ref_=nv_sr_srsg_0_tt_8_nm_0_in_0_q_jersey%2520shore) of
course reinforced the stereotype.

Last Saturday conspiracy theorists finally caught up with the drone
business. It was, they told us, the opening phase of Project Blue Beam.
That’s a conspiracy theory cooked up thirty years ago by a Canadian
wacko, alleging a covert operation by global elites to establish a
totalitarian world government by orchestrating fake celestial or
supernatural events using advanced technology.

Among [those on board with
that](https://www.newsweek.com/what-project-blue-beam-conspiracy-theory-erupts-over-drones-2001051) were
Roseanne Barr, Adam Kinzinger, Alex Jones, and Charlie Kirk — a pretty
solid bench of tinfoil-hat conspiracizers, lacking only Tucker Carlson
and RFK, Jr.

Sane people pointed out that with most of the sightings near military
bases, it wasn’t likely these drones were of foreign nationality, or we
would have shot them down. Other sane people said they might not be
drones at all, just small manned aircraft displaying the lights that are
required in U.S. airspace.

The question vexing most of us was: Why don’t the feds tell us what’s
going on? With all their surveillance technology, they surely know.
Donald Trump voiced that vexation on Monday at a press conference in
Palm Beach — his first presser as
President-Elect. [Quote](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump-says-us-military-should-tell-truth-about-drone-sightings-2024-12-16/):

The government knows what is happening. For some reason, they don’t want
to comment. And I think they’d be better off saying what it is our
military knows and our president knows.

End quote.

I didn’t see much mystery myself. With five weeks to Trump’s
inauguration, I assumed that Biden and his people were too busy packing
their boxes to bother with minor responsibilities like telling us what
they know about something.

Then the following day, Tuesday, the FBI, FAA, Pentagon and Department
of Homeland Security said in a joint statement
that, [quote](https://www.defense.gov/news/releases/release/article/4006538/dhs-fbi-faa-dod-joint-statement-on-ongoing-response-to-reported-drone-sightings/):

We assess that the sightings to date include a combination of lawful
commercial drones, hobbyist drones, and law enforcement drones, as well
as manned fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters, and stars mistakenly
reported as drones.

End quote.

So that was the end of the drone panic, right? Wrong!

**03 — This land is their land**.     While Jersey Girls had been
worrying that voyeurs might be using drones to record their
extracurricular activities and Roseanne Barr was moving stuff into her
fallout shelter in preparation for the Apocalypse, the *New York
Post* had been gathering information on drone sightings elsewhere. Quote
from that organ, December
18th, [quote](https://nypost.com/2024/12/18/us-news/drones-seen-by-17-military-bases-next-to-chinese-owned-us-land/):

At least 17 military bases adjacent to Chinese-owned farmland across the
US have experienced [a rash of drone
sightings](https://nypost.com/2024/12/18/us-news/nj-military-base-confirms-multiple-contraband-smuggling-drone-incursions-this-year/) in
recent weeks, The Post has learned.

Mysterious drones have been reported near military bases in Hawaii and
by installations in Utah, California, Maine and Florida — among other
facilities scattered throughout the country.

[The Post previously identified 19 military
bases](https://nypost.com/2024/06/20/us-news/chinese-owned-farmland-next-to-19-us-military-bases/) that
lie close to farmland bought up by Chinese-owned companies — a situation
that has worried China analysts, who feared the Communist country would
use the land to spy on US military operations.

End quote.

Further down the report we learn that as of year-end 2022, Chinese
investors owned 350 thousand acres of US farmland — that’s 546 square
miles — as of December 31, 2022. Just one guy, billionaire and Chinese
Communist Party member [Chén
Tiānqiáo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chen_Tianqiao) is the
second-largest foreign owner of farmland in the U.S.A — nearly 200,000
acres of farmland, which is 312 square miles.

It’s sheer coincidence, of course, that so much of this Chinese-owned
farmland is right up adjacent to our military installations. Sheer
coincidence, right? Sure.

Reading reports like this I’m struck time and again by the easy-going
carelessness of the federal officials we trust to administer our laws,
and indeed of the laws themselves. Why isn’t *any* drone within sight of
a U.S. military base immediately shot down? Why do we allow foreigners
to buy hundreds of square miles of our farmland?

“This land is your land, this land is my land, …” [warbled Woody
Guthrie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wxiMrvDbq3s) back in the day.
That needs an update, Woody. Today several hundred square miles of it
is *their* land.

How many square miles of mainland China’s farmland is owned by American
citizens? I think we all know the answer to *that* one.

Our agricultural land is one component of our country’s resources, of
our national treasure. We should cherish those resources and guard them
jealously, not hand them over for cold cash to anyone who shows up and
asks.

It’s like … What’s it like? … Oh yeah: it’s like our immigration system.

**04 — End student visas**.

\[*Clip, [Steve Bannon
speaking](https://x.com/gc22gc/status/1869249311047086114)*;\] I’m also
for big restrictions on legal immigration. Until Silicon Valley, until
these places have, I don’t know, twenty percent African American and
twenty percent Hispanics and kids can go to college …

And every college you go to, every engineering school you go to is
flooded with foreign students taking American jobs … I don’t agree with
that. American jobs should be for American citizens.

President Trump and I actually disagree. President Trump said a couple
of months ago, he said, “Hey, er, you know, on every college … every
college graduate, right? and every graduate of a community college
should have a, um, should have a green card stapled to their diploma.”

Remember he said this? This is after he came back from having dinner
with David Sachs and his beaners \[?\], the tech beaners in San
Francisco. He said, “Every graduate, foreign student graduate, and every
graduate — foreign student graduate — from a community college should
have a green card attached to their diploma.”

I said: “\[*inaudible*\] We have tremendous respect for you, love you,
we’re at your base, *but* I’ve got another recommendation.

I’d like to put in an exit visa on every college graduate — foreign
student that graduated from college here — and thirty days to leave and
go back home and help make their nation great again.

And for … And we shouldn’t take *any* foreign students in community
colleges. That should be … that should be for American citizens,
particularly for African Americans and Hispanics. You’re never going to
get … They’re never going to get up the economic chain unless we do
this.”

That was Steve Bannon being interviewed Wednesday this week. All right,
it’s easy to make fun of Steve. Did he really say “beaners”? And his nod
of deference to the DEI mob is not convincing, although it might have
some point politically. Twenty per cent blacks and beaners … sorry,
Hispanics, in hi-tech jobs? Yeah, sure.

Bannon is, though, however clumsily, expressing a position that’s going
to cause mighty tensions in the Trump 47 administration. [I had words to
say about this last
week](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-12-13.html#06a),
noting that while Trump and Musk both favor stapling permanent-resident
cards to the diplomas of foreign graduates, Stephen Miller takes a
strongly Bannonite line.

So do I. I’d go further than Bannon, in fact: I’d end the issuance of
student visas.

Higher education is, like agricultural land, a key national resource.
Foreigners should not be permitted to purchase it. It should be for
Americans. And no — sorry, Steve — not particularly for black and
Hispanic Americans but for *all* Americans, selected strictly by merit.

We are a nation of a third of a billion people. In there somewhere is
all the talent we need.

So why do we issue student visas? Because the Higher Education lobby
loves them. They love them because foreign students pay full fees — no
nonsense about grants or scholarships.

Foreign students are key to keeping the endowments of our univerisities
fully bloated. How else do you think [the University of
Michigan](https://www.thecollegefix.com/umich-now-has-more-than-500-jobs-dedicated-to-dei-payroll-costs-exceed-30-million/) can
afford to spend thirty million dollars *per annum* on DEI programs?

Steve Bannon has not been named to any position in the Trump
administration and it’s highly unlikely he will be. That leaves Stephen
Miller as the only sensible voice on the topic of legal immigration, so
far as I know. I don’t know where Vivek Ramaswamy stands on the subject.

The first few months of Trump 47 will be dominated by noise
about *illegal* immigration as the new administration acts to correct
the horrors arising therefrom. Those of us arguing for a more reasoned
approach to *legal* immigration won’t be able to get a word in edgewise,
not even if our name is Stephen Miller.

Legal immigration needs a serious overhaul, though. Is it too much to
hope for that later in the Trump 47 administration, when our borders are
finally under control, we can have a national conversation about foreign
workers and students? Yes, it’s probably too much to hope for, given the
blindness of Trump and Musk on the issue; but let’s hope anyway.

**05 — Zero-based immigration policy**.     This week’s political news
has mainly been about the national budget, and the usual congressional
wrangling over it. This is an annual feature of our political life. In
the twenty years I’ve been podcasting Radio Derb, I’ve tackled it
several times — check [the
archives](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/page.html).

So I’m going to take a pass this year and leave the congresscritters to
work it out among themselves. The topic did, though, in combination with
the remarks I made about student visas, stir recollections of my own
career in corporate budgeting way back in the 1970s. Here I was
reminiscing about it on Radio Derb [seven years
ago](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2018-01-26.html#03).

\[*Pips*.\]

Going back to that most important duty of Congress: I know something
about budgeting. One of the first big computer systems I designed, back
in mainframe days, was for the general ledger and budgeting function of
a medium-sized corporation.

Back in those days — this was the 1970s — there was a management fad for
“[zero-based budgeting](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/z/zbb.asp).”
The traditional way for an organization to work up next year’s budget
had been to start with the current year’s budget and make little
adjustments up or down here and there. In the zero-based model, you
tossed current year in the trash bin and started with a clean sheet of
paper. What should we be doing, and how much should we spend doing it?

Like all management fads, sometimes it worked in practice and sometimes
it didn’t. It had the appeal of elegance and simplicity, though; and
under forceful corporate leadership it made an end run around powerful
entrenched departmental interests.

So that’s my slogan for this week: Back to Basics — *zero-based* basics.

\[*Pips*.\]

I would l-o-o-o-ve to see Congress attempt a zero-based annual federal
budget, but that of course is never going to happen.

A zero-based approach to immigration, however, is not so hard to
imagine. Although I doubt we shall see it any time soon, it’s of the
order of things that *might* happen under an enlightened administration
and Congress.

It would start by throwing out all of current immigration law, which is
an unholy mess. Then we’d ask: “What kinds of visas should we issue, and
how many of each?”

As I’ve already said, I don’t see a case for any student visas at all.
Let every country educate its own citizens.

Tourist visas? Sure. Tourism is great. I just got back last week from a
brief tourist adventure of my own, to Belize. I learned interesting
things and had my horizon broadened some. Tourism, yeah — let ’em come!

Business visas likewise. Business folk need to engage with colleagues
abroad. No problem with that.

Talent visas? Italy’s leading operatic soprano is invited to sing at the
New York Met — let her in!

Family unification? What if Tourist Tom and Suzy Citizen fall in love
and want to tie the knot? Good luck to them: give Tom a residence
card. [Let me not to the marriage of true minds admit
impediments](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/45106/sonnet-116-let-me-not-to-the-marriage-of-true-minds).
There’s scope here for fraud, though. I’d want this visa category
carefully policed.

And so on. From the zero-base principle we could build up a rational
immigration system. If Trump 47 wants to give it a try, I’ll be glad to
offer my consultancy services — suitably remunerated, of course.

**06 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  I’ve spoken at length on Radio Derb about what I call “[the
romance of American
blackness](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/History/romance.html)“:
the fantasy, cherished by blacks and whites alike, that black Americans
must tiptoe around in terror of being assaulted and likely murdered by
evil, feral whites.

It’s a real national pathology, and no laughing matter. For one thing,
it has generated great cruelty.

Two outstanding cases of that cruelty in recent years have been the
brutal prosecutions of Derek Chauvin in Minnesota and the Brunswick
Three in Georgia. In both cases the defendants were subjected to Double
Jeopardy, with federal civil rights charges piled on top of state
homicide charges.

The case of the Brunswick Three is the more egregious. Three upstanding
citizens with no evil intent, attempting a citizen’s arrest which was
lawful at the time, may spend the rest of their lives in jail. [Appeals
are under way](https://mcmichaeltrial.com/), but it’s a slow and
expensive business.

Derek Chauvin is a less sympathetic case, but he’s been wronged none the
less. This week there’s been a small break in his federal case, where
Chauvin got a 21-year federal sentence for violating junkie hoodlum
George Floyd’s civil rights.

Chauvin pleaded guilty to the charge; but he didn’t know, because his
attorney didn’t tell him, that Floyd had a heart condition.

[A judge ruled
Monday](https://www.cbsnews.com/minnesota/news/george-floyd-heart-tissue-test-derek-chauvin/) that
Chauvin’s present attorneys can research Floyd’s heart condition to see
if it supports the appeal.

Meanwhile, the Romance of American Blackness continues to burn bright in
America’s collective consciousness. I have no doubt it will generate
more outrages, more cruelty.

*Item*:  In New York City news: the city’s subway and bus systems are
plagued by fare evasion. Non-paying riders are estimated to cost the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) $800 million annually.

The reason why levels of fare evasion are so high isn’t hard to figure.
The reason is, nobody gets prosecuted for it.

You can check this out for yourself by hanging out for a while near one
of the turnstiles leading to a subway platform. You won’t wait long
before some person, instead of scanning his subway pass to free the
turnstile, just vaults over the barrier.

(If, after several such observations, you were to notice common
demographic characteristics of the turnstile-jumpers, that is very bad
of you and you should be ashamed of yourself. [Stop
noticing](https://www.amazon.com/Noticing-Essential-1973-2023-Steve-Sailer/dp/1959403028)!)

Not to worry, though; the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is on
the case. [They are planning to
spend](https://nypost.com/2024/12/13/us-news/mta-to-use-grant-money-to-get-into-the-minds-of-fare-evaders/) up
to $1 million in federal grant money on a study that they hope will help
them understand the mindset of the average fare evader, a psychological
study.

Nobody’s better at spending public money than public agencies, right?

*Item*:  VDARE.com has been silenced but not killed. Peter and Lydia
Brimelow are striving tirelessly to keep the case for rational
immigration policy in the public forum still in the teeth of continuing
relentless lawfare from Letitia Lardbutt at the New York State Attorney
General’s office.

Please, please read Lydia’s eloquent account of VDARE’s current
situation in [her Christmas message at
X](https://x.com/vdare/status/1869168485529518211).

**07 — Signoff**.     That’s your Christmas present, listeners. Thank
you for your time and attention, and of course for your generous
support. I try to acknowledge that support as best I can; but I haven’t
yet figured out how to individually acknowledge donations via crypto. So
if you’ve sent me fragments of bitcoin, please accept my heartfelt, but
generic, thanks

A reminder that my home page at www.johnderbyshire.com has full
instructions on how to support my work using snail mail, PayPal, or
crypto, or via Zelle direct to my bank. You can also make
a *tax-deductible* donation by mailing a check, earmarked with my name,
to: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759.
Thank you!

Scrolling down through the Radio Derb archives, I was surprised to find
that over twenty Chistmases I didn’t once sign out with anything from
the Great American Songbook. I was surprised because (a) I’m a huge fan
of that musical genre, as you’ll know if you’ve listened to Radio Derb
much, and (b) it contains several lovely Chistmas songs.

On reflection, I’m much less surprised. Yes, I love those
mid-20th-century classics; and yes, plenty of them are for Christmas.
The trouble is that in the weeks leading up to Christmas they get played
relentlessly over the sound systems in public places, especially
department stores and supermarkets, to the point where you want to tell
Bing Crosby to shut the hell up so you can concentrate on trying to find
those cookies your kids like.

Digging around on YouTube, however, I found a Great American Songbook
number that I don’t recall ever hearing at ShopRite or Costco around
Christmas. That would have suited the songwriter, Frank Loesser, just
fine, because he didn’t intend it as a Christmas song. [According to his
daughter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_Are_You_Doing_New_Year%27s_Eve%3F),
he got annoyed when it was sung during the holidays.

Creators can be wrong about their creations, though. Whatever Frank
Loesser thought, it *is* a Christmas song, in theme and mood. Here’s a
bit of the 1960 recording by Ella Fitzgerald, who pretty much owned the
Great American Songbook.

Merry Christmas! There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
