---
title: "Radio Derb October 25 2024"
date: "2024-10-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32930"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32930"
---

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg)

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   Intro
-   How Low Will They Go?
-   A Consequential Endorsement
-   Republics And Empires
-   Certifiable Lunacy
-   Miscellany
-   Signoff

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62508317/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

01 — Intro.    And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, one and all,
from your inclusively genial host John Derbyshire, here to bring you
reflections on the week’s news.

Ten days to the general election and the anti-Trump rhetoric is heating
up. Did you know that Trump is a Hitler Hitler Hitler, Nazi Nazi Nazi,
fascist fascist fascist? In case you didn’t, all sorts of Ruling Class
front men have been stepping up to tell you: John Kelly, for example,
Trump 45’s Chief of Staff, and Bob Woodward, one of the hack journalists
who helped bring down the great Richard Nixon fifty years ago.

How will it all end up? I don’t know any better than you do, but I’ll
speculate.

Before I get to speculating, though, just my weekly reminder that my
website johnderbyshire.com is there for your reading and listening
pleasure with links to my entire print and online output all the way
back to 1966.

On the cover page of that website are instructions on how you can help
keep me afloat using snail mail, PayPal, or crypto, or via Zelle direct
to my bank, or with a tax-deductible donation by a check earmarked with
my name and mailed to: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box 211,
Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759. Thank you for your
help.<span id="more-32930"></span>

02 — How low will they go?     The main takeaway from this week’s
developments on the election front is, that our nation’s ruling class is
worried. It’s dawning on them that they screwed up in giving us Kamala
Harris as a candidate. It’s this anxiety that is driving their media
stooges to all the Hitler Hitler stuff.

If they thought a bit more about it, which they probably won’t, they’d
realise why they screwed up. They screwed up because foisting a weak
candidate on the electorate worked so well back in 2020. They surely
knew that Joe Biden was a weak candidate, a joke figure to anyone who’d
followed politics the previous forty years. They figured they’d get away
with it, and did get away with it, by keeping Biden out of sight under
cover of the COVID panic and just screeching TRUMP BAD! TRUMP BAD! TRUMP
BAD! through the media. And it worked!

If Biden 2020 was a weak candidate, Harris is even weaker; and there’s
no excuse this time to just hide her in a basement. I think I’m a fairly
open-minded guy; but summoning up all my resources of open-mindedness, I
can’t believe anyone finds Kamala Harris inspirational.

I doubt she’s a bad person in any way, but inspiring? Nah. She’s someone
with whom you might have a brief chat about the weather while waiting in
a supermarket line, but by the time you’d got back to your car you’d
have forgotten her, except perhaps for that off-putting cackle. On a
long and close acquaintance, she might exhibit some virtues and perhaps
stir some affection, but as President in the White House? Nah.

That the ruling class is worried is itself worrying. What might they do?
How far — how low — might they go? They of course will do all they can
to rig the vote — that’s already under way. I’ll come back to it in a
minute. Will that be enough, though, with no COVID pandemic this time to
hide the vote-rigging in a cloud of mist?

Might they try to take Trump out, you know … physically? Either before
November 5th, if the polls get even worse; or, if Trump wins on the 5th,
before the January Inauguration?

Until a few days ago I’d have dismissed such talk as nutty conspiracy
theorizing. There is of course a nonzero probability of Trump being
assassinated — heck we’ve already seen two attempts. As best I can judge
those were both lone-wolf jobs, though, not regime-sponsored.

To us math geeks, the adjective “nonzero” encompasses very tiny numbers
— one in a trillion, perhaps. So yes, if you’d asked me a couple of
weeks ago about a regime-sponsored assassination of Trump, I’d have
replied, “Yes, a nonzero probability,” in that sense.

If you asked me today, I’d replace that “nonzero” by a different
adjective: probably “nontrivial.” In math-geek-speak, “nontrivial” is
still small, but big enough to be worth your attention. Not one in a
trillion: perhaps one in two hundred, something like that.

My advice to Trump would be to hire himself some really first-class
private security and not rely on government employees. Even such
precautions might not be enough, though. They don’t have to shoot the
candidate. Trump’s doing appearances all over, presumably flying private
jet from one to the other. Bringing down a plane isn’t that hard, and
needn’t be obvious. You don’t need a hypersonic missile, just a pair of
willing hands in the maintenance hangar at the airport.

Dark thoughts. Stay safe, Mr President, please.

Setting aside such dark thoughts, let’s hope for a Trump victory. Not
just for a victory, mind, but for a landslide. A close result comes with
some unpleasant prospects of its own; not lethally unpleasant, like an
assassination, but unpleasant enough for us to devoutly wish it doesn’t
happen.

Veteran British political journalist Andrew Neil explained why in a good
column at the Daily Mail on Thursday. A close result could, warns Neil,
drag America into a full-blown crisis. Sample quotes, comparing this
year’s election to 2020, quotes:

The difference this time is that, if Trump wins narrowly, then Team
Harris will almost certainly resort to the same legal guerrilla warfare
Trump used in 2020. Both Democrats and Republicans are already lawyered
up to the hilt in anticipation of a post-election day standoff.

Both sides have hired hundreds of expensive lawyers, backed by thousands
of volunteer lawyers, to contest any close results. Team Trump is
already far better organized and funded than it was four years ago to
mount legal challenges on a grand scale if the election doesn’t go his
way …

If Trump enjoys only a narrow victory, it seems more than likely that
the assembled Democratic army of lawyers would quickly be transformed
into an offensive force to undermine a Trump victory. Former President
Obama has already issued an appeal for even more lawyers to rally to the
Democratic cause.

So, in the days after November 5, whether it’s Trump or Harris that is
thought to have just scraped over the winning line, that will not be the
end of the matter. As the lawyers have their many lucrative days in
numerous courts, the final result could be weeks away from being
determined.

End quotes.

Neil points out that if those weeks drag out all the way to, and past,
the Inauguration date, we’d have a Constitutional crisis on our hands.

Bottom line: We don’t just need a victory here, we need a landslide.

03 — A consequential endorsement.     Radio Derb of course endorses
Donald Trump for President. There have of course been much more
consequential endorsements.

Here’s one I watched on X earlier this week. The endorser here is Elon
Musk. I should note that while I greatly admire the man, he is not a
good speaker. In the audio you’ll hear a great many ums, ers, ahs, and
y’knows. I have edited them out for the text transcript.

\[Clip:  Well, as I said, I really would prefer not to be in politics at
all, and the, the reason that I have stepped into the political arena
this time is because I think the stakes are extremely fundamental.

I think democracy is on the line, I think the Constitution is on the
line, and I fear that if Trump does not win we’re gonna have a
single-party state and it’s going to be like California, but actually
worse than California because, the one thing that keeps California from
going even further than they do go is that people can move out of
California and still be in America. But if you got no place to move then
it’s going to be much worse than California.

And that’s the danger that we face: sort of an oppressive totalitarian
state that has extreme restrictions on freedom of speech, that continues
extreme over-regulation, but just basically makes government even bigger
than it is today and takes away the liberty of the people.

So it was not something I wanted to do, but I felt it was critical to do
it, or America’s not going to be America.\]

Thank you, Sir. I agree with every word — I mean, other than the ers,
ums, and ahs. If things go seriously awry, as I pondered last week, I
look forward to seeing you on the triumvirate.

Although, concerning that, an old friend has emailed in to suggest I
replace Vivek Ramaswamy with Ron DeSantis as a better choice for the
position of competent government technocrat.

I see his point. The Governor of a state has experience as a political
Chief Executive, which Ramaswamy hasn’t. Still, I’m reluctant to let go
of Vivek and his manifold talents. Could we perhaps, when the coup takes
place, come out of it with a quadrumvirate?

04 — Republics and empires.     As a footnote to my closing sentences
there, and to Andrew Neil’s gloomy prognostications of a Constitutional
crisis, I’ll just add that parallels to the collapse of the Roman
Republic have been going on for a while this election cycle.

Eli Lake had one at the Free Press back in September, comparing Trump
with the second-century-b.c. Gracchi brothers, a bit implausibly in my
opinion. Sample quote:

You probably know about last year’s trend of American men confessing on
TikTok how often they think about the Roman Empire. I’m a bit different.
I’m obsessed with what preceded the empire, Rome’s republic. Empires are
a dime a dozen in human history. They rise and fall, from Babylon to the
Soviet Union. But republics — a form of government in which a state is
ruled by representatives of the people — these are orchids: rare,
precious, and fleeting.

End quote.

I’m with Eli Lake on that, at least. The Roman Republic fell apart at
last from internal contradictions, but it had a pretty good innings —
nearly five hundred years. If we just do as well as that with our
republic, we won’t crumble until the middle of the 23rd century. Hey!

I wouldn’t be so sniffy about empires, though. They can of course be
despotic and cruel, but they are not necessarily so. I’m a fan of the
Habsburg Empire, for example — in its later days called Austria-Hungary.

Nor am I the only one. Here’s historian Krishan Kumar in his 2017 book
Visions of Empire, Chapter 4, quote:

Of all the empires discussed in this book, the Habsburg Empire is the
most tortuous, treacherous, and protean. There are even, as we shall
see, difficulties and disputes about what exactly to call it, how to
name it. But at the same time it is also — if such a thing is permitted
of empires — the most lovable. All empires inspire a certain degree of
nostalgia after their demise. In the case of the Habsburgs, this can
border on the clinical.

End quote.

Let’s not forget also, in this context, that as messy and violent as the
fall of the Roman Republic was, it birthed an empire that lasted five
hundred years — fifteen hundred if you count its successor, the Eastern
Empire, and well over eighteen hundred if you then also count the Holy
Roman Empire, which you probably shouldn’t. All three of those empires
made major contributions to Western Civilization.

I of course don’t want to see this election bring down our republic. In
the sorry event that happens, though, good may yet come of it at last.

05 — Certifiable lunacy.     Browsing social media the other day, here
was a post on X that returned an echo from my bosom. The poster is
Michael Arouet, October 20th.

Most of the post is taken up by a headline from some unidentified news
source above a picture of some generic ivy-walled old university.
Headline: “Saying ‘the most qualified person should get the job’ is a
microaggression, Britain’s top universities insist.” End headline. Above
that is Michael Arouet’s comment, thus, quote:

Do you share my opinion that the Western world has collectively lost its
mind and is on a straight line into misery and poverty?

End quote.

Judging by the three hundred-odd comments on that post, a great many of
us do share Arouet’s opinion.

I share it myself. In crude polemic of course, words like “crazy,”
“insane,” “lunacy,” and so on are thrown about very carelessly; but I
think any person not infected by current mind viruses has sometimes
found himself thinking that key institutions of Western Civilization,
like the universities, have departed altogether from reason and sense.

I had found myself thinking that just before Arouet’s post. Last weekend
the Mrs and I took a trip out of state to be at a friend’s birthday
party. Also at the party was Jared Taylor, proprietor of American
Renaissance, which describes itself as, quote, “the Internet’s premier
race-realist site.” End quote. I’ve known Jared for more than twenty
years, and it was pleasant to chat with him in person.

We asked after each other’s children. Jared has two daughters. The
younger lives in England. He would like to go visit her, but he can’t.
The U.K. authorities consider Jared to be such a threat to their
nation’s peace and security, they will not give him a visa.

Jared, I will attest from my twenty years’ acquaintance, is a model
American gentleman: generous, thoughtful, patriotic, exquisitely
well-mannered, scrupulously law-abiding, well-educated, fluent in at
least three languages. He wishes no harm to anyone; and, to the best of
my knowledge, has never done any harm to anyone.

Jared’s opinions on race are those expressed by Abraham Lincoln when
that President addressed a delegation of free blacks at the White House
in August 1862. Lincoln was hoping to persuade the free blacks of the
benefits of resettling themselves in Liberia or the Caribbean. Quote
from Honest Abe.

You and we are different races. We have between us a broader difference
than exists between almost any other two races. Whether it is right or
wrong I need not discuss, but this physical difference is a great
disadvantage to us both, as I think your race suffer very greatly, many
of them by living among us, while ours suffer from your presence. In a
word we suffer on each side. If this is admitted, it affords a reason at
least why we should be separated.

End quote.

Yet Jared — this intelligent, calm American gentleman, is forbidden to
enter the United Kingdom.

Meanwhile — day after day, month after month, year after year for seven
years now, lawless invaders have been pouring in to the U.K. across the
English Channel from France — nearly thirty thousand this year already.
They are placed in pleasant hotels, given free meals, healthcare,
smartphones, and plenty of opportunities to work untaxed.

All of these invaders are laughing at British law; a good proportion are
gangsters and psychopaths. Stories about British citizens being
assaulted, robbed, scammed, raped, or murdered by these so-called
“asylum seekers” appear daily in the British press.

Yet a quiet, law-abiding American will not be granted a visa to visit
his daughter.

Do I share Michael Arouet’s opinion that the Western world has
collectively lost its mind and is on a straight line into misery and
poverty? Yes, I do. How could I not?

06 — Miscellany.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

Imprimis:  Some suspicious spirits are still surmising that Joe Biden is
intent on hobbling Kamala Harris’ chances. It’s a bit late in the day
for suggestions, but here’s one from me.

If our President really would like to undermine his Vice President, he
could stage a replay of Dwight Eisenhower’s little gaffe in the 1960
campaign. At that point Richard Nixon, running for President, was in his
eighth year as Ike’s Vice President. From John Farrell’s biography of
Nixon, Chapter 15, quote:

But just before Labor Day, Nixon fell victim, once again, to
Eisenhower’s thoughtlessness. When asked at a press conference to name
an important contribution that Nixon had made to a presidential
decision, Ike replied: “If you give me a week, I might think of one.”

End quote.

Item:  I’m going to quote from myself at some length, if you’ll permit
me, kind listener. These quotes are from a piece I published in
Chronicles magazine following the 2020 election. Quotes:

My strongest impression from the U.S.A.’s 2020 general election is that
the process by which we record and count votes is an unholy mess, wide
open to fraud. Counting was suspended for hours without explanation;
great tranches of mail-in votes appeared out of nowhere; vote monitors
were denied access; counting continued for days. We are a First World
nation with a Third World voting system.

In fact that may even be a slight on the Third World. India, which has
four times our population but only one-eighth our per capita GDP, with
vast regional differences in language and religion, held a general
election last year. The final tally of the 614 million votes cast began
at 8 a.m. on May 23rd; results followed just hours later …

Australia, although a constitutional monarchy, has a federal structure
not unlike our own. Elections there are supervised by the Australian
Electoral Commission (AEC), a federal body. All registered candidates
can nominate “scrutineers” to be present throughout the polling and
counting at every voting place. Voting is compulsory, with fines for
defaulters. Absentee voting is strictly limited; and the limits have not
been much affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.

We don’t have to adopt all of Australia’s rules, but Australia does show
us that a federal nation is quite capable of operating a system cleaner,
more efficient, and far less prone to manipulation than our own.
Congress should exercise its constitutional powers to federalize our
elections.

End quotes.

Meanwhile, in the united chaos of electoral America, the federal Justice
Department is suing the state of Virginia for denying noncitizens the
vote.

And at the same time a judge in the state of Georgia has struck down a
rule that requires that ballots be counted by hand, and two other rules
that had to do with the certification of election results.

Not to worry, though. The election’s only eleven days away now. I’m sure
the ballots of all who voted, citizens and noncitizens both, will all
have been certified, counted, and collated just a few weeks after that —
or perhaps a few months — and we shall be notified of the results.

Let India and Australia do as they please with their absurdly simple,
unsophisticated voting systems. This is the U.S.A.: we do things
properly here.

Item:  In my September 27th podcast I reported on an unfortunate slip of
the tongue by Rich Lowry, my old boss at National Review, speaking on
The Megyn Kelly Show. I hope Rich has fully recovered from that tiny
embarrassment.

In case he hasn’t, here to cheer him up is a similar story from across
the Pond, just to illustrate how easy it is to flub your syllables.

This was a routine news’n’chat show called Good Morning Britain. There
are three people in the story. Two of them, Richard Madeley and Susanna
Reid, are on-screen behind a desk, hosting the show. The third, not
on-screen, is roving reporter Andi Peters. The topic the three of them
were reporting on was the return to British TV of Barney the Dinosaur
after 14 years absence.

Here’s the slip of the tongue, Richard Madeley speaking about his
colleague Andi Peters. Listen carefully and catch it as it flies past;
it’s at just four seconds into the clip.

\[Clip:  (Female host laughing) … Back to the future. Speaking of
dinosaurs, er, Andi Penis … Andi Peters, he’s been around almost as long
as the dinosaurs have been gone.\]

In the Radio Derb transcript I’ve given a link to the actual video. It’s
worth going there just to watch Susanna Reid trying to control her face.

Item:  All enlightened people know of course that there are more than
two sexes … I’m sorry: genders. There are more than two genders. Those
who think otherwise are of course hateful people full of hate and are
probably plotting acts of violence against persons who do not conform to
their narrow, bigoted outlook.

We don’t often get to see the full list of genders, though. Michael
Anton says he found a source listing sixty-three, but I can’t find it. I
did recently, though come across a news story from Scotland listing
twenty-four.

Scotland, although a component of the U.K., has its own partly
autonomous government. As guidance to employees of that government when
gathering information about sex and gender, quote, “for operational,
statistical and research purposes,” end quote, the Scottish Government
has issued a list of all 24 sexes … sorry! genders.

Here is that list, courtesy of the Daily Mail, October 21st.

-   Cisgender
-   Trans man
-   Trans woman
-   Non-binary
-   Trans — not otherwise specified
-   Agender
-   Trans Masculine
-   Trans feminine
-   Genderfluid
-   Genderqueer
-   Questioning
-   Intersex
-   Assigned female at birth — not specified
-   Assigned male at birth — not specified
-   Pangender
-   Bigender
-   Autigender
-   Androgynous
-   Gender non-conforming
-   Detransitioned
-   Neutral
-   Demigender — female
-   Demigender — male
-   Demigender — not otherwise specified

There you are, listener. As a conscientous good citizen you should
commit that list to memory. And take care not to get the categories
confused. “Genderfluid” refers to “a person who does not identify as
having a single unchanging gender.”  “Genderqueer,” on the other hand,
means “a gender identity that is other than male or female, or a
combination.”

Keep it all clear in your mind so that, should you find yourself in the
employment of the Scottish government, you will not suffer embarrassment
or confusion when a Campbell or a Cameron, a Macpherson or MacLeod tells
you his gender.

Wait a minute … his gender? His? Her? Xis? Their? Zeir? … Ah, the hell
with it.

Item:  Two of the most outrageous, appalling miscarriages of American
justice in recent years were the trials and convictions three years ago
of the Brunswick Three: father and son Gregory and Travis McMichael and
their neighbor, Roddie Bryan.

That’s “trials” in the plural, as the Brunswick Three were subjected to
both state and federal prosecutions in the death of Ahmaud Arbery, in
jeering indifference to the principle of Double Jeopardy. Arbery was
black and the Brunswick Three are white; otherwise there would certainly
not have been two trials, and probably not even one.

There are some fine details in the sentencing, but basically the
Brunswick Three got two life sentences each. It was, I repeat, a gross
violation of justice against three decent, upstanding citizens.

Thursday this week attorneys for the Three appeared before the state
trial judge again to argue for a new trial. They appealed the federal
verdicts back in March.

I don’t know what the chances are for these appeals. The original trials
were conducted in late 2021 and early 2022 when our country was still in
the poisonous shadow of the George Floyd hysteria. The prospects for
sane rulings might be better now. I wouldn’t bet on it, though: the
Romance of American Blackness — evil, leering whites assaulting meek,
innocent blacks — is too deep ingrained in the national psyche.

Greg McMichaels’ wife Leigh maintains a website, mcmichaeltrial.com,
with information about the case and updates about the Three. It also has
a link to a GiveSendGo page where you can donate to the legal costs for
the appeals. I urge you to do so, and to pray for the eventual freedom
of these three innocent men.

07 — Signoff.     That’s all I have this week, listeners. Thank you for
your time and attention, your encouragement and support.

I mentioned my math geekery back there, and my opinion that we math
geeks are more careful with terms like “nonzero” and “nontrivial” than
is the average citizen.

That got me thinking back to my early childhood, when I already found
numbers more interesting than words. I developed particular fixations on
the words “few” and “several.” I heard adults using them all the time,
but without precision. Researching the matter and thinking deeply about
it, I came to the conclusion that “few”  should really be a synonym for
“seven,” while “several” should be a synonym for “sixteen.”

Those conclusions have somehow stuck with me across the decades. Still
today, if I hear someone say “a few” when the assembly in question has
more than seven or less than seven members, I felt uncomfortable about
it …

And if you still don’t think my number fixation is a little weird —
harmless, of course, but weird — let me just tell you that today, as I
record this on October 25th 2024, today is my twenty-nine thousandth day
on earth, counting the day of my birth as Day One. Happy 29,000 to me!

To play us out, a little Baroque music, one of Vivaldi’s violin
concertos. Yes, Vivaldi did compose other stuff besides the Four
Seasons. This is actually the closing allegro of Concerto No. 12 in E
major, played here by the Concerto Italiano under Rinaldo Alessandrini.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
