---
title: "Bourgeois Minoritarianism"
date: "2024-03-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31743"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31743"
---

**Edit:** A friend of ours, Judd Blevins, is under attack by the usual
suspects and could use some help in his fight. He is a good man trying
to serve his community, but the freaks and weirdos are trying to ruin
it. <a href="https://127190.campaignpartner.net/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Here</a> is his story and a way to send him a few bucks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The weirdness of this age is a constant topic of discussion, mostly due
to the fact that every day brings new weirdness. Ten years ago, if you
said men would go to jail for defiling the sodomy flag, people would
have thought you were nuts, but this is a thing that now happens in
America. You can burn the American flag, but if you get caught insulting
the sodomy flag you go to jail. A common side conversation these days is
debating what new bizarre and deranged thing comes next.

The question that never comes up in any serious way is why the ruling
class spends so much time manufacturing these perversions of reality.
Why do these bourgeois people who rule over us embrace bizarre social
fads when it is clear they would not incorporate them in their daily
lives. Notice, for example, that advertising agencies have almost no
diversity, but all of their ads are antiwhite. They promote race-mixing
even though they go to great lengths to prevent this in their own lives.

The place to start is how these people see themselves. The people at the
top of the various institutions that control society do not see
themselves as an elite. Instead, they seem themselves as servants of the
elite. Claudine Gay, the former head of Harvard College, never saw
herself as part of the elite, despite the position, because she has
always had a boss, someone with control over her. Even as Harvard
president she had to kowtow to the billionaire donors that fund the
college.

This is a reality of our managerial elite. Even though they occupy
positions at the top level of critical institutions, they always feel
like hired help. The angst of the college president is no different from
that of the middle-class manager living in a suburb, but the stakes are
much higher. Normal people were outraged that Claudine Gay kept her
salary, but her loss of status was the real punishment. In a world
controlled by bourgeois status seekers, losing face is worse than death.

For normal people, fear of losing a job or looking bad to your peers is
a motivation to conform to expectations. For the managerial elite, this
curdles into a resentment of the system over which they rule. These
people are the resentful house slave who finds small victories in
undermining the master of the house. The embrace of these deranged
social fads is a way for the managerial elite to tell their bosses that
they have some agency and command their respect.

Managerial angst works another way. The system that allows for the
managerial elite has as one of its principles that it is open to
everyone. If you do certain things you can rise up the system into the
elite. When you strip natural talent from the equation, then all that is
left is a recipe for success that anyone can follow. This means that the
people at the top can always be replaced by the steady stream of
strivers below them who are busy ticking boxes on their resume.

This is the other jaw of the vice that squeezes the worldview of the
managerial elite and leads to the proliferation of social rules. In a
true meritocracy, the only disqualification from reaching the top is a
failure to abide by the rules. The proliferation of arbitrary and
capricious rules of conduct replaces what used to allow elites to hold
onto their position in the face of more talented challengers below them.
The elites can still utter, “He’s not our sort”, but the reason is
morality rather than bloodline.

This also breeds resentment of those below the elite level. It is clear
that a key motivation behind these degenerate social fads is spite. The
managerial elite looks around and they see danger from top and bottom.
At the top are rich white-presenting people who seem to live outside the
meritocracy. Below are white people who wish to work the meritocracy to
climb the ladder. Scandalizing white people in general provides a salve
to the fragile psyches of the managerial elite.

This sense of being surrounded on all sides may explain how our elites
think of themselves as minorities. It is bizarre to see rich people like
Nancy Pelosi carry on like she is an oppressed minority. Many have noted
that the proliferation of females in the managerial class has brought
with it the victim mentality, but it may simply be that females are more
sensitive to it and much more willing to find ways to publicly express
this sense of being an oppressed minority.

From the perspective of the managerial elite, they are a minority. When
they leave their swank residences, they see miles and miles of Potemkin
suburbs, cheap copies of their neighborhoods, clustered around synthetic
“town centers” that have the big box retail shops popular with the
masses. The managerial elites think these are made possible by their
efforts, but they also resent that they are not loved for those efforts,
and they rage at the fact their bosses in the economic elite profit from
these efforts.

What this suggests is that the conditions that must exist in order to
maintain the managerial elite in their positions, by maintaining the
system itself, must also lead to the petty degeneracy we see today. A
system that values equality, democracy and eschews class distinctions,
but exists in contradiction to those things produces a special sort of
angst among the managerial elite. Their embrace of degeneracy is, in
effect, a slave revolt against a system that is spiritually
eviscerating.

Put another way, the the system of values the managerial class must
embrace as they rise up the ranks increasingly comes into conflict with
the reality of the system as they rise higher in the system. The
middle-manager gets the praise of his boss by a selfless devotion to his
work, but the people at the top got their position by a ruthless
exploitation of those below him. It is this conflict that leads to the
boiling hatred of the system that makes the managerial elite possible.

A strong society has a strong elite that works within the set of values
embraced by the elite and is manifestly obvious to outsiders. A warrior
elite will value the attributes that make a great warrior. An
aristocracy will value those qualities that define the aristocratic
class like bloodlines. Managerialism, in contrast, has a value system
that is in conflict with the requirements of the managerial elite. It is
this internal and unresolvable contradiction that leads the elite to
attack their own system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="D+fpDZf8thjl8ogqx3e5QA==cb7I0NkQH3D6cunGFyFAn0g5tsstHMrZYUulWRPeQA/9QcFLiVJi8DoRz4/eVEcXv17"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Fg9YL80IrAUO8p0GO7xlPw==cb79u83R3Sz+JjrQYWNv2tza4zSwOVASwF5boKehl2l1xsq0FAyQx+7aQQ7LIB+C66k"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
