---
title: "The Death Of Pop"
date: "2024-01-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31467"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31467"
---

**Note:** A British man named Sam Melia has been convicted of speaking
freely and faces prison time for it. He is a married man with a young
family. If you feel inclined to kick in a few bucks to help him out, do
so <a href="https://www.givesendgo.com/sammelia" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>. You can also buy something from his family’s
<a href="https://www.grandmatowlers.co.uk/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">online shop</a>. Their tea is exceptional.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Heard a good new song lately? Given the demographics of this site the
answer is most likely negative but there are some young people here. If
their answer is yes, it is going to be something from the hip-hop genre.
Of course, given the demographics of this site they would probably not
admit to it. <a href="https://youtu.be/Id5Mh2T7rWc?si=8NNc6WB3NbtA636b"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This</a> was the number one hip-hop song
last year, in case you are curious.
<a href="https://youtu.be/-WtNCR3EDS4?si=wN6yRyQTvZ9MQY0C"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This one</a> was number two, suggesting
that the worst form of music has managed to get worse.

When it comes to what most people reading this would call popular music,
the results are not much better.
[This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7NK_JOkuSVY) was the most played
“rock” song of 2023. One cannot help but wonder if it was created by AI
due to its generic power-pop sound.
[This](https://youtu.be/P1nRboaLTzU?si=4qGfJpZCpjUOu4dk) is the second
most played “rock” song, which is not terrible, but it sounds more like
a country tune than a rock song. In fact, it was number three on the
country charts. This
[song](https://youtu.be/Fr7oYjnt3bM?si=tjewkWN_RlfJh58j) was the most
played song on the country stations.

You can go through the music charts and listen to the top-10 in each
category each year and find songs that are pleasant and songs that are
<a href="https://youtu.be/G7KNmW9a75Y?si=tkuEAlgAcHtC15MK"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hilariously terrible</a>. Miley Cyrus
should cut back on that five pack a day habit and spend the savings on
some people who can write music that make some sense. The fun part about
scanning these music lists is there are many comically stupid entries
that got pushed into the top-40 by the mega corporations that control
the music business.

When it comes to what most people reading this consider rock-and-roll,
the landscape has been barren for a long time. Who is the best guitar
player in a rock band that is under the age of forty? No one knows. He
probably does not exist because rock music does not exist as a genre
anymore. If you want to hear that sort of music you are going to be
buying or streaming stuff from thirty, forty or fifty years ago. Even
young people who want that style reach back to the oldies.

The question is why has the popular music landscape become a barren
desert of corporate product? There are still plenty of young whites who
would listen to knew guitar music. Blacks still like things like soul
and rhythm and blues. Even blues music could have an audience if anyone
bothered. This
<a href="https://brianniemeier.com/2024/01/who-killed-rock-and-roll/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> by Brian Niemeier goes into the
reasons why popular music, especially rock music, has collapsed. He did
an earlier
<a href="https://brianniemeier.com/2018/01/ground-zero/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">post</a> on the same topic discussing different reasons.

Not discussed is the culture of the managerial class. The people running
the music business are no different from the people running the other
centers of cultural production in that they have had the antiwhite bug
for a long time. The music industry went all in on hip-hop in the
1990’s. Part of it was the belief that it was a fresh market and part of
it was cultural. For managerial types, hip-hop was cool because it was
not white, while rock-and-roll was pale, male and stale.

One result of the money drying up for all forms of music that appeals to
white people is white people stopped making that music. They stopped
learning to play instruments, stopped forming garage bands and stopped
cutting their teeth at clubs. Elementary school bands are full of Asian
girls playing violin. There has been a steady decline in the sale of
musical instruments over the last few decades, even though technology
has made it easier to record at home and make it sound good.

For rock music, this has killed the feeder system for generating new
sounds and new acts that made the genre possible. Even if young people
were still dreaming of being a rock star, the clubs where they would
learn how to perform have dried up. The culture around going to club to
find new sounds and new acts has also dried up. When the music industry
shifted to hip-hop and corporate pop, they also shut down the
development system for creating various genres of rock music.

We are starting to see this in other areas. The military is worried that
white guys from the South are no longer signing up as in the past. This
decline in white participation is due to the same factors as the decline
in white music. If you make your institution openly hostile to white
people, they will politely avoid your institution. Before long, you will
lose the ability to win them back. A good rule of life for institutions
is that once you go black the whites are never coming back.

Race is not the only reason for the decline of rock music. As those
Niemeier posts explain, the industry is suffering from systemic failure.
There lies another useful example that applies elsewhere. The federal
government failed in its duty to maintain a marketplace for music. They
allowed corporate players to monopolize radio stations, which coincided
with the consolidation of the music business. The result is a narrow
system that operates as skimming operation.

We see this in tech. Microsoft has a monopoly on operating systems and
office productivity products. Innovation is non-existent in this area.
Apple and Google own the mobile telecommunications industry. Despite the
hype, there has been nothing interesting in mobile computing for a
decade or more. The whole tech space is consolidating to the point where
every business will be forced onto one of a few clouds of the cloud
computing leviathan.

Of course, all of this can be chalked up to the end of empire. Empires
are the result of failed societies, not successful ones. The Roman
Empire grew out of the rubble of the failed Roman Republic. For half of
its existence the Roman Empire operated like a mafia bust-out operation.
The same is happening with the American empire, which grew out of the
republic that died at Gettysburg. The main difference with the American
empire and prior empires is speed due to the state of technology.

The shame of it is that like the remaining passengers on the Titanic,
most Americans would enjoy some good tunes as the empire sinks under the
water. That is not looking like it is going to happen, given the state
of music. Who knows? Maybe Miley Cyrus will get lucky and made a good
song for end-stage America. Or more likely, maybe a cage full of monkeys
with some instruments will be the new Oliver Anthony and create an
authentic anthem for this age.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="bXiyPLidBrvR4rUt75twDQ==cb7/1tZUMOoutieVZxYK7ID566ORmICL8WFyq1yzhlwCqcZYrwdW5ElP0Xruy2W2RrF"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="1jt072hpn7lmPcAMFii+GQ==cb77udfqUlJ4Qlkg22WS3wB57mxOTUBAGGGxQ4NkEuEc8PyZURRAF8F+3vrpa2wdrS9"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
