---
title: "A New American Identity"
date: "2024-10-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32942"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32942"
---

**Note:** If you are interested in an hour of precise predictions about
the upcoming election, then you are in luck. I was on the Coffee and a
Mike show and you can listen to the recording of it <a
href="https://rumble.com/v5kfr5x-coffee-and-a-mike-the-z-man-age-of-trump.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The American civil war created an intellectual problem for both sides
that was far more important than the issue of slavery. The 19th century
was the age of nationalism and national liberation in Europe. These
ideas made their way to America and fit in neatly with the American
sense of self. After all, the United States was the result of a revolt
against an empire in the name of national liberation. The war between
the North and South, therefore, was also a war over nationalism.

By default, the South had the better claim. It was the South, after all,
seeking to secede from the Union to create a new nation that would
better serve the interests of the people of the South. The North was
trying to prevent this from happening and willing to conquer the people
of the South to do it. From a nationalist perspective, the South was the
sympathetic side, even though they were also fighting for the right to
maintain the institution of slavery.

A solution to this problem that evolved in the North was the argument
that true nationalism was comprehensive. That is the nationalist loved
all of his country and all of his people, so a nationalist government
must serve and protect everyone. Since the South was not a different
people and the Union was not abandoning them in the way the crown had
abandoned the colonies in the runup to the Revolution, it was the South
that was in violation of the nationalist ideal

Further, the evolving sense of Northern nationalism claimed that the
national purpose of America from the start was to spread liberty around
the world. America was the city on the hill, so to speak, that stood as
an example of freedom craving nationalists around the world, so what the
South was doing was a threat to that project and therefore a threat to
the national purpose. American nationalism, unlike that of Europe, was a
revolutionary nationalism to free all of mankind.

In fairness, these debates about the nature of American nationalism were
not at the center of the dispute, but they played a role in shaping how
the new intellectual class would define American identity after the war.
Those arguing in favor of the war being a new founding are not entirely
wrong. The country that emerged after the war was completely different
from what existed prior to the war. It was not just free of slaves, but
full of a sense of national purpose.

In his <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/0812251644" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">book</a> *After Nationalism*, Samuel Goldman describes
the three forms of national identity that have prevailed in America.
Goldman comes up with three national identities he calls the Covenant,
the Crucible, and the Creed. The Covenant is the sense of national
purpose. The Crucible is the old melting pot story popular in the 20th
century after the war. The Creed is the idea of America being a set of
ideas, rather than a physical place or people.

It is a good book that offers a useful way of framing the main ways in
which Americans have tried to create a unitary identity. Goldman does
observe that it is the covenantal aspect of American identity that has
been the most powerful, but he does not get into how this Puritan
sensibility evolved in the 19th century during the Civil War to become a
civic religion for the ruling elite. He does not mention how the Jewish
concept of Tikkun Olam blended into this as Jews took up posts in the
elite.

This understanding of American identity, or the best effort at forging
one, is essential to understanding the current crisis. For over a
century, since Woodrow Wilson, America has been on a mission to heal the
world. The ruling class has asked, often demanded, that the people put
aside their regional and local concerns for the good of one great cause
after another. It has become so ingrained in ruling class thinking that
they seem incapable to thinking about the state of the country.

Strip away the panic, the hysteria and the outlandish claims and the
coming election is about whether we care more about the fate of
Mongolian transgender lesbians or the fentanyl epidemic in Appalachia.
Do we care more about the abstract concept of climate change or
addressing the slow collapse of our infrastructure? What counts for more
as an American? The health of your neighbors or the plight of migrants?
Will we sacrifice everything in a vain attempt to save the world?

All these questions stem from a growing doubt in this sense of American
identity that has been with us since Gettysburg. Americans are
increasingly wondering not only if the cost of saving the world is worth
the effort, but if it makes any sense at all for us to stand astride the
world, balances in our hand. Maybe the people who demand we do this do
not have the right to judge the world. Maybe these people lack the moral
standing to stand in judgement over us as well.

Fundamentally, the current crisis is about the covenant. If our national
purpose is to be the city on the hill, then we must ensure that the city
is not full of vagrants and racked with crime and corruption. If our
national purpose is to heal the world, then we must first heal
ourselves. On the other hand, maybe our national purpose was to avoid
falling for these claims and instead focusing on creating a society in
the wilderness, away from the entanglements of the old world.

No matter how one seeks to frame it, the struggle today is over our
national purpose, a struggle between those who stubbornly cling to the
last century and those looking ahead to the next century. The question
is whether America will collapse in a heap, exhausted from trying to
save the world or will we pull up, realize our folly and return to a
sense of purpose rooted in simply being an example to the world? Will we
attempt to heal ourselves with the same zeal with tried to heal the
world?

It could also be that all these efforts at national identity have failed
and what comes next is the great disaggregation. Perhaps it was always
impossible to forge an American identity that could permanently hold the
people together. Maybe in the end, we learn that the true American
identity is no identity at all. We are simply a diverse collection of
people who agree to cooperate, when necessary, but otherwise we prefer
to leave the world alone and be left alone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="d0eG6vvEgdlfB/G/slHKCA==cb7mYRudrDaDVP9ksVAFeE9hovz//TuNJeT4BCZfgkjbRbBstxicVEWawreBEM/QADd"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="clHfjPi2qtASEtu2zuHylQ==cb7uY7nFe1ifb5lf/xqJE4R1MpR9W+Gwqn+JiiQNmB+HCtsG0GhGs5+OnHbRYIk/PCm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
