---
title: "Missing Lagos"
date: "2024-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31710"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31710"
---

**Edit:** A friend of ours, Judd Blevins, is under attack by the usual
suspects and could use some help in his fight. He is a good man trying
to serve his community, but the freaks and weirdos are trying to ruin
it. <a href="https://127190.campaignpartner.net/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Here</a> is his story and a way to send him a few bucks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This week was the final escape from Lagos, which had been in the works
for a few years but took off toward the end of last year. I am not a
young man anymore, so I cannot just pack up and leave when the spirit
moves me. Not only do I have commitments to fulfill, but I also have
stuff. When your stuff fits comfortably inside the trunk of your car,
moving is about waiting until the sun goes down. When you need a truck
for your stuff then you have to put some thought into it.

Baltimore has been my home for twenty years. I lived there longer than
anywhere else so despite the harms of Charm City, there are some things
I will miss. The thing I will miss the most is the look when I say I am
from Baltimore. One time in Ireland I told some locals I was from
Baltimore, and they did not believe me. They had seen the series *The
Wire* and could not accept that I lived in what they saw. I showed them
my license and some photos. They were terrified of me.

There are other things I will miss, like the constant sound of
basketballs striking the sidewalk at all hours of the day and night. I
exaggerate a bit here, but the thud of a ball hitting the sidewalk is
like a weird metronome to the place. So much so that I created a special
filter for my podcasts to remove the sound. No matter when I record,
there is, now was, that sound of a ball striking cement. Oddly,
Baltimore produces few college basketball players, despite it all.

Another thing I will miss is the shouting. The first time I was in
Copenhagen, I experienced an eerie feeling the first day walking around
the city. It struck me that the reason for this is the relative quiet.
No one was shouting. The Danes quietly go about their business on the
streets. If they need to speak to someone, they go up close to them so
they can talk without shouting. Even on public transport the Danes are
quiet, not Japanese quiet, but never shouting or blaring music.

Baltimore is the other end of the spectrum. It is perfectly normal for a
man to stop on one side of the street and scream at the top of his lungs
at another man on the other side of the street. At first it is to get
his attention, but after that they will hold forth like it is perfectly
normal for two men to be screaming at one another on the street, because
in Baltimore it is normal. People also scream at each other from their
house windows, open car windows and even rooftops.

One reason for the shouting, but certainly not the only reason, is the
constant sound of alarms from emergency equipment. This is another
filter I have created for recording podcasts that I may never need
again. It is not just the police sirens, which are common, but other
sorts of emergency vehicles. Often, I would see the local fire
department take their trucks out and blast the sirens for no reason,
other than to make a racket and drive the things around the block a few
times.

Probably the hardest thing to get used to will be locks. In a place like
Lagos, anything not locked up or locked down will be stolen. Even if it
is worthless someone will pick it up and carry it away. When we had an
office in the city, we would leave old computers on the sidewalk, and
they would vanish. The only thing that did not disappear this way was
dead bodies, but the scenes from Haiti suggest that this is something
that happens in the next stage of social development.

For the last week I have been locking doors after I pass, because it has
become second nature at this point. Yesterday was a nice early spring
day here in the hills, but leaving the door open to let the air in was
too much. Instead, I opened the window of the office so I could keep an
eye on things. Perhaps in time I will forget what it was like to live on
guard every minute of your life. I may now understand how men who did
long stints in prison feel when they get released.

Something I am not sure I will miss is the general stupidity of the
place. The best example of this is car inspections. When I moved to
Lagos, I had just bought a new truck, but it was registered in the prior
state. I learned I needed a safety inspection before I could swap
plates. Getting a safety inspection on a new car seemed weird, but how
long could it take? It took all day. The guy crawled all over the thing
and even wrote up some things that came from the factory as
questionable.

I asked the guy why he was doing this as in other states a safety
inspection is just a walkaround to make sure every important bit works.
The guy told me with compete sincerity that the cars were safer in
Baltimore. He could have said it was the law or that his boss required
it, thus acknowledging the idiocy of what he was doing, but no, he was
fully on board with the policy. Baltimore combines the mindset of the
postal clerk with the intellectual dexterity of the population.

One thing that Baltimore has that I have seen no where else is street
walkers, by which I mean people who walk in the streets rather than on
the sidewalk. You see it the most when it snows and the cars are less
controllable. The locals will walk in the middle of the streets. Even in
the summer this is common. They will saunter along in the middle of the
road without a care in the world. Of course, they jaywalk at a pace that
suggests they take pleasure in holding up traffic.

Finally, the last thing I will miss is the tropical summers. Starting in
mid-June Baltimore turns into a jungle. Jungle as in weather. It rains
almost every night and is suffocatingly humid all day. Yeah, it is hot
and humid in the South during the summer, but that weather in a city is
a special form of miserable. Baltimore is below sea level, so it is a
concrete heatsink in the summer. In fact, the Baltimore – Washington
area is a giant metro area plopped into a swampy jungle.

Lots of people reading this will say it gets miserably hot where they
live in the summer, and that is probably true, but hazy, hot, and humid
in Lagos is unique. I have been in the South in summer. I have been in
Texas during a heatwave. I have spent August in Florida and that is
about as close as it comes to Lagos. The big exception is Florida has
the beaches and lacks the haze. If you want to know what Hell is really
like, spend a summer in Lagos and you will sin no more.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Nn4wWZbGfTUg85LpIY+k4w==cb72w1rz9OZFep+XasD6eFDRgAboB0D68SkRuystMdBZI2Lj0xvMud2jLntvPKkxGQb"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="PMW/in/kGcL4S91S1QOnNg==cb734RNyP5wG13D9HIDXOSfnQVDFDQLcru/K0MDWpBrjb/+FBoKD+yAOqUBpLi8mfxE"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
