---
title: "The Gangster State"
date: "2024-03-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31765"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31765"
---

**Note: **Behind the green door is a post about the horrors of living in
a town free of diversity and a post about the internationalization of
Hollywood. The Sunday podcast was posted early for a change. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whenever there is a terrorist attack, the main question immediately
after it is who conducted the attack. This is not just for the mundane
reason of apprehending the people responsible, but also for
understanding why they did it. Terrorism, by definition, exists within
the context of a larger political cause. A crazy person opening fire at
a mall is a different thing than an Antifa member opening fire at a
church school. The former is simply crazy while the latter has a
political motivation.

After the attack on the Moscow music venue over the weekend, the first
thing people naturally asked is who did it. The Russians quickly
apprehended the four gunmen and then the question shifted to who
sponsored it, as it was clear that these four people could never have
done this alone. The Russians have arrested a dozen other suspects they
think may have been involved, but the four Tajiks have been identified
as the shooters and they have confessed.

The bullets were still flying when the many bot accounts operated by
American intelligence started to flood social media platforms with
claims that it was Islamic terrorism, which was a red flag. Then
Washington rolled out the ISIS-K claim, which is another red flag. No
one had ever heard of ISIS-K until now, so that is one problem, but the
bigger problem is ISIS is an American creation. Coupled with the recent
State Department warnings, it looks suspicious.

It gets even more suspicious when
<a href="https://twitter.com/sethharpesq/status/1771944673063374979"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">internet sleuths</a> figured out that the
head of ISIS-K is a person calling himself Sanaullah Ghafari, who used
to work at Bagram airfield as a special guard to the vice president of
the American backed Afghan government, until that government was ousted
by the Taliban. Mr. Ghafari also has ties to NATO as a sanctioned arms
dealer. Maybe this is the wrong Sanaullah Ghafari, it is a common name,
but it is another red flag.

What we know is that four Tajiks were given weapons that are exceedingly
rare on the black market and paid a quarter of a million dollars each to
go on a shooting rampage in Moscow and then they fled toward Ukraine.
Washington claims they were backed by an organization that was created
by Washington and appears to be led by a man with deep ties to American
intelligence. It should be noted that Washington is now backing off the
ISIS story, which can be interpreted in several ways.

There is another way of looking at this. It is possible that the White
House simply has no idea what is going on with Project Ukraine. This
would not be the first time they were caught off-guard by a terrorist
act. After the Nord Stream attack, the Biden admin jumped from story to
story, trying to find a narrative that people would accept, until the
CIA planted the story of Ukrainian frogmen using a dingy to float out
into the sea and plant the bombs on the gas pipeline.

The Biden admin was also lost when Daria Dugina was blown up by a car
bomb in an attempt to assassinate her father, Alexander Dugin. The first
story said that there was no way the Ukrainians were behind it.
Eventually, they had to <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2022/10/05/us/politics/ukraine-russia-dugina-assassination.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">admit</a> that it was most likely
Ukrainian intelligence behind the assassination. This event was the
start of a pattern where Ukraine or friends of Ukraine in the murky
world in which the Kagan cult operates do things outside official
channels.

Of course, stupidity always plays a role in these things now. Back when
all the best people were sure the looming Ukrainian offensive would
smash the Russian lines, Mark Milley, <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2023/12/04/ukraine-counteroffensive-us-planning-russia-war/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">told</a> a gathering of top NATO
commanders and Ukrainian special forces being trained by the American
military, “There should be no Russian who goes to sleep without
wondering if they’re going to get their throat slit in the middle of the
night. You gotta get back there, and create a campaign behind the
lines.”

Every day for over two years voices of authority in Washington have said
that Ukraine must win by any means necessary. European leaders come out
daily and say there are no red lines when it comes to beating Russia.
France is now threatening to send their troops into Ukraine and
encouraging other NATO countries to join them. If you are running a CIA
operation in Syria, like Sanaullah Ghafari, you are not going to
hesitate to help your friends put together a terror attack in Moscow.

Getting back to the central question of terrorism, the answer here may
be that this is the result of the Biden administration losing control of
their foreign policy. They are no longer calling the shots. Instead, it
is the shadowy world of the usual suspects doing what they like without
regard to the political or geopolitical consequences. It is not as if
the political class ever had tight control of foreign policy. Maybe now
they no longer have any control over what happens in their name.

If you want further evidence that the White House no longer controls
foreign policy, you can look at what Israel is doing. Netanyahu is
openly defying the White House in his campaign to drive the Arabs out of
Gaza. Anthony Blinken has been sent there to beg Netanyahu to stop a
dozen times to no avail. If America’s greatest ally no longer cares what
the White House has to say, maybe Israel is simply working with people
it sees as more important than the White House.

Since the most likely suspect in the Israel case is also behind Project
Ukraine, it is not a big leap to think they are working with the
Ukrainians to conduct terrorism. It is also not a big leap to think that
these same people would turn their weapons on politicians that do not
support their projects. Given the direction of the Ukraine war, this may
explain why European politicians make daily devotionals to the project.
They do not want any Tajiks showing up at their house.

All of this is speculation and supposition, but it fits in with the
general breakdown of order we see in the Global America Empire. For the
last ten years this has been the defining feature of America. The rules
are falling to pieces because powerful people refuse to abide by them or
enforce them. This Ukraine fiasco suggests that America is falling into
gangsterism. Powerful players no longer care what elected officials say
or think as they conduct their private agendas.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="brlwhtNkuKGg0EApa9tNvg==cb7KdYhnAIjeYLDErrXJ0ZDN2zEIEkIRNsyNsIgmPBiOZapgl6jodraUXHOhe/skkv9"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="pw3msZxSNO95wFU0gXiynA==cb7yaV+Y8Gp3/4wvpyRM7r6ctpzs2uCDG7Z8a3EPCPp+usdYLm03f/gW9M9GWHYWJO/"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
