---
title: "Radio Derb October 11 2024"
date: "2024-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32860"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32860"
---

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg)

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m50s Controversy in science, new and old
-   14m24s Disaster equity
-   27m09s Hillary, Zamyatin, and Us
-   38m59s Voice cloning
-   40m50s Using a shovel
-   43m36s An old friend is angry
-   46m46s Signoff with Cilla

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62337841/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, listeners.
That was Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2*, as originally scored for
clarinet, bassoon, horn, trumpet, serpent, and percussion, the serpent
being an 18th-century wind instrument now defunct, ancestor I think of
the modern trombone. And this is of course your formidably genial host
John Derbyshire with some notes on the passing charivari.

We are now less than one month away from the general election. I shall
of course have things to say about that. The Southeast of our country
has been stricken by yet another natural disaster; I shall cover that,
too. Before either of those topics, though, I’m going to take a detour
through science.

I am, as I’m sure I have mentioned before, a science geek from far back.
Although I don’t have any expertise in any of the rigorous sciences, the
old affection lingers and I try to keep up with developments.

There has been news from the world of science this past week, so let me
start off with that.<span id="more-32860"></span>

**02 — Controversy in science, new and old**.     Tuesday this week the
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced the award for the 2024 Nobel
Prize in Physics. It goes jointly to John Hopfield, a 91-year-old
American and Geoffrey Hinton, a 76-year-old British-born Canadian.

The award has caused something of a stir among physicists and a lot of
grumbling. Hopfield is indeed a physicist, but Hinton *isn’t*. If you
have to put him in any one particular bucket in the academic sciences,
it would be Computer Science. He is in fact currently Professor Emeritus
in the Computer Science department at the University of Toronto.

So what’s he doing with a Nobel Prize in Physics? Let’s see what the
Nobel Committee says about the
award, [quote](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/press-release/):

This year’s two Nobel Laureates in Physics have used tools from physics
to develop methods that are the foundation of today’s powerful machine
learning. John Hopfield created an associative memory that can store and
reconstruct images and other types of patterns in data. Geoffrey Hinton
invented a method that can autonomously find properties in data, and so
perform tasks such as identifying specific elements in pictures.

End quote.

Yeah, that sounds like Computer Science, seasoned with some neuroscience
and [General Systems
Theory](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2023-05.html#03).
So again, what’s this got to do with physics — you know: gravity,
electromagnetism, subatomic particles, and so on — *physics*.

Seeking enlightenment I consulted my favorite YouTube physicist, Sabine
Hossenfelder. This lady has a doctorate in theoretical physics from a
good German university and has taught as an assistant professor at an
Institute for Theoretical Physics in Sweden. She’s written [a book on
the subject](https://existentialphysics.com/) and there is [an asteroid
named after
her](https://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/tools/sbdb_lookup.html#/?sstr=16648&view=OPDA).

Sabine — I hope she won’t mind me addressing her by her Christian name —
did indeed have things to say about the award. She posted a
six-and-a-half-minute clip on her YouTube channel which started thus:

\[[*Clip*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dR1ncz-Lozc):  The 2024 Nobel
Prize in Physics did not go to physicists. It went to two computer
scientists for developing the first neural networks, which became the
basis of what we now call Artificial Intelligence.” If you still doubt
that physics is in crisis, the fact that the Nobel Prize in Physics goes
to computer scientists should make you think.\]

That last sentence, where Sabine says “physics is in crisis,” refers
back to one of her hobby-horses. You can hear her talk at length about
it in a video from last Saturday, before the Nobel Prizes were
announced.

In that earlier video Sabine moans that there has been no real progress
in physics for the last twenty years, and that physicists are
just, [quote](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBIvSGLkwJY), “endlessly
arguing about the same irrelevant questions,” end quote.

She has a point. Theoretical physics today is a cold, limp thing by
comparison with what it was in the early twentieth century when the
great names of the field — Niels Bohr, Albert Einstein, Wolfgang Pauli,
Paul Dirac, Werner Heisenberg — were conducting their tremendous
overhaul of classical physics.

We are in fact approaching the centenary of one of the milestones
marking that era: the October 1927 Solvay conference in Brussels,
where [Bohr locked horns with
Einstein](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Math/faust.html) over
what we now call the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics.
Sabine is right in that nothing half so exciting — nothing *one
percent* as exciting — has happened in theoretical physics this past
quarter-century.

Sure, physicists have come up with clever ideas like [String
Theory](https://www.britannica.com/science/string-theory), [Supersymmetry](https://home.cern/science/physics/supersymmetry),
and [Loop Quantum
Gravity](https://www.space.com/loop-quantum-gravity-space-time-quantized).
However, none of these theories has escaped from the realm of clever
ideas. Not only do they have no practical applications; no-one has even
come up with a way we might verify or falsify them.

This dead zone into which physics has gotten itself stuck is so
noticable that even non-involved laymen have noticed it: your genial
podcaster, for example. Here I was almost twenty years ago, writing
in *National Review*, February 2005, [Longish quote from
myself](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Religion/intelligentdesign.html):

It seems to me that we are passing from the Age of Physics to the Age of
Biology. It is not quite the case that nothing is happening in physics,
but certainly there is nothing like the excitement of the early 20th
century. Physics seems, in fact, to have got itself into a cul-de-sac,
obsessing over theories so mathematically abstruse that nobody even
knows how to test them.

The life sciences, by contrast, are blooming, with major new results
coming in all the time from genetics, zoology, demography, biochemistry,
neuroscience, psychometrics, and other “hot” disciplines. The physics
building may be hushed and dark while its inhabitants mentally wrestle
with 26-dimensional manifolds, but over at biology the joint is jumpin’.
A gifted and ambitious young person of scientific inclination would be
well advised to try for a career researching in the life sciences. There
is, as one such youngster said to me recently, a lot of low-hanging
fruit to be picked.

End quote.

With so little of much importance happening in physics you can’t blame
the Nobel Prize Committee for stretching their definitions a little.
Computer Science may not be a branch of physics, but it is
physics-*adjacent*. The expression “quantum computing” ring a bell?

You might even argue — and some commenters on social
media *have* argued — that since physics deals with the fundamental
nature of the material world, *all* of science is physics-*adjacent*. As
one commenter expressed
it, [quote](https://x.com/michael_nielsen/status/1843712795017392301):
“There is just one nature,” end quote.

Radio Derb is going to rise above all this undignified nitpicking and
just offer sincere congratulations to John Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton
on their Nobel Prize.

While doing so, I can’t forbear noting that Geoffrey Hinton, full name
Geoffrey Everest Hinton, has some distinguised ancestors. His paternal
grandfather’s mother, Mary Ellen Hinton, was born Mary Ellen Boole,
daughter of the mathematician George Boole who gave his name to Boolean
algebra. Mary Ellen’s mother — George Boole’s wife — was born Mary
Everest: her father’s brother was Sir George Everest, Surveyor General
of British India in the 1830s who gave his name to Mount Everest. Hence
Geoffrey Hinton’s middle name, Everest.

The whole lineage there is distinguished in different ways. George
Boole’s fourth daughter — and so Geoffrey’s great-great-aunt — Lucy
Everest was the first female professor of chemistry in England. Mary
Ellen Hinton’s fourth son Sebastian, Geoffrey’s great-uncle, invented
the jungle gym.

As a longtime connoisseur of mathematical biographies I’d *like* to tell
you [the darkly comic
story](https://sydney4.medium.com/the-extraordinary-life-and-beliefs-of-mary-everest-boole-39eae49f54c9) of
George Boole’s death, but that would be straying too far afield. I’ll
just alert you that if you read about it, it will put you off homeopathy
for life.

Just one more footnote to this segment. I included a longish quote from
myself, from something I wrote for *National Review* in 2005. The
context of that 2005 article was the controversy over Intelligent
Design, which was still newsy, and which in fact got me [my first ever
mention](https://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/05/us/politics/05darwin.html) in
the news pages of the *New York Times*.

Intelligent Design, which religious groups were putting forward as an
alternative to the Standard Model of evolutionary biology, is pretty
much a dead letter now; but the controversy is historically interesting,
and for all I know may make a come-back. That’s the context of this
footnote.

The history of that controversy goes way back into the nineteenth
century. A major milestone there was [the Scopes
Trial](https://www.famous-trials.com/scopesmonkey/2127-home) — often
unkindly referred to as the Scopes Monkey Trial — of July 1925, famously
fictionalized as the play and movie [*Inherit the
Wind*](https://www.famous-trials.com/scopesmonkey/2127-home).

Note the date there. *Next* July, July 2025, will be the centenary of
the Scopes Trial. Mark it on your calendar. Perhaps it will ignite a
rebirth of the old controversy. Who knows? Perhaps I’ll see my name in
the *New York Times* again …

**03 — Disaster equity**.     [ln Hertford, Hereford and Hampshire
hurricanes hardly ever
happen](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gUQpoyfbWJ0). On our Atlantic
coast, unfortunately, and its extension into the Gulf of Mexico, they
happen a lot. Last week I reported on Hurricane Helene — the name would
have given Eliza Doolittle trouble all by itself — which shot north up
the Gulf to strike our mainland, most disastrously in western North
Carolina.

I mentioned that we were getting warnings of another hurricane to come,
Hurricane Kirk, out in the Atlantic beyond the Leeward Islands. In the
event Kirk turned east and north across the Atlantic to assault
Portugal, Spain, and France earlier this week. All that Uncle Sam got
from Kirk was some high surf.

Meanwhile [Hurricane
Milton](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurricane_Milton) was developing
way over west in the Gulf of Mexico. It — seems to me we should say “he”
and “she” for hurricanes, but I’ll stick with “it” — Milton barreled
east across the Gulf towards Florida’s west coast, making landfall
Wednesday night with 120-mph winds. It quickly traversed Florida and
then faded out in the Atlantic somewhere north of Cuba.

These being the closing weeks of a general election campaign, the
destructive horrors of Helene and Milton have of course been brandished
as weapons by the campaigners. The brandishings conformed pretty clearly
to my snobs-*versus*-slobs model of our politics.

-   The snobs, with their champion Kamala Harris, blame the hurricanes
    on global warming — which, they told us, is a consequence of the
    deplorable affection that Donald Trump and his slob followers nurse
    towards the internal combustion engine. Global warming is a key
    pillar of snob ideology.
-   The slobs, with *their* champion Trump, drew our attention to the
    sufferings of the common people in Appalachia and elsewhere whose
    homes, businesses, and often lives have been destroyed by the gales
    and floods. They say that the snob elites in charge of our federal
    government and its agencies have been slow and lackadaisical in
    relief efforts.

As best I can judge from news reports, the slobs have much the better of
this argument. The federal government and its emergency relief agency
FEMA [have indeed been
tardy](https://www.newsweek.com/volunteer-aid-pilot-groups-blast-fema-military-helene-recovery-1964646).

Most of the relief work for victims of Helene has been carried out by
local survivors and volunteers from elsewhere, including major
fundraising and technological support efforts from Donald Trump and Elon
Musk. Not only has FEMA not been much help, they have been actively
hindering these nongovernmental efforts, sometimes turning volunteers
back, confiscating their supplies, even threatening them with arrest.

Sample quote. This is from *The Washington Stand*,
Tuesday. [Quote](https://washingtonstand.com/news/reports-continue-of-fema-blocking-hurricane-relief-efforts-confiscating-donations):

The Coast Guard veteran recounted that during her 11 years of service,
she was stationed in Puerto Rico when both Hurricane Maria and Hurricane
Irma hit in 2017. \[*Inner quote*.\] “FEMA did the same stuff there, to
the point where the Coast Guard, we did not work directly with FEMA
because they were doing shady stuff … They were confiscating supplies,
they weren’t issuing supplies, they mishandled money, they mishandled
distribution of supplies, and the locals suffered for it. And they’re
doing the same thing in North Carolina … This is not a ‘conspiracy
theory,’ this is not ‘false information.’ Like I’m here, I’m boots on
the ground … FEMA is here and they’re doing really sketchy, shady stuff.
\[*End inner quote*.\]

End quote.

Elon Musk has been trying to provide internet and communications
terminals to hurricane survivors in North Carolina but, quote from him
in that same *Washington Stand* piece, quote: “FEMA is both failing to
help *and* won’t let others help.” End quote. FEMA for example wouldn’t
let Musk’s helicopter land to deliver critical supplies.

For fuller coverage of our federal government’s incompetence and
indifference I refer you to [Mark Steyn’s
coverage](https://www.steynonline.com/14691/kamala-belt-no-road-initiative),
also on Tuesday, in which Mark is at his scathing best.

Mark also adds some color to the snobs-*versus*-slobs model. He notes —
as did many others, including Elon Musk — that last Saturday afternoon,
while his fellow citizens in Appalachia were weeping over the wreckage
of their lives, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, who has
FEMA as one of his responsibilities, was spotted at a super-high-end
menswear store in Georgetown, D.C. apparently buying fashion boots.

How does FEMA see its own objectives, presumably with Secretary
Mayorkas’ approval? We’ve been learning about that this past few days.

Key phrase: “Disaster Equity.” Sample quotes from a FEMA Disaster
Preparedness
Meeting, [quote](https://amgreatness.com/2024/10/07/fema-disaster-relief-no-longer-about-emergency-response-its-about-disaster-equity/):

We should focus our efforts on LGBTQIA people … they struggled before
the storm …

FEMA relief is no longer about getting the greatest good for the
greatest amount of people … It’s about disaster equity.

End quote.

FEMA leadership is as correct as it could be. The head of the agency,
reporting to Mayorkas, is [Deanne
Criswell](https://www.cnn.com/2022/09/29/politics/deanne-criswell-fema-administrator/index.html),
a Biden-Harris appointment. She is the first woman to head FEMA; before
that, she was the first woman commissioner of New York City Emergency
Management, in which position she made a royal screw-up of the city’s
response to the COVID outbreak.

Ms Criswell is white. That surprised me when I looked her up: the *plat
du jour* for early appointments in the Biden-Harris administration was
black women. Is Ms Criswell LGBTQIA — or, as we say here at Radio Derb,
proud? Not likely: she’s married with two sons and five grandchildren.

Perhaps to make up for Ms Criswell’s whiteness and straightness, her
second-in-command, [Erik
Hooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Hooks), is black. [Sample
quote from
him](https://pridepublishinggroup.com/2022/09/29/fema-kicks-off-preparedness-month-with-campaign-targeting-african-american-communities/):

Black communities are on the frontlines of climate change and related
extreme weather events.

End quote.

If you want to dig deeper into the DEI takeover of FEMA, I refer you to
Daniel Greenfield’s post about it earlier this week. Here’s a sample
quote from him. The Hurricane Ian he mentions struck the west coast of
Florida two years
ago. [Quote](https://www.danielgreenfield.org/2024/10/femas-dei-crippled-hurricane-helene.html):

\[*Inner quote*.\] “Black and African American communities often suffer
disproportionate impacts from disasters. This is something that we must
work to change and that starts with how we prepare,” \[*end inner
quote*\] FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell argued.

A few weeks later, Hurricane Ian became the third most expensive weather
disaster and claimed over 150 lives. Most of the dead were white senior
citizens. Elderly people living near the coast were the ones actually
most at risk. FEMA had sacrificed their lives for equity.

End quote.

Given all the politicization going on here, and the fact that those
areas in western North Carolina worst affected by Hurricane Helene
are [pretty solidly
red](https://www.ncleg.gov/Redistricting/AffiliationMaps), there’s been
speculation that the federal government is slow-walking relief and
repairs to ensure that as many voters as possible won’t be able to show
up at the polls on November 5th. I don’t know what the balance of
evidence is on that, but … I wouldn’t be surprised.

And of course a major national disaster wouldn’t be complete without a
conspiracy theory. Social media have been [glad to
oblige](https://x.com/JonMFleetwood/status/1844105553473306740), with
claims that the hurricanes have been steered by weather modification
technology — which is a real thing, but not on anything like the
hurricane scale.

Georgia congressperson Marjorie Taylor Greene has been [stirring this
little
pot](https://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2024/10/hold-marjorie-taylor-greene-was-right-yes-scientists/),
with RFK, Jr. coming up fast in support. It’ll be interesting to see
whether this theory settles in as a permanent inmate of the
conspiracy-theory zoo, along with COVID origins, collapse of the World
Trade Center, the Kennedy assassination, Pearl Harbor, the sinking of
the *Lusitania*, [Joanna Southcott’s
box](https://panaceamuseum.org/news/this-is-the-box-1), and all the
others.

I’m not susceptible to conspiracy theories myself, but I sometimes find
myself wondering why there are so many of them. Could it be that they
are all part of some great unitary plan, directed somehow from
Conspiracy Central, to baffle, confuse, enstupidate and enrage the human
race? A sort of conspiracy conspiracy? I’m just wondering …

**04 — Hillary, Zamyatin, and Us**.     And then, of course, the
Presidential campaign. How’s that going?

For us Trump voters, pretty well. With only a little over three weeks to
go, the Donald’s numbers are looking good, with some definite upward
movement the past few days.

I’d like to think that some of that is due to Trump’s obvious concern
and activity in helping the hurricane victims. Perhaps it is; but much
more of it is a result of Kamala Harris doing a media tour.

I guess her handlers felt that she needed to show herself to the voters
more, so she did. The result was, that even more voters than before got
a close-up look at how ignorant and incoherent she is.

Whether or not I am right about that, here’s how it went on the Vice
President’s Sunday-Monday-Tuesday lightning tour of media outlets.

-   Sunday was a double-header. First Kamala did an interview with
    lifestyle podcaster Alex Cooper.

I confess I had never heard of this lady or her podcasts — she has two.
She sure has been successful. [Wikipedia tells
me](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexandra_Cooper#Spotify_(since_2021)) she’s
signed a deal with Spotify worth $60 million. For a *podcast*? What am I
doing wrong?

I couldn’t tell you what the two ladies talked about — something to do
with tampons, I think. Whatever it was, the customers didn’t much like
it: Ms Cooper, according
to *Newsweek*, [quote](https://www.newsweek.com/alex-cooper-followers-after-harris-interview-1965739),
“ended up seeing a net loss of 4,083 across both accounts in the days
after the interview.” End quote.

-   Also on Sunday the Veep was interviewed on CBS’s *60 Minutes*by
    professional correspondent Bill Whitaker. This has generated
    controversy. [Fielding a question about
    Israel](https://youtu.be/IAPqNV43nzQ?t=60), Harris’s answer, which
    took her twenty seconds to deliver, made even less sense than usual.

The CBS editors cleaned up the recording and aired a special on Monday
with a shorter response — only seven seconds long — apparently clipped
from elsewhere in the interview. That shorter response didn’t have much
information content either, but it was less of a meaningless jumble than
the Sunday version, and it’s easier to stay awake through seven seconds
of Kamala than twenty.

-   Tuesday was another double-header. Tuesday morning Harris went on
    ABC’s girl show *The View*. This was her first *live*TV appearance
    since she was nominated as a Presidential candidate.

I don’t know what transpired here — c’mon, man, you surely don’t expect
me to *watch* this stuff — but from [news reports after the
event](https://abc7.com/post/kamala-harris-view-vp-joins-hosts-live-interview-talk-show-appearance-becoming-nominee/15404131/) she
mainly took the opportunity to heap insults on Donald Trump and Florida
Governor Ron DeSantis, to the hearty approval of Whoopi Goldberg and the
other giggling gals.

-   Also on Tuesday Harris did a one-hour interview with Howard Stern on
    his SiriusXM radio show. Stern still seems to own the Homeric
    epithet “shock jock” but I lost track of him some time this decade
    and I’m not sure if he still answers to “shock jock.”

If he doesn’t, Stern could trade it for “Trump Hater.” He sure doesn’t
like the Donald. He says he fears him, too, although I think that’s just
an affectation. At one point in the interview Stern claimed that if
Trump were to be re-elected the Sun would go out. Uh-huh.

Again, I didn’t listen to the interview, just read about it afterwards.
Some of that reading was fun. Even the *New York Times* columnist
couldn’t keep a straight face. [Quote from
her](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/02/opinion/harris-howard-stern.html):

Stern was a little too openly butt-smoochy for my taste, but I like a
little more spice in my political interviews. So my vote for Harris’s
next stop? “[Hot Ones](https://www.youtube.com/@FirstWeFeast).”

End quote.

In case you’re wondering, as I was, what “Hot Ones” is, it’s a YouTube
show where the host asks his guests questions as they attempt to eat hot
wings covered in various sauces.

So that’s been Kamala Harris’s week: four interviews with outlets any
one of which would give an arm — well, a couple of fingers at least — to
help her make it to the White House. And after it all, Harris’s numbers
aren’t looking great.

What would they look like if she’d faced off with interviewers
who *aren’t* in the tank for her? Better, possibly. At least viewers
would give her credit for courage.

A very interesting development this past few days has been Joe Biden’s
apparent unhooking of himself from the Harris campaign.

There’s been a little spat between Harris and Ron DeSantis over whether
DeSantis has been deliberately not taking Harris’s phone calls about the
hurricane relief. *Should* DeSantis take her calls? Biden was asked at a
Wednesday presser in the White House. Replied
Joe, [quote](https://www.foxnews.com/media/biden-praises-florida-gov-ron-desantis-very-gracious-amid-hurricane-relief-effort):

All I can tell you is *I’ve* talked to Governor DeSantis. He’s been very
gracious. He thanked me for all we’ve done. He knows what we’re doing,
and I think that’s important.

End quote.

Whoa! This is a Joe Biden I might get to like! My old *Daily
Telegraph* colleague John O’Sullivan shared the feeling on
X. [Tweet](https://x.com/keny_berd/status/1843696555259507056):

He’s introduced a new note of mischief & revenge in a campaign that has
become largely predictable trench warfare. Most of the entertainment
until now has come from the GOP side, but Biden is matching them jab for
jab — except that the jabs are hitting below Democrat belts.

End tweet.

Some more cynical spirits have suggested that Biden believes Trump is
going to win the Presidency and wants to be in Trump’s good books — or
at least not in his *bad* books — in hopes of getting a Presidential
pardon for Hunter, and perhaps also for himself.

Whatever: Joe is definitely making the race more interesting. I never
thought I’d hear myself say that.

In an effort to bolster her poll numbers, Kamala Harris has been
enlisting her party’s big names: Barack Obama and the Clintons. I guess
it might help; but if I were advising her, I would have left out
Hillary. Barack and Bill can still get a crowd on their feet and
cheering, but I don’t think Hillary ever could.

Whatever political skill she ever had — it wasn’t much — she seems to
have lost. In a CNN interview at the weekend, she said the quiet thing
out loud. Listen.

\[[*Clip*](https://x.com/AV24org/status/1842650698736861546):  But we
now know that that was an overly simple view; that if the platforms —
whether it’s Facebook or Twitter-X or, ah, Instagram or TikTok, whatever
they are — if they don’t moderate and monitor the content, er, we lose
total control …\]

Did you get that? “We lose total control …” *We*. We, the ruling class.
We, the snobs.

Of course, “total control” — totalitarianism — is what our elites seek,
the destination they’ve been dragging us towards for sixty years.

For persons who know their [20th-century imaginative
fiction](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Culture/authenticsf.html),
Hillary’s “we” also has a sinister ring. *We* is the name of a novel.

Originally written in Russian around 1920 by Yevgeny Zamyatin, one of
the very earliest Soviet dissidents, *We* came out in English
translation exactly a hundred years ago, 1924. It was the inspiration
for *both* Aldous Huxley’s *Brave New World* and George
Orwell’s *Nineteen Eighty-Four*. Says
Wikipedia, [quote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We_(novel)): “It
influenced the emergence of dystopia as a literary genre,” end quote.

If *they* ever do get the total control Hillary seeks, Zamyatin’s
nightmare will have become true and our civilization will be at an end.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Here’s something new to worry about, especially for us
podcasters and broadcasters: voice cloning.

Jay Shooster, running for Congress in Florida’s 91st District, put out a
15-second TV campaign ad. Some ingenious crooks recorded his voice and
ran it through some AI software.

The result: Jay’s Dad got a phone call from Jay begging for help. Jay
said he’d been in a serious car accident, got arrested and needed
$35,000 bail money. Except it wasn’t Jay on the phone, only [a clone of
Jay’s
voice](https://talker.news/2024/10/09/attorneys-voice-cloned-in-ai-scam-to-fool-dad-into-giving-35k/).

I’ve had to sit down with Mrs Derbyshire and give her The Talk. We now
have a secret password I shall use any time I call her, so she knows
it’s me and not just a clone of my voice.

If you, dear listener or reader, have your voice out there in the public
sphere for any reason, I recommend you do the same.

And am I surprised that one of the earliest and most profitable
applications of Artificial Intelligence has come out of the criminal
fraternity? No, I’m not. We live in a fallen world.

*Item*:  Did you see the pictures of Kamala Harris and her
husband [wielding
shovels](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-13936109/kamala-harris-doug-emhoff-called-plant-oct-7-memorial-tree.html) while
planting an October 7th memorial tree? They generated much mirth. It was
plain that neither she nor he had ever handled a shovel before.

Several commenters were reminded of the exchange between Cecily Cardew
and the Honorable Gwendolen Fairfax in Oscar Wilde’s play *The
Importance of Being Earnest*.

CECILY.  Do you suggest, Miss Fairfax, that I entrapped Ernest into an
engagement? How dare you? This is no time for wearing the shallow mask
of manners. When I see a spade I call it a spade.

The Honorable GWENDOLEN.  I am glad to say that I have never seen a
spade. It is obvious that our social spheres have been widely different.

Eh, slobs and snobs. It’s all good fun; but I felt a twinge of sympathy
for the Harrises.

Growing up in England I only knew the shorter kind of shovel, the one
with a handle shaped like an uppercase “D.” You gripped the straight bar
of the “D” with your palm facing up, got your knee behind your hand,
and *pushed*.

The shovel with a long straight handle and no “D” we in fact called an
American shovel, although I later learned that in some parts of
England — Cornwall, I think — shovels are American style. You always get
these inexplicable regional oddities in an old country. Perhaps there
are places in the States where the “D”-handled shovel prevails.

If there are such places, Long Island isn’t one of them. When I moved to
the U.S.A. and bought a house here with a garden to look after, I had to
learn how to use the American shovel. I *think* I’ve got the hang of it,
though I’m not a hundred percent confident even now.

*Item*:  People sometimes ask me if I’m still in touch with my dear
friend Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov now that he is no longer President of
Turkmenistan.

I certainly am. Former President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, as I’m
sure you all know, handed off the Presidency to his son Serdar
Berdymukhammedov in 2022 and retired to the less demanding post of
Chairman of the People’s Council of Turkmenistan.

Now that he has more time on his hands, Chairman Gurbanguly
Berdymukhammedov is even more diligent than before about keeping up with
old acquaintances. I get frequent emails from him.

Most recently they have been rather angry. A fellow-countryman of his, a
Turkmenistan patriot, posted to X in praise of their country’s flag. His
post included [a picture of the
flag](https://x.com/MazMHussain/status/1843255085620748783), which is
indeed … striking.

Unfortunately not all X users appreciated the esthetic. Sample comments:

-   Looks like a bad graphic from a 90’s Nintendo game.
-   The only flag to both make eyes water and induce vomiting.
-   Ugliest flag of all time
-   This flag looks like an 8 bit video game flag for a Banana republic.
-   How could children be expected to draw this flag at school?

And so on. It is easy to understand Chairman Gurbanguly
Berdymukhammedov’s anger. Who, he asked me by email, is the proprietor
of this disgraceful website? I told him it is a fellow named Elon Musk.
In reply, Chairman Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov urged me to find the
street address where Elon Musk lives, so that he, the Chairman, can send
over some agents to “educate” him.

Of course I don’t want to cause trouble for anyone, but so far I have
not been able to come up with a diplomatic response. Suggestions from
Radio Derb listeners will be gratefully received.

**06 — Signoff**.     And that’s all I have for this week, boys and
girls. Thank you for your time and attention, and a solemn, respectful
Columbus Day to one and all.

Just another reminder, if you will permit me, that you can help keep the
lights on here in the Derbyshire house via PayPal or snail mail as shown
on [my personal website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/), or using
Zelle direct to my bank, or with a *tax-deductible* donation by a check
earmarked with my name and mailed to: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box
211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759. Thank you.

For signoff music, indulge me, please, in a brief nostalgia trip to
1960s London, where I squandered my late-teen and early-adult years.
Here’s Cilla Black with one of the musical mementoes of that time and
place. It was actually the signature song for one of Michael Caine’s
earliest movies.

Cilla Black is no longer with us but Michael Caine is, still the
cheerful Cockney at age 91. He officially retired from acting one year
ago this Sunday. Many more birthdays, mate.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week

 
