---
title: "The Theater Of Politics"
date: "2024-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32703"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32703"
---

The great exploding pager psy-op Israel pulled on Hezbollah yesterday is
a great example of how the focus of all politics has shifted from the
practical world of doing things to the virtual world of saying things.
Owning the information space in an effort to win the information war has
taken precedent over accomplishing real things in the world of real
things, even when it comes to war. Every operation, even those with
practical goals, has a public relations element at the center of it.

As is always the case, time will tell if the initial reports are close
to reality, but there is no doubt that pagers were exploding, and Israel
was responsible. The questions not asked by Western media, much less
answered, are why Israel would do this and what did they think they
would achieve by it? That is the first clue. The media and their
audience just assume it is a good thing and will result in more good
things. What those things are and why they are good is not a topic of
interest.

It is a clever caper, for sure. The Israelis accessed the supply chain
that delivers these devices to Hezbollah. They most likely bribed an
official at the Taiwanese plant that makes these things. This gave them
access to the shipment, which they then sabotaged with some form of
explosive. Then they waited until the devices were deployed and sent the
signal to them. The sheer cleverness of it is admirable, so it is easy
to see why that is the focus.

That is the thing about this caper. It is mostly a public relations
caper, with little practical impact on the conflict between Israel and
Hezbollah. Sure, Israel won the news cycle for a day or two and the
Hezbollah side feels stupid, but by Friday any practical impact is gone,
and everything is back to where it was pre-caper. Hezbollah now has a
new step in the process, where they inspect their communications
devices, something they should have been doing all along.

This is where certain people insist that it was a great scheme because
it affected important people. The reality of communications devices is
that the closer you are to one, the lower you are down the status
ladder. Low level people display their device on their person because
that is all they have. Important people have someone who manages the
communications gear. You do not call Warren Buffett. Your people reach
out to his people to set up a call.

That aside, the shift in focus from practical reality to the abstract
reality of public relations is something we see everywhere now.
Washington’s war on Russia has mostly been about winning the information
war, on the assumption that losing the information war would have a
practical impact on Russia. Instead, Russia has lost every round of the
media war, often failing to attend the fight, but Russia has seen its
economy boom and its standing in the world rise.

In fairness, the schemers in Washington were reasonable to think
“wrecking Putin on social media” would be a big win. In their world,
getting wrecked on Twitter can have practical consequences. We have gone
through a decade of “cancel culture” where people lose their jobs and
their lives for imaginary crimes like using anathematized words or
holding impure thoughts. In a world where being cancelled is a serious
concern, cancelling Putin makes a lot of sense.

That was certainly the thinking inside the Israeli brain trust when they
were cooking up this exploding pager scheme. They surely understood that
sabotaging pagers would have little impact on Hezbollah. On the other
hand, blowing them up like this would make for great memes on social
media. The sheer cleverness of it would impress their American audience,
who they sense might be bored with them. This caper got the crowd back
into their seats for more of the Israel show.

The Roman poet Juvenal famously criticized the Roman people for caring
more about the “bread and circuses” than their freedom. This is often
twisted around to mean that the rulers relied on bread and circuses to
trick the people out of their freedom, but Juvenal was focusing his
critique on the people. Radicals of the ideological age have made a
similar complaint. Marx famously called the peasants a sack of potatoes
because they could not be politicized.

This narcotic of entertainment that troubled Juvenal is now corrupting
the political class of the West. They care more about the show of which
they are a part, or the show being put on for them by others, than the
practical reality of their position. The manufactured reality of
politics obscures political reality, not because the political
participants cannot see it, but because they do not want to see it. They
prefer their manufactured, abstract reality, over the practical reality
of their position.

This is why Israel invested in the pager scheme. They understand that
practical arguments about the reality on the ground in the Levant will
have no impact on Washington or the American public. Similarly, Zelensky
understands that he has to keep producing new acts to keep Western
politicians amused enough with Project Ukraine to keep the money
flowing. Like a Hollywood producer, he tells his generals he needs
bigger explosions and bigger drama.

Objective reality has always been the substrate on which human relations
operate, so there has always been a gap between the human drama and
reality. Human relations, especially politics, are more often than not
about what we think ought to happen, rather than what we think will
happen. However, necessity has always kept the gap narrow, but that
seems to be changing. In fact, it seems that politics is often about
broadening that gap between itself and reality.

Reality is that thing that does not go away when you stop believing in
it, so this turn from reality will eventually end. Israel cannot stay at
war forever with its neighbors, no matter how good the show. The West
cannot remain at war with the world, no matter how many times they
cancel people they do not like. At some point the theater of politics,
the theater of Western public life, must give way to reality and people
who prefer reality over self-generated fantasy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="u37hv1zcMSFVtmVTAu/y7Q==cb7xOipDhawQD8gVwTSl6IOXcGwX7MHaQi0akeqX8uzzFFHGILP82rd2VqMQ2Z82C4o"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="LHGS8liGo0ADf7NxGKzcQg==cb7/6j2GyKGt1bg/tkNqXgqnrUydZMcJFfpVw+4hZ6etiK7CsilHZhgUrOsOq868H0s"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
