---
title: "The Clash Of Visions"
date: "2024-01-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Progressives
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31462"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31462"
---

The New Hampshire primary turned out about how most sober minded people
expected, with Trump cruising to victory. As expected, regime media and
those in the anti-Trump cult have quickly moved onto other things. Even
though the narrative on this election has been wrong so far, these
people were sure the gods would deliver them from the terrible Orange
Man in New Hampshire. Now they will update the script for the South
Carolina primary in a few weeks.

Even though the New Hampshire primary was not a surprise to normal
people, it does have a few things worth noting. One is the turnout. In
<a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_New_Hampshire_Republican_presidential_primary"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">2016</a> when all of this was new and
exciting, about two hundred and sixty thousand people voted on the
Republican side, with Trump getting one hundred thousand votes. This
time, with the results known in advance, three hundred thousand voted on
the Republican side and Trump got one hundred and sixty thousand votes
or fifty-four percent.

Further, <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2024/01/23/politics/exit-poll-new-hampshire-primary/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">exit polling</a> says that only about a
third of the people voting would call themselves “MAGA”, by which they
mean part of the Trump movement. We do not have similar polling from
2016, but it is reasonable to say that most of Trump’s vote during those
crazy days would declare themselves part of the movement. You also have
to consider the fact that even Trump’s most loyal fans would find it
weird to ask them if they were part of the MAGA movement, as if it is a
club.

Even so, it says that people were voting for different reasons this
time. Various anti-Trump groups poured money into the state to boost
other candidates. Mikki Haley spent over twenty million on ads. The DNC
<a href="https://twitter.com/sivori/status/1749971542627201034"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">spent millions</a> last year getting
their voters to switch to undeclared so they could vote in the GOP
primary. About half of the Republican primary voters were undeclared, so
it is reasonable to assume many will vote Democrat in the general.

What the regime tried to do with a fair bit of success is turn the
Republican primary into a general election by flooding the voting booth
with Democrats. It explains why Haley dropped her “tough conservative
gal from the South” routine and morphed into “I want to speak to the
manager” feminist hero. Her people had her go out and praise Hillary
Clinton because they knew that half the voters probably voted for
Hillary over Trump and would like to do it again.

It also tells us something about the dynamics of this election. This is
not the 2016 election where people voted for Trump for the same reason
the drunk guy in the crowd mooned the king or shouted derogatory things
at him. In 2016, Trump was for many voters a harmless protest vote. In
2024 it means something different because things have gotten much worse
since then. Note that for the first time primary voters put <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/fox-news-voter-analysis-immigration-issues-republicans"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">immigration</a> at the top of their
concerns.

There is something else here that may be driving a new dynamic in this
election and that is the open shenanigans in this process. Think about
the sort of person who schemes up a plan to get Democrats to vote in the
other party’s primary a year in advance in order to subvert the will of
the voters. This is a level of sociopathy that few people think is
possible. Serial killers are not this devious. The people claiming to
defend democracy are now out front with these schemes.

Of course, such a scheme only works if there are people willing to do
it. Years of interacting with people who put up signs on their lawn
promoting the latest thing is slowly changing how normal people see
things. Thirty years ago, the typical suburban peasant thought they just
needed find the right person to say the truth the right way and these
people would see the light. Today, the typical suburban peasant thinks
the woman with the BLM sign might be better off in another country.

What the typical suburban peasant is waking up to, even though he cannot
articulate it, is that we are living in a clash of visions. The people
on the other side of that <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/SignPro-Believe-Kindness-Everything-Corrugated/dp/B0CQYBDX51/ref=sr_1_3_sspa"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">sign</a> explaining all the things that
go on in that house have a view of the world that is completely
different from most people. That vision often assumes that the people
without such signs are what stands between them and the future. The
vision of the self-anointed says the benighted are the problem.

This is because when they talk about “democracy” they are not talking
about the mechanics of picking office holders. They imagine a society in
which all of the moral questions have been solved. The only thing left
is figuring out how to quickly attain diversity, inclusion and equality.
Further, they assume that everyone must want this, unless they are evil,
so the only reason we have not “made progress” is that these evil people
are using shenanigans to confuse the masses.

In contrast, the typical suburban peasant imagines a world where he has
a job he enjoys, friends to grill with and watch ball games and a chance
give his kids a better life than he got from his parents. For him,
democracy is about picking the best office holders who will take turns
buggering through the problems. In most cases, the typical suburban
peasant prefers the guy who will do very little, as things could always
get worse so best not to rock the boat too hard.

It is not just that one vision is radical and utopian and the other
conservative and pragmatic, but that the former sees the destruction of
the latter as a proper and necessary part of their program. What we are
seeing in this election could be a sign that the typical suburban
peasant is waking up to this reality. It is not just that the
middle-aged white woman with the BLM sign is wrong, but that she
represents a danger to the life and welfare of the typical suburban
peasant.

Whether or not this awakening among the typical suburban peasant is
happening can be debated, but we can be sure he has yet to arrive at the
solution. There can be no compromise in this clash of visions. When the
ends of one side are the destruction of the other, the only plausible
response for the other side is to seek the same. As more suburban
peasants wake up to the reality of sign lady, more will inevitably
arrive at the only solution that guarantees their survival.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="5Ia8GOauqeUoJgjDsDwMzw==cb7W+wLhXxxZ4e9qrUjt9iKmH7Xis9ljLVxSnSoK27zoQEE04coE6eBSuokLjfgcFG0"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="udJ0k1/Yw2Oc229BE9VucQ==cb7lxquc+I7GxJAcyVtTAW23Ce2nIUuXr/4v6+SSNAhpRsllyZSjm3dWGaAjDm4G1GF"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
