---
title: "Promethean Thoughts"
date: "2024-12-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-12-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33236"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33236"
---

A popular argument in certain circles is that Christianity is to blame
for the decline of the West, because it is blamed for various ills in
the West. Individualism is often blamed on Christianity, because within
most Christian sects, the individual has a unique relationship with God
that is not dependent upon his relationship to his society, ethnic group
or tribe. Another complaint is that Christianity demands openness, which
invites in the sorts of elements antithetical to social solidarity.

There are many variations on this general theme and all of them have
some kernel of truth to them. It is the heart of the rather silly
argument behind the “woke right” nonsense promoted by crackpots like
James Lindsay. He has created a new political scale where one end is any
form of exclusivity, which he calls “woke” and the other end is complete
openness, which he calls “classical liberalism.”  It is mostly nonsense,
but it does illustrate the anti-Christian claims about liberalism.

Professional Christians do themselves no good in this regard by
embracing and celebrating nation wrecking ideas like open borders,
diversity, the worship of nonwhites and an obsession with Israel. Most
low-church ministers sound like the tourism minister from Israel fused
with the HR manager at a major corporation. Of course, the more
traditional churches are in deep with open borders, often getting
government contracts from people who would like to stamp out
Christianity.

In the final reckoning, the Christian churches and their entrepreneurial
advocates will have much to answer for over their role in the crisis of
the West. The question is whether this is the logical result of
Christianity, or is it a novelty that grew from the spread of
liberalism, particularly the American form of it. After all, 18th
century Christians were not in favor of open borders, and they certainly
did not think the worship of Israel was their reason to exist.

For those looking to absolve Christianity, that is the starting point.
From the conversion of Europe into the 16th century, Christianity fit
neatly into and was an integral part of the feudal order that ruled
Europe. The Church provided a moral framework for the secular rules, but
also provided a moral authority for them. The Church was the ultimate
answer to the question, “who says?” whenever it was not obvious that the
king was the person with final authority in his domain.

It is only when people started to question the set of reciprocal
obligations and duties that defined the European political order that we
see changes in the relationship between Christians and the prevailing
social order. The Protestant revolution was as much a result of the
weakening political order as it was disputes over the traditions and
practices of Christians. In other words, the changes in the political
order can be blamed for the revolution within Christianity.

Further context is the fact that the Church was a different thing in the
later Middle Ages than what it was at the end of the Roman Empire. The
Christianity that evolved to flourish and survive within Rome, had to
further evolve after Rome. It continued to evolve to flourish within the
new feudal order that defined Europe. Once the feudal order began to
collapse, the Church evolved to adapt, often with localized versions to
meet localized political changes.

The same framing can be applied to America. In the New World, the old
religion was free to evolve and do so under unique circumstances. The
Calvinism of the Old World arrived in New England, along with
Anglicanism and Presbyterianism. Soon, every Christian sect of the Old
World was setting up shop in the New World, quickly evolving and
splintering into new versions to meet new conditions. America was a
great experiment for more than just self-government.

What we call progressivism has its roots in this Christian experiment. A
century ago, progressive literature was riddled with references to
Scripture. The reason for that is it had its roots in Christian
movements like abolitionism, social reform movements and the Social
Gospel movement. The argument against slavery that animated the Civil
War were not economic or political in nature. The abolitionists were
acting upon their sense of moral justice informed by their Christin
faith.

The way to understand America since Gettysburg is to think of it as a
religious crusade masquerading as a country. The covenantal form of
nationalism that still turns up in our politics has roots in the
founding the country. Northern nationalism in the Civil War, for
example, was linked to America’s alleged destiny to free the world. It
was not enough to celebrate self-determination. America had a duty to
help all people free themselves from domination and that started with
the South.

This is the error people make when trying to blame liberalism for the
current crisis or blame Christianity for the liberalism. American
liberalism of the type the Framers embraced was replaced by a variant
that borrowed the modes of thought from Protestant Christianity but
eventually left out God and Scripture. The hole of authority has been
filled with vague concepts like the “tides of history” and other
expression that can be replaced with “the side of the angels.”

This creates a dilemma. It is clear that Christianity in the Old World
evolved to meet the challenges of the changing political order, driven
by the spread of Old World liberalism, but it is also clear that the new
forms of Christianity informed that liberalism, and in the case of
America, created a fusion of the two. That new ideological and
theological cause, dressed in the garb of reason and pragmatism, then
dominated the West, at the point of gun, until we have reached this
point.

In the end, blaming liberalism or Christianity is a fool’s errand. The
root cause probably goes much further back. For example, universalism is
only possible in a cosmology that has just one God. In a world of many
gods, there are many sources of moral authority, so therefore no one can
claim a single moral order. Then you have the curse of reason that was
given to us by the Greeks. If there is one God and one morally correct
way of living, then our reason should be able to discover it.

The good news for the Christians is that the religion has shown an
ability to adapt that no other faith has managed. Judaism has survived
for longer, but only as a folk religion serving a tiny minority.
Christianity has survived as a majority religion, through the ups and
downs of Western civilization. Despite its current condition, it will
most likely adapt and once again give cause to the flourishing of
Western people. The same fate probably does not await liberalism or
progressivism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="tETs/PtLy7ykw7dTL0d/OA==cb76FNQrICUcTvEV17Tu2LeHSN0p4h2/yEXFlXfPpzXARKllo7OM6Zx8UcGPyO6iClS"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="NhaqpcPTKM0/fEFR320meA==cb7PJcY6xjmY+48iJmO9OzviMmYyD4RYIHhWFtu0sUMvfs0kvPGp+nD0KzedvhTVgI9"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
