---
title: "Whither Managerial Polyarchy?"
date: "2024-08-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-08-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32439"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32439"
---

One of the strange truths about democratic governments is that they can
remain unpopular for much longer than other forms of government. This
seems counterintuitive as the whole point of democratic government is to
have public policy reflect the general will of the people. In theory any
divergence should be rectified in subsequent elections so that over
time, the majority support the policy. As we see in the modern West,
this is not how things work in “our democracy.”

There is a great example of this in the UK. Immigrant crime has reached
a point where even the most teary-eyed immigration romantic has had
enough. All of the polling shows that the majority wants an end to
immigration. The new Labour government won power largely by hinting they
would be tough on immigration. They were lying, of course, and that is
clear now. The government only had about thirty percent support at the
election, and you can be sure it is lower now.

In other words, the current rulers of the UK have less popular support
than the current ruler of Venezuela. The UK is allegedly a democracy,
while the democracies all claim Venezuela is a dictatorship. While
technically correct, if we redefine democracy to mean having some sort
of voting process, the undeniable fact is the ruling class of Venezuela
has far more popular support than the ruling class of the UK. Yet, for
now at least, the UK government does not fear being overthrown.

Immigration is a great example of how democracy can remain unpopular for
much longer than other forms of government. There has never been a time
when there was popular support for open borders and unfettered
immigration. The issue may not have ranked high on the list of voter
concerns, but there was never a clamoring for violent foreigners to be
imported into the country. Now there is massive hostility to it, but the
policies not only persist, but they get worse.

Immigration is just the latest example of this. The de-industrialization
we saw in the 1970’s and 1980’s never had popular support. People in the
emerging service industries or technology may have been indifferent, but
there were no rallies in the streets demanding the government ship the
car parts plant to Mexico. The people in the manufacturing sector
certainly cared, but their interests were ignored because the oligarchs
saw a quick buck in selling off the manufacturing base.

The point is the so-called democracies of the West have been unpopular
for an exceedingly long time, but it persists due to two factors. One is
the people assume they can eventually get what they want through the
democratic process. The ballots at every election have two options,
heads they win and tails you lose, but people insist on picking from
those options. It takes a long while, as we are now seeing, for people
to lose faith in the democratic system.

The other reason, and perhaps the main reason, why democratic
governments can remain unpopular for so long is the people who run the
democratic system grow increasingly convinced they can trick and cajole
enough people to manufacture a majority in their favor. In fact, as we
keep seeing, this becomes the primary focus of the people running the
system. It is as if they seek to prove Lincoln wrong and find a way to
fool all of the people all of the time.

The guy running Venezuela knows that a large swath of his population
thinks the system is rigged. He certainly knows it is rigged. He also
knows that unless he keeps that disgruntled portion of the population
pacified, he will be swinging from a tree branch, so that is his primary
focus. He needs to always be looking to expand popular support for his
policies, while at the same time defusing the anger in the portion that
is unhappy with him and his policies.

The glue that has held Western democracies together for so long, despite
not being particularly popular, is managerialism. The vast
administrative state controlled by a permanent ruling class of managers
is an unprecedented defense against any threats to the democratic
system. Internal opposition is assimilated into the system so quickly
that it never has time to flower into a palace coup. External opposition
is subverted through the complex network of government affiliated
organizations.

If you look closely, for example, at the pro-government protests in
response to the anti-immigration protests in the UK, you will see people
wearing the colors of groups like Amnesty International, Hope Not Hate
and various immigrant charities right next to the cops waiting to crack
the skulls of native Brits. Much of the police action, in fact, is
coordinated by these “private groups” who “defend our democracy.” All of
them are client organizations of the managerial state.

For this reason,
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29475" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">managerial polyarchy¹</a> is highly resistant to popular
discontent, even when that discontent is near universal. The problem
though is that it is top-heavy, which makes containing internal dissent
increasingly difficult. With so many people inside the managerial system
or dependent upon it, factionalism is inevitable. It is why the
managerial class has its politicians chant about unifying the country.
What they really mean is unifying the managerial elite and the
oligarchs.

We see a glimpse of this with Elon Musk. When he bought Twitter and
reopened it, the system quickly moved to suppress him. Ben Shapiro and
the ADL made him pray at the pile of shoes. The trouble is, Musk is the
world’s richest man and someone who does not like being pushed around,
so Twitter remains largely open. Musk has now weighed in on the
two-tiered justice system of the UK. Elon Musk is a serious problem for
a system that thinks it needs complete unity.

Why is Elon Musk a serious problem? A society in which the majority is
disgruntled but lacks a leader and a method to compel change is like dry
leaves and wood in the underbrush of a forest. It is a forest fire
waiting to happen. The disgruntled inside the managerial system may look
at the disgruntled masses as an army in waiting and decide it is a good
time to stage a palace coup. This is why the British government is one
step away from declaring war on running dog deviationists.

In the end, government, regardless of form, must not only satisfy the
majority, but pacify those unsatisfied so they will not revolt. The
present systems in the West have proven quite resistant to this reality,
but reality must always prevail. The crisis in the West is over the
central question of managerial polyarchy. Can it adapt and reform itself
to comport with the demands of the people over whom it rules? If not,
then what happens when these long bottled-up forces finally explode?

¹Managerial Polyarchy refers to the fact that large complex society does
not have central control. Instead it has nodes that control specific
domains, like banking, the media, the academy, and so on. These are
networked together by a common understand of their role in society. This
polyarchy of institutions shares the ideology of managerialism, thus we
get the term Managerial Polyarchy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="2aYmFE38vTV6iG3NdPZpkA==cb7jYBEBqhrL1HrlH4iPEhyYE1fONQH59YAP06uQV5T9Qg8ZcqhrVs9R1561HWq2WZ9"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Ut+QO1jP0PN0ySn1WZAW8g==cb7iSB7e6o+M/Z2XlMZtd8gS7tN6AfMI1Ph1PvEph7nFXa1y3FXvbcamjFEiA+FJrzG"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
