---
title: "Escape From Talos IV"
date: "2024-04-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31881"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31881"
---

One of the underappreciated aspects of political discourse is that the
person arguing for a particular theory or ideology starts with a set of
assumptions. Often, the assumptions are part of the arguer’s
conditioning to the point where he no longer thinks about them, so he
never mentions them. Progressives, for example, now assume equality is a
morally good thing and an obvious goal of policy. They never bother to
mention this, as from their perspective, it is manifestly obvious.

The exceptions to glossing over the assumptions are always on what
passes for the political right in America. You see it in the back and
forth between Christopher Rufo and Curtis Yarvin in that IM1776
<a href="https://im1776.com/2024/04/11/rufo-vs-yarvin/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">post</a>. Early on in his reply to Yarvin, Rufo states,
“My conviction is that there is a logical structure to human nature and,
consequently, a structure of political order.” This is a familiar claim
to those familiar with the natural rights argument popular in some
circles.

The basic argument is that there is human nature, by which they mean
things that are true and observable about all human beings. Therefore,
there must be things that are universal and true about how human beings
interact with one another. Therefore, if we tease these truths out about
the human condition, we can fashion a political order that results in
the least amount of friction between the citizens. The assumption is
that the closer we are to our nature, the happier we will be.

Like most assumptions that form the basis of a political theory, this
assumption about human nature is never examined. Are there objective,
quantifiable behaviors that are universal to all humans? Obviously, this
is true. All humans, for example, work together for food and safety. We
do not have written records for the hunter-gatherer phase of human
development, but what we have tells us that humans cooperated within kin
groups to collect food and defend the group.

It seems obvious that there are not only physical properties of humans
that are universal, but that there are behaviors that are universal. Of
course, this is also true of canines or arachnids, but no one would make
these observations the basis of a political theory or a moral framework.
In other words, even at this level, there is an unexamined assumption
that we can create a list of things you ought to do from the things we
can observe about the general nature of humans.

Putting that aside for a second, think about the things that are true
about canines that define domestic dogs as a species. While there is a
collection of properties that define the domestic dog, no one would
confuse a Doberman with a Poodle. Everyone can quickly understand the
difference between a border collie and a similar looking mutt from the
local shelter. Even though the herding dog has the physical properties
of a domestic dog, it is different from the other dog breeds.

If the domestic dog world ever produces the dog equivalent of Thomas
Aquinas, he will have to contend with the fact that the herding dogs
will be scandalized by sheep wandering around unattended, while the
hunting dogs will think this condition to be the best way to order dog
society. Even though both groups share a common dog nature, they will
have naturally different views on the sheep question. This is a silly
idea, but you can probably see where it is going.

This gets to another assumption that you see in the Rufo response. He
asks, “What is the telos of your political system?” The assumption he is
making is that any political system and therefore any political theory
must include as a foundation item an explanation for the purpose of
human society. This is an unexamined assumption inherited from
Christianity. Humans have a purpose so human society must have a purpose
and this is a measure of any political system.

What science tells us about human nature does suggest that there is a
purpose to all human societies. That purpose is to increase the odds of
the individuals in that society making it to sexual maturity and
reproducing. Cooperation is all about safety so that the young can one
day reproduce and pass on their genes, the genes shared by the group,
onto the next generation. The cause and purpose of human society is the
preservation and propagation of our genetic material.

How that is done is not universal. Again, this is observationally true.
Humans around the world have evolved different ways of organizing
themselves to increase their safety and security, just as their physical
form evolved to their environment. Africans do not have black skin for
no reason. Just as the environment selected for certain physical
features over others, it selected for different organizational
behaviors. The telos was the same, but the implementation cannot be the
same.

There is something else science can tell us about human nature. Once
humans started to settle down and distinct groups started to cooperate
with one another, the selection pressures changed. As Greg Cochran <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/000-Year-Explosion-Civilization-Accelerated/dp/0465020429"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">explained</a> in *The 10,000 Year
Explosion*, settled life rewards and punishes different human behaviors
than pastoral life and especially hunter-gatherer life. That means the
organizational behavior is not entirely learned, but a part of our
genetic code that defines every human.

This is the logical defect of the natural rights argument. The fans of
this make assumptions about nature that are counter to what we actually
know about nature and what we know about nature argues against their
universals. Therefore, the assumption upon which they rest their
arguments are false. This leaves them with denying biology, replacing
nature with the Christian idea of God, or arguing in favor the strict
segregation of people based on race.

Note that the egalitarians face the same dilemma. Whether it is Marx or
the new head of NPR, their assumptions about the natural equality of man
run counter to what science tells us about human nature. The communist
got around this by blaming economics for oppressing some and elevating
others. Today’s woke crowd takes a much simpler route by defying
biological reality. The transgender stuff is a way of denying biological
reality by denying fundamental properties of humans beings.

Also note that natural rights arguments should be placed alongside
things like Marxism, libertarianism, and anarchism. What all of these
share, in addition to the denial of biological reality, is the
egalitarian assumption. Lurking underneath all of these political
systems is the assumption that all men are naturally equal. They also
assume that something unnatural is the cause of the inequality. The
point of their systems is to restore equality by restoring the “natural”
order.

The final point to be made here is that all of the political theories of
the last three hundred or so years suffer from the same defect. The
theory always rests on assumptions that either go unexamined because
they cannot be evaluated, or they go unexamined because the result would
negate the theory. The last three centuries of Western thought has been
a game of finding a suitable replacement for God as the telos of human
society and the results have been as predicted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="n6k7lDFlkY1cX2ZDeFHsrQ==cb7/YbAclo6ec4f/BwuMBaHTQOZMdeQm61sMuP1Y+x57gJGUqYHdIo99CquKSyi6HCN"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="PYklnnCY15aGunyaOZY5dA==cb7beETv+6P87fUVOpRDEj8Xxb1NQsNrTrJTVHhH1G2PoKKS2JzjpbvkHuaqktX1UeO"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
