---
title: "Bridge Thoughts"
date: "2024-03-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31769"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31769"
---

In the 18th century, planners did not have to worry too much about ships
smashing into bridges because ships were small and made of wood, while
bridges and seaports were massive and made of stone. If a captain made
an error and hit a bridge support, his ship would be damaged, but the
bridge would be fine. The worst case is it would take a few days to
clear the debris of the ship from the waterway. In other words, the
seaways were somewhat error resistant.

The news of the Francis Scott Key bridge collapse is an obvious example
of how this is no longer the case in the modern world. That ship is
massive, relative to anything that existed a century ago, much less the
18th century. The bridge, in contrast, was a slim wisp of thing compared
to bridges in the past. When it was completed half a century ago it was
the third longest truss bridge in the world. Now, of course, it is a
[pile of scrap
iron](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-13239111/Maryland-Key-Bridge-collapses-struck-large-container-ship.html)
after having been knocked off its moorings.

People will naturally rush forward with their favorite pet theory about
how this could have happened. None of these claims are about the
accident or why it happened, but rather a way to use the event to
promote their favorite theory. Steve Sailer has decided to avoid the
usual answers and instead go with an
<a href="https://www.unz.com/isteve/this-is-bad-2/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">insane theory</a> about bombs being squirrelled away on
the ship. No doubt the usual suspects are working on a plot where Putin
is responsible for the accident.

For those who know how ports operate, especially an inland port like the
Port of Baltimore, the most likely answer is more mundane. These ships
are piloted by a harbor pilot in and out of the upper bay. These are men
who know every inch of the waterway and rely on a large support staff to
pilot the vessel. That means the cause is a failure of that system, most
likely the ships navigation systems. It lost power and the crew was
unable to restore power before hitting the bridge.

Putting that aside, the port is the ninth largest seaport in the country
and has certain specialties like the import of cars, which cannot be
easily replaced. Until the bridge debris is cleared from the waterway
and the waterway is inspected, the port will remain closed, which will
create supply chain problems throughout the year. Of course, the bridge
is a vital part of the local ground transportation system. Baltimore is
surrounded by a beltway system and this bridge was a key part of it.

Replacing the bridge has been debated over the last ten years, but the
will to do it has never been enough to overcome the sclerosis that
plagues state politics. A project that will not be done until most of
the people voting on it are dead or retired is never going to get a lot
of support in the modern age. The things that get pols trending on
social media is what gets the support, even if the reason to be trending
on social media is the ghetto has just lost track of one of its <a
href="https://www.c-span.org/video/?c5101302/rep-crockett-reacts-white-privilege-remark"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">simpletons</a>.

Now they will have no choice but to replace the bridge, but that will
take years to debate and then years to get approval and then more years
to build. The people who make the economy work will figure out ways
around this new obstacle in the meantime, so there will be no sense of
urgency to address the bridge problem. In fact, it is entirely possible
that the bridge is never replaced. A generation from now people will
look at the remaining pillars the way people look at old Roman
aqueducts.

If you want to contextualize this accident into something bigger, the
best approach is from the angle of complexity. Like everything else in
the American economy, our ports have become extremely complex systems
with many points of failure. There are millions of people with the word
“logistics” in their job title who make sure that some point of failure
does not fail in the complex system of moving goods in and out of the
country and around the country to your store.

One reason for that is the berserk quest for efficiency. Every manager
in the system dreams the dream of that box of Cheerios arriving on the
shelf just at the moment you decide to reach for it. Everything in the
economy is now geared to reduce the shelf time, warehouse time and
transport time of every item. Every bit of extra is cut from the system
to maximize profit, but the result is often fragile systems that work
well when there are no problems but fail miserably in a crisis.

The complexity problem is turning up in the Ukraine war. Russia, with
its massive industrial base and redundant systems, now outproduces the
West in terms of military supplies at a fraction of the cost. Western
countries with massive GDP’s are faced with impossibly complex economies
that cannot be quickly modified to address the need to make even simple
things like artillery shells. Like the now collapsed bridge, solving
this problem will probably never happen.

That is the other angle to this accident. That bridge was built in 1976
and was out of capacity twenty-five years ago. A second span should have
been started at the turn of the century with a third span or another
bridge up stream in the works, but these sorts of projects are not
popular with modern politicians. Half a century ago, the political class
was not obsessed with media attention, so they could think longer term
about projects that would benefit those who followed them.

It is popular to blame “democracy” for our present ills, but our
political system has not changed in fifty years. If anything, we are
less democratic today. What has changed is the explosion of media. We
now live suspended in a media solution. As a result, even the lowest
person measures himself by likes, follows and media exposure. This has
warped the political class the most, turning them into ridiculous carny
acts that do nothing but find ways to get attention in the mass media.

In the end, none of this matters. The bridge story will dominate the
news for a few days this week, but then the media will be onto the next
thing. By the end of the summer the port will be reopened, and the
bridge will be forgotten. The bridge is a symptom of a much larger
problem for which no one has any answers, at least not answers that get
you trending on Twitter. Maybe the remains of the bridge will one day be
a warning that a people that does invest in its future has no future.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="tBLU/wvOdWpxXdXJJ38gHw==cb7miNJTnGJvYeMsYwXEKallqf92Eac5FRVxaWFHQEBYYp9afvEAzezgQh1XSOxVuSF"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="gMuog9oy/9gbBcr9SLjFPg==cb7j5MYoKOR/WWxaGcGLyD4MYpdsoc7PEwhOZeAeeJaepbgqybuvDTEiVKqRP0zAWQL"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
