---
title: "Waiting Out The Weirdness"
date: "2024-02-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31597"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31597"
---

**Note:** The site performance should be better today. Last night I
drained the fluids and replaced the filters. The canoodling valve was
stuck. I cleaned it up and recalibrated it, so things should be working
fine now.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is an old fable about how if you throw a frog into boiling water
he will immediately leap out of the pot, but if you put him in room
temperature water and slowly bring the heat up to boiling, he will not
notice. The central claim about frogs is false, but the point of the
fable is that humans often do not notice gradual change, even when the
results of that change are bizarre or dangerous. Often this point is
made to explain some new weirdness that people did not see coming.

This is not an expression we see used much anymore, mostly because this
age has become so bizarre that the frog metaphor no longer works.
Everyday some new weirdness pops from nowhere, as if the people running
the simulation wanted to see what would happen if you threw a frog into
boiling water. Finding the idea too cruel, they instead hurl modern
Americans into a world where men in dresses demand you use their made-up
pronouns and pretend they are a third sex.

The weirdness yesterday was the release of Google’s new image AI tool
that was programmed to never create images of white people. The <a
href="https://www.foxbusiness.com/media/google-apologizes-new-gemini-ai-refuses-show-pictures-achievements-white-people"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">director</a> of the project had to go to
the media and lie about it being a mistake after people got the thing to
create
<a href="https://twitter.com/tomwarren/status/1760613846190862382"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">images</a> of Nazis that were Asian and
African. It was fine when it was race-swapping people from medieval
Western history, but making Nazis anything other than white is a
violation of the invisible law of this age.

The salient point here is it was done on purpose. Thirty years ago, it
was impossible to imagine people so deranged and degenerate gaining
control of the culture and then using their power to create bizarre
images of the past. This is not something that you can say happened
gradually then all of a sudden. Sure, it fits a general pattern of
ethnic hatred, but the weirdness of it falls outside of even the most
cynical expectations, despite being part of a growing pattern.

People often want to think their age is a wacky time compared to prior
ages, but objectively the culture tends to move slowly. Maybe there are
fits of upheaval, like the civil rights movement in the middle of the
last century, but even that was the climax of a process that started
generations earlier. You could draw a line from Gettysburg to white
children being marched at gun point into black schools. You cannot draw
a line from the present black Nazi AI to anything in the past.

If you are middle-aged or older, this election is shaping up to be so
outside of anything you have experienced that space aliens could staging
it. For decades both sides of the political consensus warned about
authoritarianism. All of a sudden, both sides are perfectly fine with
it. One side wants to round up dissidents and put them in jail while the
other side pretends it is not happening. Notice that no senior
Republicans have had much to say about the Trump case in New York.

Of course, the election itself is from bizzarro world. Joe Biden is so
feeble and mentally infirmed that he was declared mentally unfit to
stand trial, but he can possess the nuclear football and run for
reelection. Donald Trump, a man known to us for his outlandish real
estate mogul lifestyle and television ventures has transformed in the
Gracchi brothers and Lucius Junius Brutus. An entertainment personality
has now become the most courageous man in American politics.

It is impossible to overstate the weirdness of this, but it is not the
weirdest thing about the coming presidential election. In all
probability, the states that were fortified for democracy in 2020 will
be fortified for democracy in 2024. The result will be four more years
of man who is unable to count to four. Go back to 1984 and tell people
Joe Biden will be alive in 2024 and they would be shocked. Tell them he
will be president and they would laugh in your face.

The thing is though, this is not the weirdest thing happening right now.
Here is a <a
href="https://nypost.com/2024/02/20/us-news/indiana-couple-to-supreme-court-after-child-is-removed-from-home-over-gender-identity-squabble/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> about parents in Indiana who
had their child snatched from them by the state because they did not
subscribe the pronoun business. Not long-ago, people who even the most
cynical thought were exaggerating warned about this stuff. “They are
coming from your kids” was over-the-top rhetoric. Today is just a thing
that no one finds all that shocking as it is just another deranged item
on the list.

Again, it all feels like the people running the simulation are in a
competition to see who can produce the most insane thing to foist upon
us. It is not entirely wrong as all of this originates from the people
who control the centers of cultural power. The people running the Google
AI platform deliberately chose to race swap all the images and prevent
any images of white people. The people stealing children in the name of
pronouns know what they are doing. The question is why?

That is the weirdest part of this age. There is no good answer for why
the people in charge are doing these things. You can say money and
power, but they have all the money and power. People who blame it on
money and power are simply trying not to think about it too much. You
cannot blame them. The other answers can get you hurled into the void as
a heretic or cast you as some sort of nutter. We are all left to hope
the fever breaks, even though it clearly it is not breaking.

In the end, everyone is left to wait it out, like a bad storm. Instead
of huddling in the basement, hoping the house does not come free of the
foundation, most people do their best to avert their eyes. Maybe that is
the appeal of VR goggles. You can venture into the world and not see the
weirdness. You will not see the bus coming at you, but at least the end
will be quick and free of bearded men in frocks, but how long before the
weirdness is injected into that realm?

The only good news in all of this is that reality is the thing that does
not go away when you stop believing in it. No matter how infuriating or
terrifying things get, reality will not yield to the dreams of the
crazies. This was the lesson of the French revolution, the Bolshevik
Revolution, and every ideological movement. It will be the lesson of
whatever this cultural revolution is called when it finally ends. The
other lesson is the crazies always meet a fate worse than they inflict
on their victims.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="OFd6SSeRJmGm72MZQ8AE/w==cb7qNynUGWLivOUzWCr172DZu1LzOSPYu5CQiY3ayho6hFiLpRjTuxY05WfO8iCZWfZ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="V525E9Nf8hBb74dRHnSrsQ==cb7R0mcoZXUyKzDfBwUoXhu53ZCkwpcKzGA1TnQN8hvX230mo1OX/dvQHQS/SRDhrnp"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
