---
title: "Cuban Versus Rufo"
date: "2024-04-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31813"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31813"
---

An interesting
<a href="https://twitter.com/realchrisrufo/status/1774658838186299580"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">exchange</a> took place this week on
Twitter between Mark Cuban, former owner of the Dallas Mavericks, and
Christopher Rufo. The topic of their exchange was diversity, with Cuban
claiming that diversity was our greatest strength and Rufo claiming that
the diversity movement is un-American. Neither man put it exactly that
way, but that is the simple summary. Cuban thinks diversity makes things
better, while Rufo thinks the push to impose diversity makes everything
worse.

The exchange was amusing for the simple reason that Cuban clearly does
not understand the issue, beyond knowing the slogans which he
spasmodically repeats when the topic is raised. At
<a href="https://twitter.com/realchrisrufo/status/1774846748827209853"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">one point</a> he seems to be saying that
the three branches of government are the President, Congress, and the
bureaucracy. Everyone had a good laugh at his expense, as it became
clear in the thread that Mark Cuban is not the brightest bulb in the
bunch, despite being a billionaire.

To some degree that is the point of these mini dramas. The hoi polloi
gets to feel good seeing one of their champions best who they think is
the enemy. Mark Cuban puts a lot of effort into insulting normal people,
so normal people love it when he has his pants pulled down on Twitter or
anywhere else. Rufo clearly understands the mechanics of the Diversity
Industrial Complex, so he easily swats down the trite claims made by
Cuban throughout the thread.

More important, these exchanges frame the debate in such a way that
alternative points of view are systematically excluded. Strip away the
drama and what we have here are two similar views on race. One side says
that racial inequality is the result of racial exclusion by whites and
therefore must be remedied by forcing whites to include nonwhites in
their activities. The other side says it is immoral to notice race at
all, so forcing people to be race-conscious in this way is immoral.

Despite appearing to be opposites, both sides are making the same moral
claims with regards to race. Rufo thinks using race to make decisions is
immoral, while Cuban thinks whites use race to make decisions, which is
bad. In other words, both men agree that making general observations
about race is immoral. The difference is that Cuban thinks whites do it
all the time, while denying it, and Rufo thinks the diversity crowd is
guilty of that which they accuse white people.

Both men are not disagreeing about ends, but about means. This is the
model of politics that has prevailed in America since Gettysburg. Both
sides agree on the ends but disagree on how best and how quickly to get
there. As we see with the race issue, it is not always clear that they
both agree on the ends, but once you strip away the rhetoric it is clear
that at the minimum, they agree with one another as to the morality of
each other’s goals with regards to race.

This is an important bit of conditioning that arises from the selection
pressure within the American political dynamic. People approved to be on
the stage are conditioned to first evaluate the goals of people seeking
to get on stage. If their goals fall within the moral framework of the
stage owners, they can debate them. Mark Cuban read portions of Rufo’s
book, probably because people he knows read it. He knows Rufo is not
advocating for things that are proscribed.

Of course, we know Rufo has put an enormous amount of effort into making
it clear that he is not like those bad people who think race is a real
thing. This is where you see the selection pressure. This is why he
focuses on the goal of organizational success, rather than the details
of race. He argues that diversity programs make colleges and
corporations worse, by preventing them from hiring the best. You see, in
a color-blind society we get a true meritocracy!

Interestingly, if both sides of this debate want to see organizations
like Harvard maximize their potential, then they would have to support
what is a subtle truth about how the sports world evaluates talent. If
you are a white guy who plays cornerback in football, the evaluation of
you will be much stricter than if you are black. Tall white guys find it
much tougher to standout in basketball. Asian guys are assumed to be
poor athletes, so they tend to be ignored.

What happens in sports is what the legendary quantitative blogger La
Griffe du Lion
<a href="http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/dct.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">described</a> as the theory of differential cutoff. The
extremely short version of that post is that those from groups that
objectively underperform should be held to a higher standard than those
from groups that objectively overperform. In other words, hiring a
Jewish guy as your lawyer, even though he went to a state school, is a
better bet than hiring the black guy from an elite law school.

Note that this reality lurks beneath the diversity arguments. Mark Cuban
assumes people make these judgements about race, thus making it more
difficult for qualified nonwhites to gain access to positions for which
they are qualified. Put another way, an ancient truth is what haunts the
diversity industry. They may not have the smarts to understand it, but
they feel it. Note also that it haunts the arguments of people like
Rufo, who also seek to banish this ancient truth.

The most important takeaway in all this is that both sides agree that
you do not have the right of free association. Cuban thinks you should
be required to hire a black guy to meet the demands of diversity, while
Rufo thinks you should be required to hire the black guy as long as he
meets the objective criteria for the job. Your subjective qualifications
and individual preferences are not important. Both men wish to dictate
your choice based on their version of reason.

Ultimately, that is the point of framing the debate this way. Nowhere in
their exchange is a consideration of preference or free association.
They are arguing about which version of reason should be imposed on you,
when in reality they are debating whose clerics will decide your
punishment for having unacceptable preferences. It is a good reminder
that politics is never about facts and the reasonable conclusions from
those facts, but about who will impose their morality on whom.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="VJRQUlVeCkyln72EfYceVw==cb76y5sRNvV6XAeprCzbCNF7gHVH/Ue1jwAJJ53JE7F0CXE9Bxo3DeNJOBAR7Jr8jMF"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="HCu84VZaeHT0hpTdDJ7maA==cb7pVoQEmfSBGUf3s9P8ap6oBkUwCC9MxOvVW5qFhvwIb8BAwFJK3y1DYq0fDQMIwY6"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
