---
title: "Radio Derb September 06 2024"
date: "2024-09-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32640"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32640"
---

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg)

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m11s Two types of isolationism?
-   09m21s (Some) Germans vote
-   17m41s Scrambling the poles of good and evil
-   27m51s Temporal isolationism
-   32m26s Much ADOS about nothing
-   37m37s The innumerate imagination
-   40m38s No Chi spy here!
-   41m55s The Bell Curve at 30
-   43m19s Hwæt!
-   44m55s Signoff: Remembering Blair Tindall

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/61289900/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! That was a fragment of
Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* and this is your generically genial
host John Derbyshire covering the week’s news.

Before I begin the podcast proper, I should clarify the matter of
donations.

VDARE is no longer posting at the website, but the VDARE Foundation is
still a going concern and you can still make tax deductible donations to
your genial host by sending a check via snail mail with a note on the
memo line of the check saying the donation is earmarked for me.

The address for donations is, as before: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box
211, Litchfield, CT 06759. (That “Litchfield” has a “t” in it, by the
way — “L-itch-field” — unlike the Lichfield in England that is so dear
to the hearts of us [Samuel
Johnson](https://www.enjoystaffordshire.com/things-to-do/samuel-johnson-birthplace-museum-p735911) fans.)

Thank you in advance for your support!

<span id="more-32640"></span>

OK, on with the motley. \[*Clip*:  Pavarotti, [*Vesti la
giubba*](https://youtu.be/Z0PMq4XGtZ4?t=57).\]

**02 — Two types of isolationism?**     \[*Clip*:  Hank Williams, [*Mind
Your Own
Business*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RZH2bmbUTl4&t=14s).\] I am,
as I have often confessed, an isolationist. It was therefore with some
interest that I saw this heading at the *American Greatness* website,
August
28th, [heading](https://amgreatness.com/2024/08/28/two-types-of-isolationism-reject-them-both/): Two
Types of Isolationism — Reject Them Both.

This was an opinion piece by Edward Ring, who is, so far as I’m aware,
not involved in any way at all with [a popular home-security
system](https://www.bestbuy.com/site/ring/ring-security-systems/pcmcat1612199597868.c?id=pcmcat1612199597868).
Ring is a conservative commentator and activist who posts a lot
at *American Greatness*.

So what, according to Ring, are these two types of isolationism?

Type One isolationism, he says, calls for, quote

America to fortify its southern border and count on the geographically
isolated North American continent to provide a measure of security from
other nations that is unimaginable in turbulent Eurasia. Let them fight
among themselves. With vast oceans separating us from far-flung
conflicts, we will stay out of foreign wars.

End quote.

That sounds a lot like my isolationism. Sure, we’re bound to
have *some* interaction with other nations. There are unavoidable
matters of international concern: safe trade routes, raw materials we
don’t have, disease epidemics, and so on.

Ring says Type One isolationism can’t be made to work under modern
conditions. My response: Let’s give it a try, allowing ourselves some
minimum leeway on those unavoidables.

What is the author’s Type Two isolationism? It is — and here I quote the
author again, quote —

a wish to focus so exclusively on protecting American traditions,
prosperity, and freedom, that there is no room to make common cause with
like-minded Europeans who face precisely the same threats in their own
nations.

End quote.

The whole of the Western world is facing a threat, says Ring, a threat
to, quote, “European traditions and values,” end quote; the threat of,
quote, “demographic replacement combined with economic repression in the
name of fighting climate change,” end quote.

We have to make common cause with other Western nations to counter this
threat, he argues. If we don’t hang together we shall all hang
separately.

He adds a caution, perhaps for self-protection against cancellation,
that our battle, although Eurocentric, is *not* ethnocentric. Quote:

Millions of thoroughly assimilated immigrants are ready to fight with us
and we should welcome them.

End quote.

Uh … okay. Speaking as the husband of a thoroughly assimilated
non-European immigrant, I won’t take issue with that, except to repeat
the words of the great Enoch Powell, quote: “Numbers are of the
essence,” end quote. Let’s remember how we salt our stew.

I’ll admit I’m not altogether clear on the difference between Ring’s
Type One and Type Two isolationisms. Type One: We stay out of foreign
wars in places like “turbulent Eurasia.” Type Two: We have “no room to
make common cause with like-minded Europeans.”

What’s the difference? If we *did* get involved in a foreign war,
wouldn’t we have to make common cause with one side or the other?

I read Ring’s column twice but came out [by the same door as in I
went](https://www.poetry-chaikhana.com/Poets/K/KhayyamOmar/27Myselfwhen/index.html).
I mean, I am as much of an isolationist after reading it as I was
before.

Jolly good luck to the Brits, the French, the Germans, the Italians, and
the rest of the Euros in shutting down the “climate change” rackets in
their countries and deporting their illegal aliens. I really don’t see
how we can help, though.

We are much better supplied than they are with domestic energy sources,
for a smaller population with, overall, a warmer climate; and while we
have issues with nations to our South, those issues pale by comparison
with Europe’s situation, separated as they are from the African
continent by just a few dozen miles of easily-navigable water.

Let’s push ahead with our own fight against globalist lunacy and leave
the Euros to deal with their considerably different one. They are in
fact, after a slow start, not doing too badly, in some respects better
than we are. I’ll give over my next segment to an illustration of that.

Minding our own business looks to me like good policy.

**03 — (Some) Germans vote**.     The news here is from Germany. A
little basic political geography before the news.

As you know, Germany is, like us, a federal republic. [There are sixteen
states](https://www.germany-insider-facts.com/german-states.html) in the
federation. Before reunification in 1990 the country was divided into
East Germany and West Germany, under separate central governments. Six
of the sixteen states made up East Germany; the other ten of course were
West Germany.

Federal elections to the national parliament are held every four years,
give or take a few weeks. The system, as in most of Europe, is
proportional representation, giving small parties a chance but usually
obliging the bigger parties to form a coalition if any actual governing
is going to get done.

The last federal election was in 2021. After the usual haggling, a
coalition was formed with Olaf Scholz as Chancellor. Scholz’s party, the
SPD, is center-left, roughly equivalent to our own belovéd Democratic
Party. On the four-year cycle, there’ll be another federal election next
year.

So much for *federal* elections. Each of the sixteen states has a
government of its own, just like in the U.S.A., each with some
autonomous authority and its own electoral timetable for seats in its
own legislature.

Last Sunday, September 1st, two of the states held elections. The
results were a fair-sized kick in the groin for the big old centrist
parties that dominate German politics, like Scholz’s SPD.

The two states holding elections were Saxony and Thuringia. The headline
news was that the national-populist party AfD, Alternative for Germany,
won a solid victory in Thuringia, 33 percent over the next party’s 25,
and only lost by a hair’s breadth in Saxony, 31 percent against 32.

Neither of the other parties sharing the top-two slots with AfD was
Chancellor Scholz’s SPD, by the way. [The SPD actually placed
fifth](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-13802403/German-AFD-wins-landmark-victory-hard-right-party-tops-regional-vote-time-country-Second-World-War.html) in
both Saxony and Thuringia. AfD’s companion in the top two slots was CDU,
the center-right Christian Democrats, approximately our own dear GOP.

AfD, although increasingly popular, is not entirely respectable. This is
Germany, remember, and AfD is national-populist. \[*Scream*.\] Any time
AfD scores a win the shrieks of “Nazi! Nazi! Nazi! Hitler! Hitler!
Hitler!” go up, inside Germany as well as outside.

That’s tiresome and silly; but there, as here, some big subset of the
population knows no history at all other than what happened in Europe
from 1933 to 1945, and they have only a fuzzy understanding of *that*.

Seats in these state elections, as in the federal ones, are assigned by
proportional representation, so there’s going to be some busy
negotiating to put coalitions together, the more so as most other
parties have sworn *not* to join AfD in coalitions. Next year’s federal
election, and any state elections in the interim, should be …
interesting.

It’s not just populism of the right that won there. There’s a new
radical-progressive party called BSW that also did well on Sunday.
Interestingly, while far left on economic and foreign policy issues —
they favor Russia over Ukraine — BSW also wants a big crackdown on
immigration.

These are small states: Saxony only five percent of Germany’s
population, Thuringia only 2½ percent. Chancellor Scholz isn’t running
for the exits. Still, as I said, these election results are a kick in
the groin for the big old centrist parties.

Like our own Republican Party, though, Germany’s center-right is
adapting. Germany’s Christian Democrats, a fair equivalent of our
Republicans,
have, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-13805649/ANDREW-NEIL-centre-Right-crushed-hard-Right-parties-Europe-Tories-dont-learn-reinvent-theyll-face-oblivion-too.html):

started to advocate closing Germany’s border to people who have
requested asylum in another EU country, a blanket ban on Syrian and
Afghan refugees, indefinite detention for migrants earmarked for
deportation and — listen to this — emergency powers to suspend European
law where it interferes with a robust response to migration.

End quote. I took that from a report by Andrew Neil in Monday’s *Daily
Mail*.

That shift to immigration populism by the Christian Democrats surely
helped elevate them to the top-two slots in Sunday’s state elections.

This is just one little instance of how the familiar political positions
are shifting and changing all over. The days of the Uniparty are
numbered, in Europe as in America.

I’m tempted to give you Yeats’ lines about how

Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;  
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, …

That’s probably what it looks like to long-serving old-line politicians.
I doubt it will end with anarchy, though. There will be a rearrangement,
that’s all.

The center *will* hold; it’ll just be a different center, with more
respect for widespread popular feelings and
correspondingly *less* respect for special interests and ideological
fads out of college sociology departments. Well, that’s my hope.

**04 — Scrambling the poles of good and evil**.     A few weeks ahead of
us, November 30th, is Sir Winston Churchill’s 150th birthday. Social
media — well, X, the only social medium I follow — have come alive with
opinionating about Churchill, a good proportion of it negative.

That’s nothing new to me. [As I mentioned in my
podcast](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2015-01-24.html#09b) on
the fiftieth anniversary of the old boy’s death, my father was a
Churchill-hater.

Part of that was that Dad, [a WW1
veteran](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Photographs/01_pre-1931/page.html#jrduniform),
blamed Churchill for the fiasco at Gallipoli in 1915, which Churchill,
then First Lord of the Admiralty, had urged on the British government’s
war council.

That wasn’t altogether fair. The general in command of the Gallipoli
expedition, Sir Ian Hamilton, was operating above his level of
competence. Training and provisions were poor. Wrote historian A.J.P.
Taylor, [quote](https://archive.org/details/englishhistory0000unse_l4f9/page/26/mode/1up):

Their generals lacked drive, and Hamilton failed to provide it. He was
too polite to be a successful commander. He drifted helplessly up and
down the coast on a warship, refusing to interfere with his
subordinates. The Turks recovered from their surprise and pinned
Hamilton’s men to the shore.

End quote.

Churchill’s political enemies kept blaming him for the Gallipoli debacle
anyway. They were still doing so even after a postwar committee of
inquiry found him not at fault.

Following the Gallipoli failure Churchill went off and served with a
combat regiment on the Western Front, presumably in hopes of restoring
his reputation. I’m trying to imagine one of our own politicians atoning
for, say, the Afghanistan debacle in a similar spirit, but … I can’t.

My Dad, a working man of not much education, absorbed all the
anti-Churchill slanders and added them to his dislike of Britain’s upper
classes, to which Churchill indisputably belonged. In the first British
election after WW2, Churchill’s party lost in a landslide. I have no
doubt my father was one of the millions who voted against him.

When I grew up and got out into the world, and read some books —
including some written by the man himself — I acquired other
perspectives on Churchill.

Thoughtful, well-educated people — schoolmasters, college academics,
veterans both civilian and military of WW2 — mostly gave positive
reports, although 1945 voters often ended their reports with: “…  but I
didn’t want him for our peacetime Prime Minister.” (Presumably some
number of them changed their minds six years later; Churchill was
elected to a second term as Prime Minister in 1951.)

So far as I can gather from reading what he wrote and growing up among
people who voted for or against him in elections, I believe I would have
liked the man. He was worldly, witty, well-mannered and well-read.

Now here I am browsing social media and learning that [he was a drunken
brute and war
criminal](https://x.com/AshleaSimonBF/status/1831640925497364788) controlled
by evil Jews.

The evidence offered is not very persuasive.

-   *He initiated the aerial bombing of civilian populations*. Citizens
    of [Guernica](https://www.museoreinasofia.es/en/collection/artwork/guernica) and [Warsaw](https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/invasion-poland-september-1939) might
    have something to say there.
-   *He declared war on Germany*. No, that was Chamberlain in
    September 1939. Churchill didn’t become Prime Minister until eight
    months later.
-   *He was a tool of the Jews.* Strange, then, that in the five
    thousand pages of [his WW2
    memoir](https://www.amazon.com/Second-World-War-Volumes/dp/B005NS30ZG/ref=sr_1_3) Churchill
    doesn’t even *mention* the Holocaust. (The Jew-haters have
    jiu-jitsued (*jew*-jitsued?) this to be proof that [the Holocaust
    never
    happened](https://www.politifact.com/factchecks/2023/feb/23/instagram-posts/winston-churchills-world-war-ii-memoirs-arent-evid/).)
-   *Gallipoli*. Uh-huh.
-   *He did nothing to relieve the terrible 1943 Bengal Famine in what
    was then British India.* There was nothing he *could* do. The Brits
    needed all their shipping for the North Africa campaign. Churchill
    tried to get the U.S.A., Canada, and Australia to help with relief,
    but they couldn’t spare shipping either. Historian A.J.P. Taylor
    again, quote: “A million and a half Indians died of starvation for
    the sake of a white man’s quarrel in North Africa.” End quote.
-   *He launched the project to destroy Britain by mass Third World
    immigration.* Really? Quote from *The Guardian*, August 4th
    2007, [quote](https://www.theguardian.com/uk/2007/aug/05/race.past):
    “On 3 February 1954, under the agenda item ‘Coloured Workers,’
    Churchill is quoted, with abbreviations, by Cabinet Secretary Sir
    Norman Brook as saying: \[*inner quote*\] ‘Problems wh. will arise
    if many coloured people settle here. Are we to saddle ourselves with
    colour problems in UK? Attracted by Welfare State. Public opinion in
    UK won’t tolerate it once it gets beyond certain limits.’ \[*End
    inner quote*, end quote.\] Churchill believed, and said, that the
    U.K. should maintain a white super-majority … and he was of course
    right.

This denigration of Churchill is part of a larger project to convince us
that everything we thought we knew is wrong — to take a sledge-hammer to
the myths and legends that normal citizens carry around in our heads.

I saw this sentiment expressed very crisply and clearly the other day by
Melissa Chen of *The Spectator*. I hope the lady won’t mind if I quote
her at
length. [quote](https://x.com/MsMelChen/status/1831762332982374812):

In rehabilitating Hitler and villainizing Churchill, the Right has its
1619 Project and the goal is the same: moral inversion.

Scrambling the poles of good and evil and destroying the entire
foundation upon which the post-WWII order is built is to decimate
Western civilization and to ensure that everything good about our way of
life shall no longer endure.

The stakes are very high.

This is not to say that one can’t apply a critical eye to discuss the
missteps of even our cherished historical figures. This is not to say
that the West is not in decline.

But to obfuscate the moral vectors of these characters that played an
outsized role in shaping our history is a huge existential risk that
tears at the very foundation of our society, of civilization itself.

End quote. Thanks, Melissa.

**05 — Temporal isolationism**.     Wait, though. Shouldn’t we prefer
facts and truth to myths and legends?

Well, yes, we should; but facts and truth about past events are hard to
disentangle. Outside the Academy, few of us have the time or talents to
do the necessary research.

A decade or so ago, just home after spending a week in Russia, I wrote
the following thing, with that country in mind. [Quote from
self](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Straggler/109.html):

A nation, certainly a big nation that’s been around for a century or
two, is an impossible thing for a non-native to know fully. This is even
the case with “cousin” nations like Britain and America, sharing a
common language. After 30 years in the U.S., I am still banging my shins
against peculiarities of the American national character. With a nation
culturally more remote from the one you grew up in, the case is
hopeless. I can only shake my head in wonder at the arrogance of State
Department and military types who claim to have fathomed the Afghan or
Iraqi national character.

End quote.

Now I’ll form a syllogism. Just yoke that observation I made there with
the famous line that L.P. Hartley wrote a half-century
earlier, [quote](https://www.amazon.com/Go-Between-York-Review-Books-Classics/dp/0940322994/ref=sr_1_1):
“The past is a foreign country.” End quote. (Often misquoted as “the
past is *another* country.” End quote.)

If the past is a foreign country and foreign countries are ultimately
unfathomable, then the past is ultimately unfathomable, at any rate to
those of us who can’t give over their entire lives to studying it.

I do believe that. I’m not a trained historian. My knowledge of the past
has accumulated from a few decades of random reading. Where the
early-to-mid twentieth century is concerned, those readings have been
seasoned and colored somewhat by things I’ve heard from adults that I
grew up among, some of them [older than
Churchill](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/People/MotherParents/page.html).

Do I understand, for example, [the origins of
WW2](https://www.thefp.com/p/victor-davis-hanson-the-truth-about)? Well:
better than Condoleezza Rice understood the Iraqi national character, I
hope, but … not *much* better.

In that spirit, and looking back to my first segment, I’m going to
suggest what seems to me a sensible outlook.

That first segment was about isolationism, about the virtue of not
giving much of a damn what’s happening in foreign countries. I’m going
to call that “*spatial* isolationism.”

The sensible outlook I want to introduce is similar, but in the fourth
dimension: “*temporal* isolationism”: not giving much of a damn what
happened in times past.

As with spatial isolationism, we can’t help but give *somewhat* of a
damn, but we’d be wise not to make a hobby of it unless some university
will pay us a salary to do so.

With apologies to Edward Ring, that is *my* Two Types of Isolationism.

**06 — Much ADOS about nothing**.     Two weeks ago, in the August 23rd
podcast, [I wondered
aloud](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-08-23.html#06a) why
we’ve never had an ADOS candidate for President. ADOS, A-D-O-S, there
stands for American Descendant Of Slaves.

There is more to that than I reckoned. For one thing, as I noted in the
transcript of that podcast, Ann Coulter improved ADOS in a nationalist
direction by reshuffling the letters to DOAS, D-O-A-S. That’s
“Descendants of *American* slaves.” Not Haitian slaves, not Moroccan
slaves, … not anyone else’s slaves.

For another thing, I failed to notice that there is an ADOS
Movement, [founded in
2020](https://abcnews.go.com/US/controversial-group-ados-divides-black-americans-fight-economic/story?id=66832680) by
Yvette Carnell and Antonio Moore. The movement has
a [website](https://www.adosfoundation.org/), a podcast (I think),
a [Wikipedia
page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Descendants_of_Slavery),
a [hashtag](https://x.com/Amazon_Queenn), and I’m guessing, from what I
know about black-activist outfits in general, a handsome real-estate
portfolio.

Note that the ADOS Movement takes Ann Coulter as its inspiration,
although I’m sure they would rather die than admit it. They represent
only descendants of *American* slaves.

I have learned, in fact, that by touching on this topic I have landed on
a mighty iceberg, nine-tenths of which was utterly unknown to me.

For example: Let me introduce you to GAASA. No, that’s nothing to do
with current ructions in the Levant. GAASA is G-A-A-S-A. It stands for
“Generational African American Students Association” at Harvard
University. GAASA takes the Coulter view of authenticity. To join, you
have to be descended from enslaved black Americans.

You can read all about it in [an articled published by the
Harvard *Crimson*](https://www.thecrimson.com/article/2020/10/15/gaasa-scrut/) in
October 2020. I’ve just been browsing that article, and a couple of
things stopped my eye.

Thing One, quote:

Harvard has over fifteen Black organizations.

End quote.

That seems like a lot to me. “Over fifteen”? How much over? Why so many?
Is it a departmental thing: Black Math Students Society, Black
Anthropology Students Society, and so on? Or an identity thing: Disabled
left-handed black trans male students, and so on? Or what?

Thing Two, quote:

As a first-year, I once heard from a teaching fellow of the Introduction
to African American Studies course that GAA students make up 10 percent
of Harvard’s Black population. For the Class of 2022, that would mean
roughly 17 students.

End quote.

“GAA” there means “Generational African Americans,” what Ann Coulter —
who gets a passing mention in this *Crimson* piece, by the way — would
call DOAS. If they are only 10 percent of Harvard’s Black population,
presumably the other 90 percent are foreign blacks or the offspring
thereof, not descendants of American slaves.

As I said, a mighty iceberg. Would you like to hear about HASA, the
Harvard African Students Association? You wouldn’t? Eh, I can’t say I
blame you.

**07 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Another follow-up here. In last week’s podcast [I told
you](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-08-30.html#06a),
with supporting evidence, that Kamala Harris is seriously innumerate.

Innumeracy on the Kamala scale is not just a matter of being bad at
arithmetic. For all I know, the Vice President might be a whiz at long
division … I make no judgments there.

The problem — *her* problem, which her high office makes *our* problem —
is a problem not so much of calculation as of *imagination*. People who
are innumerate like that have no *feel* for numbers, no imaginative
grasp of what they mean.

Veterans of the immigration-restriction movement like your genial host
here are all too familiar with this particular deficiency. “Let them
come!” say our opponents. “They will bolster our workforce and enrich
our culture!” To which we reply wearily: “Do you know HOW MANY OF THEM
THERE ARE?”

It sometimes turns out that, yes, they *do* know. At any rate, they know
the words for the numbers. They just have no imaginative feel for what
the numbers *mean*.

Visual aids are useful here. When I was a high-school math teacher I
bought a book of graph paper ruled in millimeters and got to work with
scissors, paste, and a big board of plywood. A million is a thousand
times a thousand, so a million square millimeters fits into a square one
meter on each side, which is to say a little over 39 inches.

My students could then see, every day, on the classroom wall, a million
on plain display. I hope it stayed with them.

For the immigration issue in particular, a classic visual aid was the
Gumball presentation given by Roy Beck of NumbersUSA back in 2010. [It’s
on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l6tSqGCfoCI): just put the
words “gumball immigration” into the YouTube search box. If you fear
that you may be down there in the innumeracy swamp with Kamala Harris, I
urge you to check it out.

*Item*:  Browsing on X the other evening I suddenly found myself looking
at [Mrs
Derbyshire](https://x.com/MrAndyNgo/status/1831006282632860136) in a
post by the intrepid Andy Ngo.

My thoughts shot off on a tangent. Andy? He’s gay, isn’t he? Then I
looked at the accompanying text. No, it wasn’t Mrs D, just a lookalike,
a doppelganger.

The lady in Andy’s image was in fact Linda Sun, charged the other day in
a New York City federal court along with her husband for acting as an
undisclosed ChiCom agent.

In case anyone else spotted [the
resemblance](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington1997/2001-06-15bl.jpg),
let me make it perfectly clear that the John and Rosie Institute for the
Study of Xi Jinping Thought receives no funds whatsoever from the ChiCom
government, and that our monthly visits to the New York City Chinese
consulate are strictly for social purposes only.

*Item*:  Last Sunday, September 1st, marked thirty years since
publication of [*The Bell
Curve*](https://www.amazon.com/Bell-Curve-Intelligence-Structure-American/dp/0029146739/ref=tmm_hrd_swatch_0),
the book co-authored by [Charles
Murray](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/HumanSciences/Murray.html) and
the late Richard Herrnstein on intelligence and class structure in
American life.

In case you never heard of it, *The Bell Curve* shamelessly peddles the
totally discredited pseudoscience of so-called “intelligence testing”
and purposefully trashes our nation’s Declaration of Independence by
asserting that all men are *not* created equal. Some of us, these
mountebanks claim, are smarter than others.

To his everlasting shame, Charles Murray has never apologized for this
disgusting screed. He is, quite rightly, shunned by all respectable
people. If you see him coming towards you on the sidewalk, cross to the
other side of the road. You will thereby deliver a small blow for truth
and justice!

*Item*:  Hwæt! Over the pond in England the University of Nottingham are
expunging the term “Anglo-Saxon” from their courses. This, we are told,
is part of a move to a move to “decolonise the curriculum.”

Quote from a report in the *Daily Telegraph*, August
31st, [quote](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2024/08/31/anglo-saxon-cancelled-to-decolonise-university-courses/):

Teaching staff at Nottingham also ensure that module content aims at
\[*inner quote*\] “undercutting nationalist narratives” and
“essentialist ideas” \[*end inner quote*\] about nationality, meaning
the belief that English identity is distinct and confers fundamental
characteristics.

End quote.

Heaven forfend that students at an English university should stray into
the belief that English identity is distinct!

Oh, and if you’re wondering what that syllable was that I barked at the
beginning of this item, it was a “Hwæt!” If you have ever tried to
study [Anglo-Saxon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7h9TNfd9BCE&t=34s) —
oh, I beg your pardon: “Early medieval English” — you will understand.

**08 — Signoff**.     That’s it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for
your time and attention, for your emails and donations. And concerning
the latter, let me just repeat the mailing address for checks earmarked
to your genial host: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box 211,
Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759.

To see us out, I thought we’d hear some oboe music. I opened my August
Diary with [a long
segment](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-08.html#01) about
Blair Tindall’s 2005 book *Mozart in the Jungle*, which gives a vivid
account of the underside of life as a concert musician. Ms Tindall knew
all about it, having made her living playing the oboe in orchestras and
concert ensembles.

Ms Tindall died in April last year aged only 63. Browsing on YouTube I
found a rather touching tribute to her there on William Wielgus’
channel.

The visual component here is still pictures of Blair Tindall progressing
through life from infancy to her later days — the kind of things that
funeral parlors do for a photo display. Of course you are not getting
visuals on a podcast, but there’s a link in the transcript.

The soundtrack is Blair Tindall playing Carlos Franzetti’s Oboe
Concerto. It’s 26 minutes long in the YouTube tribute. Here on the
podcast I’ll just give the first two and a half minutes. That’s longer
than usual for my signoffs, but it’s a lovely piece of music. And come
on, confess with me: when was the last time you listened to a
performance in which an oboe was the main feature?

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
