---
title: "Narrative Doubt"
date: "2024-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32672"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32672"
---

An often-ignored lesson of the Roman Empire is that exhausted
institutions can stagger on for a long time on inertia. As long as there
is nothing ready or able to replace it, the thing can carry on like a
shuffling zombie. The Crisis of the Third Century should have collapsed
the Roman Empire, but there was nothing around to replace it, so it
could finally right itself enough to stagger on for another two
centuries. Even a terrible imperial order was better than no order at
all.

The same can be said for American conservatism. It has been dead as an
intellectual endeavor for a long time, but it staggers on, trying to
play the role for which it evolved in the latter quarter of the
twentieth century. The audience for its content is limited to the
nursing homes and retirement villages of America. Even in Washington,
where it has functioned as a usefully idiotic opposition to the people
we call the left, it has fallen on hard times. Conservative Inc. no
longer has a raison d’etre.

Superficially, the decline of American conservatism is a remarkable
thing, given its status at the turn of the century. Despite the Clinton
years, conservatism still seemed to be driving the conversation in
Washington. The failure of the first two years of the Clinton
administration looked like proof that America was a conservative country
and Conservative Inc represented the center of American politics. Today
it is a terminal patient living out its last days as relatives look at
their watches.

A level below the surface, there is the claim made by the people we
still call the left that conservatism lost its reason to exist at the
end of the Cold War. The argument they made back then was that
Conservative Inc primarily existed as an opposition to communism, at
home and abroad. The death of the Soviet Union meant conservatism no
longer had an enemy. It was the dog that caught the car. Unless it could
find a new purpose, it was following communism into the dustbin of
history.

At the time this seemed true enough, but as we know conservatism easily
found new bogey men abroad and the people we call the left were happy to
produce new sticks for conservatives to chase domestically. We got the
war on terror, the police state, and the old bogeyman of racism. What
the fall of communism did was remove the veil of ignorance so we could
see the true purpose of conservatism. It was the usefully idiotic
opposition to the prevailing orthodoxy.

The trouble is conservatism was too good at the role of easily beatable
opponent, which is why Donald Trump rose to power in 2016. It turns out
that they got so good at being an easily beatable opponent that a
flippant real estate mogul and reality television star was able to
steamroll through the party’s A-list candidates and did so in a way that
discredited the institution they represented. Conservatism was a house
of cards and Trump was able to huff and puff and blow that house down.

While it is true that American conservatism is dead as an intellectual
and organizational force, it still maintains its institutions and access
to billions in donations. The reason for that is nothing has come along
to replace it. There are efforts underway to fill that role either as
willing punching bag or loyal opposition, but so far Conservative Inc.
has kept a firm grip on the money spigot. As long as they have access to
billions, they can play the political version of Blanche DuBois for as
long as they like.

Nothing lasts forever and you get a sense of it in this <a
href="https://europeanconservative.com/articles/commentary/the-monumental-ignorance-of-candace-owens/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> from one of the minor zombies
shuffling about the cobwebbed halls of Conservative Inc. It is a version
of the point-and-shriek we got from the usual suspects when Tucker
Carlson had Darryl Cooper on to talk about historical narratives. We get
the ritualized emotivism these guys always put at the top of their posts
to let their masters know they are not going to be any trouble and then
it is the standard attack on Candace Owens.

What the post reveals is that these people do not see what is coming
next. The reason Tucker had Cooper on his show was not to make the case
for why Churchill was a villain, but to open the conversation about the
official narrative of the Second World War and by extension the American
century. In other words, the point was not to provide an alternative
history or answer reasonable questions about important events of the
official narrative, but to legitimize questioning of it.

The official orthodoxy of this moment rests on the official narrative of
the twentieth century and America’s role in it. It is what permits the
toppling of statues and the desecration of graves. The narrative of the
American century has allowed for a rewriting of the American story in
such a way that it not only justifies the official morality of this age
but forbids the questioning if it. Once people start questioning the
story, it is not long until they question the point of the story.

Candace Owens is not an intellectual or even a serious political actor,
but she is enormously popular with the sorts of people who used to
follow the lead of conservative stars and who want to believe they are
standing on the moral high ground. People like Candace Owens not only
validate their oppositions to the fruits of the official narrative, but
she also makes them feel good about questioning the narrative itself.
Questioning the official narrative strikes at the cultural heart of the
regime.

The writer of that post does not understand any of this because he lacks
the intellect and the necessary curiosity. The reason conservatism got
so good at being an easily beatable opponent is they selected for the
type of people who enjoy being on the losing end of every fight.
Critical to the slave morality of conservatism is a blinkered
shortsightedness focused only on the immediate goal of currying favor
with the master, or at least gaining her sympathy.

Like the Roman Empire, conservatism staggers on, mostly on the fumes of
past glory, but the signs of collapse are showing. In the third century,
it was the slow decentralization of power that foreshadowed the end of
empire. In this age, it is the slow awakening from the myth of the
twentieth century that foreshadows not only the end of conservatism but
the end of the regime itself. That is the thing about collapse. The
master does not see it coming, but neither do the slaves.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="GFO+5iVREAQe84Oo/PsifA==cb7tV8SYsl56daGMRVbsp8oRHeJXzRVOL7DoQx2qQG9YhKdgdKLS5RBUxYd8Id4TdkQ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Oj3O90DscHViV0nDZU+7Zw==cb7OA9lxUo3DsjV+wUPS9adNEfZvrEbdgsiCZnRr3eVBzxB0ocXVsX550QjjT505beY"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
