---
title: "America Inc."
date: "2024-06-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32157"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32157"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about grammar robots, a post
the general weirdness of dissident politics and the Sunday podcast,
which thankfully had nothing to do about Trump or the anti-Trump kooks.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the criticisms of the paleoconservatives is that they never got
around to formulating an explanation for why the managerial state
emerged. They did a good job describing it and how it differed from the
straightforward administrative bureaucracies that have been a part of
society since Diocletian. How the bureaucracy transitioned from
instrument of the ruling elite into a ruling elite itself has remained a
bit of mystery, with only some stabs here and there at an explanation.

The fault probably lies with Burnham, who was the first guy to create a
political theory from observing the emergence of the managerial system.
He wrote his most famous book, *The Managerial Revolution*, during the
Second World War when the Nazis were at the peak of their power.
Therefore, his understanding of managerialism was shaped by the militant
authoritarianism of it. Burnham was still a communist, so this no doubt
played a role in his understanding of managerialism.

The emergence of managerialism in interwar Europe is easy to explain
simply by pointing to the conditions that prevailed after the Great War.
Fascism emerged on the losing side of the war because of the chaos that
emerged as a result of the collapse of the old order and the general
lunacy of liberalism and communism as they fought to fill the void left
by the old order. Fascism rode the popular demand for a return of order
to power in places like German and Italy.

Once in power, the fascists had to actually govern. The existing
institutions they inherited were either badly damaged by the war and the
post-war chaos or antiquated holdovers from the prior era. Managerialism
provided both a blueprint for governing but also a source of authority.
Gather up the best people and set them to work rebuilding
infrastructure, the economy, and the state. Once they began to make
progress, public support for the system provided the necessary
legitimacy.

This model for managerialism being a modern, industrial response to both
the collapse of the old order and the chaos of the present works pretty
well for the emergence of it in communist Russia. The collapse of the
tsarist system and the Russian civil war left Russia as a chaotic mess.
Into that void flowed Stalin first inside the party and then as
something of an industrial age tsar. He gathered up and developed an
army of people to manage, govern and control the new Soviet society.

That same process does not work for America, where managerialism emerged
at the same time as it did in Europe. Many have noted the parallels
between FDR’s New Deal revolution and the emergence of fascism in
Europe. Until the war, many New Deal progressives were fans of
Mussolini. They never liked Hitler, due to his crudeness and
antisemitism, but they liked Mussolini. There was in the 1930’s a great
deal of cross pollination between the two systems.

America, however, was not emerging from a failed war and its political
order was not destroyed as a result of it. On the contrary, America was
remarkably stable in the aftermath of the economic collapse in the
1930’s and the political system seemed to be working very well. There is
no doubt that FDR revolutionized the relationship between the citizen
and the state during this period, but he did not do so in response to
the loss of legitimacy of the old arrangements.

It should also be noted that the managerialism that emerged in America
was different from the militaristic version that emerged in the fascist
countries, which built upon trench socialism. Similarly, Stalin’s
managerialism was a way to recapture the collective spirit of the
revolutionary years in which the Bolsheviks finally seized power and won
the civil war. The managerial revolution of FDR was softer and an
outgrowth of volunteerism of early America.

Therein lies a clue as to why managerialism emerged in America. Through
the 19th century, Americans were largely governed by local association.
Other than the post office and military service, the typical American
had little reason to think about the federal government. It was an
abstraction. Even state government played a limited role in his life
compared to local government and the community associations that defined
the life of most Americans.

The industrial revolution changed America by urbanizing large chunks of
the population, thus destroying rule by association for large numbers of
people. The shift from industrial work also changed the relationship
between the man and his work by making it individualistic rather than
communal. The failure of a farmer impacts many more people than the
farmer and his family. The failure of a factory worker is a burden only
on the worker and his family. Work became a solitary pursuit.

Like the rise of managerialism, the rise of individualism is one of
those things that many recognize as a problem, but no can explain. Why
all of a sudden did Europeans stop thinking collectively and start
thinking individually? Racial solidarity among Europeans was so natural
it did not require a vocabulary to describe. Today we have a vast array
of labels to describe white ethnic and racial solidarity, despite the
fact that it barely exists and only in the virtual reality of the
internet.

As work isolated men from one another, the natural response was to think
individually and see the man next you as competition. This was obviously
good for the factory owner, so work in many cases became a competitive
arena, a Hobbesian existence where the owner harnessed this war of all
against all to increase productivity, reduce costs and maximize profits.
The result was a class of citizen who was no longer defined by community
but by alienation from community.

This alienation inevitably led to unhappiness as man is a social animal
and evolved to be so within small groups. The emergence of masses of
Americans living in big cities fighting one another for wages lead to a
disenchantment of the world. The rise of urban political machines was
one consequence. Another consequence was a looking inward for spiritual
happiness. When community can no longer provide a larger purpose to
life, the only option is to seek it individually.

The shift from community man to individual man naturally leads to the
individual abandoning his duties to the community. Self-government rests
on the assumption that the bulk of the citizens have a moral duty to the
whole. Who they are is not just what they have or even what they
contribute to the whole. A big part of what defines the community man’s
sense of self is the success of his community. Individual man lacks this
entirely, so he has no reason to participate.

This is the same void of order into which managerialism flowed in
interwar Europe and post-tsarist Russia. The tutelary state that emerged
in America in the 20th century was not imposed on an unwilling populace,
but simply filled the void left by a growing population of people
uninterested in anything outside their window. Urban and now suburban
peasants needed the protection of the state because as atomized
individuals, they were no longer willing to participate in their own
protection.

This is why the state has also become a church of sorts. Much of what
the managerial state does is moral guidance. Painting rainbows on
crosswalks and then daring anyone to defile them is intended to create
sinners so the priests of the system can punish those sinners thus
providing the needed moral instruction. What used to be done by
community pressure and the local minister is now done by credentialled
members of a faceless and remorseless managerial class.

Managerialism is the natural form of government for an industrial people
as it mimics the life of the industrial worker. Republican government
and aristocratic government reflected the reality of the people, who
were primarily organized around communal activities like farming and
trade. Twentieth century America turned into a continent-sized business
park occupied by one business, American Inc. Like every business,
America Inc. needed a management class, so it  got one.

The question is can this model survive the post-industrial age? America
began to deindustrialize fifty years ago. The old industrial model of
governance has tried to adapt to the transition to the information
economy, but managing information is vastly more difficult than managing
capital and labor. In fact, it may not even be possible to manage
information without poisoning the minds of the managers. The current
crisis may simply be due to this problem.

On the other hand, it may be that you cannot have a society organized
around marshaling data and data frameworks. Perhaps America Inc. is
simply a legacy business parasiting off the societies that continue to
make things, fix things, dig things from the ground and invent things.
Perhaps the end point of managerialism is the same for all antiquated
business models. The current crisis is the struggle to avoid the
inevitable bankruptcy of the managerial system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4sIK79cy2nHRVDG0zRvvnQ==cb7RnU3uAGOOewg8UZVpKimUCUNjmzt0AXReg68bOIdXW0B4sEzyO9w1RcTEsuc8S9c"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="omIm5qHH6CS+vXK28dvOnw==cb7rDN+Cr0q4nNAG76LJDF+rheFb6h83a1/UsSAa2lWlsezDbATsLquHbWJ5Jw2dOJM"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
