---
title: "Starting A New Religion"
date: "2024-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32584"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32584"
---

There are three things true about the modern West and all three of them
are connected to the issue of religion. One is the obvious fact that the
religion of the West, Christianity, is in steep decline. The second is
that the West itself is in a steep cultural decline, which may be the
result of the decline of Christianity, or it could be another symptom of
a deeper issue behind both of those problems. Then there is the ongoing
invasion and subjugation of European people in their own lands.

Objectively, occidental people look more like Native Americans right
now, in terms of the things we can measure, than their ancestors of the
last century. Low birth rates, declining life spans, rampant
discrimination against people of European heritage, drug and alcohol
abuse. Like the Indians on the reservation, European people now live at
the pleasure of an alien ruling elite. As we are seeing in the UK,
European people no longer have their ancient rights in their own lands.

What needs to happen to arrest this process is for occidental people to
fight back against the gathering darkness. For that to happen, people
need to be inspired to sacrifice for something and the best way to get
people to sacrifice is through the mechanism of religion. A healthy
people have a religion that reflects what they love and celebrate about
themselves. This is what provides the motivation to sacrifice present
happiness for the future happiness of their people.

The trouble with this line of thought is that the religion of the West,
Christianity in its various forms, is in total collapse. That means
creating a new religion, but new religions do not have a great track
record. Not only that, the secular religion of the West, liberalism, is
drenched in Christian priors. If you want to start a new religion, you
not only have to contend with the old religion, but that which has
slowly displaced it in the name of secularism and openness.

On the other hand, you could take a page from the last successful new
religion, Mormonism, and create a spinoff of sorts. It is debatable as
to whether Mormonism is a Christian denomination. Members of The Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints consider themselves Christians.
They share many Christian beliefs, such as the divinity, crucifixion,
and resurrection of Jesus Christ. In the end it does not matter much as
they managed to make it work and continue to thrive.

In other words, the Mormons rebooted Christianity in a new religion that
served the needs of a growing number of people who did not see what they
wanted or needed in the existing Christian denominations. Another way of
putting it is a group of religious entrepreneurs saw an untapped market
and created a product that fit the needs of this underserved market for
religion. They set about creating a new religion, using many of the
familiar parts of the existing religion.

The first task of Joseph Smith and his early converts was to create a
new moral authority for his new religion. In order to avoid the trap of
current interpretation of Scripture, Smith said he was visited by an
angel who led him to the “golden plates” which would form the basis of a
new religious text and the foundation of the religion we call Mormonism.
The Book of Mormon is not another Gospel or considered Scripture, but it
sits alongside Scripture for the believers.

The important thing about this additive process is that Smith was
recentering the moral authority of Christians between the God of the Old
Testament and the God of Jesus and the New Testament. The Hebrew God is
masculine, cruel, and often terrifying, while the God of Jesus is
infinitely merciful and benevolent. God of the Old Testament is a
warrior who loves the smell of burning flesh. The God of the New
Testament is a loving mother who always forgives you, no matter what.

By the 19th century the Christian God was becoming something of an alien
weirdo, especially to men. How could a man trust a God who cannot savor
the thrill of dominating his opponent or who cannot enjoy sin? What is
the point of worshipping a God who will forgive you if you fail to
worship him? Men sacrifice their goods and their person, not because of
trust, but because of fear, a fear of the consequences of doing
otherwise, either from their fellows or from their God.

The Christian was no longer a sinner in the hands of an angry God, but a
sinner who was clutched to the bosom of a loving God. The former did not
care if sin was an inevitable plight of man. You were still going to be
punished. The latter did not care if you sinned or that you did so with
guilt free enthusiasm. You were welcomed into the Kingdom of Heaven just
as long as you accepted Christ. The masculine God was gone from the
house of man and the feminized God was in charge.

What Mormonism did was recreate the authority of Christianity as
something that could both inspire men and terrify them. It is from this
reimagined authority that the new rules of the new religion rest. Modern
Mormonism may have been feminized over time, like everything else, but
there is no doubting its initial masculine appeal. A God that promises
men multiple wives is a God who both loves man and also enjoys, at
times, tormenting him with too much of what he desires.

The other thing about this new masculine God and his new followers was
that they were exclusive and it was not easy to join this new religion.
Anything that is easy to obtain quickly loses its value and this was the
curse of Christianity by the 19th century. To be a Christian of any
type, maybe multiple types, was no more challenging that buying a new
suit or changing fashion styles. Then as now, the mature Christian
denominations asked nothing from the believers other than cash.

The early Mormons had to suffer, and to some degree they are still
required to suffer, due to their peculiar habits. Smith and his
followers were chased around the Midwest by angry mobs who viewed them
as dangerous heretics, until an angry mob eventually killed Smith and
his brother. Smith was a martyr for his cause, but unlike Christ, he was
not a martyr in denial of human reality, but a martyr in service to the
people of his new religion, thus an example for all of them.

Regardless of how you feel about Mormonism, it is a great example of how
to form a new religion from the rubble of Christianity. Smith was the
product of the Second Great Awakening, a period of renewal for
Protestant sects that had lost their way and a time for new approaches
to the life of Christ. Adventism and Dispensationalism also came from
this period of religious revival. The Social Gospel Movement also had
roots in the Second Great Awakening.

If any society and people are due for another “great awakening” it is
the people of the occident who find themselves on the cusp of oblivion.
If you are thinking about starting a new religion or resurrecting an old
religion, now is a good time, as there are millions of people unhappy
with the current offerings. It might also be a good time to reimagine
God as something more terrifying than the benevolent old black guy who
is happy to drive around Miss Daisy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="jWRGyGO5lU+m2JqC2vthmg==cb7GjocQlC/CNcS8rsuX5MClv2iiiD5t0SwE1PMMFmToQZgDWcRax6iXZ8iknsvs+KO"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="A7ZLYLZfaH5Drci+079Vpg==cb7i87q0nRznq73uYFxXy5bvlDcrTPJl7niBukVPQixxlfOhhErFcUZr+RhwJfNPKN3"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
