---
title: "Fifth Column State"
date: "2024-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31375"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31375"
---

No one knows for sure who coined the term “fifth column” but it seems to
have originated in Spain during the civil war. Legend has it that Franco
said in a telegram that there were four Nationalist columns approaching
Madrid, and a fifth column waiting to attack from the inside. Given that
the telegram was discovered long after the phrase was in use suggests
another source, but maybe Franco used this phrasing in other formats and
that is how it got into circulation.

A fifth column is a group of people that conspire to undermine a larger
group from within by disguising themselves as supporters. It is not just
random individuals who disagree with official policy, like protestors.
The members of the fifth column coordinate their efforts with an outside
group, usually an enemy of the group. Unlike spies, who are usually
motivated by greed or resentment, the members of the fifth column have a
primary loyalty to the outside group for whom they work.

This is all relevant today as the client list of Jeffrey Epstein makes
the rounds and is used by partisans in the usual partisan way. Lost in
the usual bellowing is the fact that Epstein was an agent of a foreign
state. The most likely explanation for his existence is that he was paid
to get dirt on prominent Americans. He was running what people in the
wilderness of mirrors call a honey trap. He used girls and boys to play
on the sexual weaknesses of his targets on his island in the Caribbean.

Of course, the foreign state for whom Epstein worked was Israel. His
long-time paramour was Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of Ian Robert
Maxwell, whose real name was Ján Ludvík Hyman Binyamin Hoch. Maxwell was
a high-level intelligence officer for Mossad his entire life. So high
level, in fact, that when he died, all of the living leaders of Israel
showed up at his burial. More important, six former heads of Mossad were
there, and Maxwell was buried on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem.

It could very well be a one in six million coincidence that Epstein was
hooked up with the daughter of the most prominent spy in Israeli
history, but the law of parsimony says that this was not a coincidence.
It does not take long to see gaps in Epstein’s official biography, so we
know he was not a middling school teacher who suddenly discovered he was
an investment genius. Someone was underwriting his operation, and the
most likely culprit is the state of Israel.

Espionage is as old as nations, so it should come as no surprise that
Israel spies on America and Americans. It relies on American stupidity
and generosity to underwrite the Zionist project, so informational
asymmetry is important to them. It is why Israel stole nuclear material
from a United States company, even though it resulted in a massive
contamination of an area around Pittsburgh. The
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Apollo_Affair" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Apollo Affair</a> was just part of a program to use
America to further the Zionist project.

The Epstein case and the Apollo affair have another link. Unlike most
espionage cases, the people doing the treachery were not motivated by
greed. The oldest and most successful way of turning someone into a spy
is to give them money. As George Washington said, no man is so virtuous
as to refuse the highest bidder. Most men with secrets to sell are not
particularly virtuous. In the case of Israeli spying, money was not the
primary motivation for these crimes.

This is where the fifth column concept comes into the picture. One of
the most aggressive and powerful lobbies in Washington is the Israel
lobby. This is something everyone knows, but most people are afraid to
discuss. Pat Buchanan was anathematized for pointing out the obvious.
The Israel lobby does not limit itself to bribing politicians. It is
everywhere in America. These documentaries
(<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ceCOhdgRBoc" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>,
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lSjXhMUVKE" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>) done by Al Jazeera a few years ago are a good
primer.

The American Israel Public Affairs Committee, AIPAC, is one of the
wealthiest and most powerful lobbying groups in America. Their primary
reason to exist is to convince Americans, especially politicians, that
the interests of Israel are the primary interest of America, and
therefore can never be questioned. It is right there on their
<a href="https://www.aipac.org/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">website</a>, so it is not as if they are hiding it.
Prominent Zionist like Joel Pollak and Ben Shapiro make this precise
argument every day.

Up until now, no one has cared about this as the cost of underwriting
Israel was small and times were generally good. Times have changed and
people are naturally wondering if a luxury item like money to Israel is
a good idea. Billions in Israel funding is jammed up in Congress because
the line of foreigners demanding billions is getting long and the needs
of Americans are not being met. Millions of foreigners are flooding over
the border and Biden is worried about Israel and Ukraine.

What all of this points to is a defect of democracy. The American
concept of democracy is a continent sized town hall meeting. It is a
marketplace of ideas where competing interests hash it out with one
another. Since it is a marketplace, it means everything, and everyone is
for sale. This is how foreign interests like the Israel lobby are able
to turn the instrument of American democracy to their favor at our
expense. It is also how economic elites can <a
href="https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/perspectives-on-politics/article/testing-theories-of-american-politics-elites-interest-groups-and-average-citizens/62327F513959D0A304D4893B382B992B"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">undermine</a> public will.

Imagine you are the king of a country and one of your advisors, a fellow
with unusual headgear, is constantly lobbying you on behalf of a
principality. At first you think he just favors that prince but then you
learn he is related to that prince. Not only that, but he is also part
of a network that is loyal to that prince. You will have that advisor
sent to the tower because that person has misrepresented himself and he
has worked to undermine you to the benefit of a potential rival.

In American style democracy, this logic is flipped on its head. The
people’s representatives all come with a price tag on their chest.
Anyone, foreign or domestic, can buy their loyalty. The reason the
Israel lobby exists at all is the system rewards those who lavish
politicians with money. It is the reason that every congressman quickly
moves from representative of his people to Washington to Washington’s
representative to the people of his district.

It is why America is a fifth column state, because it is defined by the
players who operate like fifth columns. Israel is just one of the best
at the game, but every country has a similar operation going in
Washington. People forget that the Chinese bankrolled the Clinton
operation. <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/special/campfin/stories/trie052299.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Charlie Trie</a> was just a good ol’ boy
from Arkansas, when he was not a bagman for the Chinese government. When
everything has a price, nothing has any value and that is what we get
from our political system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="DEuu/lrkKU04U9X5FT01UA==cb7pgJhjiw+KNcmz0wMIQ9Mxm5Tjtx+MP8WhpdJv6ewNrK8xKchoVLbtK1WuiEgrzFu"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="DDNJrI/0PDZArwh80XcWJw==cb7XyH9sL4Br1iDNdjuvQ/Gt44gUWYqKoMf86zBDVCYMPP0potFPR3VuuzKAYxSmBCy"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
