---
title: "The God Of The Clouds"
date: "2024-02-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31642"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31642"
---

One of the things about the current age that gets little attention is
the contradiction we see every day in the political system. On the one
hand, most people think the political system is captured by minority
interests like corporations, the military industrial complex,
ideological fanatics and so on. At the same time, the political class
puts an enormous amount of time and energy into convincing the public.
If public opinion plays little role in policy, why do the politicians
care what we think?

First off, there is the question of whether public opinion matters.
Paradoxically, many of the people who claim government is controlled by
minority interests put a lot of time into convincing people of this
theory. They also make claims about the nature of the minority interests
that are absurd. For example, white men are claimed to have special
access to power, when this is clearly not true. For this class of
critic, “minority interests” are whatever bogeyman haunts their fevered
dreams of utopia.

Ten years ago there was a big
[study](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/perspectives-on-politics/article/testing-theories-of-american-politics-elites-interest-groups-and-average-citizens/62327F513959D0A304D4893B382B992B)
to determine if public opinion matters when it comes to the making of
public policy. By the standards of social science, the data set was
massive and comprehensive. The result was that economic elites control
public policy, not majority will. If rich people want something from
government, they tend to get it barring overwhelming public opposition.
If the people want something but rich people oppose it, then the
politicians are happy to ignore the people.

To the realists, this makes perfect sense. In every area of life, rich
people have far more influence than regular people. This has been true
since the first guy drew a line around some land and declared sole
ownership of it. Wealth is power because it can be used to buy
influence, but also because people tend to respect money. It is a sign
that the person is successful and therefore has qualities we should
respect. Even the most radical leftists respects rich people. Just as
George Soros.

This answers the question as to who really controls the political system
in the general sense, but it does not cover everything. Do the economic
elites of the West want a long war in Ukraine? Maybe in the United
States the war profiteers see it as a good thing, but European industry
has been getting killed by the war. Similarly, environmentalism benefits
some profiteers, like Elon Musk, but it harms many others. Clearly, rich
people can be cajoled into supporting things that harm their interests.

That starts to get at the question as to why the ruling class puts so
much time and effort into tricking the public. If you look at lists of
the richest people, the one thing lacking in the vast display of wealth
is diversity of opinion. You do not find immigration opponents, for
example, in the Fortune 1000. There are no zealous Christian Nationalist
or even serious opponents of Zionism. There are degrees of enthusiasm
for the latest thing among the elites, but everyone supports the latest
thing.

No one, not even the sociopaths who populate the economic elite, wants
to think of themselves as the bad guy. They may embrace a mock version
of being the devilish figure in the drama of life, but no one thinks of
himself as the devil. No matter your station in life, you are the hero
of your story. What supports this is others taking your side in some
moral cause. It is why people like sympathy and forgiveness when they do
something stupid or get harmed. It means they are the good guy.

The reason our elites chant about democracy so much now is they not only
believe what they are saying, but they have to believe what they are
saying. In order for them to maintain their sense of being the hero,
they need some moral authority to bestow upon them the blessings that
are reserved for the righteous. The support of their fellow elites is
not enough. In this age, the righteous have the support of the masses,
so that is why our elites invest so much in winning public approval.

The god of democracy is not the god of the people. It is a process that
turns the people into a fickle god that must be cajoled and bullied in
order to give its blessing. In order for our rulers to see themselves as
heroically leading mankind to the next phase of human existence, they
need the people to be cheering them. Like the deranged rulers of Rome
who staged games to win public acclaim, our rulers stage mass media
events, public festivals like elections and public relations campaigns.

In a way, our rulers are acting the same way as the people who go door
to door handing out information about their cult. On the one hand, these
people think they are giving away something beneficial. They are
offering people a way into their cult. On the other hand, they are
looking for confirmation. If even a few people show some interest, it
confirms to them that their beliefs have some merit. The conversion
process in all religions is for the benefit of the converted.

Unlike a religious cult, our rulers resent this relationship. It is a
weird aspect of the morality of democracy that it corrupts the soul of
the believer. They begin to hate the god they are forced to worship. Our
elites hate the marketplace, whether it is the economic market or the
political one. It is why they seek monopoly. If they can so dominate the
market that they always get majority support, they have tamed their god
into always being a loving and approving god.

Of course, nature abhors a monopoly, so that means our elites are always
in a contest with the Old Scratch of democracy, which is dissent. As
long as there is one person out there who disagrees it remains possible
that the opinion of the elites is invalid or even immoral, despite the
level of support. Much of the venom directed at the public by our elites
is the result of this reality. Final confirmation can only come when the
final dissident is wiped from the scene.

Hans-Hermann Hoppe famously picked “*Democracy*:
*The God* *That Failed*” for the title of his book promoting private
government. It contains many of the themes in this post, but it misses
one essential point. Democracy is not a god that fails the people or
even society, but a god that can never satisfy the ruling elite. Every
ruling needs a god, as they must stand on a moral framework. All
societies start from a moral basis and it must feel permanent. Democracy
is simply too fickle for the task.

In the end, that is why our rulers and their servants in politics and
the media so frantically chase after public opinion. It is why vast
amounts of capital are invested into tricking the people. Like the
rabbis looking for loopholes in the Talmud, our rulers are always
looking for some way to get justification from the public for their
actions and their position, but they always find dissidents. For them,
democracy is a god that always brings the devil with him to undermine
their efforts.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="5fdtUxa4MY0dNeq37B91QQ==cb7TK18XDklaeeyymQw/kSS9RKXzQb6Ts6tg7faq19P9D2r0RYpCHX0898VuiGgv/Nv"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="QDTXQ27vTtWs/NgvUW/cBg==cb77uMIFIxfV9EJizfyMWO0NIZ/eJARiC8Jr38NvB0OJCznpw8byefXh5MW5kBWCJ/F"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
