---
title: "Winners & Losers"
date: "2024-09-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32622"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32622"
---

In sports, when a team prepares for a game, they think about all of the
ways they can defeat the other team within the rules of the game. The
good teams will be as expansive as possible when it comes to the rules
of the game. If something is not explicitly forbidden, then they will
assume it is permitted, even if convention and the unwritten rules of
the game discourage it. The reason for this is the goal is to win, not
uphold the traditions and customs of the game.

This is often the difference between winners and losers. The winners are
always “pushing the envelope” when it comes to the rules. These are the
guys for whom new rules are created because they discovered a loophole
in the rules that gives them an advantage but might undermine the game.
The people charged with protecting the game then make a new rule to
close that loophole. The losers, in contrast, rarely think about finding
loopholes and new interpretations of the rules.

Further, when the winner loses, he immediately begins to think about how
to get around the limitations he sees to his success. Maybe it means
changing how he or his team prepares for games. Maybe it is a fresh look
at the rules that prevented him from doing what he needed to win. The
loser, on the other hand, simply accepts that he lost and will often
justify it within the rules of the game. The winner was simply better
and that proves the rules, traditions or customs of the game are sound.

Put another way, the winners in all forms of competition look at the
rules, traditions, and customs as a means to an end. The end is always
victory. If the rules serve his ends, then he is a lover of the rules,
but as soon as the rules prove inconvenient to his success, then he is
an enemy of the rules. The loser is always a lover of rules, as they
provide him comfort when he inevitably loses. The rules allow him to
think that his role as loser is integral to the functioning of those
rules.

This is why slavering works. The modern loser likes to think that
slavery died out in America because it was bad economics, but this is
nonsense. Slavery was fantastically successful as an economic practice.
Slavery ended in America because the winners saw slavery as an obstacle
to their success. The slave states wielded power derived from the
practice of slavery that the northern states wished to overcome, so they
decided to change the rules to rid the country of slavery.

The American Civil War is a complicated topic, but the index card
version is familiar to anyone familiar with sports. The North kept
losing to the South within the rules of the game of politics as set
forth in the Constitution. Therefore, they did what winners always seek
to do and that is change the rules. They won the Civil War by not
allowing the rules, traditions, or customs of the young country to get
in their way. Ever since, they have used control of the rules to secure
victory.

Slavery itself is a great example of how winners and losers look at the
rules, traditions, or customs as justification for their status. There
is no greater lover of slavery than the slave, as the rules of slavery
protect him from the whims of his master. The slave knows that as long
as he upholds the rules, his master will show him mercy and kindness, so
he is the great enforcer of the rules on his fellow slaves. One reason
slaves seldom revolt is they prefer subjugation over uncertainty.

For his part, the master understands that the rules of human conduct
among the slave owning class are a great tool to maintain the slave
mentality of his slaves. His mercy and kindness is doled out like treats
to a dog. He is not compelled by the rules to show his slaves mercy or
kindness, so he does it as it suits him. This leaves the slave always
seeking those things from his master, just as the dog is always ready
for the pat on the head or the pleasant sounds from his owner.

In this age, we see this master and slave relationship between the
people we call the left and the people we call the right. The former
looks at the rules as a means to an end and that end is always getting
what they want. Even the rules of physical reality are subject to
interpretation if they prove difficult. In the hands of the people we
call the left, the rules that supposedly regulate every aspect of life
are merely the whip in the hands of the masters, who apply it to ensure
obedience.

The people we call the right see the rules as every slave sees the
rules, which is as a source of shelter from the uncertainty of their
masters wrath. They invest their time in polishing their principles in
the same way the house slave makes sure to always be seen busy tidying
up the master’s house. This is a sign of subservience. David French is
at the New York Times for the same reason the field slave rises to
become the master’s manservant. He is the most resolute loser.

This is one reason the regime despises Trump. Unlike conservatives, the
slaves of the system, he does not look at the rules as a security
blanket. He wants to win so he is willing to reinterpret the rules to
suit his needs. The people in charge see this as a challenge because
they understand what it takes to win. A charismatic loser is easy to
control, but a winner, even a boorish and thumbless one, is dangerous,
because winners never stop trying to win.

It is also why the “right-wing influencers” have their panties in a
twist over the Trump general election campaign. Despite their pretense
to the contrary, the “right-wing influencer” is just another
manifestation of the conservative loser. They suffer from the same slave
mentality as all conservatives. Doing anything to win offends them
because winning terrifies them. People born to be, at best, beautiful
losers fear nothing more than winning as it reveals the ugliness of
their reality.

Trump is far from a revolutionary character, but within the Trump
phenomenon lies the seeds of a future revolt against the regime. That
seed is the understanding that what matters is winning. That which
serves the cause of winning is used and that which hinders success is
discarded. Whatever rises up to topple this regime will not be
constrained by the love for rules or the desire to follow the rules.
They will be motivated only by winning, by any means necessary.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="dh29TSXpMgmBTFETGiNnDA==cb7VDSURaft4LWGvBUqN/ru1BnOAnak0VYML2AM4IrcGyzqBHox5zibHLoL2WGTympB"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="zh8uyBeooFxisG/kURaPCQ==cb7JoKVapAY4zkq8nrOEPFTwE1csOi3h8f/uSSBze79O14HkOpKZyb+t4e60MOc+Ohf"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
