---
title: "The Racial Binary Test"
date: "2024-10-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32919"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32919"
---

There are issues that turn out to be litmus tests which tell us
something about how certain people truly think about their politics.
Covid, for example, revealed that many people who sounded like skeptics
of the current regime were still willing to accept without question the
claims of the regime. The war in Ukraine is another example where people
who were media skeptics fell in line with the media narrative. Covid and
Ukraine were tests of trust in the institutions.

These types of litmus test issues tell us where someone is mentally on
that line that runs between those who trust the system and its
institutions and those who no longer trust the system and its
institutions. Those who wore masks and Ukraine lapel pins are at the
pro-regime end of the scale, while those who rejected and criticized
this stuff are on the other end of the scale. In both cases, we learned
that some people were not that far along the path from the pro-regime
pole.

There are other issues that are larger and more enduring that also work
as a sorting mechanism in the churn of politics. In the mass media age,
it is much easier for someone to pose as something, but not really be
that something. Profilicity is not simply about creating a profile you
present to parts of the world, but also the ability to quickly take down
and respawn that profile with modifications. There are certain topics,
however, that get to the nature of the person playing the character.

One of those issues is race, specifically racism. Unlike those prior
litmus test issues, this is not one that exists on a scale. It is a
binary issue. You either accept or reject the normative and positive
claims baked into the word racism. There are those who think it is
immoral to make decisions based on race and those who reject the idea
that this behavior is immoral. There are those who reject the objective
reality of race and those who accept what the human sciences tell us.

There is no middle ground on the race issue, even though lots of people
seek to profit by occupying what they think is a middle ground. An <a
href="https://www.compactmag.com/article/against-racialism-left-and-right/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">example</a> is this Compact Magazine post
by Christopher Rufo. He is getting rich being a non-woke liberal or
anti-woke civic nationalist, depending upon your label preference. The
key to this character is the sort of triangulation Bill Clinton made
famous. You see, he not only rejects left-wing racism, but he also
rejects right-wing racism!

There is nothing new about this position. It was a popular in the 1980’s
when it seemed like the culture was moving beyond race as a political
weapon. The good people treated everyone as an individual. The bad
people judged people on generalities. That meant the race hustlers like
Jesse Jackson were just as bad as the old white racists from the civil
rights narrative. They were judging people collectively. Like everything
in this age, the new right and its new characters are just reboots of
old material.

That aside, what you see with Rufo is that he does not understand the
material and he embraces the morality of the people he claims to oppose.
He opposes critical race theory not because it is nonsense, but because
they acknowledge the centrality of race in American society. Rufo is an
anti-racist, which means he thinks it is immoral to acknowledge the
reality of race and especially immoral to act on it. In this regard, he
agrees with Ibram X. Kendi, but only differs in presentation.

Further, Rufo does not seem to understand how we reached the point in
American society where whites are under constant assault through these
corporate and government diversity programs. He seems to think that the
reason these programs exist is the people behind them are dumb or
craven. Somehow, they tricked the leaders of the most powerful
intuitions to embrace a form of racism. He may as well claim that these
people are witches, who cast a spell over the institutions.

The fact is, these antiwhite pogroms, whatever you want to call them,
are the logical outcome of generations of jurisprudence. The “Brown
Test”, named for the famous Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka
decision, implemented a set of racial and cultural standards that
effectively eliminated free association and made openness the standard
against which everything is measured. In effect, it made anything that
results in racial inequality both illegal and immoral.

That means it is impossible to have a color-blind society under the
Brown doctrine because it would lead to racial inequality. The
underlying assumption of Brown and the entire moral edifice that sprang
from it is that any racial inequality, not matter how trivial, must be
the result of discrimination by whites. Therefore, a colorblind society
that has racial inequality will mean that color blindness is the cause.
It is why people like Ibram X. Kendi can reasonably say color blindness
is racism.

This is what makes race a binary issue. You either understand the moral
reasoning that lies behind the novelty of the word “racism” or you do
not and simply accept it as part of your ethics. You either understand
and accept the reality of race as a biological matter or you reject it
and embrace the blank slate ideology. There is no middle position and no
way to pick a few things from one column and a few from the other to
create yourself a bespoke racial awareness.

In fairness, Rufo probably understands this, but the money in seeming to
not understand it is too good to turn down. Even though the logic of the
open society has led America down a dangerous moral and social
cul-de-sac, the economic and managerial elites continue to cling to the
moral framing of it. Cultural inertia is a real thing that drags along
even the most powerful people and institutions. When there is no profit
in opposition, there is no opposition.

The opposition we see among some elites to DEI and critical race theory
rests in their own racial awareness. Jewish donors to elite colleges
have grown concerned that they are now treated as white and therefore
targets for the diversity rackets. Asians resent the racial spoils
system that limits their access to elite institutions. The fact that
whites may benefit from this opposition is incidental. Once again, we
see that in politics, racial or otherwise, it is about who shall
overcome whom.

Regardless of motivations, the people promoting the concept of a
colorblind society are unwilling to address the root causes. Further,
they fail to see that they are advocating a far more radical version of
what Brown demands. To achieve the colorblind society, it means either
eradicating those who see race or so terrorizing them that they pretend
not to see race. The colorblind dogma makes anti-racism sound reasonable
and its implementation would make the Khmer Rouge seem tame.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="vcpgvH7yPh4YvHAgBAVvdQ==cb7KjUj51GBryWpqev3NqYxSaCGUPN68Uf06D0pe9VSxp6/OLkSqlMTAA/G59CmchuG"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Ysiz9N9dWMbunH8MhW4Z5A==cb7YcYJG+ioGRTY/kG6t+0P8YcQnCkFvzXTbzfU9Ljq/Q2XruVf1E4JAiibycntq3jG"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
