---
title: "The Great Panic"
date: "2024-05-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-05-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32005"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32005"
---

Ever since the Hamas attacks on October 7th, 2023, the American empire
has been convulsed by increasingly deranged tremors. The Israelis
adopted a policy that on the surface makes little sense. All it has done
is poison relations with the Arabs and much of the world. In America,
both political parties have gone nuts in response to the attacks,
Israel’s response, and the reaction to that response. Peak madness may
be Lindsey Graham <a
href="https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/sen-lindsey-graham-says-israel-whatever-comparing-war-gaza-hiroshima-n-rcna151828"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">suggesting</a> Israel uses nukes on Gaza.

Graham, of course, is trying to show he is the most Zionist of Zionists
in a party that makes Likud look dovish. Elected Republicans are
obsessed with Israel to the point where even pro-Israel supporters are
suffering from severe cringe. <a
href="https://www.cruz.senate.gov/newsroom/videos/watch/sen-cruz-speaks-at-press-conference-on-biden-administration-withholding-weapons-from-israel"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is Ted Cruz claiming that no one
came to the aid of Jews in the Second World War and that Israel has had
to go it alone. The logic here is that you are either on the side of
unconditional support for Israel or you are Hitler.

One reason for this, of course, is the power of AIPAC. Thomas Massie has
opposed the blank check to Israel, so AIPAC has <a
href="https://jewishinsider.com/2024/05/aipac-united-democracy-project-thomas-massie-israel-record-primary-kentucky/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">launched</a> both a smear campaign
against him, but also a television campaign in his state. AIPAC has been
<a href="https://www.aipacpac.org/2024election" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">threatening</a> politicians around the country with what
could best be described as a “stand with Israel or you get two in the
hat” marketing campaign. The only thing missing is a pic of Kennedy
slumped over in the car as his wife tries to keep his head together.

The madness is not contained to the street level politics. The normally
sober minded David Goldman, the man behind the Spengler column in the
Asia Times, <a
href="https://americanmind.org/salvo/christian-nationalism-and-israel/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">posted</a> a crazy rant about Christian
Nationalism at the Claremont site, *American Min*d. In that post he
seems to suggest that Christians do not deserve their own nations and
must worship Israel if they want to survive. It is a bit of mask
dropping that you only ever see from fringe players in the diaspora.

All of this raises the question as to what is happening here? The large
and well-funded philosemitic ecosystem seems to be shaking itself to
pieces. The trigger for this lurch into madness was the Hamas attack,
which the people in this ecosystem demand be treated like a world
defining event, when in reality it was just another reprisal in a long
running blood feud between the Arabs and Jews. For some reason, it is
not seen as such by these people. Instead, it is an inflection point.

One reason for this is the changes inside Israel. The old guard is
reaching its demographic end point. Since its founding, Israel has been
controlled by Ashkenazi Jews, mostly from the diaspora. The other Jewish
tribes, particularly the Mizrahi, have been spectators. The Mizrahi are
the Jews who have always been in the Middle East, as opposed to those
who migrated with the Roman Legions into Europe. Mizrahi is a modern
term that means “eastern.”

The dominance of westernized Ashkenazi Jews has meant that Israeli
politics has reflected the politics of the American empire. One side has
taken the dovish view of Arab relations, and the other side has taken
the hawkish view. Further, Israel diplomacy has followed American
diplomacy. This has made it easy for the Israelis to deal with the rest
of the world diplomatically and provided some limits on Israel behavior.
Now that the Mizrahi are ascendent, this dynamic is changing.

The Mizrahi have now entered government and are taking over what has
been the political right in Israel. They have an agenda that starts with
the removal of the Arab populations from “Greater Israel” which is why
the expression “from the river to the sea” is so controversial. The
Mizrahi also demand the return to Talmudic law and the building of the
third temple, which means destroying the Al-Aqsa Mosque. The Mizrahi
back Netanyahu, who needs them to survive politically.

This changing of the guard inside Israel explains the crazy response
from the Israelis, in the teeth of global opposition. It does not
explain why the Israelis seem willing to offend their supporters in
America. Normally, the protests we see in the West would have led to
strong pressure from whoever is occupying the White House to tone down
the violence and address the optics. Instead, we have both parties
demanding total, unconditional obedience to the Israeli cause.

That gets to a different problem. Project Ukraine has brought to light
some hidden truths about the Global American Empire. One is that the
vaunted American war machine is a paper tiger. Western wonder weapons
were supposed to scare the Russians into submission, but instead they
have been a colossal failure. Further, all of the predictions about how
the war would unfold and how Russia would respond to Western efforts
have turned out to be fantastically wrong.

Project Ukraine is looking like the Varian Disaster for the American
empire. This is having a profound impact on the internal politics of the
empire. After all, the people responsible for this catastrophe look a
lot like the people who are mismanaging the unfolding catastrophe in the
Levant. It is not hard for even the most dimwitted to make the
connection because the people running foreign policy routinely claim
primary allegiance to Israel.

There is also a changing attitude in the general public. Thirty years
ago, Washington would not have had to do these marketing stunts to whip
up support for Israel, because the public supported Israel. The public
has clearly changed. The long allergy to thinking about the role of Jews
in these foreign projects is gone and now you see things in the public
square with regard to the role of Jews in politics that would not have
seen the light of day a few decades ago.

This does not mean Americans are becoming antisemitic. It just means as
ethnic and racial awareness break through the forcefield of mass media
menticide, awareness of both Israel and Jewish influence in politics is
growing. People notice that Ben Shapiro cares more about Israel than
America. They are noticing that public officials love Israel more than
they think about their alleged constituents. Just compare Nick Fuentes
to Kevin MacDonald and you can see the change.

Taken together this explains the panic we are seeing. The erratic
behavior and weird mask dropping are the result of the sudden awareness
that the old arrangements with regards to Israel and the Jewish people
are falling apart. Just as the American empire is reaching its
denouement, the Jewish century is also reaching an end. As the world
transitions to a multipolar order, the internal politics of the West
must change with it in order for the West to survive.

For people whose lives were constructed around the old order being
permanent, this emerging new order is causing panic. In fact, much of
what makes up elite Jewish identity depends on the old imperial order
remaining in place. That means the multipolar world and the new American
politics are a mortal threat. The panic we are seeing, whether genuine
or purchased as in the case of Republican politicians, is the result of
the great change that is about to sweep the American empire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="tIorsjc/KxE+lp/x8oC7Pw==cb7ckpT8on2HYSkolIZcFmN0RTY7kR9eILHpyUWNBoo7yArsbNN7HEC1bKvaMdwkK2A"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="GfYb1cO6ZyTYPyaA0rDslA==cb7iddKbYu106NB8spHiL60paziwdq1dQi6qSLk0CBuJdH7aqywYSYt4uFds8sJFrbK"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
