---
title: "The Old Fear"
date: "2024-02-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31562"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31562"
---

One of the many oddities of this age is the way in which the political
class talks about itself, something they do incessantly. For example,
the Senate just passed a giant foreign aid bill to give your money to
Ukraine, Israel, Taiwan and the military industrial complex. This is a
more bloated version of the “bipartisan” deal that included a few
pennies for the border patrol and enshrined open borders. This time they
stripped out the border money and expanded the foreign aid.

Now, normal people could be forgiven for wondering if the senators have
had some sort of collective mental breakdown. The reason the
“bipartisan” deal on immigration failed was not that it was too tough on
immigration, but that it did nothing to address the issues causing the
flood of migrants. In fact, it promised to make the situation worse by
limiting what could be done by future presidents. In other words, the
answer was to fix the border provision by making it much tougher.

Again, this is the way a normal person thinks. The Senate drew an
entirely different conclusion from the storm of protest. They concluded
that what the people really wanted was more of the same on the border
and even more of their money going to foreign actors and the war
machine. Imagine someone makes you an offer on your car and you say the
offer is too low. They come back with an even lower offer. That is what
we are getting with the Senate at the moment.

Putting that aside for second, look at how the senators supporting this
ridiculous bill are talking about it. They are not talking about the
bill at all. Instead, they are talking about their heroism in passing
the bill. Mitch McConnell went to the floor to say that history would
remember his historic vote in favor of the bill. Chuck Schumer talked
about himself as if he was Leonidas. By getting this massive giveaway
passed in the Senate he was saving the free world from disaster.

The same sort of thing happened in the first round. What little they
said about the immigration portion of the bill was easily disputed by
looking at the text of the bill they foolishly released to the public.
Most of time was spent talking about their personal heroism in crafting
the bill. Schumer did the media rounds tell the various stooges about
how he labored like Hercules to overcome one obstacle after another in
order to get this bill to the Senate for a vote.

There is nothing normal about how these people talk. Politicians in all
times exaggerate their roles in things when times are good. They also
exaggerate the role of opponents when times are bad. We expect
politicians to do this. What is novel today is how they celebrate
themselves like heroes for failing to do basic things. Every Washington
pol is now his own hagiographer. At this rate, Schumer will be crafting
a bill to have his face added to Mount Rushmore.

One possible reason for doing this is the same reason a failing company
ramps up its marketing with promises of the product being new and
improved. The theory is if you say it enough times people will believe
it. The Senate is a clown show so they are heaping praise on themselves
thinking that maybe people will not notice that these guys arrive at
work in a Volkswagen Beatle done up as a giant mouse. The consultants
are telling the senators they need to build their brand.

On the other hand, it is possible they believe it. These are the same
people who thought people yelling at them about the terrible immigration
bill were angry that it could possibly slow the flood of migrants. They
were the same guys who thought using Senator Howdy Doody as the point
man in immigration was brilliant. When you are making these errors,
anything is possible, so it is quite probable that these senators view
themselves as world historical figures.

Another possibility is that these senators are so insulated from our
reality that they are now operating in the realm of fantasy. When was
the last time Chuck Schumer talked to anyone who lived among the Dirt
People? All of his social interactions are with the Israel lobby and
Wall Street. The overlap here is immense. They certainly do think
Schumer is a hero to his people, just not our people. You can go through
the roster of long-serving politicians and see a similar degree of
insularity.

Listening to these feeble old men sing their own praises, one cannot
help but think of the Politburo in the waning days of the Soviet Union.
Like Washington, Soviet politics had come to be controlled by a class of
geezers. Their primary concern for a long time had been keeping their
spot. The result was they surrounded themselves with sycophants good
only for praising their bosses. The result was the political system was
incapable of responding to the brewing crisis.

This is what we see with immigration. The solution is not complicated
and most of the tools are available to bring the crisis under control.
The old bulls in Washington, however, are primarily concerned with
Speaker Johnson, who has come to represent a generational threat to
them. The media stooges have <a
href="https://www.msn.com/en-ca/news/politics/democrats-aim-to-box-speaker-johnson-in-to-vote-on-ukraine-aid-politico/ar-BB1ieyUj"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">acknowledged</a> as much, saying that the
Senate is hoping to box Johnson in with this bill. In other words, it is
geezers thinking they need to fend off the youngster.

This would explain the self-praise. The geriatric ruling class fears the
next generation more than they fear death. They have plenty of younger
flunkies around to help guard their position and tell them they are the
best. The old party hands have now reached that point many old men in
the business world reach and that is to claim their experience trumps
the talent and vigor of their young challenger. The result is Mitch
McConnel now thinks he is Cicero.

The comparison to the Soviet Union brings with it a warning. Decades of
insularity did not just result in an ossified ruling class. It also
retarded the development of a succeeding generation of party men. When
the icy hand of death started to thin the leadership ranks, what
replaced them were men good at currying favor but not good at anything
else, so the result was disaster. If Speaker Johnson is our Gorbachev,
the next decade promises to be quite grim.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="uDVe34otPqEgy/jjLzCVMQ==cb71nUbX/61uxRltGtH+zSU4V9bwG2tcM0b92qMgvPz7nTis+CSBbNH4VrXiQCQkvjE"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="+Urs1vgc53WBNXGhxcuOgQ==cb7WdPSdKvWPOGg1YHs5c1xFeeRhj8g6p9Z+LN16Qg1DG/N23/lpLeeTnOHWDOUqusr"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
