---
title: "Plotting The Collapse"
date: "2024-02-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31531"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31531"
---

On 24 February 2022, Russian president Vladimir Putin went on television
to announce the Special Military Operation in Ukraine. Russia is a
legalistic society, so Putin did not declare war or even say it was an
invasion, as those terms carry meaning within Russian law that would
trigger other parts of the law. We are now fast approaching the two-year
anniversary of what everyone involved thought was going to be a quick
and largely bloodless path to a negotiated settlement.

For the last eighteen months Russian leaders have talked about the
conflict lasting years, as it is now a proxy war between Russia and its
partners and the United States and the vassal states of the West. Some
have suggested this war is like the Thirty Years War in that it will
radically change the moral and political order in Europe, eventually
seeing the United States exit Europe entirely. Others see this as
another sign that the West is in crisis and headed for dark times.

Putting aside the big picture aspects of the war, things may be running
ahead of schedule, at least from the Russian perspective. The first big
item to start the year is the stalemate in Washington over Ukraine
funding. To the shock and horror of the neocons and their fellow
travelers, the public is not interested in the issue, which means there
is no risk to opposing more money for Ukraine. The result is money for
Ukraine is probably a dead issue for 2024.

That will have enormous implications for Ukraine. The billions flowing
from Washington to Kiev do three important things. First, Zelensky uses
the money to buy loyalty, as he is Washington’s bagman. This allows him
to buy off the various factions in Ukraine and make sure pro-Washington
people are in the government. It is why he has faced little opposition
to cancelling the elections. Those inclined to speak out against this
have either been bribed or jailed by those being bribed.

That brings up the second thing the money does for Ukraine. Those
dollars are not just dumped on Ukraine. Instead, the dollars are
converted into Ukrainian hryvnia, which are then deposited into the
Ukraine banking system. Of course, Ukraine also gets euros from selling
energy products and agricultural products to the EU on special deals and
those are converted to hryvnia. This is what allows Kiev to pay
government employees and mask the money printing to pay the soldiers.

The final piece of the puzzle is the corruption around converting
dollars and euros into weapons that can be used in the war. Even regime
media has been forced to <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2024/01/11/us-weapons-ukraine-inspector-general/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">admit</a> that a lot of the weapons have
ended up on the black market. No one knows how much has been stolen or
who is doing the stealing, but Ukraine is a pirate’s cove now, with
privateers, official and unofficial, stealing everything they can. Even
Kiev is getting <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/ukraine-russia-war-corruption-476d673cc64a4b005c7ee8ed5f5d5361"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">worried</a> about the degree of theft.

If the flow of dollars stops or even significantly declines, all three
legs of the Ukrainian side of the racket will snap. We may be seeing the
first signs of this in the drama between President Zelensky and General
Zaluzhny. It has been known for months that Zelensky wants to fire
Zaluzhny, but so far, he has not been able to do it. Zaluzhny simply
refuses to cooperate by resigning or taking another position. Instead he
posts
<a href="https://twitter.com/I_Katchanovski/status/1753461045203497357"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">pics</a> of himself with the leader of
the ultra-nationalist faction.

When the president of a country wants to fire his top military officer,
the officer usually resigns in order to save some face. In some cases,
the civilian leader will fire the man in order to make a point. Truman
fired MacArthur in order to send a message and underscore the
subordination of the military to the civilian government. When the
civilian leader cannot fire the top military commander and that
commander is openly challenging the civilian leadership, there is a
crisis.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but the head of the Wagner
organization repeatedly challenged the authority of the Russian
government. He even went so far as to stage a ceremonial march on
Moscow. The Russians foolishly thought they could tolerate the behavior
of Prigozhin until that point. They realized their error and it was not
long before Prigozhin’s plane was falling out of the air in pieces.

You also have to add in the fact that Ukraine is a lawless, corrupt
kleptocracy now flooded with weapons and soldiers. Last year, one of
Zaluzhny’s lieutenants was blown up by a grenade hidden in a gift
intended for Zaluzhny. Someone tried to poison the head of the secret
police, Kyrylo Budanov, but missed and poisoned his wife and some of his
staff instead. Of course, the Russians mysteriously got the coordinates
of Budanov’s location and tried to take him out with a missile.

In such conditions, it is not hard to see how the end of dollars from
Washington could set off a political crisis. If that is not enough, the
war is going poorly for Ukraine as the Russians slowly ramp up the
pressure on all fronts. According to Ukraine, they need thirty thousand
new recruits a month to keep up their numbers, which means they are
losing a thousand men a day in this war. Many of those men are trained,
experienced soldiers who cannot be replaced with raw recruits.

As of this writing, the Russians have broken through one of the biggest
strongholds in Ukraine, a place called Avdiivka, or often spelled
Avdeevka. Since 2014 the Ukrainians have been building this place up
with tunnels, bunkers, mine fields and heavy weapons, to be an anchor
point of the front line. Reports from Ukraine say the Russians have
entered the city and have trapped Ukrainian forces. That would mean a
starving out operation will be followed by a surrender.

There are similar stories around smaller fortifications along the front
and all of it is due to the shortage of men and material. According to
Ukraine, they have mobilized close to a million men so far and they have
plans to mobilize half a million more. Those kinds of losses are added
pressure on a political system that has major cracks. If the money runs
out, it is not long before some factorions think about what sort of deal
they can cut with the Russians to end the war.

Collapse is like the famous Hemingway line about bankruptcy. It happens
a little at a time and then all of a sudden. Armies collapse slowly over
time then they begin to surrender in great waves. Governments collapse
over a period of time, punctuated by crises until the principles either
flee or end up dead in a final crisis. The current crisis in Ukraine
could be just one chapter, but not the final chapter. Maybe the
Republicans will produce the money and save the day.

Regardless, all of this points to a catastrophe down the road and
probably right around the November presidential elections, which will
make for great drama. Eventually the reality of Ukraine will come home
to Washington, no matter how hard they try to pretend it does not exist.
Like all bankruptcies, the failure of imperial foreign policy proceeds a
little here and a little there, all leading to a point when the whole
project collapses, maybe taking the empire with it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ShO/QV/89pGFFn8hbMjKXQ==cb7CvlX6KsCb0ZZgMVbxND0nXu3WXthIzBs7Cgp9jCOBd0N3aY264QIuJNexvrywMfP"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ICBXQPCifhE8bVw0ErVZHA==cb7nrSkK6mZJLj/SuSQjB18NtW373MelN+Y6ERk4pYi7rhfcda2tbWroRz/f2pEDHN/"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
