---
title: "The Long Retreat"
date: "2024-12-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-12-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33193"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33193"
---

One of the things that got the “new right” buzzing in the closing months
of the election was the sudden pullback by corporations on the DEI
front. A bunch of large companies announced they were terminating these
programs. This led to the online wing of the “new right” to confidently
say “we are winning!” It was part of a wave of pro-Trump confidence that
kicked in during the final six weeks of the election. After the
election, the same forces sense they can clear the field of DEI.

That is the subtext to this <a
href="https://www.city-journal.org/article/the-coming-fight-to-abolish-dei"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> by Christopher Rufo, who has
made a lucrative career out of opposing the DEI machine. It is a letter
to the Trump transition team urging them to reverse the various
executive orders creating the DEI bureaucracy within the federal
bureaucracy and replacing it with a “colorblind” evaluation system. By
acting quickly, Rufo thinks, the new administration can deal a death
blow to the DEI movement, while momentum is on their side.

Rufo is smart to point out that public sentiment has shifted strongly
against DEI, so Trump would not be battling with a hornet’s nest if he
does this. Rufo frames his approach as low hanging fruit that would make
Trump’s voters happy without spending too much political capital. On the
other hand, the closest thing to eternal life is a government program,
regardless of origin. Every president has dreamed of killing at least
one government program. None have succeeded.

To his credit, Rufo seems to get this reality. Merely rescinding these
executive orders would change nothing, as these race operations are now
enshrined in the budgets of the main government agencies. More
important, the workforce inside these agencies are committed to
defending them because of the iron law of bureaucracy. The people
actually running these agencies are solely committed to defending every
paperclip that exists inside their agency.

There is something else missing and that is any thought as to why
private corporations have made a big deal out of killing these programs.
The main reason is they have proven to be bad public relations. It is
not the existence that is bad public relations, but the
over-the-top embrace of these race programs. Execs were sold on these
being a great way to built favor with the diverse public. It turned out
that they had no impact on sale, despite claims to the contrary.

In other words, the marketing campaign in favor of these programs became
a pointless hassle for the companies doing it. Anyone who has spent time
in a corporation understands that management is always ready to
eliminate a pointless hassle, especially one that has no revenue stream.
Like the company that puts up a sign that reads, “Under New Management”,
these companies are hoping to turn a bad marketing scheme into a second
chance with their customers.

The programs themselves, however, have not changed much as all. Again,
anyone familiar with corporate life knows that “diversity” has been a
part of the system for decades, long before Mr. Rufo noticed them. The
DEI department will simply be <a
href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/juliekratz/2024/08/21/is-it-time-to-rename-diversity-equity-and-inclusion-dei/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">renamed</a> and folded back into human
resources. The reason for that is these are a necessary defense against
lawsuits. Diversity programs are a defense against lawfare, which is as
permanent as a government program.

No matter what the public might think about any of this, the lawfare
will continue, which means diversity pogroms will continue. The reason
the lawfare will continue is, in part, to keep the diversity rackets
going. There has always been a lot of coordination between the diversity
pogroms and the lawfare. The main reason, however, is the law requires
the diversity lawfare to continue. The civil rights revolution created a
legal framework to impose what cannot happen naturally.

The point of the Brown case was not simply to overturn the Court’s 1896
Plessy v. Ferguson decision, but to lay the foundation for a new moral
order within the law that future cases and future legislation could
build upon. This is exactly what happened over the following decades.
Katzenbach v. McClung, for example, gave Congress a broad,
extra-Constitutional mandate to address discrimination. In that case,
they found a way to ban discrimination, despite having no jurisdiction.

This is what the “new right” fails to grasp about their calls for
“colorblind” policies and the dismantling of DEI. What they want is not
just impractical, but legally impossible, as a result generations of
jurisprudence. The courts have repeatedly affirmed the two truths of our
current legal framework. Discrimination is always bad and therefore
always assumed to be illegal. Inclusion is always good and therefore
should be the outcome of constitutionally defendable policies.

That means a “colorblind admission policy” at Harvard would be
discriminatory if the result is a tiny number of black undergrads. It
sounds insane, but by the logic of the law, it is perfectly reasonable.
Our legal framework is not just eliminating observable discrimination,
but also fostering inclusion. This is why the DEI people say it is not
enough to be not racist. You must be anti-racist, by which they mean
creating an inclusive racial environment everywhere.

This is why the war against DEI is nothing more than hacking at the
leaves. The roots of the problem go back much further than the current
racial fads and they have sunk deep into the psyche of the managerial
class. It is why the word “inclusion” and variations on it salt the
language of the ruling class. They are all about openness, because
openness is the highest moral good according to the civil right
ideology. This is not a front brain thing for them. It is a part of
their internal logic.

It is not all bad news, however. The “new right” campaign against DEI
has had the unintended side effect of delegitimizing the civil rights
ideology. People have grown used to mocking this stuff, which is a small
step from rejecting the primary goal of civil rights ideology, which is
the open society. This was the motivation behind the censorship
campaigns. The ideologues understand that if you can mock any part of
the regime, you can mock all of it.

In this regard, Christopher Rufo and the “color blind new right” are a
rearguard action, defending what they can of a regime that is losing
legitimacy. It is an attempt to meet the public halfway. They get rid of
the more odious parts of the regime but keep the parts that make the
regime possible. That is the play of a loser, so the rise and prominence
of the “color blind new right” is a positive. The generations old racial
regime is in retreat in the face of an increasingly skeptical populace.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="MgMerwDHOib5L0sw3EMsKg==cb7DjYURU7vCpWKhPG/CX9YAS/BEmd/eFkatB5y7wUnezcwq6tVu9UWYIMD1w0QAFgd"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="o17SE/vk+XlGxbGy6tQbQw==cb7ed+tQlYeLdrMOXPkUvtBoe7BriCa9GcREcROZzM7mJgpUd71d9nDaV9wkNPdPhI+"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
