---
title: "Oriental Managerialism"
date: "2024-03-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31668"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31668"
---

Saving face is a phrase we tend to associate with oriental cultures, but
it is an expression used in the West. The idea is that one wants to
avoid being publicly disrespected in order to maintain your dignity.
This means either doing something in response to a slight or committing
a ritual act when you fail. Famously, committing suicide is an act of
saving face in order to avoid the shame of public humiliation for having
failed in your duties.

Even though the concept is oriental it is not entirely alien to the
West. In fact, face saving has become a cultural aspect of the
managerial elite. We just saw this with Victoria Nuland resigning her
post. She had failed to destroy the ancient enemy of her people, so she
was allowed to resign and save face. If she had been fired, it would be
a public acknowledgment that she had failed. Her standing and that of
her cult would be lowered as a result, so she was allowed to save face
and quit.

This idea of face saving is not entirely alien to the West, but it is
not a natural thing the way we see it practiced by our elites. Western
societies are moral societies, held together as much by a set of agreed
upon codes, passed down from one generation to the next. Publicly
shaming someone for his failure to live up to the prevailing moral code
is part of reinforcing that code. Letting someone save face undermines
this so it is not natural in Western societies. We punish the sinner.

This oriental idea of face saving is behind the phenomenon of failing up
which has come to define the modern managerial class. Someone like
Victoria Nuland, for example, has been a failure at every stop in her
career, but at every stop she has been allowed to save face and move to
some new position. You can be sure she will assume a spot at a think
tank or university. If Trump wins in November, she will get a media gig
to criticize his handling of Russia.

The norm for Western society, with regards to someone like Nuland, is
she would have been flushed out of the system as a warning to others. Go
back far enough and she may have been killed or exiled. Maybe after she
had demonstrated enough contrition she would be rehabilitated to a
limited degree. That would include publicly admitting to and accepting
that she was a failure. This is now alien to the managerial elite, even
though it remains the norm with the Dirt People.

This idea of face saving is behind the cancel culture stuff that soon
became a pogrom against normal people who held normal opinions. For our
elites, simply being exposed as having broken the new rules was enough
to compel a self-imposed exile of some sort, in order to save face. The
accused was allowed to depart and save face, without suffering more than
a minor loss of social standing. This offered the hope of rehabilitation
once everyone forgot about it.

Since this is alien to normal people, it did not work this way so
tougher measures were rolled out to punish the hooligans and running dog
obstructionists. Banning people from Twitter, for example, was viewed by
the people we call the left as an extreme punishment, because the victim
lost face. The fact that the victim just respawned as a new character
was seen as proof of their evil, because good people wish to avoid
losing face and would have accepted their punishment.

People have noted that the response of the West to the Ukraine war is a
globalized version of the cancel culture and censorship pogroms. Most of
what Western leaders did over the last two years was about “isolating”
Putin. It was as if they thought excluding him from the cool kid table
would humiliate him to the point where he would either resign or be
deposed. It never occurred to them that he and his government did not
understand what any of this meant.

The question is why has face saving crowded out the old, natural way of
policing the ranks of the elites? Part of it, obviously, is the way in
which the managerial elite now see themselves individually and as a
group. Many still see themselves as a minority and they brought the
minority viewpoint into the elite. Minorities are always aware of their
standing with regard to the majority, so saving face is important. Many
originate from face saving societies, so this comes naturally.

There is also the bourgeoise nature of the elites. Our ruling class is
not filled with an aristocratic sense of position. Instead, they view
themselves as having scored the better on the test, relative to others.
In other words, they are a system dependent elite, while an aristocracy
is an independent elite. The former are full of angst about their
position in the system, so they obsess over it. The latter sees the
system as an expression of their natural position atop their society.

Like all middle-class people, our bourgeoise managerial elite is riddled
with self-doubt about their standing. As you see in any middle-class
suburb, the primary obsession is with noticing what everyone else is
doing in order to make sure you are seen as part of what everyone else
is doing. Conformity is a defining feature of bourgeoise culture and is
thus the defining feature of the managerial elite. The so-called “Karen
culture” is a natural product of an elite harvested from the
middle-class.

The formation of a middle-class is most likely a lagging indicator. The
independent farmer is something that arises late in an agrarian society.
The urban middle-class was a late development in the industrial age. Our
bourgeoise managerial elite with its oriental outlook probably signals a
late stage of managerialism. The committee mentality and face saving are
all part of a general decline in competence, which also suggests we are
in the late stages of managerialism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="YgSU9IX/IoWyNUjJjeC+jQ==cb7WA5cruBszeOcygqd2tV4BtjwB+8Ui2L8ejMBVYcl+gzGSkVoMPcdbtqaDPGs9M2/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MorlC+Tsj4hHXfQ0STJT3Q==cb7pqpFHEg6JNMhn1GXQ156EO8RM9FGmjqryF5TalclV75BprARqrCgROsjUyCzTXAV"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
