---
title: "Radio Derb October 03 2024"
date: "2024-10-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32805"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32805"
---

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg)

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m52s Hurricane Helene
-   11m32s Vice-Presidential debate
-   19m07s The Israel-Iran War
-   30m19s Longshoremen strike
-   33m56s President Carter at 100
-   35m49s The Great (squirrel) Replacement
-   40m04s Signoff with Buck Owens
-   00m00s Signoff

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62248828/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, listeners,
from your undeniably genial host John Derbyshire, with a glance at the
news as September crumbles down into October.

Before proceeding, just a word of thanks for the encouragement and
support I get from listeners and readers. Back in July, when VDARE
finally succumbed to the relentless assaults of [Letitia
Lard-butt](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/LetitiaLardbutt.jpg) and
her legions of lawyers, I admit I was in low spirits for a while, but
you guys soon got me back to my normal, cheerful, sparkling self. Heck,
I may even write another book, possible title *[We Are More Doomed Than
Ever](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409597/ref=sr_1_1)*.

Please allow me my weekly reminder that you can make
a *tax-deductible* donation to my work by mailing an earmarked check to:
The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759.

OK, this week’s news. Top of the headlines: that disastrous storm in the
Southeast.

<span id="more-32805"></span>

**02 — Hurricane Helene**.     Last Thursday evening, about the time I
was organizing the September 27th edition of Radio Derb, Hurricane
Helene made landfall on the northern Gulf Coast of Florida, heading
north across the mainland with wind speeds up to 140 mph and lots of
rain.

[Helene proceeded
northwards](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Helene.jpg) through
Georgia, South Carolina, all the way up to the Appalachians — Western
North Carolina, Eastern Tennessee, Western Virginia, burning itself out
at last somewhere over South Kentucky.

Helene carried a mighty lot of rain with her. It was the rain that
caused most of the damage inland. Pouring down, it of course didn’t stop
to rest on the Appalachian mountainsides, just roared on down into the
valleys and their rivers. It didn’t help that there’d been a big
rainstorm in the days before Helene arrived.

The NOAA — that’s [National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration](https://www.commerce.gov/bureaus-and-offices/noaa), an
agency in the federal Commerce Department that watches the weather for
us — estimates that the rainstorm and Helene together dumped forty
trillion gallons of water on the mainland U.S.A. That’s more than 36
cubic miles, enough to fill Lake Tahoe. If it were actually decanted
into a perfectly cubic container, that container would be nearly three
and a half miles wide, long, and high.

Hence all the horror stories we’ve been hearing. Whole towns have been
washed away. The count of known fatalities was nudging 200 last time I
looked, but with hundreds still unaccounted for. We must hope that those
unaccounted for are just stranded in places inaccessible because
of [washed-away
roads](https://x.com/babowling12/status/1841652027199201595) and bridges
and unable to communicate because of power lines and phone lines down.

A quick internet search turned up a dozen or more organizations
accepting donations to help the afflicted people; American Red Cross for
example has [a Hurricane Helene web
page](https://www.redcross.org/donate/dr/hurricane-helene.html/).

Donald Trump has opened [a GoFundMe
page](https://www.gofundme.com/f/support-hurricane-helene-victims-with-president-trump) if
you’d like to route your donation through them. Trump’s old friend Steve
Witkoff — his golf partner on the occasion of that second assassination
attempt — got things rolling with a half-million-dollar donation. When I
looked just now the page had just short of five million dollars.

These are our fellow citizens in distress down there, so let’s do what
we can.

The anti-Trump forces have been trying to make political capital by
blaming Hurricane Helene on climate change caused by fossil fuels. This
came out in Tuesday’s Vice Presidential debate, although neither
candidate shed much light on the issue.

J.D. Vance said that if you believe carbon emissions drives climate
change
then, [quote](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/full-vp-debate-transcript-walz-vance-2024/) “you’d
want to reshore as much American manufacturing as possible and you’d
want to produce as much energy as possible in the United States of
America because we’re the cleanest economy in the entire world.” End
quote.

Tim Walz countered by saying that, quote, “We are producing more natural
gas and more oil at any time than we ever have. We’re also producing
more clean energy.” End quote.

If you can figure out who got the better of *that* exchange, you’re
smarter than I am.

Joe Biden, talking at a briefing on relief for hurricane victims in
North Carolina the next day, Wednesday, brought his usual moon-booted
approach to the topic.

After some introductory remarks he said
this, [quote](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/02/remarks-by-president-biden-before-an-operational-briefing-on-the-impacts-of-hurricane-helene-raleigh-nc/):

In a moment like this, we put politics aside. At least we should put it
all aside, and we have here. There are no Democrats or Republicans;
there are only Americans. And our job is to help as many people as we
can as quickly as we can and as thoroughly as we can.

End quote.

But then, moments later, this, quote:

Let me close with this. Nobody can deny the impact of climate crisis
anymore. At least I hope they don’t. They must be brain-dead if they do.
Scientists report that with warming oceans powering more intense rains,
storms like Helene are getting stronger and stronger.

End quote.

Actually plenty of people deny the orthodoxy on climate change: my
dinner club companion [Will
Happer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CA1zUW4uOSw), for example. What
does *he* know? Quite a lot: he’s Emeritus Professor of Physics at
Princeton University.

Which do I think better deserves the adjective “brain-dead”: Joe Biden
or Professor Happer? Need you ask?

The Biden administration then added insult to injury. Wednesday, the day
after the Vice-Presidential debate, Homeland Security Secretary
Alejandro Mayorkas, [talking with reporters on Air Force
One](https://nypost.com/2024/10/03/us-news/feds-say-theres-no-money-left-to-respond-to-hurricanes-after-fema-used-640-9m-this-year-on-migrants/) while
on his way down to inspect the hurricane damage, said that another
hurricane is on its way — I guess he meant [Hurricane
Kirk](https://apnews.com/article/hurricane-kirk-east-coast-tropical-storm-leslie-b9c68f6d7a5bb2d16364e69f7fc856b2) —
and fretted that, quote:

We do not have the funds. FEMA does not have the funds to make it
through the season and what — what is imminent.

End quote.

FEMA, F-E-M-A, is the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which reports
to — Heaven help us all! — the Department of Homeland Security. Why have
they run out of funds? Because in the past two years FEMA has dispersed
1.4 billion dollars to state and municipal governments to look after
illegal aliens; 760 million last year, 640 million this year.

Which makes clear once again what I have told you before: the Prime
Directive for our ruling class, which they attend to before all else, is
to fill our country with foreign scofflaws, as many as want to come.
With the grateful votes of twenty or thirty million of these settlers,
our elites aim to establish a one-party state in which their power is
solid and undisputed.

The sufferings of American citizens struck by a natural disaster are, by
comparison, hardly worth their time. Note the date of that Air Force One
conversation: Wednesday, nearly a week after Hurricane Helene struck.

Joe Biden and Kamala Harris were [on the same
flight](https://abcnews.go.com/US/biden-harris-visit-hurricane-helene-ravaged-southeast/story?id=114420090).
To be fair, though, the President has a great many other things to deal
with from his beach chair and Harris is trying to keep her campaign
alive.

For Mayorkas hurricane relief should have been Number One priority. But
no: Mayorkas’ Number One priority is … well, I just told you what it is.

**03 — Vice-Presidential debate**.     Yeah, the Vice-Presidential
debate. As usual, I have to confess that I lost interest about twenty
minutes in and have had to fall back on [the transcript posted
online](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/full-vp-debate-transcript-walz-vance-2024).

Naturally I first went Ctrl-F “immigr.” There were some juicy titbits
here.

Perhaps the juiciest, for those of us afflicted with Trump
Disappointment Syndrome, was Tim Walz saying, quote:

Donald Trump had four years. He had four years to do this. And he
promised you, America, how easy it would be. I’ll build you a big,
beautiful wall and Mexico will pay for it. Less than 2 percent of that
wall got built and Mexico didn’t pay a dime.

End quote.

I don’t know if that two percent figure is accurate, but it might well
be. Deep into the Trump administration Ann Coulter was repetitively
tweeting something like, quote: “miles of wall built today: zero; miles
built since inauguration:zero,” end quote. And to the best of my
knowledge Mexico *didn’t* pay a dime.

Also negative for us Trump voters was J.D. Vance’s response to the
moderator who asked, quote: “Would you deport parents who have entered
the U.S. illegally and separate them from any of their children who were
born on U.S. soil?” That was a perfect opening for Vance to address the
issue of birthright citizenship, which so badly needs addressing, but …
he didn’t. Ctrl-F “birthright” gets no hits.

Walz fell back, as Harris and Biden always do, on the Lankford-Schumer
Bill of six months ago as evidence that the current administration tried
really hard — honestly they did! —  to stop the incoming flood of
illegal aliens, but Donald Trump scotched Congressional passage of the
Bill by making a few phone calls.

Even *conservatives* liked the Bill, bleated Walz. Quote:

It was crafted by a conservative senator from Oklahoma, James Lankford.
I know him. He’s super conservative …

End quote.

Senator Lankford “super conservative”? Not on immigration he isn’t. [The
immigration grades at
NumbersUSA](https://grades.numbersusa.com/search/) for Senate
Republicans have Lankford at a C-plus, with only five Republican
Senators ranked lower: Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski, Mitt Romney, James
Inhofe, and Rand Paul. Lankford “super conservative” on immigration?
Yeah, right.

That little narrative about Trump killing the worthy,
border-sealing, *conservative* Lankford-Schumer Bill is so bogus Vance
should have kicked it across the room. Just the name of the Bill tells
you how bogus it is. As if Chuck Schumer would put his name to anything
that might hinder the Great Replacement!

And then, the idea that Donald Trump could kill a Senate bill by making
it known he was against it. That’s not how the Senate works, as Senator
Vance surely knows.

The Center for Immigration Studies has tossed and gored Lankford-Schumer
very comprehensively: Go to cis.org and put “Lankford” in the search
box. Sample
article, [title](https://cis.org/Arthur/Senate-Bill-Wouldnt-End-CatchandRelease-It-Would-Perpetuate-It):
“Senate Bill Wouldn’t End ‘Catch-and-Release’ —It Would Perpetuate It.”

Anyone scheduled to debate a Biden administration front person who knows
that immigration will feature in the debate, and knows that the enemy
will bring up the Lankford-Schumer Bill as a good-faith effort to solve
our immigration problems, anyone in that position should have read up on
the Bill’s many, many debunkings and aired them in the debate. Vance
didn’t.

If an idle ne’er-do-well like your genial host here can look these
things up, so can the staffers of a U.S. Senator for him to use in
debate.

That all said, Vance clearly won on form. He was clear while Walz was
frequently muddled; he looked fit and fresh while Walz looked fat and
old; watching Vance in action you could see why someone might vote him
into the Senate, while watching Walz in action you were finding it hard
to believe he was elected six times to the House of Representatives and
twice to Governor of his state. What are they smoking up there in
Minnesota?

We all know [what FDR’s Vice
President](https://www.historynewsnetwork.org/article/not-worth-a-bucket-of-warm-spit) said
about the Vice Presidency. This time around, with the possibility of a
President, if he’s elected, ending his term as an octogenarian, the Vice
Presidency matters a wee bit more than usual.

That wee bit aside, I doubt Tuesday’s debate was very consequential or
changed many minds.

I will say, though, that the notion I’ve seen aired on social media,
that the GOP might flip its ticket to put Vance at Number One, Trump at
Number Two, is highly appealing. No, of course it’s not going to happen,
but … we can dream …

**04 — Israel-Iran War**.     The Israel-Iran war — can we please just
call it by its proper name? — the Israel-Iran war heated up some more
this week. Israel took out more of the leaders of Iran’s proxy units in
Lebanon; Iran retaliated with a barrage of missiles.

I’m an isolationist.[ John Quincy Adams’ famous 1821
speech](https://loveman.sdsu.edu/docs/1821secofstateJQAdmas.pdf) returns
an echo from my bosom. That’s the speech where he said America, quote:
“goes not abroad, in search of monsters to destroy. She is the
well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all. She is the champion
and vindicator only of her own.” End quote.

In that spirit, I wish we would keep our troops out of this. Are they in
it? Yes, they are. We currently have 900 active-duty personnel [in
Syria](https://www.voanews.com/a/us-troops-in-middle-east-what-are-they-doing-and-where-/7469452.html),
which is a client state of Iran, and 2,500 [in
Iraq](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3900019/us-iraq-higher-military-commission-continues-talks-on-security-cooperation/),
which, though not at client-state level, is under strong Iranian
influence. I’d like to see these troops brought home.

Wait: [I’m a supporter of
Israel](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Britain/flotilla.html),
aren’t I? Shouldn’t we help them in this war? In the rhetoric of Iran’s
rulers, after all, Israel is only the Little Satan, we are the Great
Satan.

And I’m a nationalist, aren’t I? The opposite of nationalism is
imperialism. Plainly Iran wants imperial control over its neighborhood.
Why else have they put such resources, so much effort into furnishing
these client states and proxy armies in Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Yemen?
Shouldn’t we take some kind of a stand for nationhood?  —
for *those* nations as well as helping Israel?

Yeah, yeah, but there are definitions to be clarified there. Define
“take a stand.” Define “help.” If “taking a stand” means “sending our
troops in to support the constitutional nationalists,” well, we did some
of that earlier this century. It didn’t work out well.

“Help Israel”? Help how? Give them money? Give them weapons? *Sell* them
weapons at low rates? Send ships and planes to support their military?

Count me a minimalist there. If Israel has our weapons in its arsenal
needing maintenance and replenishment, I certainly wouldn’t deny them.
Nor do I begrudge some of my federal taxes going to help their war
effort.

Because Israel is an outpost of Western Civilization in a region with
much barbarism, I regard those funds as a sort of civilization tax. I’m
a *conservative*, a big fan of Western civ.

All that aside, I favor minding our own business. I’d be very sorry —
again on grounds of civilizational solidarity — to see Israel destroyed,
but I don’t want the U.S.A. getting into a war with some peer nation —
Russia, China, India, even Iran, especially the nuclear-armed Iran that
we keep being told will show up any day now — I don’t want a shooting
war with any of those to prevent Israel’s destruction.

So those are my opinions, as best I can organize them. I’m a
conservative, nationalist, isolationist well-wisher of Israel.

And yes, of course I know there is much more to be said on all those
points. Imperialism, for example, can be a great civilizing force, as
the Greeks, Romans, Chinese, British, and French showed. There is even a
case to be made for [the Ottoman
Empire](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/History/osmansdream.html).
Under conditions of modernity, though, I believe nationalism is much to
be preferred, at any rate in the civilized West.

On the matter of helping Israel, how much help do they actually need?
Watching the progress of the Israel-Iran War, Israel seems to be doing
pretty well — *remarkably* well for a small, resource-poor nation of ten
million up against a big, resource-rich one of ninety million.

They don’t want any help in actually fighting; Israelis fight willingly
and well for themselves, as their numerous enemies found out in 1948,
1956, 1967, and 1973. They are tactically ingenious, as we saw with the
exploding pagers the other day, and they are great-grandmasters of
spycraft. As [a last
resort](https://progressive.org/latest/the-samson-option-israels-plan-to-nuke-its-opponents-dilawar-20240624/),
they have nuclear weapons.

They can be fearfully good at politics, too. The current issue of the
London *Spectator* has an interesting article by historians [Niall
Ferguson](https://www.amazon.com/Civilization-West-Rest-Niall-Ferguson/dp/0143122061/ref=sr_1_1) and [Jay
Mens](https://foreignpolicy.com/author/jay-mens/), title “[Israel’s Iron
Prime
Minister](https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/israels-iron-prime-minister/).”

That article compares Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s Prime Minister for
almost 14 of the past 15 years, with Otto von Bismarck, the 19th-century
statesman who created modern Germany.

Bismarck is known to history as Germany’s Iron Chancellor; Bibi, say
these historians, is Israel’s Iron Prime Minister, as skilled as
Bismarck was in the statecraft of both peace and war.

Sample longish quote:

Yet, for all the resemblances, Netanyahu seems to be reliving Bismarck’s
career in reverse. In 1874, 16 years before being forced out of office,
Bismarck complained: “I am bored. The great things are done.” After
close to the same amount of time in office, Netanyahu has never been
less bored, for he now has the chance to do the great things. The
decapitation of Hezbollah may be his Königgrätz, the battle in 1866
which confirmed Prussian primacy over Austria. Destroying the Iranian
nuclear programme — or the regime itself — would be his Sedan, the
battle that doomed the Second French Empire of Napoleon III.

End quote.

And if Israel is doing well under very capable leadership, the same
can’t be said of Iran. The government is crudely authoritarian and
widely unpopular, especially with young urban Iranians hungry for some
Western liberty and hedonism. There are restless minorities: Turks,
Kurds, Azerbaijanis, …

The military is big and powerful; but military matters dwell, for
ordinary citizens, in the shadow of the horrendous Iran-Iraq War of the
1980s in which hundreds of thousands of young Iranian men died to no
purpose. The survivors are middle-aged now but you may be sure their
children have heard their stories about incompetent leadership and
unnecessary suffering.

There is also a plausible government-in-exile, led by [the son of the
last Shah](https://www.rezapahlavi.org/). Hale and hearty at age 63, he
lives in Virginia.

I don’t know how much support he has in Iran; but given the blundering
arrogance and cruelty of the mullahs, there must be plenty of educated
middle-class Iranians thinking wistfully about Constitutional Monarchy.
Or perhaps some have heard of Pat Buchanan’s book from 1999: [*A
Republic, Not an
Empire*](https://www.amazon.com/Republic-Not-Empire-Reclaiming-Americas/dp/B00LAF3RPE/ref=sr_1_1).

Well, that’s what I think about this war, based on my fundamental
geostrategic principles: nation, civilization, and minding our own
business as best a nation can in a busy commercial world.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  A busy commercial world, yes. A key feature of that world
is big seaports where international trade lands up.

The ships bearing that trade have to be loaded and unloaded. For that
you need longshoremen. Our nation’s longshoremen staged a three-day
strike earlier this week, in pursuit of a 77 percent wage increase over
six years.

I’m not sure what position to take on that claim. In a general way I’m
pro-union. Yes, employees should be able to lean on employers to share
the profits of business fairly.

That’s in the private sector, though. I’m totally against public-sector
unions, who I think do great harm. They’re not making a claim on
profits; in the public sector there aren’t any profits, only money
raised from taxes and tariffs, which belongs to the citizens at large.
If public-sector workers don’t like their wages they can lobby their
legislators to increase them, or else go find work in the private
sector.

As the great President Coolidge told Samuel
Gompers, [quote](https://coolidgefoundation.org/resources/a-telegram-to-samuel-gompers/):
“There is no right to strike against the public safety by anybody,
anywhere, any time.” End quote.

OK, so these longshoremen: are they private sector or public sector?
It’s not clear. Their wages are paid by USMX, the [United States
Maritime Alliance](https://www.usmx.com/), which describes itself on its
website as, quote, “an alliance of container carriers, direct employers,
and port associations,” end quote.

Are those port associations privately owned or government owned?

Before I could get that figured out we got news that [an agreement had
been
reached](https://www.npr.org/2024/10/03/nx-s1-5139450/dockworkers-port-strike-deal) and
the strike called off. The strikers had been taking political heat
because they were holding up the unloading of relief supplies for
hurricane victims. They’ve settled for a 62 percent wage increase over
six years, which still sounds like a lot to me.

Why do we need longshoremen, anyway? YouTube is choc-a-bloc with [videos
of China’s big container
ports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P5kO_BnXAwc), in which there is
barely a human being to be seen. The work is all done by robots, AI, 5G
and cloud computing.

The Chinese tell us that transition to full automation typically took
four to six years.

Six years, huh? That’s exactly the term of this strike-ending wage
agreement. I wonder what the USMX bosses have in mind?

*Item*:  Tuesday this week was the one hundredth birthday of President
Jimmy Carter. Happy birthday! and all best wishes to him.

I lived in the U.S.A. for only the first half of Carter’s Presidency; I
returned to Britain in October 1978. So some of the key events of that
Presidency I only observed from a distance; notably the Iranian
revolution, the takeover of the U.S. embassy in Teheran, and the Soviet
invasion of Afghanistan.

Those weren’t happy times for the U.S.A. Carter of course did his best
to navigate the turbulent waters; but nobody rates his time in office a
success, with due allowance for one or two positives like the [Camp
David
Accords](https://history.state.gov/milestones/1977-1980/camp-david).

And yes: you could argue that those Accords make a
case *against* minding our own business … but you could also argue [the
opposite
thing](https://novelteesgifts.com/products/anwar-sadat-poster-print).

So, by pretty general agreement, a failed Presidency.

Jimmy Carter is, also by general agreement, a decent and intelligent
man. So if his Presidency has a lesson for us it is, that decency and
intelligence, while of course desirable human attributes, are not
sufficient for success in high political office. You need a touch of the
Bismarck, too.

*Item*:  Far, far back in my memory I recall one of my teachers in
elementary school — Mr Elliot, I think it was — telling us with much
indignation how Britain’s native red squirrels were being driven to
extinction by grey squirrels from America.

For background, here is a quotation from Britain’s Wildlife Trust
website, [quote](https://www.wildlifetrusts.org/on-land/red-squirrels#:~:text=Grey%20squirrels%20compete%20more%20successfully,it%20more%20difficult%20to%20survive.):

There are two species of squirrel in the UK; red squirrels and grey
squirrels. Red squirrels are our native species and have lived in the UK
for around 10,000 years. Grey squirrels were introduced to the UK from
North America by the Victorians in the 1800s. The first record of them
escaping and establishing a wild population is 1876.

End quote.

And yes, here’s a post from a different British website, that of the
Woodland Trust. This one’s dated
2018, [quote](https://www.woodlandtrust.org.uk/blog/2018/11/red-squirrel-facts/):

Red squirrels (*Sciurus vulgaris*) live in coniferous forests and
deciduous woods in Europe and northern Asia. Their range extends from
the UK, Ireland and western Europe to Russia, Mongolia, and northwest
China.

Numbers in the UK have fallen dramatically since grey squirrels
(*Sciurus carolinensis*) were introduced as an ornamental species in the
1870s.

Since then, the UK population of reds has dropped from around 3.5
million to between 120,000 to 160,000 individuals (according to
different estimates). The population in England is thought to be as low
as 15,000.

End quote.

So Mr Elliot was right. The American invasion! Squirrelwise, the
Victorian Brits were apparently planning a Great Replacement.

All is not lost for the red squirrels, though, at any rate in Scotland.
Here’s a report from GB News, October
1st, [quote](https://www.gbnews.com/news/red-squirrels-grey-survival-aberdeen-scotland):

Native red squirrels are on the verge of a significant triumph in their
long-standing struggle for survival against the grey squirrels in one of
Scotland’s major cities.

A project has announced a “significant decline” in grey squirrels —
which they say could be completely eradicated from Aberdeen “in the near
future.”

End quote.

What seems to have happened there is that grey squirrels first showed up
in Aberdeen fifty years ago, carrying squirrelpox — a virus harmless to
them but fatal to red squirrels. In 2009 the Aberdonians started a
program of trapping and killing the greys. Numbers are now down in the
low two digits.

Britain for the British! Although I must say, as an animal lover, I’d
rather the Brits had first tried mass deportation …

**06 — Signoff**.     That’s all I have, listeners and readers. Thank
you for your time and attention, and again for your encouragement and
support. May all be well with you and yours. For those of our fellow
citizens in the Southeast, the hurricane victims for whom things are
definitely *not* well, patience and courage, please; help is on its way.

In my September Diary I included a segment titled “[Triumph of the
prudes](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-09.html#09).”
Opening sentence, quote: “A century or so ago, vinegary old maids were
frowning at dancing, drinking, and sex. It looks as though they’ve won
the arguments.” End quote.

I didn’t include cigarette smoking in my list of vices there, but I’m
sure the vinegary old maids were frowning on it. Given the great decline
in cigarette smoking since, they won that argument too.

Where smoking, drinking, and loose sex are concerned, the negative point
of view was most memorably expressed musically by Nashville songwriter
Tim Spencer back in 1947. Here it is sung by Buck Owens.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
