---
title: "The Internet Of Reality"
date: "2024-04-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31806"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31806"
---

**Note:** As everyone probably knows, VDare has been under assault by
the regime for years and may finally be forced to close down. They have
been de-banked so the only way to send them money at the moment is
<a href="https://www.givesendgo.com/vdare" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">GiveSendGo</a>. If you can spare a few bucks, they could
sure use it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the early days of the internet, the public places were mostly
populated by people who assumed wide open was the natural order. As
opposed to the real world with its silos and private spaces, the
internet would be wide open. Everyone could go into this new public
square and say and hear what they liked. That is why the first public
forums were wide open and comprehensive. The idea was that you had one
big forum, and everyone could pile in and have their say.

It did not take long for that to fail. The early forums quickly
splintered as factions that would develop and soon the forums were a
riot of antagonistic posting. This was long before the smart people made
it easy for the progressive kooks to get online, but even in a world of
smart, tech savvy people, factionalism was an issue. Bulletin boards
then UseNet and then message boards followed this pattern. They started
centralized and open and soon balkanized into private platforms.

Once the internet was made accessible to the midwit progressive, this
pattern became more toxic and nastier. Instead of college football
forums unable to maintain civility amongst rival fans, it was the tone
police and moral scolds creating dissention and demanding their rivals
be censored. They worked to gain control of the platforms and then set
about driving off their bogeymen. This led to alternative forums for the
people who had been purged from the main platforms.

Another aspect of this new version of the old pattern is that the
progressive kooks are unable to start their own forums, so they must
infiltrate and co-opt existing platforms, which is why we have a
censorious atmosphere online. It was not enough for the kooks to gain
control of Twitter, for example, they also had to attack any alternative
sites that sprang up in response. In other words, the kooks were
threatening the normal balkanization dynamic that had existed since the
start.

The point of all this is the last half century of the internet
demonstrates the reality of large societies, whether they are digital or
analog. Once a society gets to a certain size factionalism is
inevitable. The message board experience is the best example, as these
platforms created lots of tools to allow people to exist on the same
platform but ignore the people from factions they did not like. It never
worked. The only solution was peaceful separation in the form of
separate private platforms.

This makes perfect sense when you learn about the Dunbar number. This is
the number of stable relationships people are cognitively able to
maintain at once. The generally agreed upon number is
one-hundred-and-fifty. For many people, the number is much lower, so
this means in any large group, the typical person will have a sense of
belonging with a minority of the people. Consequently, they will be
alienated from the rest and there is a short trip from alienation to
hostility.

This explains the general sense of unhappiness in modern America. The
mass media age has not brought people together as our politicians
endless blather on about all the time, but rather increased the sense of
alienation. The normal person is now bombarded with the presence of
alien, perhaps hostile strangers. Every online experience comes with
someone trying to scold you, lecture you, harass you or they are simply
outside what you consider to be normal and acceptable.

Digital life is making analog life less tolerable. Of course, this is
compounded by the fact that it is now impossible to avoid the scold. In
the analog world you can easily spot the scold and avoid her. They have
a look about them that is easy to recognize. If you knew nothing about
<a
href="https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/politics/attacked-by-conservatives-uw-misinformation-researcher-gears-up-for-2024/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kate Starbird</a> you would take one look
at her and know she is someone who should be avoided. Online, there is
no way to spot these spiteful mutants until they begin to immiserate
you.

Here is where we see the horrors of the virtual world jumping into the
analog world, as these people now do to our institutions what they did
to the internet. For example, spiteful mutants have taken over the court
system in New York. Just as we saw with social media, they are using
their power to harass normal people. They have litigated VDare into
closure simply because they can. This is not much different from what
the scolds did to social media platforms with moderation.

New York is like Twitter before Musk. They have law-fared the NRA into
bankruptcy, charged Trump with various invented crimes, levied a fine on
Trump for denying he committed a crime that has never been demonstrated,
litigated VDare out of existence despite never alleging any wrongdoing
and sent a growing number of innocent white men to prison for the crime
of being white men. Douglas Mackey is the most famous, but there are
others like <a
href="https://web.archive.org/web/20240331142835/https:/www.nytimes.com/2019/10/22/nyregion/proud-boys-antifa-sentence.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Maxwell Hare and John Kinsman</a>.

It is clear that kooks in other states are looking to follow the lead of
New York, much like we saw with the internet. One site would be
subverted by kooks and before long the other sites followed their
actions. The peak of this mania was when every internet platform banned
Alex Jones on the same day. Even obscure sites like Roku banned him in
the rush to anathematize the man. The dream was to bring back internal
banishment through de-platforming.

There is another important lesson here, a scary one too. The internet
has proven too big to control in this way. The scolds got the upper hand
for a while, but the cost of endless policing exceeded the carrying
capacity. People forget, but the reason Musk was able to buy Twitter is
they were in serious financial trouble. He fired over two-thirds of the
staff, the scolds, and harpies, because these people did nothing but
immiserate the people who kept the site running.

This will apply even more to a continent sized country. New York can
make itself hostile to normal people, but normal people can leave. After
what New York has done to VDare, every reformer now knows they have to
shop for safe jurisdictions to avoid this sort of problem. The same will
be true for industries that know they are threatened by the kook squads.
The gun makers are fleeing the Northeast because they know better than
anyone that there is no reasoning with fanatics.

The point here is that we will see in the analog world what we have seen
in the digital world for the last decades. A great disaggregation is
unfolding in which normal people seek refuge from the areas now
controlled by the fanatics. Further, the social media experience has
shown that you cannot last long when you are overrun by fanatics, even
when you are <a
href="https://www.reuters.com/legal/meta-platforms-must-face-advertisers-class-action-us-appeals-court-says-2024-03-21/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">systematically robbing them</a>. Even if
peaceful separation is not possible, people will seek it anyway.

In the end, this is the reason to be optimistic. A society in which
people like Fani Willis and Letitia James are doing anything more than
pulling a cart is a society that will eventually destroy itself. For any
human organization to survive it must be run for the interest of normal
by the sober minded and talented. This is true for a social media
platform, and it is true for a country. Nature cannot long tolerate the
unfit and human nature will be compelled to do the same eventually.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:Â **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.Â  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="A0P3PZjSb35J9zTOEkXQ7w==cb77BY7lIl8z8yt+jAeeUVC19ogvTE3i5ZFfgqQ2d2GzVVVFhIeY7C4C20y4bZoPmtD"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="tbzCXNuOXl6qCA9oM0ccvA==cb7V3ysncCExiXOLFKNy8WCpEOoZllCbWBPdI1MrttMbJ+paeOynLjjOrdE71TsVbwC"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
