---
title: "Killer Drones"
date: "2024-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31551"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31551"
---

**Note:** For those looking for a good book to read, check out this new
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CTV28BH7" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">novel</a> *Faction: With the Crusaders*, which is the
follow on of the writer’s first
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/Faction-Karl-Dahl/dp/1082596450/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">novel</a> called *Faction*.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you were alive a thousand years ago and decided you wanted to kill
the local prince, it meant getting within reach of the prince. You would
have to get close enough to stab him with a knife or poison his food.
That meant getting past the guards and his retainers who were always
with him. For anyone but those with regular access to the prince this
was near impossible, which is why political assassinations were almost
always a part of palace intrigue or a palace coup.

Ranged weapons changed this math a bit, but the bow was around a
thousand years ago and was not a weapon for this type of activity. The
reason is bows were primarily for hunting at close range or part of a
system for war. The hunter would need to get close to his quarry as bows
were not terribly accurate. In war, masses of archers operated a lot
like a missile battery. They would fill the sky with arrows using volume
to overcome the limited accuracy of the weapon.

The first real innovation in weapons that could be used for
assassinations was the crossbow which arrived in the Middle Ages. We
know the ancients had crossbows and used them in war, but they were not
terribly accurate. The cost made them a weapon of war rather than a tool
for private use. The crossbow disappeared from Europe for almost a
thousand years, but then reappeared in the tenth century. Technology
soon made them cheap and deadly accurate in the right hands.

This is why medieval leaders grew concerned with this weapon and tried
to ban their private ownership in some cases. A weapon that a peasant
could own and master that would allow him to strike the prince from a
distance created a new problem for the ruling class of the time. A
couple of angry peasants on the roof tops or even in the crowd could
kill the prince. All of a sudden, having guards and a retinue was not
enough, so the prince had to be more careful around the peasants.

Of course, we see the same thing happen with firearms. In the 18th
century it was not a great weapon for assassinations. If you could get
close enough you could kill the prince with a muzzle loader, but you
would also be easy to spot. The first widely available firearms were not
great for up close work. Pistols started to change this, and technology
soon made it possible to conceal a deadly weapon on your person, thus
making the assassin a real threat to authority.

Even though the problem was obvious, it took a while for rulers to
figure out how to deal with firearms as political weapons. The same is
true for things like roadside bombs and bombs delivered through the
mail. A hundred years ago anarchists sent bombs to rich people through
the mail. Of course, political actors were able to assassinate important
people with the use of commonly available firearms. This is no longer an
issue, as the ruling class has adapted to this threat.

This may be about to change. The use of FPV drones in the Ukraine war is
doing to range weapons what war did for prior weapons. The FPV drone is
a First Person Video drone that an operator uses to put an explosive on
a target. The drone has a camera so the operator can look through that
camera to guide the drone to the target where it explodes upon impact.
Two years ago, these did not exist as a practical matter, but now the
battlefield is littered with them.

The reason the skies are full of drones in Ukraine is they are cheap to
produce and cheap to master. A team of two can become a highly effective
weapon on the battlefield with a week of training on the drone. Training
men to use million dollars tanks and artillery takes years. The drone is
not a replacement for these weapon systems, but they are proving to be a
cheap way to increase the combat effectiveness of troops that have the
minimum amount of training.

A big part of the drone war is that the soldiers are learning to operate
them and also repair them when needed. After the war, millions of men
will go back to civilian life knowing how to make a cheap flying bomb
they can guide to a target. Tens of thousands of Ukrainian men will come
home angry at their politicians or the politicians of Europe about their
conduct of the war. In other words, you do not have to be a genius to
see the potential downstream consequences of the drone revolution.

For the last fifty years, the West has had to deal with terror attacks,
which meant bombs, mass shootings and hijackings. Western elites had
largely insulated themselves from assassination, so the only political
violence was attacks on civilians. Now that is about to change as the
terrorist can fly a bomb through the window of a rich person’s home or
into the limousine of an important person. The math of political
violence is about to change due to the drone.

History tells us that no one will notice this until a lunatic flies his
homemade FPV drone into a government building. Then the security
industrial complex will get the money to unriddle the problem. The
battlefield will provide a lesson here as well because those soldiers
using drones are working on defending against them. Reports suggest the
Russians are way ahead on this, but it will not take long before the
private sector in the West is working the problem of killer drones.

In the middle of the last century, it was still common to see
politicians mixing it up with the people, but that no longer happens.
Over time the threat of political violence, despite the rarity, has put
the political class behind a wall. Drones will probably put them in a
bunker, but it will also put the managerial elite in bunkers too. They
will cease to be real people and instead be nothing more than images on
our screens. The FPV drone cannot hunt what it cannot see in the wild.

It will also mean new rules to monitor the sale of components used to
make drones, like we see with explosives and street drugs. You cannot go
into a store and buy certain cold medicines without a note from the
state. It will not be long before you must pass a background check to
buy a drone. We may even see politicians try to ban assault drones on
the grounds that they are weapons of war. It sounds ridiculous, but our
rulers think this is a
<a href="https://twitter.com/Breaking911/status/1757219447784329452"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">good ad</a>, so nothing is too
farfetched.

This thought experiment is a good reminder that war has downstream
consequences that no one can foresee. Cheap crossbows were great for
waging war, but lots of good crossbowmen in the crowd were not good for
the king. The same proved true for other weapons of war. We are about to
see the same thing with this war. In the fullness of time, it will be
seen as an inflection point and maybe one that makes the economics of
the Western ruling system unworkable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ETkkfrDZ6Ggm2w426UJN1w==cb7G8w1WyyH3n7LFGlrmwG4O0+Yzsgzs3J4jLgSdooefWNzW+vr7L7bOblw7otkRSea"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="8D9WmPM8vX/V/BLmxlOE0A==cb7JMusEtuaOlPj9YrFP/e6I3wPHDKoQyjlHodAD5XJB2/z/PEDAJnYoWedxtriHe9w"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
