---
title: "Our Democracy"
date: "2024-03-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Mass Media
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31727"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31727"
---

**Note: **Behind the green door is a post about living in a world where
you can be jailed for holding the wrong opinions and a post about my
used car lot. The Sunday podcast was posted early for a change.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Joseph de Maistre famously observed, “False opinions are like false
money, struck first of all by guilty men and thereafter circulated by
honest people who perpetuate the crime without knowing what they are
doing.” We get a sense of that in the weekend media drama over Trump
using the word “bloodbath” in a speech. He used the word in reference to
what would happen to the auto industry under a second Biden term, but
the media left out the part about the auto industry.

The result was a media frenzy based on the false claim that Trump was
promising some sort of homicidal revenge if he did not win the election.
One media pinhead after another went to their favorite platform to
repeat the claim. In some cases, they did so on video platforms as the
video of Trump giving the speech in which he used the word was playing
in the corner of the screen with the sound muted. So much for the second
half of that de Maistre quote about honest people perpetuating the
crime.

It probably would have gone like so many other fake media narratives in
that normal people without access to the megaphone would have spent days
clarifying what was said but by that point the media would be onto the
next lie. This time the world’s richest man <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/political/leftist-corporate-media-unleash-bloodbath-hoax-after-trumps-speech"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">noticed</a> and posted about it on
Twitter. Joe Scarborough deleted his post about it, but others kept up
the lie. Nancy Pelosi made the rounds stammering through the claim that
Trump is promising a homicidal rampage.

There is nothing new about this, of course. The entirety of the Trump
administration was spent this way, where the media would make up obvious
lies and people would spend days correcting the lies. The difference now
is the world’s richest man has suddenly started to notice things like
this. Elon Musk is an eccentric guy, but when he notices something the
world notices it with him. Musk seems to be taking aim at the legacy
media this cycle, so it will make for some good drama.

This misses the larger issue we see with this story. The person who
initiated this drama over Trump using the word “bloodbath” lied and she
knew she was lying when she claimed he said, “there would be a bloodbath
if he lost.” Her bosses surely knew she was lying but went along with it
because it would get attention. The rest of the media who piled on also
knew it was a lie. In other words, everyone involved knew it was a lie,
but they kept on lying, even when everyone knew it was a lie.

In theory, the media is supposed to be the arena of public debate, where
the political combatants argue for their proposals. In imagination land,
the media is just a referee, but in more sober telling the media is a
collection of competing entities fighting to gain the trust and
attention of the market. The marketplace for information should correct
for this constant lying, much as it prevents the one airplane maker from
filling up on diversity hires and building planes that <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2024/03/17/business/boeing-timeline-troubles-crashes-stock-dg/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">fall apart</a> in midair.

Therein lies the problem. Just as Boeing is pretty much a monopoly, the
media is also a monopoly and for the same reasons. Over the years,
Boeing was able to make the best of friends in government, so that it
was able to buy up the competition. Similarly, the media has coalesced
around a critical mass of flatterers who have exclusive access to
permanent Washington. If you want to buy a commercial plan you go to
Boeing and if you want to reach the public, you go to the media.

Just as the free market always seems to end up with a few players
controlling the marketplace, democracy seems to end up with a few
players controlling the marketplace for ideas. The reason a nonsense
story like the Trump “bloodbath” comment runs wild is that the media is
a monolith. The people in it speak only to each other and the people in
it are selected for their ideological compliance. The media is a massive
hive controlled by the uniparty.

Of course, the fact that we have the expression “uniparty” and everyone
understands exactly what it means speaks to the reality of “democracy.”
Instead of it being the marketplace of ideas, it collapses like all
markets into monopoly. Reformers like Trump are treated like upstarts in
any industry dominated by a few players. If a collection of rich guys
tried to challenge the duopoly of Airbus and Boeing, they would quickly
cease to be rich guys, as they would be crushed.

That is the plight of anyone who seeks to reform democracy. The desire
for reform comes only when it has evolved to its natural state of
oligopoly, which often appears to the people as a monopoly. Like the
upstart challenging the major players in an industry, the reformers get
crushed, unless they have friends in government. To get friends in
government means making the same deal as the major players. The path
forward is always a deal with the devil or death by his minions.

Joseph de Maistre said, “To hear these defenders of democracy talk, one
would think that the people deliberate like a committee of wise men,
whereas in truth judicial murders, foolhardy undertakings, wild choices,
and above all foolish and disastrous wars are eminently the prerogatives
of this form of government.” That was two hundred years ago before any
nation foolishly set about proving him correct. Every day the media
reminds us that there is no reforming democracy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="47Bo408fUz956RoxpefLyQ==cb7xPHEXAiGysjfzt3/HiqPxnEPxNzQCMxdVlvGqL4tk21KJLcpwc7L/A1kiWfGu/HB"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="k6n/Z6zETmAbGiaBRmG/3w==cb7RPG38Ore9zzCR8yzOl0/ubl5/FOFk9NS356hH+utbKNRUTwRSzmQbO+z3gvBvI56"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
