---
title: "Preference Collapse"
date: "2024-02-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31591"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31591"
---

**Note:** For those looking for a good book to read, check out this new
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CTV28BH7" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">novel</a> *Faction: With the Crusaders*, which is the
follow on of the writer’s first
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/Faction-Karl-Dahl/dp/1082596450/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">novel</a> called *Faction*.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Liberalism comes in for a lot of abuse recently, mostly due to the
abuses done by the current ruling class in the name of liberalism.
People are hauled away and thrown into dungeons in defense of democracy,
international rules are violated in defense of the rules-based order and
all of it is accompanied by endless lying. It is no surprise that a
growing number of people inside and outside the West are starting to
think that maybe the problem with liberalism is liberalism itself.

Of course, the place to start is the meaning of liberalism. If you tap
the word into a search engine you get the stock definition. “Liberalism
is a political and moral philosophy based on the rights of the
individual, liberty, consent of the governed, political equality, right
to private property and equality before the law.” Note that the only
part that the current ruling elites in the West mention is political
equality, but they have a different view of equality from the rest of
us.

Another way of thinking about liberalism is the idea of permission.
Despite claims by some, liberalism is a peculiarity of Western European
people. It grew out of the medieval experience where permission was the
rule. Up and down the social order, every was required to seek
permission from those they served, even for personal issues like
marriage and property transfers. Your preferences were controlled by the
range of freedoms granted to you by your superiors.

Liberalism, in contrast, seeks to broaden that range of freedom so the
individual can make decisions based on his preferences. A man does not
have seek permission from his lord to give some of his land to his
brother or a total stranger. As long as the new owner abides by the
rules applied to all land owners, he is free to take possession of the
land if he so chooses or not take possession of the land. His refusal or
acceptance is based on his preferences, which he does not have to
explain.

Liberalism is often framed as increased choices and therefore an
increase in your freedom to choose, but that is not quite right. If you
go into the cereal aisle and select an item from the dozens of choices,
but must prove to the cashier that your selection is the best one for
you, that is a vastly different world from one in which you pick
whatever you like for any reason you like. The ability to not choose at
all, for any reason at all, is vastly different from a world where you
must choose.

In other words, the core of liberal order is not the proliferation of
choices or even the right to make a choice, but the right to make a
choice or not make a choice without seeking permission or having to
explain your decision. You get to live your life by your own lights and
you do not have to explain yourself to the authorities. It is only when
you violate the law that your motivations come under review and even
there is only as a mean of establishing your guilt or innocence.

This is important for understanding the current age. Everywhere you turn
now you are expected to explain your preferences and subject those
preferences to what the prevailing orthodoxy pretends is the crucible of
reason. Even trivial things, like what you choose to eat, often require
an explanation. Everyone feels to need to explain their preferences, as
if they fear operating outside of official permission. Outside of a
narrowing list of personal choices, your preferences are not your own.

One reason for this is the moralization of American society. Since the
end of the Cold War, everything and everyone is subject to the
proselytizing of the high priests of the new religion who are always
increasing the scope of their work. The reason the vegan makes sure to
tell the world she is a vegan is she thinks this safely puts her on the
side of the righteous. The mask wearing during the Covid hoax was
another example of how trivial things can become holy sacraments.

Another reason for the collapse of preferences is the collapse of the
liberal order since the alleged triumph of liberalism in the Cold War.
Some as yet understood restraint on managerialism during the Cold War
broke down with the end of the Cold War and ever since the managerial
class has sought to increase it supervision of the people, thus
collapsing the individual domain of preference. In retrospect, the end
of the Cold War was not the end of communism, but the end of liberalism.

This collapse of the domain of preference is changing the people. Look
at an issue as simple as immigration. The choices should range from no
borders, as is current policy, to firm absolute borders with no
immigration. You as a citizen should pick your preferred option and feel
free to advocate for it. Further, you should be free to say you oppose
immigration because you prefer not to live with foreigners and have no
need to explain your preference, but that is not the case today.

Listen to anyone you know talk about a topic like immigration and you
can see them first struggle for why they prefer whatever it is they
claim to prefer. On the one hand they want to be seen as preferring the
moral option and on the other hand they feel the need to explain
themselves when no explanation should be required. It is hard to know
what anyone truly prefers when it comes to public policy, because
everyone feels they need permission for their preferences.

One reason we seem to heading toward the abyss is that the range of
choices keeps narrowing and the consequences for falling outside those
narrow options becomes more draconian. The reason for this is preference
has been all but eliminated from the collective consciousness of the
people. The land of the free is a pasture where the people herd closer
and closer to one another, and anyone who strays from the flock is
quickly consumed by the wolves guarding our democracy.

What this suggests is that managerialism, left to run its natural
course, becomes something like the what we see with insecure managers in
corporation. Fearful of their own position, they proliferate rules and
enforcement, locking everything down until no one in the company has any
range of motion. The company becomes increasing brittle as it sheds
talent and begins to fail. The collapse of individual preference in
modern society is a sign of distress in our corporatized society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="qpjivL2HQwOso60agthv+A==cb78qf/R9n2vMmOA+ORhp0/9lHcNkEHhcKmKFcBUVeAVDN0LcfHmwIAw9HtkRi+fwrw"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="fU+8F06yAxLmK+EWcAiY5A==cb7afP/6qGECGolsF4WpAnpLVJCW/OnYqGYXBbY/dXTM01ZP92yiBPn35dNMnAfkex9"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
