---
title: "Who Says?"
date: "2024-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29259"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29259"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the odd neo-romantic
subculture that exists among the young online right, a post about how
the Germans were right about the liberating nature of work and the
Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a famous line from Dostoevsky’s *The Brothers Karamazov* in
which one of the characters asserts that if God does not exist, then
everything is permitted. This has been resaid many ways and attributed
to many people, but the original is from Dostoevsky, the great Russian
novelist. For most of human history, the answer to the question, “Who
says?” has been God, maybe the gods or perhaps a holy man who everyone
agrees has some connection to the gods.

When someone said you should not do something, that question, “Who
says?” was baked into the statement, along with its answer. You should
not speak ill of the gids because the gods will exact revenge on you or
maybe the authorities, fearing the wrath of the gods, will punish you.
The answer to the question of who says you should or should not do
something was always the same. it was some concept of the supernatural
or its manifestation in the natural world.

In modern times, we do not appeal to the gods. You should not drive your
car recklessly in a school zone because the government says you should
not do that, and they have men with guns to arrest you if you do it. The
answer to the question, “Who says I cannot speed in a school zone?” is
the government. Every prohibition in our lives comes with an assumed
answer to the question, “Who says?” That answer is almost always the
government or its agents.

The government is not a god or claims connection to the gods, no matter
what the politicians have to say about it, so who says they have the
authority to decide how fast you can drive and where you can do it? In
theory, it is we, the people, who decide these things through the
democratic process. We created government and the process by which men
hold power and they make the laws. The answer to the question, “Who says
I cannot speed in a school zone?” is us, the people.

Of course, it does not stop there. If the government enacted a rule that
says you must beep your horn when you see an orange-colored vehicle, no
one would be satisfied with the answer “the government says you must do
it.” It is a stupid rule and people would want more than that as an
answer. In fact, some people might argue that the law is invalid because
it requires people to do what they would otherwise would not do and for
no reason that can be deemed in the best interest of the people.

In other words, the horn beeping law would fail to satisfy the question
of “Who says?” because there has to be something more than just “because
we say so” as an answer in order to satisfy the question. In the case of
speeding around school zones, the real answer to the question is the
safety of children. We prohibit reckless behavior around schools because
we value the lives of our children. More important, we feel compelled to
protect the safety of children.

Instead of something ridiculous like beeping the horn when you see an
orange-colored car, pretend the law says you cannot teach women to read.
The argument is that once women learn to read, we end up in the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assemblywomen" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Aristophanes</a> cycle. That is a good and valid reason
for the law, but some would argue that it is more wrong to deny women
the basic rights nature grants all people. Women have a natural right to
exercise their minds by learning to read and using that knowledge to
improve their lives.

What the critics of the prohibition on female literacy are saying is
that it is not enough that the laws reflect the general will and have a
practical purpose. There is some universal standard of justice against
which the laws are measured. The horn beeping law is not just invalid
because it is ridiculous. It is invalid because it unjustly compels
people to act for no reason other than the state has the power to force
them to beep their horns whenever they see an orange car.

A more serious way to think about this is with the waves of laws being
pushed by Republicans regarding prohibited speech and thoughts. It is
the official policy of the Republican Party that you should not think
poorly of Israel, and you should not be permitted to criticize Israel.
In fact, Republicans now think the <a
href="https://www.rubio.senate.gov/rubio-to-blinken-revoke-visas-for-hamas-sympathizers/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">one group</a> of foreigners that should
be deported are critics of Israel. The question they are never asked is,
“Who says we should ban criticism of Israel?”

Most people would say it is rude to say mean things about Jews or
Israelis, just as it is rude to make fun of fat people or homosexuals.
No one suggests we deport people for telling jokes about fat people. In
other words, there must be some other reason for the extraordinary
emphasis on being rude to Israelis. It cannot simply be that we have all
agreed that it is wrong. If there is no reason given, then it must be
assumed that no reason exists, so there is no answer to the question.

Obviously, everyone knows the answer here. The massive Israeli lobby is
bribing these people to pass these laws. Marco Rubio owes his political
career, and thus his luxurious lifestyle, to a Zionist billionaire car
dealer named Norman Braman. Rubio has been in the pocket of the neocons
his entire career. Most Republican officials have a similar backstory,
so this is why they want to strip what remains of your speech rights and
ban large swaths of the Christian Bible.

None of that changes the basic problem. This crusade against
anti-Zionism and antisemitism have to answer the same question that all
prohibitions must answer, which is “Who says?” Being anti-Zionist might
be viewed as rude to Jewish people and anti-Zionist are often rude to
everyone in their presentations, but whoever says they must be muzzled
must answer the question, “Who says?” Who says these people must be
silenced and by whose authority are they being silenced?

This is a long trip to the basic question that lies at the heart of the
current crisis and that is the question of authority. In the
anti-Zionism debate, the problem is the same as with the horn blowing
example. The answer to the question of “Who says?” is “the government
says so” but that is not adequate because who says the government has
the right to police your opinions? The only possible answer to that
question is us, the people, and no such authority has been granted.

The question of authority always resolves to two possible answers, which
is the collective will or the supernatural. The natural rights crowd
will say the authority is nature, arrived at by reason, but that is just
a way of blaming God while pretending he is no longer around. Once God
is removed from the set of possible answers to the question “Who says?”
we are left with our collective will, which means whomever we choose to
be the final authority.

In the end, the response to all new demands for censorship and
prohibitions against thoughts or actions must be “Who says?” Who decided
that being rude to Jewish people is the worst sin? When was this
decided? Who says we have to pretend crime is not what it is? Unless and
until the scolds can answer these basic questions of authority, they
have no legitimacy. An unjust prohibition is no prohibition at all, but
merely an invitation to social conflict to the benefit of outsiders.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="f8iU+dKmSO3g6RneDkwFdg==cb7gPkXY0lJi+7hrlG7szhfI+iZWN8EarDAH4zX9nUwrHjEFR4d91QQCheVN9hKXdDE"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="hR2N9ORMUGzAxw1tSBjQVQ==cb7hmT0Ogk6JklYgpzuiyetbRBnw4EwOXwzPHwnN4oyipHlf9PCD45om0ZYK5bnd6jZ"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
