---
title: "2024 Predictions"
date: "2024-01-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31339"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31339"
---

It is that time of year again when I slaughter a goat, examine the
entrails, and reveal to the world what will happen in the coming year.
Given that last year’s hit rate was spectacular, the entrails tell me
you should send a donation to the Seer of Lagos for providing this
valuable service. There is no “black swan” prediction in the mix as by
definition any such prediction would no longer qualify as a black swan
event if it were to happen, so 2024 will be white swans all the way
down.

Trump Will win Iowa and Ron DeSantis will finish second with Haley
finishing a disappointing third place, tied with Ramaswamy. In New
Hampshire, Trump will win the state with DeSantis finishing tied for
third place with Ramaswamy, who will start talking about himself as
having momentum. Trump meanwhile will win South Carolina and Michigan
with more than half the vote. He will demand that the other candidates
drop out of the race, with Ramaswamy being the only one to do so.

In the spring the convictions will start to come in from the various
kangaroo courts accusing Trump of being a big meanie. This will have no
impact on his polling, but the media will begin to form a narrative
where the party feels it has no choice but to disqualify Trump and expel
him from the party. The Supreme Court will take one of the 14th
amendment cases, but hold off on delivering a verdict, giving the
Republicans time to figure out how to expel Trump and relieve the court
of this burden.

This will create chaos in the party as voters will accuse the remaining
candidates of being in on this new round of election rigging. Someone
will stand up at a Haley campaign event and caller her a rigger. With
the remaining candidates so unpopular, the party will look outside the
field and ask Glenn Youngkin to join the race. He will be quietly
guarantied the nomination, as the party will control the Trump delegates
and their own super delegates, thus having control of the nomination…

On the Democratic side, Biden will win the early primaries, mostly
because he is running unopposed. In the spring he will have a serious
episode that calls into question his fitness to hold office. This will
be something more egregious than his shaking hands with invisible
people, a thing he now does often. It will be something that the media
cannot ignore. This will lead official Washington to intensify calls for
the GOP to nominate Youngkin as a unifying candidate.

What no one will discuss in public is that Youngkin has deep ties to the
military industrial complex, the neocons, and the intelligence
community. He is this generations version of George H. W. Bush, a guy
who does what is required to satisfy the rubes in fly over country, but
is primarily loyal to the permanent ruling class. What Youngkin
represents is a final attempt to claw back some order from the gathering
chaos. Conservatives will rally to this idea, as they are this stupid…

The Federal Reserve, having convinced itself that inflation is not real,
will relent to pressure from the usual suspects and begin a program of
cutting rates in the first quarter of the year. By summer it will become
clear that inflation is real, and it never went away just because the
Fed stopped believing in it. People will begin to compare Jerome Powell
to Arthur Burns, who fell into the same trap in the 1970’s when he
failed to raise rates enough to control inflation…

By summer Argentina will collapse under a combination of social unrest,
political unrest, and economic chaos. Javier Milei was a fun protest
vote, but Argentines will soon learn that having a clown in charge is
actually worse than having crooks in charge and they will begin to
protest the government. The political class will use its real power to
undermine his government. The economy will crater as foreign investment
vanishes and the cost of borrowing soars…

In the first reported sighting of the heretofore mythical Ozark Mountain
Shark, Paul Ramsey will be attacked by said shark while tending his
property. He will not be injured, but the shark will warn him that if he
does not paint those pink walls in his studio, he will come back with
friends, and it will not be pretty. Faced with having to repaint the
studio, Paul will abandon the format and instead start a new YouTube
cooking series in which he only uses the microwave…

On the sporting front, the Lagos sportsball club will win the annual
sports bowl, prevailing over the club from San Francisco. Both of the
Japanese stars the Dodgers signed over the winter will have season
ending injuries. The sporting god are never kind to the big spenders. In
the other football, the one played with feet and round balls over in
Europe, the Premier League, which is the highest level of the English
football league system, will file for bankruptcy…

The Israelis will keep trying to escalate the Gaza war in order to draw
in the United States, but the Iranians will not take the bait. Russia
will start to upgrade the Syrian air defense systems as a way to both
defend against Israeli attacks and to open another front in the proxy
war with the Global American Empire. The Saudis agree to move forward
with Russia and China on developing their nuclear program, signaling an
end to the Saudi-American relationship that has defined the region…

The concept of antiwhite will become mainstream as the media continues
to push the culture war in advance of the elections. Normal white people
will begin to talk publicly about the war on white people. The “great
replacement” will go mainstream, and the usual suspects try to scream it
down with the usual language, but normal white people will shrug off
these tactics. For the first time in generations, the claim of racism
will not terrorize normal white people…

The entertainment industry will have its worst year in memory as the
combination of antiwhite content, reduced inventory due to the 2023
strikes and changing habits results in a lower box office and
accelerated cable cutting. Not only will people cut the cord, but the
internet services will see a drop in subscription numbers. Content
owners are insulting their customers and pricing them out of the market.
The market for video content is tapped out and will begin to decline.

The Biden administration will intensify efforts to confiscate Russian
assets currently frozen in Western banks. The stated goal is to free up
money for Ukraine, but the real point is to bring Russian to the table.
The administration wants to avoid a total collapse in Ukraine by
“freezing” the war. The Russians are not stupid so they have no interest
in that idea, but the West thinks the threat of confiscating Russian
assets could force the Russians to reconsider their position.

This will fail as the Russians will see it as an opportunity to remind
the rest of the world that their money is not safe in Western banks. The
Russian army will continue to grind down the Ukrainians all along the
line of contact. Yulia Tymoshenko, the “gas princess”, will become a
serious threat to Zelensky as Washington quietly backs her play, which
in turn leads to a political collapse in Kiev. By the end of the year,
Zaluzhny will give his
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FC1e1BINTTM" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Mannerheim speech</a>, which he <a
href="https://voxeurop.eu/en/ukrainian-kutuzov-general-zaluzhny-why-are-his-tactics-spotlight/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">spoke</a> of last year…

My book will be the number one Christmas gift in 2024…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="UxFs19SY3hsbYnbX1tfjmQ==cb7YTTU9jNUCuIE3VlnF+PCuCmf+KncNq+P4pNT1OYeRfo9EZN7OMENOKH8KIM+VXHE"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="4H1R8uTeBGKJFGd8ykENYQ==cb7UgZ/uRuWlsotlr0+sqz4qPeBFNntz7DYbwD1LbP1gd26roTk7FQEVjqM4l7R91IE"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
