---
title: "The Port Strike"
date: "2024-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32776"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32776"
---

The International Longshoremen’s Association went on strike as of
midnight in the first major port strike in the United States in decades.
Twenty years ago, dock workers on the West Coast struck for eleven days.
The ILA has not gone on a strike since 1977, so this is a historic event
for that reason alone. If the strike lasts more than a few weeks, then
it will be much more than a historical event. About half of the cargo
that goes in and out of the country flows through the affected ports.

The bankers estimate that the strike will cost the economy five billion
per day, but that is a number plucked from the air. What we learned from
the Covid fiasco is that American supply chains are extremely fragile,
so any interruption will have unpredictable long-term consequences to
the economy. This is also when consumer goods for the Christmas season
begin flowing into the country, so delays will result in shortages which
will disrupt the biggest retail period of the year.

One of the first things that will happen is conservatives will be told
by conservative media to blame the dock workers. The reason for this is
conservatives are idiots who do what they are told by the people they
claim to oppose. The regime would like to turn this into a problem for
Trump if possible, so they are busy filling the teleprompters of Fox
News with squirrely rants about the greedy union guys. The vegetables
that consume that slop will then regurgitate it on social media.

The fact of the matter is there are no good guys or bad guys when it
comes to the strike itself, but the port system is an indictment of the
economy. There is no reason for one company to control ports up and down
the coast. Ports should be controlled by the states and encouraged to
compete with one another for cargo. This makes for better port
operations and eliminates the prospect of a crippling port strike. It
also encourages modernization and efficiency at the ports.

The reason this is not the case is our ports are primarily skimming
operations, rather than a part of a manufacturing and export base. What
America primarily exports does not require seagoing vessels.
Transgenderism, homosexual pride parades and cultural subversion are
shipped around the world on the back of the dollar. What comes back are
container ships full of consumer goods. A collection of people then skim
a little from each container that reaches an American port.

This gets to why the dock workers are striking. They want protection
from automation that will eliminate jobs. This will strike most people
as nuts as they have been conditioned to think automation is a good
thing, because that is what the television has told them, but in
reality, most automation is about socializing the costs of business and
privatizing the profits. Automating the ports will not result in lower
consumer prices, but it will make the port operators richer.

If the point of the American economy were to make things and then sell
them around the world, the ports could never be allowed to function as
they do today because it would interfere with selling things around the
world. That is not the point of the American economy, so the main
function of ports is to skim from imports. This is why one main operator
controls the East Coast ports. Consolidation makes it easier to
institutionalize the skim.

None of this is to suggest that the dock workers are victims. Senior
members of the ILA make four and five times what the typical American
earns. Most of the guys on strike make six figures plus very generous
benefit programs. The reason it is impossible to get a job at the ports
is they control the labor force, which means they only allow friends and
family to get jobs when they come open. The docks are pretty much a
government created medieval guild system.

That is the other thing about the ports. The labor situation is a
creation of the federal government over the last half century. In the
middle of the last century, the mafia got control of the union pensions
and immediately looted them. This brought in the feds who eventually
restructured the union, so it was free of gangsters in track suits, but
was filled with gangsters from the government. Both sides of the current
contract dispute are the result of decades of government management.

Of course, there is a political angle to this. The Biden admin has done
nothing to prevent the strike, which is interesting as they moved heaven
and earth to head off the rail strike last year. That was when Biden
thought he was going to be allowed to run for a second term. Now that he
is drifting off into retirement, no one in the admin can be bothered to
work on anything other than Ukraine and Israel. Kamala will be left to
deal with the politics of a port strike.

This is where things get interesting. Pennsylvania and Michigan are
union states, so the white remnant will be watching this strike. These
are people who have always voted Democrat for economic reasons but
detest the other stuff from the party. They like Trump, but wisely
distrust Republicans. There is an opening for Trump the deal maker to
take the union side without pandering. Harris, on the other hand, does
not have any good options on this one.

In a way, the ports are a good model for our ruling class. Everyone
involved in the ports is doing well, better than they should expect, but
everyone involved in the ports is sure the system is screwing him. That
is because the ports exist in isolation from the rest of the economy. It
is a world unto itself that only interfaces with the rest of society,
rather than operate within the economy. It is how high-earning people on
both sides of this strike can think they are the little guy.

Another reason for this is the bottleneck mentality. Ports are a
bottleneck and everything that passes through is taxed. In this way, the
ports are just like our banking system or the information system. That
means the real competition is over how much you get to tax what passes
through the bottleneck. To the people inside a bottleneck system, it
always feels like it is a zero-sum game, and their slice of the overall
pie is never the biggest slice of that pie.

In the end, the union will get what they want as there is no real reason
to not give them what they want. Their cost just gets tacked onto the
cost of goods that flow through the port to your local Walmart of Amazon
distribution center. Just like those Walmart’s and Amazons, the cost of
the ports are socialized. With no fear of competition, there is no
concern for the profit margin. You get to pay more for stuff, so the
dock worker and his manager get to go boat shopping this spring.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="5tqpp+RCsZ0q6b5J34wsaA==cb7UodASEjxpZPafRLmBbYjYdFTTIeU1aiGlGn60hcH1gNq7pSeLjOboI0l0yX0p7d7"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="H+cwU5LRh77ltLj6kvxOhw==cb7dteHR4DSLzXmR7jxty7yssavuxfe3W6B3Ptp+7ktMeItQGbqf9/XAwOQJWokOuVh"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
