---
title: "The Revelatory State"
date: "2024-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32122"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32122"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is the final review of and commented
upon the *Planet of the Apes* franchise, a post about roots and leaves
and the Sunday podcast, which was all about the Trump trial. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Political science claims to have sorted the various types of political
systems that have existed and could exist in the world. As a practical
matter this means reducing Aristotle’s list of regimes down to “our
democracy” and “fascism.” What is called “our democracy” looks nothing
like democracy and it has long ago lost its liberalism. As Paul
Gottfried noted many years ago, we now live in post-liberal societies.
The trouble is, we lack a label that seems to fit what we are seeing.

The reason we lack a label is our socio-political system is amazingly
good at disguising itself by shifting focus away from how it acts onto
something else. Every month brings the official celebration of some
designated victim group. There are many remembrance days for bad things
that may or may not have happened. Of course, there is the perpetual
foreign bogeyman who threatens our democracy. Russia is currently the
bogeyman, but China is warming in the bullpen.

One way of thinking about our socio-political system is to imagine a
Protestant minister who had a vision of some sort. Maybe he got a
glimpse of a dreadful future or perhaps a new path to enlightenment. He
then sets about telling everyone he can find about his vision and what
he thinks it means. Of course, he just assumes his vision requires him
to tell the world about that vision and what it means. No one ever has a
vision that requires them to keep quiet about it.

Now, imagine hundreds of such people working in the institutions having
hundreds of these visions. Instead of one eccentric minister claiming to
have received a message from God, it is hundreds of mediocrities working
in offices around the country claiming to have found some new bogeyman
or maybe some new path to the assumed end point of human existence.
Every day is spent hashing out these visions in the marketplace of
visions and visionaries.

This sounds a bit wacky but consider the fact that it is rare to see a
product sold on its features and benefits. Even the most mundane
products are sold based on their alleged benefit to some cause or your
moral benefit. No event is just presented as it is, but instead it is
cast as part of a morality tale. A person cannot simply be famous for
something like kicking a ball around or singing a song. Instead, he must
claim that his fame is in service to a cause.

In all of this is the turmoil of competing revelations. June is now
called “pride month” for things that up until recently did not exist.
There have always been male and female homosexuals, of course, but their
private acts were kept private. The concept of “coming out” is a novelty
that brings with it normative claims. Somewhere, someone had a vision
that said the path to the promised land is through elevating this tiny
minority to the top of the social order.

The market for visions and visionaries is like all other markets, so it
did not take long before imitators were on the scene. Lesbian and gay,
the L and G of the now famous initialism has been joined by Bisexual,
Transgender, Intersex, Queer/Questioning, Asexual and other, which gets
the plus sign for some reason. It turns out that the commodification of
sexual deviance has its limits. The next guy or gal with a sexual vision
will be stuck with the plus sign.

While much of this stuff seems novel, and much of it is recently
invented, the practice of inventing new normative claims is not new. We
see it with the various alien bogeymen conjured over the last three
decades. The Muslims could not be left to be Muslims in their own lands.
They had to submit to this thing called liberal democracy, a thing that
does not exist, but when it did exist, it prohibited the imposition of
alien socio-political forms on people who rejected them.

Think back to the Bush years and the crusades against the Muslims
sounded like Protestant ministers talking about converting the savages.
As if my magic, everyone in Washington got it into their heads that the
world was at risk unless the Muslims accepted liberal democracy. Put
another way, someone, or a group of someone’s, had this revelation and
convinced the rest that it was true. Those who did not accept it as a
revelation were packed off to the outer darkness.

We now hear the same sorts of sermons about the Russians, except this
time the doubters are accused of cavorting with Old Scratch. Suddenly,
all the best people are filled with righteous anger at Russia and
determined to defeat this enemy in a holy crusade called Project
Ukraine. Next up is China, a country all of these people admired until
they started having visions about China doing bad things. The gods have
spoken and now it is time to act.

The origin of this crusader mindset can be dated to the abolitionist
movement when all of a sudden, northern Protestants decided that slavery
was a sin, even though Scripture seems to be fine with slavery. Not only
was slavery a sin, but the slaver was an irredeemable sinner, and he
must be destroyed. Why all of a sudden did masses of people have this
shared vision? No one knows because no one asks, just as no one asks why
all the best people now say “Keev.”

That is the other feature of the revelation state. Once the vision finds
a market, no one bothers to question it. In the revelation state, novel
moral claims go from inconceivably strange to irrefutably true in the
blink of an eye. Homosexual marriage is the best example of how a joke
became holy writ overnight. No one ever asked how this happened as to do
so could suggest it does not belong in the catechism, which is a good
way to get hurled into the void.

That is another feature of our socio-political system. It demands total,
unconditional submission to its moral claims. It is never enough to
agree on most things or be indifferent to some things. You are either
one hundred percent in tune with the prevailing morality or you face
annihilation. The sinners are forced to confess their sins, but always
face punishment, no matter how much they grovel. Absolution is
arbitrary, but confession is mandatory.

This revelatory aspect of the American ruling class does not explain
everything, but it is one aspect of the system. The socio-political
system that emerged after Gettysburg was built on the pre-ideological
fanaticism that animated abolitionism. In time it seems to have become
an ideology all its own. For most of the 20th century it was held in
check by practical necessity, but now it has been unleashed and the
result is decades of increasingly deranged revelations.

What we may be seeing is the end of a long sociological arc that began
in the 19th century with the Great Awakening. Lots of pundits have
compared the present to past Protestant fervors, but they snicker in
their sleeve and move on. Instead, what we may be witnessing is not
echoes of the past but the final end point of a trend that started in
that period, mutated along the way into the final virus we see today.
The revelatory state may be the logical end point of the Great
Awakening.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="eH8rBx9hkam2Vd0KpGgqeg==cb7jWWZYeUN3fT4nFfi8X1XdZotLkyfgtIoT9opBd2BZm7nn7C7DeJjN63SO6qoxwUm"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="SSkVjZBGjc3rlrRvl0+97w==cb7vs/wyih2ACavmslD8NVTuHZoOYCBQmXe/ODtGYi5D8n+SkP/oa3UguQunKa18b5i"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
