---
title: "Radio Derb May 23 2025"
date: "2025-05-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34200"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34200"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m22s Mortalism in the news
-   07m04s Regretful mortalism
-   13m52s A clumsy Commencement
-   20m18s A joyful Commencement
-   26m11s Hesperophobia (*cont*.)
-   36m47s That pesky semicolon
-   38m53s Romania’s new President
-   41m32s Rotherham’s new Mayor
-   43m40s Signoff with cultural appropriation

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/66238881/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! That was of course
Franz Joseph Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* and this is your
indigenously genial host John Derbyshire. What does it mean to be
“indigenously genial”? I’m not sure, but give me a break here, I’m
running out of adverbs.

I’ll open today with a segment on a peculiar way of thinking which I
shall call “mortalism,” although I’m not at all sure that’s the correct
descriptor.

Mortalism isn’t crazy in itself; it’s actually quite logical, although
in my opinion misguided. Like so many other ways of thinking, though, it
has a lunatic fringe. This week we encountered that lunatic fringe. Here
we go.<span id="more-34200"></span>

**02 — Mortalism in the news**.     A story that particularly snagged my
attention in this week’s news was the one about the attempt last
Saturday to [destroy an IVF
clinic](https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/5308196-california-ivf-clinic-bombing-suspect-motive/) in
Palm Springs, California.

This was a one-man operation, or attempted operation. The actual one man
was 25-year-old Guy Bartkus. His plan was to blow up the clinic with a
car bomb. However, he screwed up somehow. The bomb went off before he
could get the vehicle properly positioned, the explosion wiping out
himself and the car but leaving the clinic, which was closed at the
time, damaged but by no means destroyed.

IVF, if you’re not up-to-date on your reproductive abbreviations, stands
for “*in vitro* fertilization.” *In vitro* is Latin for “in glass.” A
human female egg is fertilized by a human male sperm in a glass
apparatus — there you go — instead of in the more conventional way. The
fertilized egg is then closely watched until it has definitely become an
embryo, at which point it is transferred to a human womb for gestation
to birth.

So the zone of lunacy we’re in here is something to do with
reproduction. Most of the cultural warfare waged in this zone is
pro-abortionists *versus* anti-abortionists. Since an IVF clinic exists
to produce viable embryos, it sounds as though Guy Bartkus was some
particularly crazy kind of *pro*-abortionist.

I bet he *was* pro-abortion, but his lunacy went way deeper than that.
From quoted remarks of his, together with an online manifesto he posted,
it appears that Bartkus was a mortalist, the opposite of a natalist.

Natalists believe in encouraging human procreation — urging people to
have more children to keep the human stock replenished. Elon Musk is a
natalist. I am another one, at least so far as civilized nations are
concerned.

Mortalists go the opposite way. They believe human life is a big
negative and want to do what they can to shut it down.

There are different schools of thought within mortalism. The most common
and longstanding one is driven by concern for the environment.

Here’s an edited extract from the mission statement of VHEMT, the
Voluntary Human Extinction Movement, one of the oldest mortalist
associations — it was founded in
1991. [Quote](https://www.vhemt.org/aboutvhemt.htm#vhemt):

The Movement presents an encouraging alternative to the callous
exploitation and wholesale destruction of Earth’s ecology.

As VHEMT Volunteers know, the hopeful alternative to the extinction of
millions of species of plants and animals is the voluntary extinction of
one species: *Homo sapiens* …  us.

Each time another one of us decides to not add another one of us to the
burgeoning billions already squatting on this ravaged planet, another
ray of hope shines through the gloom.

End quote.

Weird? For sure; but dedicated to persuasion, not violence. To the best
of my knowledge, no-one belonging to VHEMT has ever, in the movement’s
34 years of existence, tried to car-bomb a natalist clinic, or any other
establishment.

These are sober, thoughtful citizens who just believe that Mother Earth
would be a better place without human beings — a defensible position on
strictly logical grounds.

There’s another school of mortalist thinking that’s more personal and
introspective. I’ll do a segment on that, if you don’t mind.

**03 — Regretful mortalism**.     Here’s that other school of mortalist
thinking. There doesn’t seem to be a name for it, but it sometimes crops
up in literature and biographies. I’m going to call
it *regretful* mortalism.

Whether they care about ecological issues or not, regretful mortalists
believe that since human life is more pain than pleasure, procreation is
unethical and unjustifiable because, by increasing the quantity of human
life in the world, it can’t help but increase the quantity of suffering.

Regretful mortalism is, from a strictly logical point of view, just as
valid philosophically as ecological mortalism.

Guy Bartkus seems to have belonged to the regretful mortalist school of
thought — or more precisely, to have been out on the lunatic fringe of
that school. Most people who take that rather negative view of life
don’t go in for car-bombing.

Regretful mortalism in fact has a long and respectable pedigree. The
ancient Greek tragedian Sophocles, in one of his plays, has the chorus
tell us that [the greatest blessing of
all](https://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/text?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0190%3Acard%3D1225) is
to *not* have been born.

A milder version of this line of thinking is to look back across one’s
life to some earlier spell of happiness or fulfillment and wish one
could have died right after it.

The other day I was reading a review of Ron Chernow’s new biography of
Mark Twain. Chernow, [according to the
reviewer](https://nypost.com/2025/05/18/lifestyle/inside-the-mind-of-mark-twain-obsessive-author-and-arrogant-genius/),
tells us that Mark Twain, who of course invented the boys Tom Sawyer and
Huckleberry Finn, had no interest in exploring them as adults, as if he
couldn’t bear to imagine them stripped of their youthful appeal. Twain
once wrote the following thing, quote: “I should greatly like to relive
my youth. And then get drowned.” End quote.

Another case that I recall from my own reading is the late British
politician and classicist Enoch Powell. Powell’s classicism went very
deep indeed. In his high school years, to win a Divinity prize Powell
memorized the whole of St Paul’s Epistle to the Galatians in the
original Greek. He must surely have been well-acquainted with Sophocles.

Powell, who was born in 1912, had a distinguished military career in
World War Two. He advanced from Private First Class to Brigadier in five
years, although without ever being in combat.

Much later, giving a radio interview at age 73, Powell was asked how he
would like to be remembered. He answered, quote: “I should like to have
been killed in the war.” End quote.

That answer considerably upset his wife and daughters. However … and
here I’ll quote from Simon Heffer’s biography of Powell, page
901, [quote](https://www.amazon.com/Like-Roman-Powell-Phoenix-Giants/dp/075380820X/ref=sr_1_1):

After broadcasting that remark, he \[*inner quote*\] “received dozens of
letters from people saying I’m glad you said that because I felt the
same and I’ve never known it before. There’s a secret guilt about those
who served and were not killed that they too … were not killed.” \[*End
inner quote*.\]

End quote.

I think the pro- and anti-abortion activists have drowned out a whole
lot of other views about life — both one’s own life and human life at
large — that are worth pondering.

I’ll add [my
two-pennyworth](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Straggler/114.html) here.
I’m not a mortalist. I’m a natalist, at any rate where the civilized
part of the world is concerned. Nor am I in that box with Mark Twain and
Enoch Powell, looking back at some golden spell in my life and
regretting having gone on living after it.

My childhood was happy, with playmates and books and loving parents. My
adolescence, however, was [a bit of a
disaster](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2022-05.html#06),
best forgotten. My young-adult years were nothing to write home about,
either, although [I *did* write
home](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Letters/page.html) about
them.

What, looking back over my life, I think of as the *meaningful* part
started when I got married at age 41, and continues down to the present
day, and I hope will continue for many more days.

Not only do I hope that I myself will continue to exist, I also hope the
same for Western Civilization, with which I strongly identify. History
shows us that a slide back down into barbarism, either by outside
assault or internal rot, is always possible. Today, even here in the
United States, there are some disturbing signs.

**04 — A clumsy Commencement**.     The most dependable source for those
disturbing signs is our institutions of higher education — our
universities and colleges.

In my May 9th podcast I took a swipe at Columbia University in New York
City. [Quote from
that](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-09.html#05b):

I don’t know how Columbia has fared in Trump’s campaign to cut back on
federal funding for well-endowed Ivy League universities, but if the
stinking place is getting any of *my* tax money, I strongly resent every
damn penny.

End quote.

I see that in fact Columbia was stripped of $400 million in federal
funding back in March, in response to last year’s campus riots. The
Trump administration might be contemplating further penalties, [it’s not
clear](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/05/22/us/politics/trump-administration-columbia-accusation.html).

A leading foreign activist in those riots, Algerian Mahmoud Khalil, was
arrested, also in March, and is awaiting deportation at a detention
center in Louisiana.

Those campus riots last year were so bad, [Columbia
canceled](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/05/06/nyregion/columbia-commencement-cancel-protests.html) its
main graduation ceremony, scheduled for May 15th. In the year since, and
especially after that federal funding cutback, administrators at the
university have made some grudging concessions to the feds, in hope of
getting their funding restored of course. I was interested to see how
they’d manage this year’s graduation ceremony.

Answer: clumsily. The ceremony was held Wednesday this week. Claire
Shipman, Acting President of the university, gave the Commencement
Speech. It wasn’t very long, less than twelve hundred words. One quarter
of the way in the speech included
this, [quote](https://president.columbia.edu/news/claire-shipmans-2025-commencement-address):

More than 6,800 of you represent 141 countries outside the United
States. And let me say — we are glad you chose to be here. We need you.
We draw strength from our identity as a global institution. And we
firmly believe that our international students have the same rights to
freedom of speech as everyone else, and should not be targeted by the
government for exercising that right. And let me also say that I know
many in our community today are mourning the absence of our graduate,
Mahmoud Khalil.

End quote.

A couple of things struck me about that. First, 6,800 foreign students?
There were nearly sixteen thousand students graduating on Wednesday. Six
thousand eight hundred is more than 42 percent of that. I’ve said it
before — many, many times — and I’ll say it again: higher education is a
precious, finite national resource. American citizens should have first
dibs on it.

A few foreign students, sure; but *forty-two percent*? Of course they
are paying full tuition, to Columbia’s great financial advantage. End of
explanation.

And then, “freedom of speech”? So if student groups at Columbia
invite [Jared Taylor](https://www.amren.com/) to address them on white
advocacy, or [Peter
Brimelow](https://www.amazon.com/Alien-Nation-Americas-Immigration-Disaster/dp/0060976918/ref=sr_1_1) on
immigration patriotism, or Charles Murray on [race
realism](https://www.amazon.com/Facing-Reality-Truths-about-America/dp/1641771976/ref=sr_1_1),
or J.K. Rowling on [sex
realism](https://quillette.com/2020/06/07/jk-rowling-is-right-sex-is-real-and-it-is-not-a-spectrum/),
or [Douglas
Murray](https://www.amazon.com/Democracies-Death-Cults-Israel-Civilization/dp/B0DMTDRHMW/ref=sr_1_1) on
the Israel-Hamas War, students who try to shut down those speakers will
be disciplined, right? Ri-i-ight … Sure.

And then, *mourning* Mahmoud Khalil’s absence? The guy’s not dead. He’s
awaiting deportation for making an almighty nuisance of himself in our
country. The detention center he’s in is a humane facility, giving him
three hots and a cot while lefty judges allow his case to be lawyered to
death.

Acting President Shipman’s speech wasn’t altogether well-received by the
graduating students. There was loud booing and chanting of Mahmoud
Khalil’s name and “Free Palestine!” all through the speech. Meanwhile,
outside the ceremony, a cluster of graduates gathered to [burn their
diplomas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SFETn2Y4poo).

That was Commencement Day at Columbia University, where a four-year
course for a bachelor’s degree [will set you
back](https://undergrad.admissions.columbia.edu/affordability/cost) about
$360,000.

**05 — A joyful Commencement**.     Turning from barbarism to
civilization, I’m glad to report that not all of this week’s
Commencement ceremonies cast such dark shadows.

Also on Wednesday, as it happens, was [the graduation
ceremony](https://www.sunysuffolk.edu/email-campaigns/crm/20250109-nurse-pinning-email-corporate.html) at
the Jane F. Shearer School of Nursing in Suffolk County — my own county,
here on Long Island.

Why do I care? Because my beloved daughter Nellie was among those
graduating into the nursing profession there, and the rest of us
Derbyshires were in the audience: myself, my wife, our son Danny, and
Nellie’s three-year-old boy Michael.

The ceremony is actually known as a “pinning.” As the school website
explains, [quote](https://sunysuffolk.thankyou4caring.org/alumni/alumni-affinity-groups---school-of-nursing):

A nursing pin is worn in order to identify the school from which a nurse
has graduated. Pins often have a symbolic meaning, illustrating the
history of the nursing program.

End quote.

There is a picture of the actual Shearer pin at that website, with an
explanation of all its symbols.

This was, I should say, a historic ceremony for the school. The nursing
program started up in 1963 and the first graduation ceremony was in
1965 — exactly sixty years ago. Thanks to the Jane F. Shearer School for
generating so many trained nurses over so many years!

The Derbs — well, the three adult Derbs — of course shouted with joy as
Nellie stepped up for her pin. For me there was also a surge of deep
sentiment almost bringing me to tears.

My own dear mother was [a professional
nurse](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Photographs/03_1931-1942/page.html#SRN) all
her adult life. She loved [her
work](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-06.html#04),
and would have swooned with happiness to see her grand-daughter take up
the torch.

To add to all the happiness, there was nothing at all *political* in the
pinning ceremony to subtract from it. On a civilizational level, with
Columbia University scoring about three out of ten, the Jane F. Shearer
School hit a clean ten.

There were a lot of speeches from the platform — a *lot*: 
administrators, alumni, local notables, and of course representatives of
the graduates themselves. All were plainly congratulatory, full of
good-natured optimism.

None of the speakers mourned the absence of alien troublemakers or
congratulated the school on having excluded Americans from forty-two
percent of the graduating class. Nobody in the audience shrieked out
“Free Palestine!” I’m pretty sure, although I didn’t do a thorough
check, that no graduates of the school gathered outside to burn their
diplomas.

Nellie’s classmates there on Wednesday gathered to get their nursing
pins were *not* scowling, shrieking misfits graduating from courses in
Critical Race Theory and Gender studies, their heads swathed in Arabic
kitchen towels, looking forward to careers as [Community
Organizers](https://newrepublic.com/article/61068/the-agitator-barack-obamas-unlikely-political-education) or
Establishment mouthpieces in media or the academy, or to government jobs
handed to them by their uncles in corrupt Third World kleptocracies.

No:  The graduates getting pinned at *our* graduation ceremony were
happy, cheerful young Americans, already smart in their nursing
uniforms, ready to embark on necessary, useful, often difficult work to
improve the lives of their fellow citizens. God bless them all!

Here’s a modest suggestion from me to the authorities at Columbia
University.

Get in touch with your counterparts at the Jane F. Shearer School of
Nursing in Suffolk County Community College. Have them explain to you
the right way to assemble a student body, and to supervise student
affairs in such a way that the graduation ceremony is an occasion of joy
and pride, not embarrassment.

You can find the Jane F. Shearer School’s address, email address, and
phone number right there on [the school
website](https://www.sunysuffolk.edu/explore-academics/majors-and-programs/nursing/about-us.jsp).
No need to thank me; I’m glad to be of help.

**06 — Hesperophobia (*cont*.)**.     Atrocity of the week, not
altogether unconnected to the foregoing, was the Wednesday night murder
of two young Jews in Washington, D.C.

This happened just outside the Capital Jewish Museum in central D.C. The
victims were a young man, 28-year-old Yaron Lischinsky, and a young
woman, 26-year-old Sarah Milgrim. They were in fact a loving couple,
just about to get formally engaged.

Lischinsky was Israeli, born to a Jewish father and a Christian mother.
He himself was a devout Christian. He’d moved to the U.S.A. in 2022 to
work in the Israeli Embassy there in D.C.

Sarah Milgrim was American. She grew up in Kansas City. She was Jewish,
had spent summer vacations in Israel. She was also employed at Israel’s
D.C. Embassy.

The couple had a trip planned this weekend to Jerusalem, for Sarah to
meet Yaron’s family for the first time, and for Yaron to formally
propose to her. He’d just this week bought the engagement ring.

So on Wednesday they attended a reception given by the American Jewish
Committee at the museum. The purpose of the reception was to discuss how
more aid could be brought into the Gaza Strip. Sarah and Yaron were both
keen activists for peace between Israel and her neighbors.

As they came out of the reception to the street outside they were shot
by 31-year-old Elias Rodriguez, an American from Chicago wielding a 9mm
handgun. Police tell us he fired 21 rounds, reloading twice. The second
reload was to finish off Sarah, who — already mortally wounded — was
trying to crawl away along the sidewalk.

I would not have been the least bit surprised to read that the
killer, [Elias
Rodriguez](https://nypost.com/2025/05/22/us-news/homegrown-terror-dc-jewish-museum-shooting-suspect-elias-rodriguezs-path-to-self-radicalization/),
is a graduate of Columbia University. In fact his bachelor’s degree, in
English, was from the University of Illinois. He works writing content
for the American Osteopathic Information Association.

After killing the two lovers, Rodriguez ran into the Museum. People in
there had heard the shots and assumed he was seeking refuge from the
shooter. He was agitated. They tried to calm him, sat him down and
brought him a glass of water.

When the cops arrived to arrest him, Rodriguez cheered up. He took the
Arabic kitchen rag from his bag and declared, quote:

I did this. I did this for Gaza. Free, free Palestine! From the river to
the sea and there’s only one solution, intifada revolution.

End quote.

Those are of course the cant slogans of far-left anti-Zionists.
Far-*right* anti-Zionists have different slogans, but I forget the
details …

Rodriguez, it has turned out, is far-left from way back, with
connections somehow to an outfit called the Party for Socialism and
Liberation. He’s been well-known to Chicago law enforcement for at least
ten years as a prominent figure in every kind of lefty street
demonstration.

Now of course he’s a hero to the anti-Zionist mob. Their commentary has
been captured by MEMRI, the Middle East Media Research Institute. Random
sample: This is from a media outlet called Gaza
Now, [quote](https://www.memri.org/jttm/palestinian-factions-iran-backed-iraqi-militias-jihadi-clerics-celebrate-deadly-pro-palestinian):

In a moment of courage, he \[*that is, Rodriguez*\] decided to make his
voice heard and boldly confront the killers. He opened fire, killing an
Israeli employee, and stood defiantly, handcuffed, to raise the banner
of justice in the face of injustice as he shouted free Palestine.

End quote.

I guess we should brace ourselves for a new outbreak
of [hybristophilia](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-12-27.html#06e),
with ditzy females all over sending love letters to Rodriguez in his
jail cell. You have to feel sorry for Luigi Mangione; now the
hybristophiliac fangirls will forget all about *him*.

In an editorial on the shooting of Lischinsky and Milgrim, this
morning’s *New York Post* concluded
thus, [quote](https://nypost.com/2025/05/22/opinion/dc-antisemitic-terror-killings-channel-spirit-of-the-campus-protesters/):

Old-school right-wing antisemitism is still real and periodically
deadly, but it’s astonishing how far the global left has interpenetrated
with Islamist antisemitism: Hamas, after all, imposes sharia law in
Gaza.

It’s not just the lust for violence that unites them, but a hatred for
Western civilization.

End quote.

That jogged my memory. Way, way back, just three days after the 9/11
destruction of the World Trade Center towers, I wrote a column
for *National Review Online* under the title “Hesperophobia.” I
explained that title thus, [edited
quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Britain/hesperophobia.html):

This word was coined by the political scientist Robert Conquest. Its
roots are the Greek words έσπερος (hesperos), which means “the west” and
φόβος (phobos), which means “fear,” but which when used as an English
suffix can also carry the meaning “hate.” Hesperophobia is fear or
hatred of the West.

Here is the news: a lot of people out there hate us …  In China, in
India, in Pakistan, in Indonesia and Malaysia, in Africa and in the Arab
countries, European civilization — the West — is widely hated. Matter of
fact, quite a lot of Europeans and Americans hate it, too, as you will
know if you spend much time on college campuses.

End quote.

If anything much has changed in the 24 years since I wrote that, it’s
been the quantity of hesperophobia here in the U.S.A. This week’s poster
boy: Elias Rodriguez.

\[A footnote to that. Five and a half years later I had another try at
floating the word “hesperophobia” in the title of a column. Here are the
concluding sentences of that 2006
column. [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Britain/hesperophobiacontinued.html):

The Hun is at the gate. In the case of most European countries, in fact,
the Hun, the hesperophobe, is inside the gate. We can dream on for a
while, dream that our cultural superiority, our technological
superiority, our political superiority, will preserve us against all
assaults. Perhaps we should remember that [the
Huns](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Religion/attila.html) were
cultural illiterates, technological ignoramuses, and political
incompetents. It doesn’t take much in the way of culture, technology, or
statecraft to deliver a crippling blow to a weary, sybaritic,
over-governed civilization that is near the end of its allotted span and
has lost all faith in its own founding values. Time is short.

End quote.

Today, nineteen years on, time is shorter.

That 2006 column, by the way, was spiked by *National Review* for being
too race-realist — a portent of [things to
come](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/April2012/page.html). It survives
in my archives.\]

**07 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  From the London *Daily Mail*, May
18th, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14725645/semicolons-risk-dying-popular-punctuation-mark.html):

The age-old semicolon is dying out as Britons admit to never or rarely
using the punctuation mark, a study has found.

End quote.

Interesting. However, the story fails to note that George Orwell
disliked the semicolon. He so disliked it that he wrote his second
novel, *A Clergyman’s Daughter*, without using a single semicolon.

He then recanted, though, and put semicolons in his later novels. Or
perhaps his publishers just nagged him. Publishers generally get their
way in such matters.

Back in my wasted youth — this was the early 1980s — while living in
London I dated a German girl. It didn’t last long before I broke it off.
She was a nice girl: pretty, honest, plain-spoken. She was, however,
very *very* German.

In a conversation about writing once I mentioned that I felt insecure
with the semicolon, never quite sure if I was using it properly. “Ach!”
she responded. “In Cherman zere are *exactly* tventy-seven vays to use
ze semicolon correctly.”

I wouldn’t swear that the number was twenty-seven; but it was some
exact, and remarkably large, number.

As I said, the relationship didn’t last long.

*Item*:  Romania has a new President: elected in a two-round election
earlier in May, he will take the oath of office on May 26th. Name:
Nicuşor Dan, 55 years old.

No, I don’t know diddley-squat about Romanian politics. What got my
attention about Mr Dan was his mathematical talent.

I commented frequently on VDARE about the International Math Olympiad
for high-schoolers, held annually in a different location each year. The
point of my comments was to make race-realist observations about the
personnel in the U.S. team. This year’s Olympiad will take place July
10th to 20th in Sunshine Coast, a district of Australia.

Romania has an utterly disproportionate share of the world’s
mathematical talent. If you have a college library near you, go in there
and pull down one of the math journals: *AMM Monthly*, *The College
Mathematics Journal*, *Mathematics Magazine*, … there’s any number of
them. Open it at the “Problems” page — they all have one — and scan down
the pages looking at the names and locations of the puzzle posers and
solvers. You won’t get very far before you see a Romanian name.

So I wasn’t terrifically surprised to see that President-to-be Nicuşor
Dan [won gold medals for
himself](https://x.com/RuxandraTeslo/status/1924206417000403328) at the
1987 Finland Olympiad *and* then again at the 1988 Olympiad in Cuba. He
would have been aged 15 and 16 respectively at those events.

That’s quite an achievement. Those Olympiad problems are *tough*. It’ll
be interesting to see how well such a capable mathematician does at
running a country.

*Item*:  The news from the Mother Country just keeps getting worse.
Here’s the latest.

I’m sure you’ve heard of the so-called “grooming gangs” in Britain. The
expression “grooming gangs” is elite media sugar-coating. They are
actually rape gangs: groups of Pakistani Muslim men kidnapping and
raping young — sometimes pre-pubescent — English girls for sex.

There have been these rape gangs all over England, but the authorities
there have gone to great lengths to hide the truth about them, terrified
of legacy English people reacting violently if the facts came out.

The best-known case, and the one most feverishly covered-up, was in the
town of Rotherham, in the North of England. The gangs there operated
from the early 1990s to the mid-2010s, with police, social-welfare
agencies, and of course politicians all looking the other way.

Well, guess what: Rotherham just got itself a new Mayor. It’s actually a
Mayoress, name of Rukhsana Ismail. She is — can you guess? — a Pakistani
Muslim. She gave [her opening
address](https://x.com/theworldofmomus/status/1925196115911025073) to
the Rotherham townsfolk in Urdu, the national language of Pakistan.

Poor England! Poor, dear old England. She’s gone — gone into the long,
sad register of dead nations.

**08 — Signoff**.     That’s it, listeners and readers. Thank you as
always for your time and attention.

Please allow me my usual reminder that you can support the VDARE
Foundation by subscribing to [Peter Brimelow’s Substack
account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a check to the
Foundation at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759; and you can
support me personally by earmarking that check with my name, or by any
of the other options listed [at my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/) … which you
should anyway, it’s an excellent magazine. Thank you!

For signoff music, a little Cultural Appropriation.

A friend sent me a link to a YouTube clip that caught my fancy. [The
clip shows](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=880v0__gDB8) two young
Chinese ladies playing instrumental music in a large public square. The
passers-by in the square who stop to listen don’t look very Chinese, so
I think this is in a European city. Someone in the comment thread says
it’s Munich, but I can’t confirm that.

One of the ladies is playing the *èrhú*, a two-stringed instrument
played with a violin bow. The other’s playing the *pípa*, a sort of
chinese lute played by plucking with the fingers. They play two tunes,
both the work of present-day composer [Guān
Dàzhōu](https://wiki.d-addicts.com/Guan_Da_Zhou).

To see us out I’ll give you the first of those two tunes, title *Shuĭ
Lóng Yín*, “Song of the Water Dragon.”

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
