---
title: "The Death Of Progressivism"
date: "2025-01-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33486"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33486"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about how the
presentness of this age results in collective amnesia, a post how AI
will destroy us, a video from the bed of my truck and the Sunday
podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In certain circles the triumph of Donald Trump is being viewed as either
a sign that liberalism is dying out or the sign that it is dying and the
forces opposed to it are finally on the ascendant. Still others, stuck
in the thinking of the last century, see the victory of Trump as a sign
that the forces of darkness are ready to turn out the lights on the
liberal order they are committed to defend. In both cases, there is that
old problem of language in that no one seems to have the same definition
of liberalism.

This confusion is not helped by the fact that for about a century the
people at the retail end of politics have used the word “liberal” as a
label. In the United States, people we call the left also use the term
liberal. In fact, they often use the term left to mean super-liberal or
radically liberal with liberal simply meaning pro-government. Liberals
for example, want Medicare for all, while the left wants single payer.
To confuse things even more, the right wants government regulated
healthcare.

Putting aside the retail use of the word liberal, there is confusion as
to what is meant by liberalism in modern discourse. The civic
nationalists continue to insist it means the moral and political systems
based on things like individual rights, equality before the law and the
consent of the governed. Critics tend to view it as the collection of
bourgeois cultural and social fads that have ripped through the West.
One imagines liberalism as John Locke and the other as John Rawls.

The truth is the liberalism of the 18th century has been dead for a long
time. In Europe, ideology replaced liberalism in the 19th century. The
triumph of ideology resulted in two great industrial wars in the 20th
century and then the rise of managerialism in response to the dominance
of the American empire and the Cold War. In Europe, the dominant
political order is managerialism. Rights, equality before the law and
the consent of the governed exist only as rhetorical flourishes.

In the United States, the Lockean liberalism of the Framers quickly gave
way first to a reformist Protestantism, culminating in the Civil War.
This slowly gave way to what was called progressivism in the 20th
century. progressivism is the reformist Protestantism of the past but
stripped of its Christian overtones. The mental and moral structures
remain but lacking the fixed points of Scripture and the Christian
conception of God, the implementation has wandered all over the place.

Another way to think of it is that the European left travelled down a
road that began with the decline in Christian faith. The first step was
to use reason to arrive at the same ethical conclusions as Christianity,
just without the Christianity. This then led to thinking about new
ethical conclusions based on reason alone. Ideology is, after all, a set
of moral claims backed by the authority of reason. The two great
industrial wars in Europe were about how we ought to organize ourselves.

In the United States, reason has never played much of a role in what has
often been called liberalism, because it never dropped the mental
structures that it inherited from the Protestant reformers. The original
progressives littered their language with references to Scripture. This
stopped in the 20th century as Jews joined the elite and entered
progressive politics. The moral structures stayed in place, but the
authority for them simply disappeared, but has always been assumed.

It is why the people we currently call the left are so fond of claiming
that they are on the right side of history. In part, this is a reference
to the Hegelian historicism they experienced in college but is much
closer to the Calvinist sense that the righteous act as they do because
they are righteous. Instead of being on the right side of history, they
could just as easily claim to be on the side of angels. They do what
they do because they are trying to bring the rest of us along to the
glorious future.

It is why modern progressivism is so thuggish. Without a Bible to hold
up as his authority, the modern progressive has only her fist to shake
at the crowd. Since she is on the right side of history, she is the
white hat, so anyone in opposition must be the black hat and against the
black hat, you must use any means necessary. What was called Woke was
the fanaticism of the Puritan but untethered from Scripture and the
reason to interpret and apply Scripture.

This explains the progressive takeover of Protestant churches.
Instinctively, they seek moral authority for their claims, so they take
over the old moral authority and decorate it with their symbols. Elite
divinity schools are full of progressives who reject everything about
Christianity, but they seek the framing of Christianity to animate their
own progressive moral claims. Protestantism gave birth to progressivism
and then was slowly devoured by it.

One of the oldest debates within Christianity is between faith and
reason. This is the source of the phrase, Athens and Jerusalem. What we
see with progressivism is the end result of that debate. The people
called woke are briming with faith, but devoid of reason, so what they
believe cannot be expressed in words. Woke was a visceral expression of
progressive faith. The often-comical irrationality of it was the logical
end of the abandonment of reason.

The growing sense that the fever has broken, which some see as a sign of
the end of liberalism, is something much simpler. The fever has broken,
and that fever was the secular religious fervor of late stage
progressivism. It was the primal scream of faith without reason. What
this signals is not the death of liberalism, which happened long ago,
but the death of progressivism. Like a demon leaving the body of the
possessed, the old Calvinist demon is leaving American politics.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
