---
title: "Shelley v. Kramer v. Brown v. You"
date: "2025-05-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34074"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34074"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the film *Raging
Bull*, a post about the old sci-fi series *Babylon 5*, and the Sunday
podcast. On the Substack side, there are now weekly videos for those who
like video. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The story of Shiloh Hendrix has brought to the surface things that have
been bubbling under the surface for some time. The most obvious is the
general fatigue with regards to race among white people. The media is
doing the usual point and shriek, expecting the lynch mob to chase after
this woman, but instead money is flowing into her fundraising account
with messages of support. The white population is using this event to
make a point about race in America.

For most white people, this is not a moral issue. It is a practical
issue. They wonder why we have Somalis in Minnesota. No one campaigned
on bringing tribes of Somalis into the country and dumping them into
white communities. No one was organizing pressure groups demanding the
importation of Somalis. The people who made this decision never
mentioned it to the public and the public was never consulted. Suddenly,
we have this new problem, and we are expected to adjust to it.

Even putting aside the immigration issue, why are white people expected
to adjust to black behavior at all? The core assumption of our
racialized society is that it is the duty of whites to adjust to the
other races. No one ever demands that the other races try to act white,
as saying such a thing has been declared immoral. On the one hand whites
are expected to venerate nonwhites, while on the other hand nonwhite are
encouraged to harass and assault whites.

If you are white, a central part of your life is navigating around
nonwhites. Maybe it is knowing where the black areas are, so you avoid
crime. Maybe it is teaching your children about dealing with the nons in
their school, so they do not get jammed up by the morality police. Maybe
it is educating the old people in your life on how to spot Indian
scammers. Of course, the background noise of the public square is the
endless drone of race talk.

The question is how did it get to this? Like the Somalis in Minnesota,
the public was never asked about any of this. The people who decided on
the new rules never campaigned on them or asked for public support. They
just did it. They kept doing it one court case, one new law at a time.
The place to start is the landmark Supreme Court decision *Shelley v.
Kramer*, where the court declared that restrictive covenants violated
the 14th Amendment.

In 1945, a black couple named J.D. and Ethel Shelley attempted to
purchase a home in a white neighborhood in St. Louis, Missouri. The
property was subject to a restrictive covenant that prohibited nonwhites
from occupying the property. This was a deliberate setup to get another
case in the system on this matter. *McGhee v. Sipes* was a similar case
out of Michigan. This is a common trick by the usual suspects to help
fast track a case to the Supreme Court.

Of course, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the blacks, declaring
that while restrictive covenants do not violate the rights of the
parties to the contract, any enforcement of these covenants violates the
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
Constitution. In other words, homeowners are free to make any rules they
like about who can live in their community, but no court will enforce
those rights if they discriminate on race.

What the court did is shift from a position where it enforces private
contracts to a position where it decides if the contract is acceptable.
In one decision we went from a world where private parties were free to
make contracts with one another for whatever reasons they liked to a
world where private parties must seek permission from the state before
entering into a contract. If the court could selectively enforce
contracts, as in the Shelley case, then they could do it with every type
of contract.

This marked the beginning of the general shift away from a rights-based
society where the state is a neutral arbiter in disputes between
citizens to a permission-based society in which the state regulates the
behavior of citizens to achieve goals never imagined or considered in
the Constitution. Ten years after Shelley, the Court sealed the deal
with the Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka decision, where they
enshrined this entirely new moral paradigm into law.

Brown took the basic concept of Shelley, where the courts get to decide
which contracts to enforce, and extended it to the law. Specifically,
they declared that any law or private action that discriminates is
assumed to be unconstitutional. Any law or behavior that furthers an
open and inclusive society is assumed to be constitutional. This has
been the moral framework of race communism ever since. The reason Shiloh
Hendrix is famous now is because of this moral framework.

The great frustration that white people sense in that clip of Ms.
Hendrix using colorful euphemisms is the result of the American false
consciousness. We are regularly told we live in a rights-based society,
that we are free to live our lives as we see fit, but in reality, we
live in a permission-based society. If anything you do or say is deemed
to be discriminatory by the courts or someone empowered by the courts,
you can find yourself in a jungle of moral contradictions.

It is a good example of how reform within the rules is probably
impossible. To fix the race issue it would require tearing down this
moral edifice erected by the courts that now dominates the old
Constitutional arrangement. That means removing the moral authority of
the courts entirely. To do that would require a revolution in the law
where lawyers cease to be a secular clerisy. Such a revolution in the
law will require a revolution in the streets.

That aside, the tension between how we want to act and how we are told
to act is why Ms. Hendrix blew her top in the park. She does not want to
live in a world where she and her children are harassed by Africans. She
thinks she has the right to not be harassed by Africans. She does not
live in that world as the people in charge think she should be harassed
by Africans. That video exists because we are about to find out who
shall overcome whom.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
