---
title: "Radio Derb May 30 2025"
date: "2025-05-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34244"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34244"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m24s Open the pod bay doors, Hal
-   06m46s AI scrapes Grub Street
-   14m06s Trump 47 report card: (1)
-   19m14s Trump 47 report card: (2)
-   23m00s Trump 47 report card: (3)
-   28m29s Cooking the data at Harvard
-   30m34s The LGBTQ+ Community Month
-   31m51s Smartphones are a human right
-   33m15s Signoff with *Carousel*

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/66345493/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners and
readers. This is of course your provocatively genial host John
Derbyshire with commentary on the news this penultimate day of May 2025.

Just a wee housekeeping note before we start. I took my signoff music
last week from a YouTube clip of two Chinese ladies playing Chinese
music on Chinese instruments in a big public square. The people passing
by in the square who stopped to listen didn’t look Chinese; neither did
the buildings around the square. I surmised that it was a European city,
and noted that someone in the YouTube comment thread thought it might be
Munich.

A friend more resourceful than myself emailed in to tell me he had
copied and pasted a couple of screenshots from that YouTube clip into
Grok. Grok, he said, seems confident the video is shot in Milan,
identifying the Castello Sforzesco and the Piazza del Duomo. Thank you,
Sir!

Grok describes itself as, [quote](https://x.ai/grok), “your
truth-seeking AI companion for unfiltered answers with advanced
capabilities in reasoning, coding, and visual processing,” end quote. In
other words, it’s an Artificial Intelligence chatbot. Let’s have a
starting segment on AI.<span id="more-34244"></span>

**02 — Open the pod bay doors, Hal**.     AI sure can be handy, as my
friend’s use of Grok there illustrates. I’ve never engaged with Grok
myself, though. In fact I confess that I’ve never engaged with AI at
all.

That’s a bit odd considering that my favorite reading matter in my
late-childhood, young-teen years was [science
fiction](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Culture/authenticsf.html),
which of course had plenty of smart robots in its stories. It’s even
odder when I recall that the first opinion piece I had published, back
in my 1960s college days, contained the following
prediction, [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Religion/ethic.html):

The problem of the twenty-first century will be the death of science, in
the sense of man’s achievements through science. Advances in automated
labour and information-processing will result in men having nothing much
to do but gaze in awe and incomprehension at the works of the superior
intelligences we are creating.

End quote.

AI still scares me. Perhaps adolescent Derb read *too much* sci-fi. Or
perhaps we really *should* be scared.

If you put the words “Artificial Intelligence” into the YouTube search
bar a high proportion of the results you get are AI scaremongering. The
first time I noticed that I wasn’t surprised, let alone scared. YouTube
leans hard towards negativity. I guess that brings in the clicks. That’s
especially true if you search by nation.

Russia is facing a [demographic
collapse](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vv3tAv-zVas); China
has [already had
one](https://rumble.com/v6rs0rz-chinas-population-is-just-a-fraction-of-1.4-billion.html);
South Africa
is [collapsing](https://rumble.com/vjr97d-south-africa-collapsing-armed-citizens-shooting-rioters-as-army-deployed-to.html).
Britain? [Fuhgeddaboutit](https://rumble.com/v5gfwu5-this-is-deeply-concerning-were-seeing-the-fall-of-britain-the-winston-marsh.html).
That, apparently, is what people like to read. I’ll admit I get a tingle
out of it myself, even while the angel sitting on my right shoulder is
whispering: *South Africa’s been collapsing for twenty years, but it
never happens. China’s been around for four thousand: they’re not going
anywhere …*

The clips you get from putting “Artificial Intelligence” into the
YouTube search bar have an extra dimension of scariness, though, in that
a high proportion of the scariest speakers and interviewees in the clips
are themselves pioneers in the development of AI: [Geoffrey
Hinton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vxkBE23zDmQ), [Yoshua
Bengio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qe9QSCF-d88), [Ilya
Sutskever](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Ev2FKAHuTc&t=12s), [Max
Tegmark](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VcVfceTsD0A), [Stuart
Russell](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/lWaP3ZXwiBM), and yes, [Elon
Musk](https://rumble.com/v63z3bd-elon-reeve-musk-were-summoning-the-demon-with-artificial-intelligence-www.2.html).

Browsing through some of those clips, in fact, I turned up one in which
actual AI bots were asked about the prospects for *homo
sapiens* surviving the AI revolution. Their first estimate
was, [quote](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JlwqJZNBr4M&t=115s), “I’d
give humanity a 30 percent chance of surviving,” end quote. Later in the
clip we were offered revised estimates, but none of them was good.

If [all those pioneers and
experts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HKMb_TXvyZg) in the field, and
the AI itself, think [we are
doomed](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409589/ref=sr_1_1),
perhaps it’s time to stock up that bunker under the back yard.

**03 — AI scrapes Grub Street**.     As a footnote to that, here’s a
phrase you may not be familiar with: “content provider.” In the last few
years it’s been elevated somewhat to “content *creator*,” but to-may-to,
to-mah-to.

I’m *very* familiar with the phrase “content provider,” having actually
been one for forty-some years. The phrase is useful for fending off
enquiries about the work — I mean, the work of content provision — that
I don’t want to answer. Asked about VDARE.com’s business plan, for
example, or, further back, office politics at *National Review*, I would
smile innocently and murmur: “Sorry, don’t know: I’m just a content
provider.”

Content providing is an ancient and honorable profession. Homer, if he
actually existed, was a content provider. So was Shakespeare; so were
the translators of the Bible (although they were generating new content
from content provided *to* them by earlier content providers).

What’s this got to do with Artificial Intelligence? Well, content
provision is a form of work, albeit a low one by comparison with heart
surgery or the building of cathedrals. A worker should be paid for his
labor. Before settled copyright law came up in the nineteenth century, a
content provider was paid — if he *was* paid — just once, by contract
with the printer or bookseller.

Nowadays there is a complex body of law concerning a content provider’s
rights regarding the copying, distribution, and translation of the
content he’s provided, the rights sometimes limited by “[fair
use](https://fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/fair-use/what-is-fair-use/)”
rules and usually lapsing after some set number of years. I still get a
small but welcome check for [content I provided twenty years
ago](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Books/Prime/page.html).

Now here comes AI. How does it work? By *scraping*. That’s the word they
use, *scraping*. It means using specialized software — scraping tools —
to extract and interpret data from the internet. There are many, many
such scraping tools with names right off the kindergarten brochure:
Octoparse, Diffbot, Scrapy of course, ScrapingBee, AnyPicker, Apify,
Gumloop, ScrapeStorm, …

Here’s the thing, though. A lot of that data being scraped is content
provided by, yes, content providers to some publishing outlet. The texts
of entire books — perhaps *millions* of them — are on the internet.

I don’t think you’ll be astounded to hear that the content providers who
provided that content are *not* being remunerated by the AI firms who
are scraping it up — *copying* it — for use by their bots.

With a personal publication record going well back into the last
century, AI scraping has probably left me several thousand dollars
poorer than I ought to be. Copyrighted content that I’ve provided has
been *stolen* by — to name just one billionaire thief — Elon Musk.
Lawsuit!

In fact lawsuits are under way. The inspiration for this segment of my
podcast was an op-ed in todays’ *New York Post* by Danielle Coffey, CEO
of something called [the News/Media
Alliance](https://www.newsmediaalliance.org/). Quote from that
Op-Ed, [edited
quote](https://nypost.com/2025/05/29/opinion/big-techs-dirty-secret-ai-runs-on-theft/):

To protect their work, over a dozen members of the News/Media Alliance
recently sued \[AI platform\] [Cohere, Inc.](https://cohere.com/) for
unauthorized use of their content. They joined other publishers,
including News Corp and *The New York Times*, that are suing various AI
companies to enforce their rights.

Some in Big Tech are beginning to recognize the problem. We’ve seen a
proliferation of licensing agreements in which AI companies pay
publishers to use their content, over the last year. A News/Media
Alliance collective is currently licensing content at scale.

But without reinforced legal protections, bad actors will continue to
exploit publishers and creators — undermining America’s creative
industries to further tech’s commercial interests.

End quote.

Content provision has never been much of a living, other than for a few
big names or strokes of luck. Sure, Dr Johnson got fifteen hundred
guineas for his *Dictionary* — [worth $300,000
today](https://www.mentalfloss.com/article/504941/10-facts-about-samuel-johnson%E2%80%99s-dictionary) —
but that was after years of poverty.

Unless the lawyers pull off some big, permanent courtroom victories,
content provision will be even less of a living in the Age of AI than it
currently is.

**04 — Trump 47 report card: (1)**.     I make today, May 30th, the
131st day of the Trump 47 presidency. How’s our guy doing?

A mixed report from me. On immigration, I’ll grade A-minus. The minus is
for that dumb [investor’s gold
card](https://www.boundless.com/blog/trump-gold-card-visa-launch/),
which with any luck will never become reality. Trump has delivered
elsewhere on immigration, though. Federal law-enforcement officers are
actually enforcing federal laws, to screams of outrage from the
open-borders nation-wreckers.

He’s even going after [student
visas](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/29/trump-international-students-public-universities-00373957),
as [I’ve been urging him
to](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-12-20.html#04).
Until recently he was wont to blather about stapling a green card to the
diploma of every foreign student who graduated from one of our colleges.
We haven’t heard that from him recently … or at any rate, I haven’t.
Perhaps he’s been spending time with Stephen Miller.

Once again, repeat after me, please: Higher education is a precious,
finite national resource. Our own citizens should have first call on it.

In this, as in everything else he’s trying to do, Trump is being
resisted by our lefty judiciary. Thursday this week, in fact, a federal
judge in Massachusetts — an Obama appointment, natch — [issued an
injunction](https://nypost.com/2025/05/29/us-news/federal-judge-temporarily-blocks-trump-admin-from-banning-harvard-international-students/) blocking
Trump’s efforts to freeze Harvard University’s extravagant admissions of
foreign students — currently more than 27 percent of students enrolled.

Law professor Jonathan Turley has coined the phrase “[chronic
injunctivitis](https://thehill.com/opinion/judiciary/5316962-supreme-court-chronic-injunctions/)”
for this swelling flood of “national or universal injunctions issued by
federal district courts against the Trump Administration.” These
are *district* courts, mind. Their proper scope is ruling on whether
Daisy Dickerson’s parking ticket is valid or not. They have no business
rapping the President’s knuckles over the issuance of visas.

On the fuss over tariffs, I’ll grade B-plus. The case for major tariff
reform seems to me sound, but I think Trump went at it too fast and
loud. A slower and more deliberate approach would have worked better.

I do understand the case for speed. Congress is on a knife-edge and the
mid-terms come next year. On seriously disturbing issues like this,
there needs to be time for the dust to settle. Sure; but I just think
the President was *too* fast, too *abrupt*.

Had you ever heard of the Court of International Trade before this week?
Me neither; but on Wednesday a three-judge panel of *that* court tried
to stop the implementation of Trump’s tariffs. Latest I have on this is
that [an appellate court has just put a hold on that
ruling](https://www.npr.org/2025/05/28/g-s1-69479/federal-trade-court-trump-tariffs-emergency-powers-law),
so the tariffs will go ahead while the lawyers argue it out.

As Glenn Reynolds wrote in a column on
Tuesday, [quote](https://www.pressreader.com/usa/new-york-post/20250527/282046218022621):

Clearly, a significant portion of the federal judiciary is hostile to
Trump’s policies and is happy to thwart them in any way it can.

End quote.

As Glenn also points out, though, the doctrine of separation of powers
was never intended to mean that unelected judges have final authority on
every point of policy. If they did, in what sense would we still be a
democracy? Presidents from Thomas Jefferson on have been defying
judicial rulings. I hope Trump will join the list.

**05 — Trump 47 report card (2)**.     Foreign policy? I wish we didn’t
have one. Can’t we *please* pull out of NATO, Mr President?

In the matter of the war between the world’s [two most corrupt white
nations](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2022-04-15.html#02),
our President has, to put it gently, not distinguished himself. Vladimir
Putin has treated him with frank contempt. Putin has grudgingly allowed
that *if* negotiations between Russia and Ukraine are satisfactory,
he *might* then agree to [include Trump in the next
round](https://kyivindependent.com/russia-open-to-zelensky-putin-trump-meeting-if-progress-made-at-june-2-peace-talks/).

Translated from the Russian that means: “Don’t call us, we’ll let you
know.” [Trump is
fuming](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/clyn3vqex47o); Putin is
sniggering quietly to himself and his aides while stepping up the war.

He seems to be getting plenty of support from China in the war. It’ll be
interesting to see how that plays out long-term. China will of course
want something in return for her trouble. How
about … [Siberia](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2023-06.html#08)?

The other war — the one Israel is fighting against Iran and Iran’s
proxies, all openly dedicated to Israel’s annihilation — that war is
currently revolving around Iran’s nuclear weapons.

They don’t actually have any. At least, that’s what we’re told, and we
can only hope the intelligence is good. Iran’s been working on nuke
development for at least twenty years, and it’s not *that* difficult.

The Trump administration at any rate doesn’t want Iran to nuke up.
They’re in negotiations with the Ayatollahs to open up the country’s
nuclear research labs to full inspection, in return for us lifting trade
sanctions and unfreezing Iranian funds.

Last week, [we’ve been
told](https://www.timesofisrael.com/trump-i-told-netanyahu-striking-iran-would-be-very-inappropriate-as-deal-close/),
Trump called Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and warned him
against striking Iran’s nuke-development sites.

My guess is that Netanyahu will consider that restraint a fair price to
pay for being allowed to continue his war against Hamas in Gaza. Whether
Trump sees it the same way is not clear. Relations between the two
leaders are … cool, especially since [Trump backed
off](https://thehill.com/opinion/international/5317044-trump-ceasefire-yemen-houthis-middle-east/) from
helping Israel fight the Houthis of Yemen, who are still lobbing
missiles at Israeli targets.

My grade for foreign policy is B-plus. The B is for us still being in
NATO, which Trump used to tell us he himself was against. The plus is
for zero American combat casualties in this administration so far — I
don’t think we lost anyone in [the Campaign against the
Houthis](https://news.usni.org/2025/04/29/operation-rough-rider).

**06 — Trump 47 report card (3)**.     On presentation, I’ll grade Trump
47 a plain A.

To be honest, I don’t watch the President’s public performances much.
That A grade is based pretty much entirely on his Memorial Day address
at Arlington National Cemetery, which I thought a good stirring speech.

It had some Trumpish braggadocio in it, to be sure, but no surprise
there. After praising our country, he called
it, [quote](https://mahometdaily.com/transcript-of-trumps-memorial-day-speech-may-26-2025/):

… a republic that I am fixing after a long and hard four years. That was
a hard four years we went through.

Who would let that happen? People pouring through our borders,
unchecked, people doing things that are indescribable and not for today
to discuss. But the republic that is now doing so very well …

End quote.

If they’re not for today to discuss, why mention them, Sir? But hey,
that’s Trump for you.

Later in the speech the President congratulated himself on the 2026
soccer World Cup and the 2028 Summer Olympics both being scheduled to
happen in his term of office, along with next year’s celebration of 250
years since the Declaration of Independence. He added, quote:

Can you imagine? I missed that four years, and now look what I have. I
have everything. Amazing the way things work out. God did that. I
believe that too. God did it.

End quote.

The audience laughed and applauded. They didn’t seem to mind. Whether or
not God minded, I shall not venture to speculate.

*I* minded somewhat. A Memorial Day address in the national cemetery,
with loved ones of those who died for our country present, along I guess
with some veterans who were maimed in the nation’s service — a speech
given in such a place, on such an occasion, should be solemn all the way
through.

That’s Trump for you, though, warts and all. Before I could form my
features into a proper frown I recalled the quality of national
leadership we had this time last year, and the frown turned into a smile
of relief.

As a lover of numbers, I *did* do a full wince when the President
referred to, quote, “us, an American nation, 325 million strong,” end
quote.

Way back in my monthly Diary for October 2016 [I looked forward to the
day](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2016-10.html#10a) when
the U.S. population would reach one-third of a billion, 333,333,333. I
estimated that day would be January 25th, 2020. I think in fact it was
slightly later, in February 2021. Whatever: On Monday this week,
Memorial Day, our population was [just short of 342
million](https://www.census.gov/popclock/). It had passed the 325
million mark about eight years ago.

Please, Mr President, if you’re going to quote numbers at us, try to
make sure they’re the *right* numbers. If you need a fully numerate
assistant to help out your speechwriters with these issues, I can make
myself available at a few days’ notice.

But for those few slight negativities, I would have graded the speech
A-plus. Room for improvement, Sir.

**07 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Back to Harvard for a moment. Last week a professor at
Harvard Business School was stripped of her tenure and fired for having
fabricated data in a study she published. She was the first Harvard
professor to lose her tenure since the 1940s.

The defenestrated professor there was [47-year-old Francesca
Gino](https://www.thecrimson.com/article/2025/5/27/gino-tenure-revoked/).
She’d been a permanent faculty member at Harvard since 2010.

Would you like to know her field of specialization? Wait for it: … her
research focused on honesty and ethical behavior.

The particular study for which she cooked the data claimed to show that
requiring individuals to sign an honesty pledge at the beginning of a
form rather than at the end significantly boosts honest responses.

You might further be interested to know that Professor Gino was, before
she fell under suspicion, one of Harvard’s highest-paid employees,
actually the fifth highest from 2018 to 2020. In that last year she
pulled down $1,049,532, [according to
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francesca_Gino#Education_and_career).

What portion of that salary was paid out of grants to Harvard from the
American taxpayer? We have not been told.

*Item*:  June is of course Pride Month. Quote from its
website, [quote](https://www.awarenessdays.com/awareness-days-calendar/pride-month-2025/):

\[A\] vibrant and inclusive celebration that honors the LGBTQ+
community, their history, achievements, and ongoing struggle for
equality.

End quote.

That gives me an opportunity to once again promote my call for dumping
the ugly, clumsy, and all-too-mockable expression “the LGBTQ+ community”
for the much briefer, neater, and *totally* non-abusive alternative “the
prouds.”

Alternatively, of course, those organizing the festivities could follow
their own logic and rename Pride Month as “The LGBTQ+ Community Month.”

*Item*:  It isn’t just in the U.S.A. that the judiciary leans heavily to
the crazy left. Things are just as bad in Britain.

In March 2022 the High Court of that nation (or former nation) ruled
that it was unlawful for border law enforcement to seize the mobile
phones of illegal alien boat people arriving across the English Channel
from France. It was, [the court
ruled](https://dpglaw.co.uk/high-court-finds-home-office-policy-of-blanket-seizures-of-migrants-mobile-phones-unlawful/),
a violation of the invader’s human rights.

That was three years ago. There’s a new Border Security Bill currently
before Parliament, actually [going to the upper
chamber](https://x.com/safepassageint/status/1927306830650228927) —
that’s the House of Lords — next week. I haven’t been able to find out
whether it includes a clause restoring the right of border officers to
seize invaders’ phones. If anyone can enlighten me on this, or knows an
AI bot that might, I’d be much obliged.

**08 — Signoff**.     And that’s it, boys and girls. Thank you yet again
for your time and attention.

Yes, the VDARE Foundation is still with us, and planning (I think) for a
conference at the castle in Berkeley Springs, West Virginia later this
year. Please give us your support by subscribing to [Peter Brimelow’s
Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a check
payable to the VDARE Foundation at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”,
CT 06759; and you can support me personally by earmarking that check
with my name, or by any of the other options listed [at my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/), who publish
my stuff. Thank you!

To sign off with, here’s something a day or two ahead of the calendar.
It’s an old favorite of mine, though. Just listen to the word-play in
the lyrics; these guys really knew their business.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
