---
title: "Then What?"
date: "2025-06-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34400"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34400"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the classic film
*The Grapes of Wrath*, a post about the neocon forever wars, and the
Sunday podcast. On the Substack side of the green door, there are now
weekly gardening videos. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the critical questions in any strategy is “Then what?” This
question must be asked with every proposed move and counter move. The
question is both a reminder and an assumption that the other players
will react to your move. Good strategy focuses on the range of
possibilities to each move and is prepared for them. Bad strategy just
assumes the move will work and good things will flow from it. This is
often referred to as the lack of second-order thinking.

For the last five years this has been at the center of American
politics. The regime has clearly lost the ability to ask, much less
answer the question, “Then what?” The war in Ukraine is in its fourth
year because no one in the West could bother to ask the question, much
less answer it. President Trump now has himself in a terrible jam
because no one on his team thought to ask this question when they were
plotting the Pearl Harbor style sneak attack on Iran.

It does not appear that any of them asked the question when planning the
operation against the Iranian bunker facilities. By the looks of it,
they settled on this attack because they assumed it would satisfy the
Israelis, satisfy the crazies in Washington screaming for blood and
provide an off-ramp in the conflict. Signaling to Iran that it was a
one-time thing was supposed to induce them back to the bargaining table
or at least encourage them to seek a cease fire in the war.

The assumed answer to the magic question was all the good things the
administration needs to happen in order to wriggle free from this trap.
Perhaps sensing that it was not the magic bullet, they immediately
started to beg China to pressure Iran into not closing the Strait of
Hormuz. Presumably they asked the Russians to do the same thing, as the
Iranian foreign minister is in Moscow this week. Closing the strait
would bring the whole thing crashing down on Trump’s head.

While the Iranians are prepared to close the strait, they have not done
so, but they continue to send missiles at Israel and Israel is firing
back. It is clear that the Iranians are not going to come back to the
bargaining table, and they have no intention of ending the war with
Israel. Of course, Israel is now demanding more strikes because it was
never about Iranian nukes for them. It was always about inducing the
United States into a ground war to topple the Iranian government.

President Trump is justifiably getting savaged by his voters, but in
fairness to him he now lives in a town that operates like
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vOTgPEGYS2o" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Jonestown</a>. Everyone worships Israel or at least
<a href="https://x.com/kenklippenstein/status/1936914515955728442"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">pretends</a> they worship Israel. It is
beyond creepy to see everyone in Washington act like Israel is the god
of the world. Some sort of mass psychosis has swept the ruling class
where they are convinced that their purpose in life is to serve the
needs of this flyspeck of a country halfway around the world.

That just makes the crisis worse for the Trump administration. Even if
they can have a moment of clarity and see the danger, they are limited
in their options. If they do no more than provide support for Israel,
they remain entangled in a war of attrition, while the crazies scream
for blood, holding the domestic agenda hostage. They cannot make a deal
with Iran, as the Israel lobby will never permit it. The only way out is
to end the Israel lobby and that means tanks in the streets.

That is the thing about the question at the start. It not only forces
the person answering it to think about the possible reactions from the
other players, but it forces them to think clearly about the other
players. If the Trump people had a realistic understanding of Israel and
the Israel lobby, they would know they are dealing with hostile aliens
who look at the United States as a Walmart during a ghetto riot. They
would know how to treat them as adversaries, rather than allies or
clients.

The same can be said for the approach to Ukraine. That has been pushed
off to the side, but the
<a href="https://archive.is/tllmW" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">neocons</a> have not gone away. As things reach a
critical point in the war this autumn, they will be back to extort the
Trump admin. Given the duplicity of the Republican Party, the big,
beautiful bill will probably still be held hostage in the Senate come
the autumn, so it will be another round of extortion in order to give
the neocons what they want in the war against Russia.

In a way, the crisis engulfing the Trump administration in the realm of
foreign policy is a microcosm of what faces America. The MAGA movement
finally got their man into the White House with the clear support of the
public. There is a team in place that can execute the domestic agenda.
Then what? The answer so far has been a revolt in the judiciary against
the Trump agenda, the Republican Party holding his legislative agenda
hostage, and the usual suspects subverting his foreign policy.

Cancer does not leave the body just because the body voted to live. The
cancer must be removed and that is the answer to the question, “Then
what?” That appears to be impossible within the current rules, which
brings us back to the question that seems to haunt this age. The current
crisis is a gordian knot that cannot be untied within the rules of the
system, so then what? For now, the Trump people do not have the answer,
but the answer is there, just waiting its turn.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
