---
title: "Here Comes The Sun"
date: "2025-02-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33540"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33540"
---

One of the things that is becoming clear to everyone as the USAID
scandal unfolds is that much of what has been presented to us over the
last several decades, as far as politics, has been an illusion created
by the blob. The media was part of the blob, underwritten by the
government and cultivated with government access, so they presented a
version of political reality that favored the blob. Even the debates
over policy were staged by the blob.

That is what is clear in the release of the CBS tapes of the 60 Minutes
interview of then candidate Kamala Harris. Calling it an interview is an
assault on the language because it was nothing like an interview. It was
one part screen test, one part coaching and one part editing to produce
what was presented as an interview. Everyone involved knew it was fraud
and said nothing. In other words, what we have been seeing is not media
bias, but an orchestrated fraud on the public.

As an aside, the corruption was so deep and so normalized that it
appears that most people in these media companies were unaware of much
of it. The staff at Politico only became aware of who was actually
paying their salaries when the USAID money was halted, and Politico
could not make payroll. How many people at the BBC knew that USAID was
the second largest source of funding to the BBC? Did anyone at the
Financial Times know that management were on the pad?

Putting that aside, everyone in Washington certainly knew what USAID was
doing, and they remained silent. There is not a single “reporter” in
Washington unaware of the fact that the main source for Ukraine news has
been an operation run by the Kagan family with funding from the
government through various proxies. They all knew it and they played
along because their paycheck demanded it. In effect, all of Washington
was enlisted as participants in the manufactured drama of politics.

That is probably the biggest part of the scandal. Most political
scandals involve a small number of people breaking the rules. Their
undoing is the old Benjamin Franklin line about how three can keep a
secret if two are dead. What we are seeing is that Ben was wrong about
that as tens of thousands were keeping a secret until now. It speaks to
the poisonous culture inside Washington that no one dared mention
publicly what all of them knew was happening.

This raises another question. What else have they been faking? Think
about something mundane like television ratings. They used to be a big
topic, but the proliferation of subscription services and cable fees
changed the revenue models. Even so, they are still used to gauge the
popularity of shows. The more popular a show is, the more likely new
people are to give it a go. In the modern sense, it means more people
are going to sign up for a Netflix or Disney subscription.

An iron law of life is that if something has value then there will be
people trying to steal it or to fake it, so faking ratings has always
been a thing. This
<a href="https://youtu.be/amt5lRaK_ls?si=iX0JTbdHm3P6nOGi"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">video</a> from the Critical Drinker where
he and his friends discuss the ratings of various bits of bugman content
just screams organized fraud. When you are talking about “minutes
viewed” rather than actual people watching, it is safe to say you are
trying hard to prove the old maxim, “Figures do not lie, but liars
figure.”

You can probably look around and find dozens of things that are used as
measures or standards that we take for granted but are probably fake.
Will the upcoming Super Bowl really break viewing records for the
fiftieth straight year? Is the pop star cast to perform at the halftime
show as popular as they claim? Is the game itself on the level or is it
also a manufactured drama? Speaking of which, how come there are no
gambling scandals in sports? Did everyone suddenly get honest?

You can get carried away with this, of course, and begin to question
your own grasp of reality, but we are on the cusp of a great
questioning. Once the enormity of the fraud begins to sink in, people
will naturally start to wonder if what is being presented to them is not
part of an ongoing fraud. We already see this with medicine because of
the many frauds perpetrated during Covid. Now we are about to see the
same process rumble through the rest of society.

In a way, the events of the last three weeks are like what happened in
the transition from communism to chaos in the old Soviet Union. On the
one hand, there was the mass realization that much of what had been told
to the public was an organized lie, but on the other hand an
understanding that it was a necessary step to exit the world of lies and
enter the period of reform. The American empire is now getting its form
of *perestroika* (restructuring) and *glasnost* (transparency)*.*

This should not suggest that success is assured. The blob will fight
back, and it has many tentacles, so the fight has just begun. The vast
amounts of fraud in the economy support millions of mortgage payments
and college tuition bills, so the people benefiting from the organized
fraud will not go quietly. With every window that is opened, more
sunlight rushes in to expose the corruption. If the blob is to be
defeated, it will be through the sorts of transparency we have seen this
week.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
