---
title: "Radio Derb May 16 2025"
date: "2025-05-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34172"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34172"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   03m31s Welkom in Amerika!
-   12m28s A church that won’t help white people
-   20m45s Death of a church
-   27m48s SCOTUS ponders citizenship
-   30m34s Latest from Woke Academia
-   32m34s For the boys in blue
-   34m28s Date-appropriate Signoff

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/66126177/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download,</a>
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, listeners
and readers. That was some of Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* and this
is of course your significantly genial host John Derbyshire, with
observations on the news at precisely the middle of May 2025. Fifteen
days gone, fifteen still to go.

It sometimes happens, by sheer good fortune, that one week’s lead
segment follows naturally from the previous week’s lead segment. That’s
what has happened this week.

In last week’s podcast my lead segment was headlined “[The decline of
Jim
Snow](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-09.html#02).”
I defined Jim Snow as, quoting myself:

The social dogma on race that has prevailed since the 1960s …
characterized by white guilt and favoritism towards blacks (a/k/a
“affirmative action”) and by deference to what I have called “[the
romance of American
blackness](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/History/romance.html)” —
narratives about cruel leering white people beating up on helpless
pleading blacks.

End quote.

My thesis was that the case of Shiloh Hendrix, the young white Minnesota
lady who made a pile of money via crowdfunding following a heated
exchange with a black man that the man posted on social media — that
case, I argued, was yet further evidence that Jim Snow, as a social
dogma, is losing its force.

I think one of the lead news stories *this* week may further reinforce
that thesis; so that is my first segment today.

Before proceeding with it, I’ll just note as a matter of general
interest, following on that segment from last week, that as I speak here
on Friday afternoon [the crowdfunding site for Shiloh
Hendrix](https://www.givesendgo.com/ShilohHendrix) shows donations now
up to $779,158. This time last week they were $759,786; so that’s a
one-week increase of $19,372, damn near twenty thousand
dollars.<span id="more-34172"></span>

**02 — Welkom in Amerika!**.     So what’s my follow-up story that,
according to me, may offer further evidence that the Jim Snow dogma is
losing its force? The follow-up story is the arrival on Monday of [59
white South
Africans](https://www.nytimes.com/article/afrikaner-refugees-trump-south-africa.html) as
refugees.

The backstory here is that back in late January, South African President
Cyril Ramaphosa enacted a new law, [the Expropriation
Act](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expropriation_Act,_2024), that allows
authorities of the state to take private land without compensation so
long as it’s done, quote, “in the public interest,” end quote. The
definition of the public interest in the nation’s Constitution includes
the redress of historical discrimination.

The Expropriation Act is obviously aimed at white farmers, most of whom
are Afrikaners — that is to say, they are descended from Dutch settlers,
not British ones, and speak Afrikaans, not English.

President Trump reacted to that in early February with an Executive
Order that that halted all foreign aid to South Africa and declared that
American officials should do everything possible to help, quote,
“Afrikaners in South Africa who are victims of unjust racial
discrimination.” End quote.

Hearing of *that*, [close to seventy thousand South
Africans](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cjevg2vlwk4o) asked the U.S.
embassy or its website for more information.

What are the rights and wrongs here? Historically, of course, from the
late 1940s to the early 1990s, racial
discrimination *was* institutionalized in South Africa in the system of
Apartheid — racial discrimination that favored whites over blacks. So if
today the government seizes the land of some white farmer without
compensation so that some nephew of the President can have it, that will
be legal under this Expropriation Act — the redress of historical
discrimination.

All right, it’s legal; but is it *just*? I guess you could argue it
either way, is or isn’t; but that’s deeper into the internal affairs of
foreign countries than this isolationist wants to go. Let South Africans
sort it out.

Same response to [Trump’s
declaration](https://x.com/Babygravy9/status/1921945440854942183) that
“It’s a genocide,” by which he means it’s an effort on behalf of black
South Africans to altogether exterminate white South Africans.

For sure there are some blacks who have that in mind — the ones chanting
“[Kill the Boer, the
farmer](https://x.com/Volkstaat10/status/1903187839182946800),” at
rallies of South Africa’s fourth largest political party \[*sound
clip*\]. We have blacks like that in the U.S.A. too, as [I have
previously
remarked](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/talk.html#09).

What are the numbers, though? What are the prospects of
an *actual* genocide? We know the numbers who called the U.S.Embassy to
ask about refugee status: seventy thousand. The white population of
South Africa is about four and a half million, so that seventy thousand
represents one and a half percent. Not really a rush for the lifeboats.

From what I have gathered from news reports and from speaking not long
ago with an actual white South African — a middle-aged male college
professor — the country’s a mess. Crime is at appalling levels; and yes,
a lot of it is targeted by blacks against whites. Public utilities are
all failing, the economy’s in the tank, and so on.

It’s not Haiti, though. South Africa’s been a mess for years and
citizens have adapted or left. There’s a flourishing tourist trade — the
climate is superb. You want to talk immigration? The country has an
estimated five million illegal aliens in residence, three million [just
from
Zimbabwe](https://web.archive.org/web/20160124000311/http:/news.sky.com/story/573086/escape-from-mugabe-zimbabwes-exodus).

So what with one thing and another, I think Trump’s February Executive
Order was a bit of a stretch. I welcome it none the less, and I welcome
these 59 Afrikaners who landed on Monday. I welcome it, and them, as
further portents of the decline of Jim Snow — of institutionalized
anti-whiteness here in the U.S.A.

If Trump 45 had tried this eight years ago, when Jim Snow was riding
strong and anti-whiteness was the order of the day, the elites would
have been howling blue murder. All I’ve heard so far has been
some [genteel negativity from the
BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c9wg5pg1xp5o) and a slightly more
combative version of the same from [*The New York
Times*](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/05/15/us/politics/trump-afrikaners-alabama.html).

To be sure, *social* media’s been lighting up. One black American female
posting on X has openly threatened the
Afrikaners, [quote](https://x.com/AfricanHub_/status/1922597291153625435):
“I just want to let you know that our President, he has Secret Service
protection and you will not.” End quote.

Several others have jeered at us immigration restrictionists along the
lines of, quote: “You’re against the asylum and refugee programs, aren’t
you? So why are you smiling at these white South Africans coming in?”

I’d amend the wording there to “asylum and refugee *rackets*,” which is
what they mostly are — more on that in the next segment. That aside,
why *would* I object to well-dressed, well-mannered white Europeans
getting some help to settle in the U.S.A.? Why should I *not* object to
the uncouth, lawless, ignorant dregs
of [Somalia](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-09.html#03),
Venezuela, and Pakistan being ushered in?

I live just twenty miles from New York City, which — [as the song
says](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Straggler/115.html) — was
once New Amsterdam. Why would I object to the assisted arrival of
farmers with Dutch ancestry?

I won’t. I don’t. \[*Attempting Afrikaans*.\] *Welkom in Amerika!*

**03 — A church that won’t help white people**.     The arrival of those
Afrikaners has supplied me with yet another link between last week’s
podcast and this one.

Speaking about the newly-elected Pope, [I made some side
comments](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-09.html#04) about
the Anglican church, my childhood introduction to institutional
Christianity.

The Episcopal Church here in the U.S.A. is closely related to the
Anglican Church of England. There was a spot of bother after the War of
Independence when the Church of England priests and worshippers already
settled here were no longer sure what to do with themselves in this new
country.

They didn’t have any bishops to guide them — Britain’s colonial policy
hadn’t allowed it — and they could no longer accept the authority of the
bishops over the water because that would put them, at one remove, under
the authority of the British monarch whom their fellow-countrymen had
just defeated in war. They could *elect* themselves a bishop, but the
English church wouldn’t consecrate him.

American Anglicans squared the circle in 1784 by electing Samuel Seabury
of Connecticut as bishop and sending him over for consecration by
bishops in Scotland, where the church was separated from the English
King. Once he was back in the U.S.A., [we had a Protestant Episcopal
church](https://www.anglicancommunion.org/structures/member-churches/member-church.aspx?church=usa) under
Anglican rites … and we still have it.

It now has *lots* of bishops — [around 140 currently
active](https://www.episcopalchurch.org/organizations-affiliations/church-governance/).
One of them, the Presiding Bishop, is supreme. That title is currently
held by a chap named [Sean
Rowe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sean_Rowe): fifty years old, born in
Pennsylvania, married with one daughter.

Well, the Episcopal Church has been in the news this week. They run an
outfit called Episcopal Migration Ministries, EMM for short, which works
with the federal government on resettling refugees. The Church gets a
nice big federal grant for that, of course.

At the end of last month the feds informed EMM that they’d be expected
to help out with resettling those white Afrikaners. Monday this week
Presiding Bishop Sean Rowe sent a letter back telling the feds that the
Church had decided not to comply. [Key
quote](https://www.episcopalchurch.org/publicaffairs/letter-from-presiding-bishop-sean-rowe-on-episcopal-migration-ministries/):

In light of our church’s steadfast commitment to racial justice and
reconciliation and our historic ties with the Anglican Church of
Southern Africa, we are not able to take this step. Accordingly, we have
determined that, by the end of the federal fiscal year, we will conclude
our refugee resettlement grant agreements with the U.S. federal
government.

End quote.

So: “No,” [says the
bishop](https://x.com/EndWokeness/status/1922522083566715080), “We’re
not here to help *white* people.”

There’s actually a bit more to it than just plain woke anti-whiteness.
That reference to the Anglican Church of Southern Africa offers a clue.

During the heyday of the British Empire, Anglicans didn’t just set up an
offspring church here in North America, they set up such churches all
over, from [the Episcopal Church of
Sudan](https://www.anglicancommunion.org/structures/member-churches/member-church.aspx?church=sudan) to [the
Shèng Gōng
Huì](https://www.anglicancommunion.org/structures/member-churches/member-church.aspx?church=hong-kong) in
Hong Kong … Although, while I hate to pick nits, if that latter one is
in Hong Kong it ought to be spelt as Cantonese, not Mandarin: Sing Gùng
Wúi.

[Today there are 46 of these
churches](https://www.anglicancommunion.org/structures/member-churches/member-church.aspx?church=southern-africa),
spoken of collectively as [the Anglican
Communion](https://www.anglicancommunion.org/). And yes, that
includes [one in Southern
Africa](https://www.anglicancommunion.org/structures/member-churches/member-church.aspx?church=southern-africa),
first bishop appointed 1847.

With that in mind, and scrolling through the faces of worshippers at the
Anglican Communion website, you can see where Presiding Bishop Rowe is
coming from.

In the previous segment I referred to the “asylum and
refugee *rackets*.” EMM was one of them. Now it is apparently one no
longer. That, if you set the race issue aside, is at least a small moral
advance on the part of the Episcopal Church.

If you were interested in immigration issues from 2007 to 2022 you
probably remember the website called Refugee Resettlement Watch, run by
a doughty Maryland lady named Ann Corcoran. Ann’s self-appointed mission
was to expose the scandals, lies, and injustices inflicted on the people
of the U.S.A. by the refugee agencies. [The website remains
online](https://refugeeresettlementwatch.org/) although Ann no longer
posts to it.

At the center of the resettlement racket are a handful of NGOs, most
with reassuringly churchy names. If you scroll down some on Ann’s
website [she gives a
list](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/VOLAGS.jpg):
Church World Service, U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Hebrew
Immigrant Aid Society, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, and
yes, Episcopal Migration Ministries.

These NGOs drive the refugee and asylum rackets, taking in great scads
of taxpayers’ money from the federal government while doing so, paying
their operatives handsome salaries of course, and imposing all kinds of
problems on American communities, as documented by Ann Corcoran. Also,
of course, giving the finger to the principle of church-state
separation.

If the Episcopal Church has given up its involvement in this sleazy
business — well, that is, as I said, a moral advance, balancing out the
anti-white message to some degree.

**04 — Death of a church**.     Just a footnote to that last segment.

If the Anglican Church is spread all around the world like that,
shouldn’t it have a Pope, like the Roman Catholic Church?

Eh, it does have … sort of. In England, where of course Anglicanism got
its start, there are *arch*-bishops with authority over the bishops, and
one of those archbishops is supreme above the others. That’s the
Archbishop of Canterbury.

As it happens, the position is currently vacant. The last Archbishop of
Canterbury, a bloke named [Justin
Welby](https://www.archbishopofcanterbury.org/news/archbishop-justin-welbys-statement-his-father),
resigned in January. There’d been a sex scandal: a leader of church
youth camps who’d been abusing young boys for years. Welby wasn’t
directly involved, but he’d failed to take sufficiently strong action
against the abuser when he knew about it and *should* have acted.

So there was a spell there when both the Roman Catholic Church and the
Anglican one were without a head — the first time that had happened
since 1691.

The Roman Catholics got themselves a new Pope pretty briskly, but [it’ll
take
months](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2025/jan/05/race-to-replace-justin-welby-begins-as-archbishop-formally-steps-down) for
the Anglicans to install a new Archbishop of Canterbury. Meanwhile the
Archbishop of York is carrying out Welby’s duties, notwithstanding
there’s a fuss about *him* not acting forcefully enough when he should
have in a separate child-abuse case.

(If you’re getting the impression that senior Anglican clergy are kind
of limp, well … they are.)

While the Archbishop of Canterbury is head cleric in the Anglican
Church, he himself has a superior he must report to. That would be the
British monarch, one of whose ceremonial titles is “Defender of the
Faith.”

So you’d think that King Charles would be exerting himself to sort out
the mess in the Church he presides over. Perhaps he would be if he
wasn’t so busy [kissing up to
Islam](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/CharlesIslam.jpg).

Does any of this matter? Will there even be a Church of England five or
ten years from now? Not if it depends on involvement by the ruling
dynasty, the Windsors. Charles, as we’ve seen, finds Islam more to his
taste. He’s 76 years old, though, and not in good health.

His first son, heir to the throne Prince William, may not be much more
use to the Church than Charles is. Quote:

England’s heir, Prince William, does not go to church every Sunday and
was said by a palace insider to feel \[*inner quote*\] “not
instinctively comfortable in a faith environment” \[*end inner
quote*\] — ominously weasel words for someone who will bear the title of
“Defender of the Faith.”

End quote.

I took that quote from a column about the Church of England in last
week’s *Economist* magazine, column title: “[The Church of England is
dying out and selling
up](https://www.economist.com/britain/2025/05/08/the-church-of-england-is-dying-out-and-selling-up).”

Things really don’t look good. Three thousand five hundred churches have
closed just in the last decade. Sixteen thousand remain open; so if the
rate of church closures stays constant, the Church still has forty-five
years of life in it. That’s a big “if,” though, with Muslims pouring
into the country unchecked and taking over Britain’s cities and towns …
and monarchs.

In 2012 the late Roger Scruton, a conservative philosopher, published a
book about the Church of England, title *Our Church: A Personal History
of the Church of England*. I reviewed that book for the *American
Spectator*. Closing sentence of my
review, [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Religion/ourchurch.html):

I liked this book. However, I was raised, like Scruton, in mid-20th
century England, in a culture now as comprehensively extinct as that of
the Moabites. Whether *Our Church* will find favor with, or even be
comprehensible to, readers of different nativity, I would not venture to
speculate.

End quote.

Yes, it made me sad. Watching the old country die makes me sad. Sorry,
sorry: I shouldn’t inflict my sadness on you.

The sadness is widely shared, though, even among unbelievers. Where the
national Church is concerned, it was all foreseen 71 years ago by Philip
Larkin, one of the best British poets of the 20th century.

Larkin was a complete atheist; but one of his best-loved works, by
believers and unbelievers alike, is the poem *Church Going*, written in
1954. YouTube has [a recording of Larkin himself reading the
poem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nMcRQTkvABA). I strongly recommend
it to your attention.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  One of Trump 47’s first Executive Orders after he took
office in January was to end the birthright-citizenship interpretation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Local judges from coast to coast promptly
issued nationwide orders of their own blocking the President’s order.

Yesterday, Thursday, the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments for and
against both issues: birthright citizenship, and the power of a single
local judge to temporarily block a president’s agenda nationwide.

On birthright citizenship, the President posted the following thing at X
yesterday, [quote](https://x.com/trump_repost/status/1922984128540180884?s=46):

Birthright Citizenship was not meant for people taking vacations to
become permanent Citizens of the United States of America, and bringing
their families with them, all the time laughing at the “SUCKERS” that we
are!

End quote.

Like too many of the President’s posts, that doesn’t actually make much
sense, but he’s surely right that foreigners are taking us for suckers.
Trump’s next assertion, however, is just plain false. Quote:

The United States of America is the only Country in the World that does
this, for what reason, nobody knows.

End quote.

In fact about thirty countries, including most of the Latin American
ones, [have birthright
citizenship](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c983g6zpz28o).

Whether or not birthright citizenship is constitutional depends on which
interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment’s phrase “subject to the
jurisdiction thereof” you favor. The writers of that Amendment should
really have been more explicit.

The Supreme Court’s term ends in late June; we’ll likely get a decision
about then. On birthright citizenship I’m betting they’ll leave it as
is, telling us if we want it changed we should lobby Congress to amend
the Amendment. Which of course they never will.

\[[Permalink](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-16.html#05a)\]

*Item*:  Whatever is changing out here in reality, academics are still
deep in the world of woke, where there is no such thing as sex and no
such thing as race. Latest news from that strange world: pregnancy is
just a social construct.

The academic here is [Carlo
Sariego](https://healthpolicyresearch-scholars.org/scholars/chloe-sariego/),
a Ph.D. student at — wait for it — Yale University. I’ve stared at Carlo
Sariego’s picture for a couple of minutes, but I still have no idea
whether he or she is male or female. For pronouns I’ll go with “it.”

It has just recently put out [a paper with the
title](https://x.com/SwipeWright/status/1922090984810185047) “Transfeminist
Pregnancy: Reproductive Speculation, Genre, and Desire.” Sample quote
from the introductory abstract:

I argue that pregnancy is not to be defined by biological phenomena but
instead as a genre of political, aesthetic, and affective experience and
expectation. As a multidimensional genre of experience, rather than
merely a biological datum, pregnancy can potentially establish a shared
ground between trans and cis women.

End quote.

Yale University was once one of our foremost seats of learning. Can we
call in [the U.S. Air
Force](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-05-17.html#04) yet?

*Item*:  Did you know — I bet you didn’t — that this week has
been [National Police Week](https://www.policeweek.org/)? Whether you
did or not, I recommend to your attention Ryan Zickgraf’s May 14th
article “[The Fading American Police
Officer](https://unherd.com/2025/05/cops-might-abolish-themselves)” at
UnHerd.com

New York City Police Department headcount has fallen by eleven percent
since 2019, the author tells us. Nobody wants to be a cop any more. Why
is that, I wonder?

To cheer myself up, and as a personal tribute to the boys in blue, I’ve
pulled down one of my favorite books: Connie Fletcher’s 1990
classic [*What Cops
Know*](https://www.amazon.com/What-Cops-Know-Connie-Fletcher/dp/0671750402/ref=sr_1_1).
Sample passage from page 83 in the paperback. Quote:

There’s something we call the “Guilt Indicator.” Over and over and over
again we see it. I can’t tell you how many scores of times I’ve seen it
myself. This is it: We have three suspects for murder. You throw them
all in the interrogation room, handcuff them to a wall. Come back later,
one guy’s asleep. That is an absolute indication of the person’s guilt.

End quote.

I love this book. Cops really know stuff.

**06 — Signoff**.     That’s it, listeners and readers. Thank you for
your time and attention.

I have some date-appropriate signoff music for you, but first I’ll just
give my customary reminder that you can support the VDARE Foundation by
subscribing to [Peter Brimelow’s Substack
account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a check to the
Foundation at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759; and you can
support me personally by earmarking that check with my name, or by any
of the other options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/). Thank you!

Signoff music. We’re coming up to high school graduation time, with its
accompanying events. Those events of course include [the
prom](https://www.hufsd.edu/galleries/2023/prom-1.html), with all its
teenage joys, pains, stresses, and ambiguities. For us in the geezer
cohort, watching the young folk frolicking at their graduation prom is
also of course an occasion for nostalgia.

Back in the Mother Country there was actually no tradition of a high
school prom, or indeed of anything ceremonial about graduation. We
seniors finished classes, sat our final exams, then spent the tail-end
of the term goofing off — playing card games in the science lab until
the school shut down for summer vacation. That’s how I remember things,
anyway.

We had our teenage years, though. We had dances, and we had those joys,
pains, stresses, and ambiguities. Nothing brings them back so clearly as
the popular music of that time — in my case, the early sixties. A
character in one of Noel Coward’s plays
remarks, [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/PrivateLives.jpg):
“Extraordinary how potent cheap music is,” end quote. Indeed it is.

I’ll sign off with what is, for me, one of the *most* potent examples,
nostalgia at the max. Eh, where did all those years go? You younger
listeners, [gather ye rose-buds while ye
may](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/46546/to-the-virgins-to-make-much-of-time),
and don’t be put off by the fact that rose-buds come with thorns.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
