---
title: "Radio Derb May 02 2025"
date: "2025-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34060"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34060"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   **03m05s The Time Travelers**
-   **11m20s O Canada**
-   **19m04s England votes**
-   **28m00s Granny Groomers**
-   **30m46s Profitable parole**
-   **33m49s The cat killer**
-   **35m44s Signoff with The Bee Gees  **

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/65869366/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners and
readers, from your vernally genial host John Derbyshire with news and
views from the week just passed.

Yes, it’s springtime.
Walking [Basil](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Basil/page.html) yesterday
morning, May 1st, was a delight. The sky was clear, the sun bright,
flowers in the gardens, blossoms on the trees. Not much birdsong; but I
walk him early, so perhaps the birds were still asleep.

It was a marvellous awakening from dull, chilly February and March and
even, this year, April. If you’ll forgive me a flight of metaphorical
fancy, it brought to mind the political transformation of our nation
this past three months.

It’s only been that long since the Biden Presidency, and the contrast is
all too plain. We’ve gone from the sinister grim faces of Inner Party
apparatchiks like [Alejandro
Mayorkas](https://www.britannica.com/biography/Alejandro-Mayorkas) and [Merrick
Garland](https://www.britannica.com/biography/Merrick-Garland) to the
easy fresh openness of [Marco
Rubio](https://www.britannica.com/biography/Marco-Rubio) and [Pam
Bondi](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c079y0r1j8po); from the
President answering five questions from reporters in nine open press
cabinet meetings across his entire term in office to the
President [answering nearly a hundred questions from the
press](https://nypost.com/2025/04/12/media/trump-answers-nearly-20-times-more-press-questions-at-3-cabinet-meetings-than-biden-did-in-4-years-report/) during
just his first three such meetings; from brazen lies like “we can’t
reduce illegal immigration until Congress passes new laws” to plain talk
about the need to deport illegal aliens.

All right, my metaphor’s a bit of a stretch. It was inspired by Kamala
Harris this Wednesday night beseeching her fellow Democrats to [act like
elephants](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/harris-draws-social-media-scorn-digression-about-elephants-during-earthquake),
I forget why.

I shall get my feet back on solid ground shortly and discuss the
elections we’ve seen this week. First, though, while I’m still floating
free in the rhetorical sky, a segment about  time
travel.<span id="more-34060"></span>

**02 — The Time Travellers**.     The contrast I touched on there,
between how politics at the highest level in our public life was
presented to us just a few months ago and how it is being presented
today, came to me again yesterday evening after I watched two video
clips.

The first clip concerned the SAVE Act — that’s S-A-V-E, SAVE, stands for
“Safeguard American Voter Eligibility” — passed in the House of
Representatives April 10th, now waiting on a vote in the Senate.

The SAVE Act seeks, and here I quote the Act
itself, [quote](https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/22/text):

To amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require proof of
United States citizenship to register an individual to vote in elections
for Federal office, and for other purposes.

End quote.

Imagine that! — a law requiring voters in federal elections to prove
they are citizens — exactly the kind of thing Adolf Hitler would have
pushed through the Reichstag, amirite?

As I said, the SAVE Act will come up for a vote in the Senate. Chuck
Schumer, Democratic Party leader in the Senate, had words to say about
that.

\[[*Clip*](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/zcF8ZWVwQ_c):\] On the one
side, Donald Trump recently issued an Executive Order that will coerce
states to prevent millions of Americans from voting. On the other
Republicans in Congress are pushing the SAVE Act — one of the most
destructive, dangerous voter-suppression bills in recent memory. It is
very reminiscent of Jim Crow.

That’s what Republicans want to do. They want to restore J… not only
restore Jim Crow in the South: they want to have Jim Crow spread from
one end of this country to the other.

It will not happen! *It. Will. Not. Happen.* Let me be clear: I will not
let this noxious bill — the SAVE Act — become law. Every Senate
Democrat, every single one of us, is united against it. They need sixty
votes: the SAVE Act is dead on arrival.

I’d like to say it louder so my friends in the House and in the Right
Wing over here can hear. The SAVE Act is dead on arrival.\]

As so often nowadays, I found myself wondering whether perhaps Schumer
is a time traveller from the past, accidentally dropped into the year
2025. “Restore Jim Crow in the South”? It’s been long decades since
there was any significant political momentum to do that (and, by the
way, the people pushing to do it back then were all Democrats).

It was like hearing a politician here, now, in 2025, talk about the
Missile Gap, or prayer in public schools, or fluoride in the water
supply, or telling us how much he’d enjoyed that Doris Day movie. Where,
I found myself wondering, does Chuck Schumer stand on Free Silver, or
Prohibition, or the Neutrality Acts?

Where this current SAVE Act itself is concerned, the feds are lagging
behind the states. Proof-of-citizenship requirements for voting are
being debated and enacted in state legislatures all over — most
recently [in
Wyoming](https://sos.wyo.gov/Media/2025/SoS_Release_2025-01-20.pdf). You
know Wyoming: that hotbed of nostalgia for Jim Crow, where Doris Day
movies still play to crowded theaters.

I get that same time-traveller vibe any time I hear someone refer to
this or that mild-mannered Congresscritter or entrepreneur as a fascist
or a Nazi. There seem to be large numbers of my fellow-citizens who
don’t know of any political horror shows that have taken place in the
world since 1945. Or are they also time travellers?

That’s how politics at the highest level in our public life is all too
often presented to us by those hostile to the current administration. I
mentioned that as one side of a contrast I’d noted after watching two
video clips.

The first clip was that one of Chuck Schumer fretting about the return
of Jim Crow. (Concerning which, I recommend for further listening or
reading my ruminations on July 30th 2021 under the heading “[Is Jim Snow
worse than Jim
Crow?](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2021-07-30.html#02)”
If you prefer to listen rather than read, they start 1m13s into that
podcast.)

All right, that Chuck Schumer clip was one side of the contrast. What
was the other?

It was actually part of a TV program, Jesse Watters *Primetime* at Fox
News, aired last night, May 1st. Jesse sat down with Elon Musk and the
entire DOGE crew to hear about what Musk’s people do and how they do it.
It’s a nearly half-hour clip (the first
27m33s [here](https://x.com/comlabman/status/1918115212944658606)), but
I promise it won’t try your patience.

President Warren Gamaliel Harding described his Secretary of Commerce
Herbert Hoover as, quote, “the smartest gink I know,” end quote. I feel
sure that [the great
Harding](https://www.nationalreview.com/magazine/2019/06/24/let-us-now-praise-warren-harding/),
if he were among us today, would bestow that praise on Elon Musk.
Perhaps Donald Trump already has.

So here was Musk, and here were Musk’s people. I counted sixteen of them
around the conference table in the Eisenhower Executive Office
Building — yes, including [Big
Balls](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14670823/Elon-Musk-Big-Balls-Edward-Coristine-breaks-silence-DOGE.html) —
who, we have now learned, is just nineteen years old.

They were all smart, cheerful, and well-spoken; and they were all at
pains to tell us that the federal workers they were engaged with were
mostly honest, industrious, and keen to help the DOGE project. Sure,
said Musk, there were conflicts: but it was like how, when you read
history, it’s the wars that stand out, yet most history is not wars.

I strongly recommend that you catch that second clip, of Jesse Watters,
Musk, and DOGE. Just don’t watch it *too* soon after the Chuck Schumer
clip, or the latest Kamala Harris speech, or any videos of any
principals in the previous administration — Mayorkas, Garland, Blinken,
or Biden himself. The contrast will throw you across the room, you might
break a bone.

**03 — O Canada**.     Elsewhere — I mean, outside the U.S.A. — it’s a
season of elections. Yesterday, May 1st, there were local-government
elections in England. Tomorrow, May 3rd, there is a general election in
Australia. Next Wednesday, May 7th, the College of Cardinals meets in
Rome to elect a new Pope. It’s elections all over.

The election most in the news this week has of course been the one
conducted on Monday in Canada.

Canada’s legislative system is parliamentary, on the British model.
There’s a lower chamber, the House of Commons, with 343 members.
Whichever member’s party has a majority, or can cobble one together with
smaller parties, that member becomes the Prime Minister, essentially
Chief Executive. There’s an upper house, the Senate, but its members are
not elected. They’re appointed, in effect if not in precise
constitutional language, by the Prime Minister.

So on Monday our neighbors to the North voted to fill those 343 seats in
Parliament and so, by implication, to choose the next Prime Minister of
Canada.

Which party won this election? No party. As often happens with
parliamentary systems, no single party got a majority of those 343
seats. The smallest possible majority would have been 172. The incumbent
party, the Liberals, came close with 169; their main challenger, the
Conservatives, got 144; the remaining 30 seats went to fringe parties,
one or more of whom the Liberals will have to woo into a coalition.

This election was newsier than the average for Canada, although to be
sure that’s not saying a lot. The winning incumbent party, the Liberals,
had been limping along badly for a couple of years under Prime Minister
Justin Trudeau, culminating most recently with resignations and some
scandal. With an election coming up, the Conservative opposition looked
set fair to win easily, perhaps in a landslide.

Things got so bad for the Liberals that in January this year Trudeau
announced that he’d resign from the Party leadership and the Prime
Ministership, and wouldn’t run for a Parliament seat in this week’s
election. In mid-March Mark Carney won the party leadership election and
became Prime Minister.

Wait a minute. If the Liberal Party was in such dire straits just a few
weeks ago, how come they defeated the Conservatives on Monday? OK, they
didn’t exactly get a landslide win, nor even a clear majority. They got
25 more seats than the Conservatives, though; and to add insult to
injury, the Conservative Party leader lost his own seat, which he’d held
for twenty years. What brought about such a reverse?

It wasn’t a what, it was a who. Donald Trump and his policies un-nerved
the Canucks. His tariffs on Canadian goods were a negative for the
anemic Canadian economy, but it was likely his repeated suggestions that
we might annex Canada as our 51st state that turned off more voters.

The Conservative Party guy who lost his seat was no Trump, but he was
Trump-*ish*, certainly way more so than the Liberal chap.

I must say, I always thought that notion of Canada as our 51st state was
seriously dumb. Leaving aside the feelings of Canadian voters, why on
earth would we want a state that *big?* Canada’s not just fourteen times
as big as our current biggest state, it’s actually slightly bigger
than *the entire U.S. of A.* — one and a half percent bigger.
Population-wise, we’d be taking in more people than there are currently
in California, our most populous state. What a stupid idea!

It would have made more sense — not much more, but more — to propose
adding Canada’s ten provinces and three territories separately to our
fifty states, getting us up to sixty-three.

Or perhaps we could just pick up one or two. There has been some talk of
Alberta Province, which was [solid for the
Conservatives](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Canada2025.jpg),
seceding from Canada. Hey, we’ll take ’em. We might take British
Columbia, too, if we could exclude Vancouver.

If you ignore the regions with hardly any population — which in Canada,
means a *lot* of territory — the country breaks into snobs and slobs not
unlike the U.S.A.

The eastern parts — Ontario, Quebec, much of the Maritime Provinces — is
loaded up with woke urbanite snobs: Trump-haters yearning for a green
economy, open borders, and probably — I admit I haven’t researched this
point — sex-change operations on teenagers. So is a wee fragment of the
far West, the bit called “Vancouver.”

Vancouver aside, though, west of Lake Winnipeg are a million or so
square miles inhabited mainly by slobs — normies who’d prefer fossil
fuels, demographic stability, and teenagers left the way God made them.

So my advice to our President would be: Cut out the stupid b-s about a
51st state bigger than the current fifty. Just do some gentle wooing of
Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, and B.C. (neglecting Vancouver).
There’s gold in them thar hills — there actually, [literally
is](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/CanadaGold.jpg),
and a whole lot of oil and natural gas, too …

**04 — England votes**.     Thursday this week — yesterday, as I speak …
there were local elections in England. Not in Scotland, Wales, nor any
part of Ireland, so far as I know: this was England only.

And it wasn’t a general election, for politicians with national
authority. These were *local* elections. The structure of local
government in England is complicated, and I won’t inflict a description
of it on you. If you’re curious, three or four hours’ browsing on the
internet may clarify the matter somewhat.

Just to give you the flavor, I note that [yesterday’s
election](https://www.local.gov.uk/about/our-meetings-and-leadership/political-composition/local-government-elections) was
for people to govern in fourteen county councils, eight unitary
councils, one metropolitan borough council, and the Isle of Scilly.

You know what counties are, of course. We have counties here in the
States. I live in Suffolk County, New York. What the heck is a “unitary
council,” though? If you really want to know, here’s the definition from
Wikipedia, [quote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unitary_authorities_of_England):

In England, a unitary authority or unitary council is a type of local
authority responsible for all local government services in an area. They
combine the functions of a non-metropolitan county council and a
non-metropolitan district council, which elsewhere in England provide
two tiers of local government.

End quote. Got that? There’ll be a quiz period afterwards.

The Isle of Scilly? Don’t ask.

Anyway, there were these local elections, with almost no consequences
for the balance of power in the U.K. government. I have to say “almost”
because, folded in with the strictly local contests, there was a special
election for one seat in Parliament, the member for that seat having
resigned after being found guilty and sentenced to ten weeks in jail
for [beating up one of his
constituents](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c93ker4697ro).

Local as all the other contests were, they excited much interest because
most of the candidates advertised their affiliation to one or other of
the national parties. The vote counts therefore offered a snapshot of
public feeling about those parties, most particularly the two big ones:
the Labour Party, which won last July’s general election; and the
Conservative Party, which had held effective power for fourteen years
under five Prime Ministers prior to that election.

The Labour Party, as I said, won last year’s general election and came
to power under its leader, Sir Keir Starmer. This was widely understood
to be a negative vote, though: not so much a vote for Labour as a vote
against the Tories — that is, the Conservatives — who, in those fourteen
years of power, had conserved nothing at all.

If that is right, then Labour came into power already unpopular,
just *less* unpopular than the Tories. These local elections yesterday,
with some due allowance for a lower turnout than in general elections,
are being scrutinized for signs as to the relative current popularities.
Have the Tories recovered some of their support? Has Labour lost some of
theirs?

And, perhaps most keenly, what about the Reform Party? This is the
populist-nationalist party headed by Brexit campaigner Nigel Farage —
the nearest Britain has to a Donald Trump. Reform came out of last
year’s general election with five seats in Parliament, its first seats
ever won by election. (One Tory member had switched to Reform prior to
the 2024 campaign.)

Reform went through some stumbles and some squabbling later last year,
but it seems now to be shaping up as a robust contender for power.
That’s my impression: did yesterday’s local-election voters see it the
same way?

It looks as though they did. Friday afternoon as I record this we are
still getting a scatter of late results, but it’s clear that — I’ll just
quote here from the
London *Independent*, [quote](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/local-elections-results-reform-runcorn-labour-farage-live-updates-b2743543.html):

The party has taken overall majority of Lincolnshire, Staffordshire,
Derbyshire, Lancashire, Kent, and Nottinghamshire councils, which were
all previously Tory-run. Reform has also taken control of Durham and
Doncaster councils, where Labour was previously the biggest party.

End quote. Derbyshire — hey!

For a crowning triumph, Reform also won that special election for a seat
in Parliament. True, the Reform candidate won it by only six votes after
a recount, but the winner last July, Mike Amesbury of the Labour Party —
the fellow who beat up one of his constituents — had a majority of *over
fifteen thousand votes* back then.

If Reform can rein in the Third-Party hedging and squabbling, they may
reduce the Conservatives to a fringe party — a well-deserved fate after
fourteen years of almost nothing. It would have
been *absolutely* nothing had they not acted on the Brexit referendum:
but they managed to turn even that into a pile of dog poop.

And heaven help the Brits if Sir Keir Starmer stays in power much
longer. There is no mistaking his hatred for his own people. So keen is
he to speed up their replacement, he has launched [a scheme to pay
landlords](https://www.gbnews.com/politics/migrant-crisis-landlord-fumes-two-tier-rent-offer) —
anyone with a house to let — full rent from government funds (which is
to say, from taxpayers’ pockets) guaranteed for five years if they will
take in illegal aliens.

This, at a time when young English couples struggle to find a rent they
can afford and have given up all hope of buying a house.

And the numbers of illegals coming in across the English
Channel [continues to
swell](https://www.gbnews.com/news/migrant-crisis-2025-arrivials-total-april-10000-keir-starmer-smash-the-gangs).
The number arriving in 2025 passed the ten thousand mark April 28th;
last year it did not pass that mark until May 24th. Sir Keir makes
occasional noises about “smashing the gangs,” by which he means the
gangs smuggling the illegals over, but nothing happens.

Perhaps, like his four predecessors as Prime Minister, Sir Keir has no
idea what to do about the invasion; or perhaps he has gone
full [Mayorkas](https://www.britannica.com/biography/Alejandro-Mayorkas),
quietly rejoicing to see it happen. Neither thing will win him any
popularity, except among those who wish to see England destroyed.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  By now I think we have all heard about the “grooming gangs”
of Britain: gatherings of immigrant Pakistani Muslims gang-raping young
English girls — sometimes pre-teens — they had lured into their
apartments.

That was the descriptor favored by the British media: “grooming gangs” —
as if they were teaching these children the right way to do their hair
and nails. It helped to minimize the atrocity of the thing, and
minimizing it was what the authorities wanted.

If the truth about the rape gangs became generally known, that might
incite Islamophobia — which is, as Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has
repeatedly told us, the worst thing in the world.

Something similar is going on in Sweden; but the victims here are from a
different age cohort. *Spiked Online* reports that helpless old women
all over that country have been sexually assaulted by those assigned to
care for them.

There, too, there’s been an effort to cover up the horrors. Why?
asks *Spiked*. Lack of respect for the elderly, they suggest.
Then, [edited
quote](https://www.spiked-online.com/2025/04/27/swedens-elder-rape-scandal/):

But there’s another equally troubling reason. And that is the fact that
some of the carers accused of abuse and rape come from migrant
backgrounds. It seems more than plausible that too many have been wary
of bringing the cases to light out of fears of stoking a racist or
anti-immigrant backlash among the public.

End quote.

Always eager to help, I have a suggestion for the Swedish authorities
and media. Following the British example, they should address the issue
in soft, unthreatening language.

Don’t describe the perps here as “rapists,” or — heaven forbid! —
mention their national origins or religion of preference. Just call them
“Granny Groomers.”

*Item*:  It is of course a feature of modern Progressivism, a.k.a.
“woke,” to favor criminals over law-abiding people wherever possible.
After all, it’s not a criminal’s fault he’s a criminal; it’s something
society did to him — something our shamefully white, Christian,
male-dominated, heterosexual, over-policed society did. The so-called
“criminal” is in fact a *victim*.

Here’s a little photo-montage to make your blood run cold: fourteen of
the sixteen members of [New York State’s Parole
Board](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Parolers.jpg).
Eight of the fourteen are female; six are black or mulatto;
over-representation in both cases.

These parolers have a strong tendency to be way out on the far Left,
like the New York State governors who appoint them. Sample quote
concerning the current New York Governor, from the *Daily Mail* story
I’m
reading, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14603021/new-york-parole-board-salaries-freed-cop-killers.html):

Hochul has filled five seats and the board is still not at max capacity.
Some of her appointees were denied for being too \[*inner quote*\]
“closely associated with the system we seek to reform,” \[*inner
quote*\] a caucus said at the time.

End quote.

Members of the New York board are each paid $190,000 a year for their
services. There are some side rewards, too: One current board member,
name of Tana Agostini, married a murderer while he was incarcerated and
then pressured the board to release him, which of course they did.

I vented my disgust with and loathing of the parole system online [back
in
2009](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2009-10.html#03).
People emailed in to tell me that parole varies by state and that some
states — he named Virginia — had abolished it altogether.

That was 2009. I don’t know the current state of play. I hope more
states have abolished parole, and that yet more will do so in future.
Perhaps one day *all* states will have abolished it. I feel sure,
though, that New York will be the last. Grrrr …

*Item*:  On an theme somewhat related to the previous item, I just read
a post about the cat-killer of Santa Ana in California.

This guy, name of Alejandro Mayorkas … Sorry! I got my Alejandros mixed
up: This guy, name of Alejandro Acosta Oliveros, lures cats with offers
of food; then, when they get close enough, [stomps them to
death](https://x.com/WallStreetApes/status/1917802267438374963). He’s
known to have murdered a lot of cats, and went to jail for it; but local
Progressives got him released.

Yes, it’s a horrible story; but at least he’s just one crazy guy. Back
in 2014, as a reminder that some aspects of human nature have improved
across history, I quoted the following passage from Steven Pinker’s
book *The Better Angels of Our
Nature*. [Re-quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-02.html):

In 16th-century Paris, a popular form of entertainment was cat-burning,
in which a cat was hoisted in a sling on a stage and slowly lowered into
a fire. According to the historian Norman Davies, \[*inner quote*\] “The
spectators, including kings and queens, shrieked with laughter as the
animals, howling with pain, were singed, roasted, and finally
carbonized.” \[*End inner quote*\]

End quote.

It’s sometimes hard to believe, I know, but we *have* improved.

**06 — Signoff**.     That’s it, listeners and readers. Thank you for
your time and attention, and please allow me to remind you yet again
that you can support the VDARE Foundation by subscribing to [Peter
Brimelow’s Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a
check to the Foundation itself at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”,
CT 06759; and you can support me personally by earmarking that check
with my name, or by any of the other options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/), who publish
my work. Thank you!

Signoff music? May 1st? The BeeGees, of course.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.

 
