---
title: "The Body Of Lies"
date: "2025-01-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33504"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33504"
---

The confirmation hearings for Robert F. Kennedy Jr. for Secretary of
Health and Human Services were yesterday and they offered some
interesting insights into how the world has changed over the last few
years. In many respects, it was a blast from the past, with the more
ridiculous performers dusting off their old routines. Elizabeth Warren,
for example, did her angry chicken dance in the hallway after she did
her raging old crone routine in the committee room.

Warren and the other senators who took the opportunity to make fools of
themselves for the cameras during the hearing were a reminder not only
that things have changed, but why they have changed. Warren’s act was
just an act. It was clear at certain points that she did not understand
the words she was reading from her script, but it was clear she
practiced delivering them with the correct angry face. If her handlers
had required it, she would have accused Kennedy of colluding with
Bigfoot.

That is one reason why we are here. The public, at some point over the
last few years, began to turn on this sort of performative politics.
According to recent polling, the Democratic Party has its lowest
approval rating ever. Meanwhile Trump is enjoying his highest approval
ratings. The reason for that is Trump, whatever you may think of him, is
a candid and sincere form of politics. People like Elizabeth Warren are
just paid performers who will say anything for a buck.

Of course, the fact that Kennedy was there at all is remarkable. Not
long ago, Kennedy was a fringe character trafficking in “conspiracy
theories.” At least that was the accepted narrative around him. Most
people no longer accept that narrative. For many, if not most people, he
is now part of this general questioning of those narratives. No one
benefitted more from Covid than RFK Jr., because all the trusted sources
for public health abrogated that trust, thus validating Kennedy’s
critique.

Once you start questioning the official narratives, you inevitably start
questioning the people responsible for those narratives. In the case of
Kennedy, that means the public health establishment, which plays an
enormous role in life. In fact, it is one of the key pillars of the
managerial system, right there with “first responders.” There have been
libraries full of televisions shows and movies about the glories of the
public health experts saving the day. People are now questioning those
claims.

If you looked closely, you could see it in the hearing. One of the
Senate performers mentioned the “conspiracy theory of Lyme disease.”
Kennedy has been open to the possibility that it turned up fifty years
ago as the result of a lab leak. Not far from where it first made its
presence was a military laboratory that specialized in using insects to
carry infectious diseases. That is the connection at the heart of the
“conspiracy theory of Lyme disease”, which should sound familiar.

Up until a month ago, the “lab leak theory” regarding the Covid panic
was a conspiracy theory, one that can still get you banned from YouTube.
Now it is the official position of the United States government. Just a
few years ago, being open minded about the causes of Lyme disease would
have been disqualifying, but it was overlooked entirely in this hearing
and Kennedy was even allowed to point out several so-called conspiracy
theories that have turned out to be true.

This hearing was possible because the world has changed. Suddenly, as if
someone flipped a switch, it is cool to question the narratives. A big
reason for that is Donald Trump, who survived one conspiracy after
another, including one involving a would-be assassin who just happened
to be in a Blackrock commercial. One thing Trump proved is that there is
a limit to how many coincidences people can tolerate before they start
thinking about alternative theories.

That aside, what the Kennedy hearing reveals is that the moral authority
of the people behind the official narratives is crumbling. Elizabeth
Warren can carry on like a crazy old church lady all she likes, but no
one believes her. In fact, no one believes any of these people because
they have lied too much. It turns out Lincoln was right. You cannot fool
all the people all the time and once you set off down that road, it
leads to a place where you cannot fool anyone at all.

Perhaps one day when the AI historians are writing us stories about the
American empire, one narrative will be about how the body of lies
necessary to maintain the managerial system simply became unsustainable.
It moved from condemning those questioning the more outlandish claims
from the authorities to condemning anyone who questioned anything, even
when their doubts were confirmed. In such a world, no one can trust
anyone and the system collapses.

What probably comes next is asking what else about the past is a lie?
Did the CIA sell drugs in the United States to fund covert operations?
People like Maxine Waters were condemned for making the claim. It is
most certainly true, by the way. They worked with the Mexican drug
cartel in the 1980’s to fund the Contras. Here is an
<a href="https://youtu.be/vWErjyA18nE?si=7_hDu-aT013budv5"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">interview</a> with a former high ranking
DEA agent on that subject. Amazon also did a much longer treatment of
this topic last year.

What all this points to is that we are heading into one of those
clearings of history in which we exit one forest of lies and must
evaluate that time, before we can enter a new forest of lies. The
Russians went through this after the Cold War. There was a great
reexamining of what had happened under communism. The United States did
not have this period after the Cold War but is about to have it now. To
close the door on the past, you must revisit the body of lies that is
the past.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
