---
title: "Sulla Or Jugurtha"
date: "2025-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34036"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34036"
---

The Trump administration has reached the one-hundred-day point, an
historically important point in every presidency. For Trump it is
uniquely important as his second term is something of a do-over of his
first term. Trump 2.0 is supposed to be a better, improved version of
the original, having had a break to learn from the mistakes of the first
term and having spent four years under assault from The Blob. This
one-hundred-day mark is one of the most important since FDR.

Roosevelt is a good comparison, as what Trump is trying to do is usher
in a new period for the country that closes the books on the managerial
era that started under Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal. It is
Roosevelt that gave us this concept of the first one hundred days as a
measure of a president. Roosevelt was the new model President for the
new model age, one that was active and ambitious, using all the powers
of the executive to effectuate change for the people.

There are a lot of parallels between the MAGA and New Deal era, but
there is a crucial difference and that is The Blob. Whether they
understood it or not, the Roosevelt project was about laying the
foundation on which The Blob would be built. The Blob being the vast
managerial state that operates outside government and that has subsumed
the political system. The army of experts Roosevelt brought to
Washington to deal with the Depression created the managerial state.

In contrast, MAGA is about swinging a wrecking ball through the
managerial state to remove its tentacles from the throat of the American
people. The subtext to the MAGA movement is that this collection of
people is responsible for the decline and removing them will restore the
conditions in which the people can flourish. While FDR promised a new
framework in which the people can flourish, Trump promises to tear down
that framework so the people can flourish.

Therein lies the major difference between Roosevelt and Trump. The
former did not have an established organized system to obstruct him. The
old order was disorganized and discredited. It was ready for a new
beginning. Trump, in contrast, has a paranoid and highly organized old
order that sees Trump not as an agent of renewal but as a threat to its
existence. The Blob views the strong executive, any strong executive, as
a threat to its existence, so it will fight to the death.

Unlike FDR, where the rules were being written as needed, Trump is
dealing with a system so laden down by rules that even the most skillful
manager in the system can only hope to know a part of them. This is the
primary defense mechanism of managerialism, a system of rules that
operates as defense in depth. Even if one can figure out how to get
around and through the rules toward a goal, the rules reform around you
like antibodies. You are simply assimilated.

You see this with immigration. The Trump people are appealing to an old
law to expeditiously remove criminal aliens. On the surface this is a
clever use of the existing rules to achieve a goal contrary to the whims
of the system. The court system, however, has now wrapped its tentacles
around the Trump people, dragging them into the swamp of endless
litigation, court cases, appeals and re-appeals. The clever end run
using an old law has led to a new thicket of rules and process.

This raises another parallel for Trump. From the perspective of
Washington, Trump is something like Jugurtha, the Numidian king who was
a thorn in the side of Rome from 160 BC to 104 BC. Numidia was in North
Africa, which was not controlled by the Romans at the time. Jugurtha was
unusually skilled at exploiting the moral weaknesses of the Roman elite
to get what he wanted from Rome. He came to symbolize what was wrong
with the Roman system.

For example, after his first war with Rome, Jugurtha offered to settle
things peacefully and walked away with a highly favorable deal from
Rome. Bribery was assumed to be the cause, so the local Roman commander
was summoned to Rome to face corruption charges and Jugurtha was invited
to give testimony. Jugurtha bribed Roman officials who then vetoed the
whole thing. In other words, Jugurtha bribed Roman officials to get out
of a bribery scandal.

What Jugurtha represented was not an external threat to Rome in the
conventional sense, but an existential threat. His existence suggested
an irreconcilable flaw in the Roman system. As a result, the Romans
determined to eliminate Jugurtha and the tool they used was a man named
Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix. Known to us now as Sulla, he was a gifted
general who beat Jugurtha at his own game, by getting one of Jugurtha’s
allies to turn on him.

Sulla was also a key figure in the long political struggle between the
*optimates* and *populares* factions at Rome. The former were the Cloud
People of the day, while the latter were the Dirt People. This dispute
was due in large part to the corruption among the Roman elite. Sulla
eventually revived the office of the dictator to purge the elite of
corruption, reform the Roman constitutional laws, restore the supremacy
of the senate and, interestingly, limit the power of the consuls.

This is the fork in the road for Trump. He can be like Jugurtha and
continue to try and exploit gaps in the managerial system to get what he
wants, or he can take on the system itself through the use of hard
power. In the modern sense, this means defying the courts and using the
law to drive off the people who think litigation against Trump is a
proper use of their time. In other words, Trump must become the sort of
dictator his opponents claim, to restore republican rule.

Historical comparisons are never perfect, and Trump is certainly not
Sulla, but the underlying comparison still works. If there is any hope
of saving the United States from plunging into the eternal darkness, the
problems created by the discredited managerial system must be quickly
addressed. This mean rapidly clearing out the alien population,
restoring normal economic policies and withdrawing from the many
outposts of the Global American Empire.

These are not things possible within the rules because the rules are
designed to prevent such an outcome. This means these changes must not
only happen outside the rules, but in direct contradiction of the rules.
There is no point in claiming that the purpose of a system is to do what
it constantly fails to do, which is the core motivation of the people
called the right. The results we see and hate are the point of the
system, so the system must change.

That can only happen against the will of the system, because the people
in the system have anchored their lives to assumption that the system
will never change. This is the problem Sulla faced and the problem
Jugurtha was able to exploit. Within every corrupt political system
there is a Jugurtha and a Sulla. The question is which one emerges
victorious, and this is the question at Trump’s 100th day mark. Will
Donald Trump be forgotten as Jugurtha or will be he remembered as Sulla.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
