---
title: "The Ukraine Game"
date: "2025-05-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34163"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34163"
---

The professional commentators and amateur experts have been highly
critical of the Trump foreign policy, but despite his unorthodox
approach, Trump seems to be making progress that those experts claimed
was impossible. The recent trip to the GCC countries is the most recent
example. Lost in the shuffle is Iran stating they are ready to do a deal
with Trump on their nuclear program. Today, the Russians and Ukrainian
will meet in Istanbul to talk peace.

This meeting is remarkable mostly because a key element to Project
Ukraine from the start was that there could be no negotiations with
Russia. Without saying it, the Biden admin and the Europeans would only
accept the unconditional surrender of Russia and even then, the terms
would be harsh. The Ukrainians were happy to say the quiet part out
loud, going so far as to declare it unlawful to deal with the Russians.
In a few months Trump has them talking in Turkey.

It may be dumb luck that has got Trump to this point. A week ago, the
Europeans were scheming with Zelensky on a set of ultimatums. The
Russians either surrender and withdraw from Ukraine or else. On top of
that, Keith Kellogg was peddling his scheme to insert Western troops
into Ukraine as part of a peace keeping force. The Russians offered to
meet with the Ukrainians in Istanbul and Trump seized on this to
pressure Zelensky to agree to talks with the Russians.

Again, it may be dumb luck, but success is mostly about making the most
of the available opportunities and Trump took advantage of the Russian
offer to get something that everyone agreed was never happening. Again,
not talking to the Russians has been a central pillar of Project
Ukraine. It is the key to keeping the project running and that pillar
has been toppled. Even if the talks do not produce much of anything
immediately, this meeting changes everything.

The main thing it changes is it forces Zelensky and his European backers
to abandon their maximalist position. Once you agree to negotiate, you
have to be willing to offer something in return for what you want.
Zelensky, of course, cannot concede anything because of the internal
politics of Ukraine, so the new framing of the war is one side, the
Russians, willing to make a deal, and the other side, the Ukrainians,
unwilling to negotiate in good faith to end the war.

Zelensky understands the problem. He has now been put into a very
dangerous position, which is why he chose to lead the delegation to
Istanbul. He is not there to make a deal, but to orchestrate some way to
blow up the process. His life literally depends on keeping the war going
in such a way that the West remains engaged and supportive of Ukraine.
He cannot reject talks outright, but he cannot engage in them in good
faith, so he needs to find a third way.

The Europeans understand this as well, but they also have the added
problem of the reality on the ground. The Ukrainian army is in serious
trouble right now. They are steadily being pushed back while losing men
and material at an alarming rate, one that is not sustainable for much
longer. This
<a href="https://responsiblestatecraft.org/ukraine-battlefield/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">write-up</a> on the condition of the
Ukraine army is about as positive of a spin as you will get before going
into fantasy land and the author gives the Ukrainians six months to a
year.

This is why Keith Kellogg, and the Europeans programmed Zelensky to
demand an immediate ceasefire before negotiations. The plan is to get
the ceasefire and then drag out talks while the Ukraine army is
reorganized and reequipped for what they hope is the next round of the
war on Russia. It is also why the Russians have rejected the idea and
instead offered the talks in Istanbul. One way or the other they plan to
finish Project Ukraine within the next year.

This is why Trump wisely jumped at this opportunity. No doubt his people
are telling him how things are for Ukraine. If Trump can broker a peace
deal, any peace deal that avoids images of Russian tanks in Kiev, it is
a win for him. He will declare himself the savior of Ukraine. On the
other hand, if Zelensky and the Europeans prevent a negotiated
settlement, then Trump can lay the blame for those Russian tanks in Kiev
on Zelensky and the Europeans.

What Trump has managed to do, perhaps without realizing it, is wriggle
free from the trap left for him by the prior administration. He was left
with two choices. One was continuing the proxy war by sending money and
arms to Ukraine and take the blame when Ukraine finally capitulated. The
other was to end the support for Ukraine and get blamed for “losing
Ukraine” to the Russians. Now that he has brokered peace talks, he can
shift the blame to others when Ukraine capitulates.

Again, much of this may be luck, but serendipity plays an enormous role
in human affairs, so it is always part of the result. The reason for the
expression, “Chance favors the prepared mind” is for exactly this
reason. In order to succeed, it often means being prepared to take
advantage of unexpected opportunities. When the Russians offered direct
talks with Ukraine last week, it was a rare chance for Trump to change
the order of things, and he jumped on it.

All of this now signals the start of the end game for Project Ukraine.
What Trump has wanted from the start is to end the war and withdraw from
this proxy war with the Russians and now he is one step closer to his
goal. The question now is whether it is an orderly end or a disorderly
end. If it is the latter, then the question is who gets the blame and
judging by the maneuvering, the White House is betting it will be a
disorderly end and so they are maneuvering to lay the blame on Europe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
