---
title: "Prudentialism"
date: "2025-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33572"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33572"
---

One of the many interesting aspects of the Trump era has been the
collapse of what was called conservatism in America and the rise of a
new coalition to replace it as the dominant force in the Republican
Party. Most pundits have been happy to call it Trumpism or MAGA, as they
hope it is temporary. Others have tried to jam it into the populist
bucket, despite the fact it is not a populist movement. Beyond these
superficial attempts at labeling, not much has been said about it.

Not everyone in the coalition is thrilled by what they are seeing. Many
older conservatives, the paleo variety, are happy to see Conservative
Inc. head off to bankruptcy, but they are a bit uncomfortable sharing a
pew with people like Robert Kennedy Jr. or Tulsi Gabbard. They wince
when Tucker Carlson gets along with old school lefties like Jimmy Dore
or Aaron Maté. They spent their lives on the opposite side of these
people and now they share the same movement.

In fairness, it is even more difficult for the old school lefties,
because for them, politics defines their life. That means they are now
faced with supporting that which they were sure was evil until not so
long ago. It also means their conception of evil may have been wrong,
which means their conception of themselves was wrong. This is why it is
difficult for an ideologue to adjust to new evidence. Unlike the
non-ideologue, such adjustment requires a reexamination of their soul.

That aside, the issue everyone is struggling with is that our political
buckets, like so much of the past, have been a fiction. The left-right
framing was never two groups opposing one another, but two groups
negotiating with one another. It was Team Fast versus Team Slower, both
agreeing on the destination. The “conservatives” were never interested
in conserving anything but their sinecures, while the liberals were
hellbent on sweeping liberalism into the dustbin of history.

For as long as anyone has been alive, the consensus in American politics
has been the radicalism at the heart of progressivism. Egalitarianism,
universalism, and the blank slate are the three legs of this ideological
stool. What motivates and justifies using this stool to smash up
American society and go abroad to smash up other cultures is the intense
belief that they are commanded by history or history’s God to impose
this ideology on the people of the world.

This is how we arrived at this odd time where John Derbyshire and Paul
Gottfried share a pew with RFK Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard. The excesses of
progressivism, unconstrained by the necessity of the Cold War, have put
everything at risk, thus calling forth an old force that has been
dormant since Gettysburg. That force is prudentialism. The thing that
lies at the heart of Western conservatism is a set of precautionary
principles that act to avoid unknowable negative consequences.

If you listen to what RFK Jr. says about medicine, for example, it
generally boils down to restoring prudence to the field. The drug makers
operate on the assumption that they must rush everything to the market,
which often causes new harms while having little impact on the thing
they are trying to mitigate. The Covid vaccine is a great example of the
recklessness of medicine. Even a little bit of prudence would have
avoided this easily avoidable error.

Similarly, Tulsi Gabbard’s main reason to exist is her skepticism of the
military industrial complex and the foreign policy community. For the
last thirty years, we have staggered from one ill-conceived conflict to
the next, never stopping to ponder if what we are doing will have
negative consequences down the road. No one seems to be able to think
beyond the first move. The main thrust of Gabbard’s critique is that a
tiny bit of prudence could have prevented many of these debacles.

The reason these two are attracted to Trump’s movement is that
fundamentally, Trump is the great champion of prudence. He would rather
not spend money than spend it, not because he is cheap, but because he
knows that spending it has consequences and unless you put those
consequences in the balance, you are recklessly spending money and that
is not prudent. Trump’s foreign policy is motivated by a desire to not
create new problems which will lead to new conflicts.

If Team Slower had not abused the word “conservative” for so long, what
we are seeing could be easily labeled “conservatism.” Decades of
verbicide have left us with a poverty of language to describe what we
are seeing. It is why Trump never uses the old labels when talking about
politics. He did not call the people running USAID “leftists” or even
“radicals” but instead called them “lunatics.” In the current context,
it is both the appropriate word and the accurate one.

Even so, Trumpism is the return of prudence to our politics, and it is
the necessary precursor for the return of a genuine American
conservatism. To paraphrase Michael Oakeshott, “Trumpism is to prefer
the familiar to the unknown, to prefer the tried to the untried, fact to
mystery, the actual to the possible, the limited to the unbounded, the
near to the distant, the sufficient to the superabundant, the convenient
to the perfect, present laughter to utopian bliss.”

The boys and girls in conservative sinecures are hostile to Trumpism
because it casts light on their project, revealing it to be nothing more
than the sidecar to the radicalism they claimed to oppose. For the
neocons, Trumpism is a mirror, revealing their lack of a soul and
exposing the vampirism that animates them. For others, it is an
uncomfortable calling home of the prudent into a disposition that has
defined their lives but never defined their politics.

For lack of a better way of stating it, what we are seeing is the
forming up of a new prudentialism, that in the fullness of time may be
able to rehabilitate the term “conservative” but for now must settle for
Trumpism or MAGA. It is not running around trainyards yelling stop. It
is a great rolling back of the progressive project, not driven by
superficial romanticism, but by prudent necessity. To make America great
again, we must sweep away progressivism and its reckless
implementations.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
