---
title: "European Apartheid"
date: "2025-04-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33953"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33953"
---

The word “apartheid” is like every emotionally charged word in the
English language in that the worst people abuse it. In South Africa, it
had a real meaning, as it described a real system. The word means
“apart” and described a system in which the ruling white population
lived apart from the black population. In modern usage, it has come to
mean any race-based social system. The “apartness” is not so much
physical but more of a moral distinction.

The West may need to invent some new words for the multilevel
sociopolitical system that is emerging, especially in Europe. The rule
of law and equality under the law are being abandoned in favor of a
system that is loosely based on American concepts of social justice and
social vengeance. In the United Kingdom, for example, there is now a
separate set of rules for the white population. Whites, especially white
males, are now to be punished more harshly than nonwhites.

This is mostly a formalization of something that has existed informally
since Tony Blair flooded the country with immigrants. If a Muslim were
caught rioting or raping, he could get off with a warning in front of
the right judge. A native Brit, on the other hand, could expect the
maximum penalty, especially if he could be accused of holding the wrong
opinions about things. This is very similar to what we see in the United
States, except now it is formalized in UK law.

This is spreading all over Europe, and unlike the United States, it is
eroding the entire concept of a rights-based society. For example, a
woman named <a
href="https://www.gbnews.com/news/southport-attack-social-media-post-lucy-connolly-plea-rejected"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lucy Connolly</a> was sent to prison for
three years for a Facebook post in which she protested the mass
importation of hostile aliens. In the United Kingdom, the police spend
their days scanning social media for unlawful posts by white Britons.
Twitter is full of videos of police abusing white people for their
speech.

The reason the Prime Minister is called “Two Tier Keir” is because he
supports the two-tiered justice system that has emerged in the United
Kingdom. It is a bizarre implementation of the apartheid system in that
it has a separate legal system for natives and immigrants but also
compels the natives to embrace the immigrants and their foreign ways. On
Palm Sunday, Starmer was at a pagan shrine, celebrating a pagan ritual
that happened to fall on the same day.

Almost forgotten now is Tommy Robinson, a street activist who opposes
the importation of Muslims and other immigrants. He has been in jail for
so long that people have forgotten about him, which is the point. No one
seems to know why he is in jail, other than that he says things in
public that the government says white people should never say, not even
in private. In the United Kingdom, like many European Union countries,
you can be sent to prison for private speech.

In fairness, the UK is not alone. Across Europe, the lights of liberal
democracy have been extinguished. They regularly arrest and jail people
for speech crimes, and they are now arresting opposition politicians.
Marine Le Pen is the latest example. In Romania, they canceled elections
until they could find a way to remove from the ballot the candidate most
likely to win. The Europeans are quickly becoming the old Soviet Union,
with better consumer goods imported from China.

What you see in Europe is a more subtle version of what is happening in
the United Kingdom, and that is a racial divide in the law. Muslims in
France do not have to worry about the police reading their social media
posts. If you are a French farmer organizing a protest, you can be sure
someone in your group is an agent of the state. The state does nothing
about the flood of migrant crime but will throw a white
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mr._Bond_(musician)"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">YouTuber</a> in jail for holding views
the state says he is not allowed to hold.

America was heading down the same path, as the media and corporations
were embracing these same authoritarian policies. Largely due to
entrenched cultural opposition and the revolt of key oligarchs, this
decline has been halted, and the new administration openly supports
civil liberties. That speech by Vance was as much a signal to the
American public as to the European political class. The days of
de-platforming are over, so they claim.

The real test will be how the Trump administration deals with these
countries that flagrantly abuse the rights of their citizens. Everyone
understands that Asians have a different cultural tradition, one that
does not include things like individual rights, the rule of law, and
respect for public opinion. China is never going to be a liberal
democracy, so there is no point in punishing them for it. The same is
true for the countries of the Middle East or in sub-Saharan Africa.

Europe is a different matter. The only reason for the United States to
care about Europe at all is that it is both the ancestor of our
population and the source of the moral framework that defines the West.
Europe has the same moral obligation to defend the ideals of liberalism
as the United States. Clearly, the current European political class has
no interest in maintaining liberal societies. The United Kingdom, in
particular, is an egregious case, given its role in the evolution of
liberalism.

During the Cold War, the United States had different relationships with
countries firmly on the Western side than those on the communist side or
not aligned. The starting point was always respect for the rights of the
citizens. Even during the Cold War, the United States exerted pressure
on South Africa to end its apartheid system on the grounds that it was a
violation of Western morals. One can question the rationality of that,
but at least foreign policy was on something of a moral footing.

If Trump is going to restore the rationality of American foreign policy,
it must include a return to a policy of judging nations by how closely
they respect our understanding of individual rights and liberties. If
the United Kingdom wants favorable trade deals, for example, they must
open their prisons and release their political prisoners. The same holds
for the rest of Europe. Their prison system must be dismantled, and the
laws penalizing speech must be repealed and condemned.

Otherwise, the United States will be in the contradictory position of
punishing China for its lack of Western values, while ignoring the
grotesque violations of those same values by Europe. A sense of moral
obligation has always animated American policy, for good or ill, and the
primary moral obligation of America is the defense of the Western
tradition of rights, equality before the law and respect for public
opinion. America needs to break apartheid Europe, just as it broke
apartheid South Africa.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
