---
title: "The Universe Smiles"
date: "2025-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33578"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33578"
---

Tomorrow the Trump team arrives in Germany to participate in the Munich
Security Conference, where they are expected to inform the Europeans of
their plans to bring Project Ukraine to an end. No one knows what Trump
is planning, but the Europeans are braced for bad news. That bad news is
either a plan for peace brokered without them or a plan that hands the
whole mess over to them. Team Trump had made clear that their first
priority is accounting for the money.

As a general rule, anytime the guy giving the money starts making angry
noises about accounting for the money, the guy receiving the money is in
trouble. This type of scene is always part of gangster movies for a
reason. It means the giver is unhappy with the receiver and has come to
a conclusion about the arrangement that is going to be bad for the
receiver. Imagine some DOGE kids stuffing Zelensky into a locker and you
have a good idea of what is coming.

To make matters worse, Trump just had a long call with Putin and both
sides described it in very positive language. There has been an exchange
of prisoners, with Trump indicating the Russians asked for little in
return. He was making clear that he understood their gesture and was
ready to reciprocate. It is the sort of thing that is done when two
sides are looking to build a larger relationship. You do small deals to
build trust and develop a process for larger deals.

What is clear is that Trump has looked at his options with regards to
Ukraine and did not see a deal worth pursuing. The Russians are not
interested in anything but the deal they feel was done in Istanbul in
2022, plus some extra to cover the costs of litigating it on the
battlefield for the last two years. They will get that deal either at
the table or on the battlefield and there is nothing to be done to
prevent them. Trump seems to understand this and accepts it.

Deal making always starts with discovery. You must first learn if there
is a deal to be had, otherwise you are wasting your time. The number one
rule in deal making in the private sector is that time is your most
precious asset. The best salesmen maximize their time by not wasting
time chasing bad business. For Trump, Project Ukraine, as constructed by
his predecessor, is bad business. The goal now is to get this off the
agenda as quickly as possible.

Most likely, the starting place this week is to inform the Europeans and
Zelensky that the deal for them right now is Istanbul plus some other
things. If they are ready to take that deal, then the Trump Team will
hammer out the deal with the Russians and at some point, the Ukraine
government will be invited in to sign it. Who the representative of that
government is will be determined by elections to be held immediately.
That means Zelensky will not be part of the signing ceremony.

This is why they are talking about the money. Imagine the bosses from
Chicago coming out to Las Vegas to talk to the guy they sent out to
oversee their operations, and their first question is, “Where’s our
money?” Zelensky made the fatal mistake of saying he will never be able
to account for it. That sealed his fate. There is simply no way Trump
will do business with the guy. It now means any support requires
elections and repayment of the money.

Like the guy who cannot pay in the gangster films, this leaves Zelensky
and the Europeans in an impossible position, which is the point. Team
Trump is prepared to work with the Russian on other issues, even if they
cannot get a deal on Ukraine, so they are prepared to walk away from
Ukraine entirely. If Europe wants to keep the United States engaged,
then it means elections and an accounting of the hundreds of billions
sent to Kiev over the last three years.

Now that the Trump plan is coming into focus, the girl boss running EU
foreign policy issued a
<a href="https://x.com/kajakallas/status/1889800055303049695"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">statement</a> declaring the unconditional
support for Ukraine. Not having come to grips with what is happening in
Washington, she seems to think Team Trump will sit down with her to talk
it out and come to a compromise. Instead, this will be used to justify
handing the whole mess over to the Europeans so Trump can move onto
matters far more important than Project Ukraine.

This is the other thing coming into focus. The war caused the Russians
to rethink their relationship with Europe. They stopped taking calls
from people like Macron and Schultz, because there was no point in
speaking with them. The Chinese have gone out of their way to humiliate
European leaders who turn up in Beijing. Men close their doors to the
setting sun and that is what is happening to Europe. The emerging great
powers of the new world order are ignoring Europe.

Now we are seeing Trump do the same thing. Vance was in Paris this week,
in advance of the Munich meeting, and he told the Europeans in no
uncertain terms how things are going to be going forward. They were
properly offended, and that was most certainly the point of his speech.
Friday, the Trump delegation is going to tell the Europeans how it is
going to be with regards to Ukraine. If they do not like it, they can go
it alone, but everyone knows they lack the ability to do it.

It is proof that the universe has a sense of humor. Four years ago, the
Eurocrats were congratulating themselves along with Biden people,
telling each other stories about the new world order and how they would
build back better. Now, the guy they thought they had vanquished will be
telling them their place in the new world order. The guy building back
better, will be the guy they were sure was the final boss in their quest
to spread the managerial revolution around the globe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
