---
title: "Robed Radicals"
date: "2025-03-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33775"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33775"
---

One way to look at the last ten years is as the struggle of the United
States to finally close the books on the Cold War and the 20th century.
The reason Trump exists, and the managerial system has reacted in such a
violent way toward him, is that he represents the end of the conditions
that made it all possible. The return of a strong executive and the
normal functioning of government is the end of the managerial system and
everything around it.

The comparisons to the late Soviet times are compelling because the
Russians went through a similarly violent process to escape their own
managerial system and the ideology that controlled it. Like the Soviets,
America is now run by old people trapped in the past, lacking the talent
to adjust to new realities. Like the Soviet system, the American system
barely performs basic functions. Like the Soviets, American political
actors can only break things.

That last part is important. Reform by its very nature calls into
question the legitimacy of current processes. The reason for reform is
that the system is not working to the satisfaction of the users, so it
must be changed. Good reformers, however, do not attack the core logic
of the system, but focus instead on the parts of it that implement that
core logic to maintain the legitimacy of the whole. Maybe it means new
people or possibly changes to parts of the system.

Reforms in the late Soviet period undermined the core logic of the
Soviet system, resulting in poorer outcomes. We see the same thing in
America. The response to Trump in 2016 by conservatives and their party
only served to sap the legitimacy of the conservative movement and the
Republican Party. Trump started as a vanity candidate, but by January of
2016 he had become the champion of the party voters against the ossified
party leadership.

Similarly, the behavior of the media cratered trust in the media. Their
efforts to cajole, convince and intimidate people into going along with
the managerial class eroded all trust in the media. By the end of
Trump’s first term, trust in the media had collapsed to the point where
only regime toadies trusted it. The same could be said for the people it
was defending. Trump won in 2024 because the main tools of his enemies
had been delegitimatized by his enemies.

We are now seeing another phase of this as district judges claim
authority over vast parts of the executive branch. The last month has
seen these inferior court judges claim to have power over the hiring and
firing of personnel, the budgets of executive agencies and the conduct
of foreign policy. A judge just ordered the military to enlist mentally
unstable people. To stop the future, the managerial class is now
destroying the credibility of the courts.

Public trust in the courts was already at a nadir because of the abuses
we saw in the Obama years and then the Biden years. When the court ruled
that mandating medical insurance was right there in the constitution,
the rule of law took a sharp turn into absurdity, but when the Supreme
Court ruled that two men sharing rent and bed is the same as your
parents, then trust in the law was in free fall. It only got worse in
the Biden years with the lawfare against Trump supporters.

What we are seeing from the courts now is the breaking point. No one
would dare poll on it, because they fear the result, but there is
certainly a majority in favor of the Trump administration telling the
courts to pound sand. The whiffs of Sulphur the usual suspects are
always sure they detect are not real, but rather they are the floral
aroma of Caesarism in response to the reckless behavior of the courts.
When the rule of law fails, the people always choose the rule of men.

While this may feel like a positive omen, there is another lesson from
the end of Soviet Russia to keep in mind. Russia at the end of communism
was a poor country, but a lawful country. It had rules that the people
tried to respect. It then entered a period where it was a poorer country
and a lawless one. When trust in the system collapsed, trust in the
rules collapsed with it. It was only when a new elite emerged to impose
a new system and new rules that lawfulness returned.

In other words, this dip into lawlessness we are seeing could very well
portend a general descent into lawlessness. Like post-Soviet Russia, we
could very well be entering a period where we get poorer as the rule of
law collapses. Unlike Russia, America is not a homogenous society with a
thousand years of history. America is a diverse country which is a
polite way of saying it is a collection of people who would just as soon
not share a country with one another.

If the elites backing Trump’s reforms wish to avoid a terrible end to
their reform effort, they are going to need to deal with these hothouse
radicals on the bench who cannot grasp the danger of their actions. The
challenge, as with all reforms, is in dealing with the problem while not
undermining the legitimacy of the system. These judges think they are
heroes defending the system against the monster, when in reality they
are a cancer threatening the last functioning part of the system.

It is not an easy task, which is why most reform efforts fail. In the
end, it turns out to be easier to scrap the old and replace it with
something new, but the problem is no one can predict who will win and
who will lose in that process. It is why the reform is always the safe
choice, despite the dismal record. It promises predictable winners. If
today’s reformers want to be winners, then these judges need to be made
into losers, without making the rule of law a loser as well.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
