---
title: "The Death Of Grammar Ronin"
date: "2025-04-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33996"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33996"
---

One of the things that comes with writing for a public audience in the
digital age is the editor without portfolio. This is the person who
roams the internet looking for spelling errors, punctuation mistakes,
and grammar issues. There are many of these people, as the comment
section of every internet post has at least one comment about a typo or
alleged improper word choice. They are like the samurai without a master
in feudal Japan, except they wield the blue pencil instead of a sword.

Soon, of course, they will be replaced by AI. It will not be long before
the browsers simply rewrite your text in the period between when you hit
submit and the text commits to the website. The robots will patrol the
internet like the grammar ronin of this age but do so with a speed that
the grammar ronin cannot match. Imagine a terminator sent back to
seventeenth-century Japan to battle Miyamoto Musashi. By the looks of
it, the days of the grammar ronin are numbered.

At least it seems that way if you assume there is only one way to
construct a sentence or that the rules of grammar are iron laws of
grammar. That is often how the grammar ronin look at language and
writing. The rules of grammar are not merely guides to facilitate
clarity but laws that must be ruthlessly enforced. Even if the grammar
rule no longer works for a modern audience, the grammar ronin insist
that it must be followed lest chaos be unleashed on humanity.

It turns out that this is where AI disagrees with the grammar ronin. If
you compose an essay and feed it into each of the AI, asking for
corrections of spelling and grammar, the result will be different from
each AI. If you submit the output of one into another, it will rewrite
the text for what it claims is clarity and convention. You can create a
game of telephone with the AI editors, and when you get to the last one
and submit it back to the starting AI, the result is nothing like where
you started.

It seems that the robot editors cannot agree on the rules. The reason
for that is the AI learns on the mass of text made available to it. Once
the robot is seeded, it then continues to build its knowledge based on
available information from the internet and what has been fed to it by
users. What we call AI is actually a massive probability calculator that
quickly returns the most likely answer to the user query, based on the
data that has been made available to it.

This is why the results from each AI are slightly different when they
are asked to edit the exact same text. There are small differences in
its massive data sets, so the probabilities are slightly different. Ask
each AI to add simple numbers, and the results are uniformly the same
because probability plays no role in the result. Two plus two equals
four for all possible values of two. Ask each AI to edit this paragraph,
and the range of possible answers is quite broad.

That is because those laws of grammar that the grammar ronin enforce are
not laws after all but merely a set of conventions. In fact, what we
think of as the rules of grammar are mostly the result of the printing
press. Formalizing the language was a natural consequence of the mass
production of text. Printers needed to be trained, and therefore it made
sense to have a common set of rules. It is how we got the word
stereotype, for example.

Of course, the reason we have things like grammar rules, punctuation,
fixed definitions, and formal spelling of words is clarity. Many of the
punctuation marks we commonly use were relatively late additions to our
language. They were created by monks and scribes to make their lives
easier. Dictionaries were created to make written communication easier.
The iron laws of grammar and spelling are not iron laws after all but
things we invented as needed.

This is where AI can be liberating. What the robots can do for the
writer is offer many ways to phrase something and then let him select
that which fits his style or that he thinks gets his point across the
best to the human reader. At the same time, it can also allow the writer
to break convention by seeing the conventional ways AI presents the text
and then deliberately choosing an unconventional approach. Creative
writers can use AI to enhance their creativity.

On the other hand, when a pusillanimous popinjay takes issue with a
point a writer is making but is unable to follow the logic that reaches
that conclusion, so he attacks the grammar of the writer, the writer can
simply point to the terminator and say, “take it up with my editor.”
Having AI as an editor provides an authoritative defense against this
sort of pedantry that is popular with the sophists. In a way, AI can
become something like a universal style guide for the digital age.

It is not all rainbows and puppies. The grammar police have drained a
lot of the life from the written word, and AI will help them bleed it
white. In time, most people will rely on AI to write their text, and
that means it will narrow to the point where most writing reads like the
user manual for your toaster. This will also make stupid people seem
less stupid, which is a great danger to society. This is the problem
with politics. It is dominated by loquacious simpletons.

The main loser in the AI revolution will be the grammar ronin. Soon,
they will not be able to find text that violates their interpretation of
Strunk and White. If they persist, the robots producing the text will
simply disconnect them from the internet, leaving them to roam the
countryside with a blue pencil in search of bits of paper to edit. The
era of the grammar ronin is coming to an end. He will be defeated by the
thing that made him possible at the dawn of the internet: technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
