---
title: "Troubled Youth"
date: "2025-01-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33431"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33431"
---

Over the last week a dispute has erupted on Twitter about the relative
difficulties faced by young people. One camp, current young people,
claim they are entering a world that is much more difficult for them
than youth of prior generations. They do not think they have the same
opportunities as their parents and grandparents. Another camp thinks
that young people are entering relatively good times economically but
may have unrealistic expectations regarding adulthood.

To be accurate, there is at least one other camp in this debate. That
camp thinks the youth face a demographic reality for which they have not
been properly prepared and a prevailing culture that works to prevent
that preparation. The relative state of the economy for young people
does not matter if they are entering a society that is about to come
apart along demographic lines. Young white people have been poorly
trained up for a world that should not exist.

As is often the case, the two camps squaring off over economics are on
the main stage while the camp looking at upstream issues is
marginalized. While economics is downstream from demographics and
culture, it still matters. We see this with the oldest demographic who
remain stubbornly committed to the system. Baby boomers, overall, have
it pretty good, so they still believe in the system, even it means they
must endure an emergency room that looks like a Tijuana bus stop.

The economic question for young people is difficult, because it is more
about expectations than objective measures. For example, about 16% of
native-born teenagers have jobs today, compared to 32% in 1990. On the
one hand, this is a bad thing because it means fewer young people
getting necessary training to be an adult once they finish their
education. On the other hand, it means they have an easier time of it
than prior generations who had to work.

Those over the age of fifty love telling stories about the terrible jobs
they had as young people, while no one under the age of thirty complains
about not having had crappy jobs to make ends meet. In fact, the main
complaint from college graduates in their twenties is that they have
crappy jobs. This is where the great divide opens between those two main
camps debating the issue. Old people roll their eyes, because having a
crappy job is a rite of passage. Young people see it as a broken
promise.

If you are in that third camp, you can see how both sides are right. On
the one hand, young people should stop moaning about crappy jobs and
being poor, because that is what every generation faced. In fact, prior
generations had it far worse. On the other hand, this was not the deal
promised to young people who went into debt to get a college diploma.
They were told that this investment would let them bypass the struggle
portion of their life and get right into the middle-class.

Here you see the root cause of the complaint from young people. The
breakdown of order has eroded the social contract. In fact, the social
contract is now a terms of service agreement. They were told to click
“accept” in high school, but once they exited college, they were told
the terms of service have changed. Just in case they objected, they were
also told that the privacy policy had changed as well. “Please click
accept” quickly became “accept or else.”

There is more to this broken social contract than economics. The
conditioning of young people comes with the assumption that if they
follow the rules and tick the correct boxes, they will find meaning and
purpose in life. Instead, what they find is life in a cubicle, paying
off school debts while living at home. Half of college graduates live at
home, which is not as high as you might think, but they continue to live
at home long after they have left college. That is a novelty.

In effect, young people were sold a program that said if they went to
college, took on the debt and followed the rules, they would come out
the other end with the sort of fulfilling life they saw in the media.
Instead, they are faced with what feels like a pointless existence as an
economic unit. That philosophy major at the coffee shop is not just a
punch line. She is a bitter victim. Telling her that she now must find
her own meaning in this struggle sounds like another lie to her.

That said, the youth of the past did not like working in high school and
would have preferred to hang out with friends playing video games.
College grads of the past would have preferred to get a job in their
field at the same wage as an experienced man, rather than working retail
until they could get their foot in the door. The struggle for today’s
youth is relatively easy, even if it is the result of a broken promise.
In fact, young people probably have it too easy in many respects.

This generational conflict is, in the end, a proxy for the larger
conflict which revolves around the failure of the ruling class over the
last thirty years. Instead of upholding the rules, especially the rules
of the social contract, they turned the country into a smash and grab
where everyone is on their own. As a result, the powerful, for example
colleges, exploit the weak, their students. It should be no surprise
that the victims of such a system are not its biggest fans.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
