---
title: "2025 Predictions"
date: "2025-01-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33347"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33347"
---

One of the challenges with making predictions the last few years was
that every year seemed to be wilder than the last. It was tempting to
hope that crazy things you want to see happen would happen. This year,
it feels like we are headed to a more normal time, but that probably
means we see some important things begin to happen, now that the crazies
are going into hibernation. This could turn out to be a less dramatic
year than 2024, but a much more substantial one.

Every year there is an important topic that is bubbling under the
surface, either in the ruling class or amongst the rabble, that suddenly
breaks through. In 2024, we moved from “securing the border” to “mass
deportation now” as the growing sentiment against immigration of all
types finally broke through. The 2025 issue will be the collapsing birth
rates around the world. It is a thing that gets discussed in certain
circles, but 2025 will be the year it goes mainstream.

We will have to suffer from the usual slop from the commentariat, who
will try to make money applying the old slogans to this issue. The
public nuisances we call influencers will pollute the waters too. But by
the end of the year, the educated debate will settle on the four D’s of
human destiny. Diet, Development, Divinity and Deracination will be the
focus for what is causing the fertility collapse. The most important
issue in the world will suddenly become import…

A long ignored issue related to the immigration debate and related to
the birth rate debate, is the collapse of middle-class wages relative to
the labor productivity gains of the last thirty years. A thing everyone
has sensed for a long time is finally getting hard numbers attached to
it. The truth is the fruit of the microprocessor revolution went
primarily to the economic elites. Meanwhile, the middle-class has seen
themselves turned into wage slaves…

One immediate upshot in the changing nature of the online right will be
the long overdue marginalization of the influencer. These pests who jump
into every issue hoping to score attention, while pretending to lead the
debate will finally run out of road with the audience. They will not go
away completely as there is always a supply of suckers for them to
grift, but in 2025 the label “influencer” will become synonymous with
the word “grifter” for the online right…

Once Trump ascends the throne, he will pardon all but a handful of the
January 6 victims, leaving the edge cases for review. The overwhelming
majority of the victims should have been handed a fine, but some did
engage in criminal acts that are serious enough to warrant a review
before pardoning. These victims may get commutations as a compromise
solution. There will be no retribution from Team Trump. He will avoid
going down this road for political reasons…

In February, the Republican Party will try to focus Trump on passing
another tax scheme like they did in his first term. This will be part of
a scheme to run the clock until the midterms, which they plan to throw
to the Democrats. Having learned his lesson, Trump will squash this idea
before it gets going. Look for Trump to be much tougher with his own
party this time around. The fact is the biggest obstacle to reform is
the GOP and the conservative industrial complex…

In the run up to the German elections, the government will begin
arresting AfD members on the grounds they are coordinating with Russia.
The Musk endorsement will prove to be the thing that breaks the glass
for many Germans, and we will see polling that suggests the AfD could be
following the path of Le Pen as a populist alternative to the corrupt
ruling coalition. In defense of democracy, the German ruling coalition
will seek to take the public out of the process…

The unrest in Syria will begin to spill over into other countries.
Jordan will be the first crisis as the government has been unpopular for
a long time but has also been weakening for a long time. They have the
same problem as the Assad government, just without American sanctions.
Similarly, the Egyptian government will begin to crack in the face of
new activity by the Muslim Brotherhood and the spill over from the
Israeli war on the people of Gaza.

This will not be the only problem in the Muslim world. The Israelis will
shift from Iran as the great enemy to Turkey, as the Turks seek to
establish themselves as the new Ottoman empire and regional hegemon. The
Turks are using the Syrian crisis to address their Kurdish problem and
build a new Arab coalition that is aligned with them over the Iranians.
The Israelis will seek to use rising tensions between the Turks and
Washington to warrant a militaristic line against Ankara…

Despite his promise to end the war in Ukraine within 24-hours, Trump
will find that there is no deal to be made in Ukraine. Zelensky and his
European backers will never agree to a deal and the Russians are in no
mood to help Trump, so the result will be a slow burn of Ukraine until
it collapses this summer. Trump will conclude that it is a loser and
simply stop supporting Zelensky. Often, the best solution to a problem
is to accept that there is no solution to the problem…

Trump will begin talks with China that will evolve into a grand bargain
to not just include Taiwan, but the long-term economic relationship
between the Western hemisphere and the Chinese. Trump’s bluster about
the Panama Canal is aimed at expanding the discussion beyond Taiwan.
Adding China’s growing influence in South America gives Trump options,
but also gives the Chinese a shot at a long-term solution to their
problems as well…

I will have three surprises for 2025…

In sports, the world will suddenly realize that soccer is boring and
stop watching these interminable events. The New York Mets will win the
World Series, and the Detroit Lions will win the Super Bowl. This will
lead many to dub 2025 the year of the loser in honor of the fanbases of
these two teams. In 2025 it will finally be acknowledged that we have
moved past peak sports. Interest has been declining, but new ways to
monetize every nook and cranny has masked it, but the mask drops in
2025…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
