---
title: "Feudal Net"
date: "2025-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34049"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34049"
---

If you are a Twitter user, one of the things you may have noticed is
that the site is increasingly difficult to use as intended. The “slop
accounts” fill the site with posts intended to game the payment system.
It is also infested with “influencers” who, like the slop accounts, seek
to gain attention, but instead of doing it for money, they do it for the
“clout.” As a result, many popular accounts have reduced their activity
on the site, which magnifies the problem.

This is not just a Twitter issue. YouTube suffers from the same problem
as artificial intelligence makes it easier for slop merchants to churn
out content. They use AI to create a slideshow and voiceover about a
topic. It is not a video in the conventional sense, but it is close
enough for their purposes. If you watch a video on your favorite
historical figure, you will be flooded with artificial intelligence slop
videos in your recommended feed. If you are not careful, you end up
awash in these slop videos.

Like the slop on Twitter, the slop on YouTube is mostly about gaming the
payment system, and most of it originates from India. Even a small
amount of money from slop farming goes a long way in a land without
indoor toilets. The advance of artificial intelligence might end Indian
call centers and coding shops, but it will come with the proliferation
of Indian slop centers. The big social media platforms will be swamped
by this content unless they figure out how to stop it.

The Google search engine experience suggests it is unlikely that the big
social platforms will effectively combat the slop. For the most part,
Google is a useless search engine now because they had to implement so
many filters to combat the scammers, that the outputs often make little
sense. The reason they had to do this was the scammers were finding ways
to get their scams at the top of search results, rather than the
legitimate results.

It was not helped by Google’s attempt to ban unapproved opinions during
the latest spasm of progressive madness. Ironically, you now need
artificial intelligence to find things you used to use Google to find.
The Brave browser search engine now provides an AI answer at the top of
the search results. Most of the time, the AI response is close enough,
unless the question is on the list of banned ideas. Even AI has been
rigged by our progressive theocrats.

It is not just Indian scammers that are ruining the public square. A
strange phenomenon on YouTube is the reaction video. Video makers with
no talent create videos of themselves reacting to other videos. They
make goofy faces and add inane commentary to reach the required length
to monetize the video. The point is to attract the attention of people
interested in the primary content. It is a way to exploit the fair use
doctrine to steal the work of others for private gain.

Now that reaction videos have proven successful, a new genre has emerged
where the YouTuber makes a reaction video to a reaction video. Suppose a
home cook makes a recipe video, and a professional chef then makes a
reaction video to it. The new “reaction to the reaction” YouTuber then
makes a reaction video to the chef reacting to the original video. It is
not hard to see where this is heading. It will not be long before it is
reaction videos all the way down.

All of this relies on systemic theft. The Twitter slop merchants steal
content like images and videos and then use it in their slop posts. If
you are at a public event and video something amusing to post online,
you can be sure that an Indian slop farmer will steal it, remove any
references to you, and then add it to their slop stream. This is why so
many video clips now have highly intrusive watermarks. It is an effort
to combat the Indian slop farmers.

Ironically, the deluge of slop that promise to swamp the internet was
made possible by what made social media possible. The big platforms made
their billions stealing information from their users and then selling it
to marketing firms and governments. Free email was about harvesting the
user’s private correspondence. Your search and browsing history were
used without your permission. Big tech ushered in the collapse of
personal property, and now they are the victims of the same theft.

The bigger problem is the tragedy of the commons. The internet is the
largest public common in human history. While it is not entirely free to
access, it is effectively free to use. The Indian scammer does not have
to pay for each scam text message he sends to your grandmother. He does
not have to pay for each slop tweet he posts on Twitter. The cost to him
as a scammer is the same as for you and every other person accessing the
digital public common.

The infrastructure providers have an interest in their part of the
internet, but they do not have a stake in the public square. The social
media firms have an interest in their piece of the common, but their
reason to exist is as an open forum for all to enter, so walling it off
is against their interests. The public square portion of the digital
commons is like an orchard owned in common. Everyone has a reason to
take from it, but no one has a reason to protect it.

We will probably end up with a private internet for the same reason we
have gated communities, concierge healthcare, and homeowner
associations. The open society benefits only those with no stake in it.
They take what they want and then move on to the next host. The only
defense is the closed society in which admission is determined by
private interests. The great democratization of the public square will
end with a great feudalization of it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
