---
title: "The Banality Of Biden"
date: "2025-05-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34183"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34183"
---

Hannah Arendt coined the term “banality of evil” while covering the
trial of Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem in 1961. She noted that Eichmann
was not the cartoonish villain one expected, given the accusations
against him. Instead, he appeared to be a normal man who performed the
tasks assigned to him, without having any ideological or emotional
attachment to them. This led Arendt to argue that evil could be the
result of the work of ordinary people who were not inherently malicious.

Her formulation turned out to be useful to generations of evil people
who used this framework to accuse ordinary Americans of being evil, for
the crime of living their lives as white people. That was probably why
the line became so popular, but that does not strip it of its truth
value. Human systems are capable of turning the ordinary acts of the
people in the system toward evil ends, even though the people themselves
may not be evil in the ordinary way we think of it.

This is the subtext to the broad indictment of managerialism. The
fascists, understood through the lens of managerialism, created a
ruthless machine, animated by ideology, that dehumanized their society.
The Soviets were close behind in creating a communist machine that
forced everyone into the moral framework of the ideology. Those who
could not fit into the ideology were destroyed. This is what made
fascism and communism evil. They mechanized and normalized brutality.

Of course, that view of fascism and communism was from the perspective
of people on the cusp of post-liberalism. The paleocons, sensing that
America was succumbing to the same managerial forces as Europe, were
warning about what lies ahead for managerialism as an organizing
political order. They were wrong in their analysis, as America ceased to
be a liberal society in the 19th century. Progressivism, the unique
American ideology, was filling the void in the 20th century.

This turned out to be the great innovation of progressivism. It
appropriated the language and forms of liberalism in order to present
itself as the antithesis of ideology. It was the broad conclusion of
reason. Progressivism, repackaged as liberalism in the Cold War, was not
about how the world ought to be, but about how the world would be if
only people allowed it to be so. Man, liberated from superstition and
ignorance, would naturally settle into liberal democracy.

The result, however, was what the paleos predicted. The managerial
revolution that began in the first quarter of the 20th century got going
for the same reason it got going in communist and fascist societies.
Ideology is not enough. It needs a practical application that takes the
moral claims and turns them into an ethical system administered by a
priestly class. The role of the priest in a Christian society is filled
by the manager in an ideological society.

It is why America is awash of moralizing. Every politician eventually
turns himself in an Old Testament prophet, warning that we must comply
with the tides of history or face certain destruction. Every product is
sold as a sacrament. Buy this widget in order to tell the world you are
a righteous man. Middle managers in corporations are sent off to
leadership class, so they can properly evangelize to their cubicle
jockeys. The most trivial things are attached to great moral crusades.

This brings us back to Arendt’s observations about Eichmann. The crimes
against civilized life we have observed over the last years were done by
people, who like Eichmann, did not present themselves as evil. They
could not imagine themselves as evil because they were on the right side
of history. The proof of that is everyone they know is on the same side
and everyone they know is a good person striving to make the world a
better place.

It is this system of thought that made Joe Biden president. He was the
smiling face of a machine that rewarded affable, useful dullards, as
long as they served the needs of the system, which was the endless hunt
for enemies of the system. The peak of the woke terror produced
President Joe Biden, the guy who was supposed to normalize the terror by
making ordinary people accept it as normal. How can “Working Class Joe”
be a bad guy when he is always telling jokes and smiling?

It is why it is right to think about Joe Biden as the Eichmann of woke.
Just as Eichmann and many men like him were the banal face of the
underlying evil of the system, Joe Biden was the avuncular, jovial face
of the American managerial system. He is not unique, but typical, the
good example of the type that has come to dominate the political class,
which is the fig leaf for the managerial class. The smiling,
backslapping pol is what stands between the citizen and the machine.

Stripped of the charming rogues and pitchmen, the evil of the machinery
is made plain and therefore easy to resist. That is the part of Arendt’s
observations about Eichmann that applies to us now. Even if neither man
can be accused of evil on the individual basis, their talents were put
to use by an evil system. Even if one can show that their intent was not
evil, it does not matter. They helped normalize evil and that is
arguably worse than the evil itself.

It is tempting to think this is an inappropriate comparison, given the
death sentence that has been handed to Biden. In 1961, however, when
Eichmann was given his death sentence, the system which he served was
long gone and the damage it wrought was gone with it. Joe Biden is still
causing damage. His cancer diagnosis is now removing the last bits of
trust in the system. The life of Joe Biden and now his looming death,
has been in service to the destruction of social trust.

It was hard to hate men like Eichmann, even after their actions had been
universally condemned, because they were not obviously evil men. That
was always the point of Joe Biden and why the managerial class loved
him. He was a simpleton and braggard, but he would ruthlessly execute
his instructions and do so in a way that was hard for the people to
hate. He normalized evil by making it feel like the way things were done
and had to be done. Joe Biden is the banality of evil.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
