---
title: "Radio Derb April 11 2025"
date: "2025-04-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33917"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33917"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m51s VDARE fights on
-   07m04s Lydia’s appeal
-   17m50s Tariffs, uh
-   23m25s Atheism news
-   24m38s Fascists suppress voters
-   26m32s Wonders of Nature
-   27m30s Signoff with The Four Lads

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/65543647/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! That was a snippet
from Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* played on the organ at Derby
cathedral, and this is your combatively genial host John Derbyshire with
some comments on the passing scene.

The format this week is somewhat different, the first two segments
dominant.

I can already hear the grumbling. “Hey, Derb, you’re supposed to be a
conservative. Why do you go messing up your format like this?”

To make a point, that’s why. The particular point I want to make is the
sinister wickedness of state lawfare against private individuals and
associations.

Sure, that point has been made often, including by me. It can’t be made
often *enough*, though. Even with an enlightened administration in
Washington, D.C. those individuals and those associations still face
massed legions of left-wing and corrupt judges and state officials
striving to extinguish our liberties. Fight!
Fight\!<span id="more-33917"></span>

**02 — VDARE fights on**.     I’m sure you know that this podcast used
to be hosted by VDARE.com, along with numerous written articles and
reviews I posted there. That happy state of affairs ended last July.

VDARE.com was the internet voice of the VDARE Foundation, set up in 1999
by Peter Brimelow to promote patriotic immigration reform as sketched
out in his 1995 best-seller [*Alien
Nation*](https://www.amazon.com/Alien-Nation-Americas-Immigration-Disaster/dp/067943058X/ref=sr_1_1).
That book’s subtitle was, “Common Sense About America’s Immigration
Disaster.”

Common sense was a keynote of VDARE.com. We said aloud what everyone
knows to be the case: politely and soberly, backed up with good data
when necessary.

To be sure, common sense is a slippery concept, sometimes scoffed at by
the wise. The philosopher Bertrand Russell is often quoted as having
said, quote: “Common sense is the metaphysics of savages,” end quote. In
point of fact [that’s not quite what he
said](https://philosophynow.org/issues/135/Bertrand_Russell_and_Common_Sense_for_Savages).
But hey, that’s the kind of thing for intelligent discussion of which we
go to websites like VDARE.com.

Well, that’s where we go if the powers of the State allow us to. The
judicial powers of New York State, an army of left-wing activist state
judges headed up by anti-white, anti-American, ferociously anti-Trump
state Attorney General [Letitia
Lardbutt](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/LetitiaLardbutt.jpg),
have decided that citizens should no longer be allowed to go to
VDARE.com for commentary on immigration and other social issues.

Since they were unable to find any instances where the VDARE Foundation
or any of its employees had broken a law, they proceeded by lawfare,
with endless subpoenas for paperwork and — as you will shortly hear —
grueling KGB-style interrogations of VDARE associates or ex-associates.

To defend themselves the VDARE Foundation had to hire lawyers, which is
of course expensive. After a couple of years it had got so expensive,
VDARE had to cut back on their activities; hence the de-platforming of
VDARE.com last July.

Yet still the assaults come, and still the lawyers have to be paid. If
at last they *can’t* be paid the left-dominated New York courts will
probably give Ms. Lardbutt a summary judgement. That will let her seize
VDARE’s assets: the domain name, the archives, perhaps even [the Castle
in Berkeley Springs, West
Virginia](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2017/2020-12-02bl.jpg),
where VDARE holds events. Our state Attorney General, a single lady with
net worth “[about $2.7
million](https://www.factcheck.org/2024/03/social-media-posts-inflate-net-worth-of-n-y-attorney-general/),”
is never loth to acquire [out-of-state
properties](https://whitecollarfraud.com/2025/04/01/exclusive-ny-attorney-general-letitia-james-declares-virginia-home-her-principal-residence/).

(Speaking of events at the castle, I have heard that VDARE would dearly
like for there to be a conference there in the fall; but of course it
depends on the Foundation being able to raise sufficient funds.)

I’m not myself much of a fund-raiser. However, last week Lydia Brimelow,
Peter’s wife and President of the VDARE Foundation — a job she somehow
manages to do while raising three beautiful young daughters — Lydia
posted a fund-raiser at X which I strongly commend to your attention.

Lydia’s fund-raiser is quite long, but what it lacks in brevity it more
than makes up for in eloquence and sincerity. I urge you please to
listen or read all the way through, then respond appropriately to
Lydia’s closing appeal.

I thank you on behalf of common sense, whatever Bertrand Russell said
about it.

**03 — Lydia’s appeal**.

\[[*Clip*](https://x.com/vdare/status/1907916184215036179):  I’m Lydia
Brimelow, President of the VDARE Foundation. There are moments rare and
piercing when I recognize that what VDARE is going through is not just
lawfare. It’s actually *spiritual* warfare.

For three years we have fought against New York’s witch-hunt against
VDARE. For three years we’ve shielded the names of our writers and
donors from Letitia James’s inquisition. And now, now we’re in the
valley of the shadow.

Letitia James does not pursue us because of some legal technicality. She
pursues us because she hates what we represent: the unbroken thread of
American identity and the sacred right of a people to defend themselves
as a nation.

For three years we have walked through this shadow — not as victims, but
as witnesses: witnesses to how far this notorious persecutor of Donald
Trump is willing to go to silence the truth, how eagerly she sacrifices
justice at the altar of ideology.

For three years we have fought not just for ourselves but for our
pseudonymous writers who trusted us with their identities, and our
anonymous donors who supported our cause when it was dangerous to do so.

Letitia James doesn’t want VDARE’s money. She wants VDARE’s submission.
She wants our silence. But most of all, and worst of all, she wants
names. She wants the names of our writers; not for the sake of
transparency but because she knows that a truth spoken anonymously still
shakes the world. A truth attached to a name can be punished.

She wants our donors’ names; not for accountability but because she
knows that courage is contagious unless she makes frightening examples
of those who inspire it. At VDARE we’ve paid dearly for refusing to
submit — over a million dollars in legal fees that could have been used
to educate, to build, and to inspire. Years of our lives have been lost
towards compliance, not creation, and we’ve been burdened with the
knowledge that no matter what legal hoops we manage to jump through,
she’ll just build new ones.

She won’t even let us leave. VDARE Foundation was incorporated in New
York in 1999 — before anybody thought about lawfare, before anybody had
even heard of Letitia James — and we are not allowed to leave without
permission. It turns out New York is like Hotel California: You can
check in, but checking out is impossible.

Peter and I have even been forced to hire *personal* lawyers: not
because we’ve done anything wrong, but because — according to New York —
even our attempts to house our young family can be treated as a
conspiracy.

Let me be clear: Your donations go to fund VDARE’s writers and VDARE’s
mission. What Peter and I have to face personally is our cross to bear;
but it does go to show how far Letitia James is willing to go. Which is:
all the way to our kitchen table.

If VDARE can’t continue to pay lawyers to defend our writers and donors,
Letitia James could move to put VDARE in a receivership. What that would
mean is that a court-appointed Receiver, or possibly Letitia James
herself, would then completely control VDARE, the website, the domain,
and all of our archives and records, including attorney-client privilege
materials. It would mean that all the donors’ names and all of the
writers’ names would be completely exposed. Unless you can help now, we
may no longer be able to protect them.

And yet, I do not despair. In January my husband Peter Brimelow, who was
the editor of VDARE.com, took me to President Trump’s Inauguration. We
went to cheer ourselves up. And we needed cheering up after watching
VDARE.com get destroyed in 2024. Peter and I watched the swearing-in
from the auditorium at the Heritage Foundation. It was a nostalgic
return for us because that’s where I was an intern when we first met
twenty years ago.

We particularly loved seeing the J6 pardon. Peter and I did not attend
the January 6th protests but VDARE did run the earliest debunking of the
moral panic that ensued against those who did. The January 6th pardons
were not political acts, they were a reckoning with truth, and for a
moment I saw the scales of justice trembling toward balance.

And then the knife. A couple of days after those January 6th pardons
Letitia James hauled in a former VDARE Foundation board member — a man
who resigned in 2020 — and interrogated him in a windowless room in New
York for *five and a half hours*, under oath. He was illegally ordered
not to discuss it with us. No transcript, no recourse, just the slow and
grinding pressure of the State.

Let me emphasize here: VDARE has not been charged with anything, let
alone convicted. *This* is how they break you: not with a single blow
but with a thousand cuts.

But here’s what she doesn’t understand. We’re not fighting against her,
we’re fighting *for* the historic American nation. In our fight we have
witnessed miracles. When twenty-one million people saw my story on
Tucker Carlson it wasn’t just exposure. It
was [*samizdat*](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/samizdat) for
the digital age. When lawyers and paralegals then appeared exactly when
we needed them, saving us half a million dollars, they weren’t just
volunteers, they were angels in disguise.

These are visible examples of the material difference that can be made
when supporters like you choose to stand with VDARE. VDARE stands at a
threshold. If we fall through, then Letitia James will erase us from
history — not just VDARE but the very idea that patriots can resist and
win. If we stand firm Letitia James will have to face her limits.

The regime’s weakness is not in its cruelty, it is in its dependence on
our fear. Every donation, every forwarded email, is another brick pulled
out of their foundation of lies. The rumors we hear of coming justice,
of a reckoning for the lawfare machine, could soon become a reality.
They haven’t really coalesced in a way that I can confidently mention
them now, but it is interesting to note that before Donald Trump’s
election there were no *friendly* rumors at all.

We have three immediate legal needs.

-   Number One:  Overturn New York State’s one-thousand-dollar-a-day
    fine. This was imposed on us in a naked act of tyranny over a
    dispute with VDARE’s compliance. It’s not over anything that has to
    do with our management of the VDARE Foundation. The lawyers call it
    “a process crime,” meaning it wouldn’t even exist if it weren’t for
    this investigation that Letitia James has thrown at us. We are
    appealing this fine.

 

-   Number Two:  We have appealed our First Amendment case in the
    federal court. If this appeal is unsuccessful then we can take it to
    the U.S. Supreme Court where truth still has a chance.

 

-   Number Three:  We want to file ethics complaints against Letitia
    James. It’s time to expose her lies to the courts. Letitia James’s
    habitual violation of ethical norms is an open scandal. A year ago
    Representative Elise Stefanik filed a 64-page complaint against
    Letitia James’s persecution of Donald Trump. We can match that.
    Letitia James as an officer of the court is not supposed to lie to
    judges, but she has lied to judges about VDARE, repeatedly. Ethical
    violations are a very serious matter. Notoriously Trump allies John
    Eastman and Rudy Giuliani are facing disbarment for supposed ethical
    violations while they were defending Donald Trump. But what Letitia
    James has done to VDARE is far more serious.

Before we can see any of these victories, though, we have to survive.
Survival isn’t passive. It’s what our writers do when they post
pseudonymously. It’s what our donors do when they give their money
despite the risk. And it’s what I do every morning when I come into the
office and face subpoena instead of building the American institution
that I love.

The heat we feel now is a fire that they hope will consume us. Stand
with us: not in the ashes but at the forge. See what strength we can
temper. Please give generously. Every dollar shields our writers and
donors from ruin. You can give online
at [www.GiveSendGo.com/VDARE](https://www.givesendgo.com/VDARE) or you
can give offline by mailing your donation to VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box
211, Litchfield, CT 06759. All donations are fully tax-deductible and
every dollar counts.

Also please share this message. Every forwarded email is a torch passed.
VDARE can’t afford our email marketing services any more. We can’t send
out mass emails. If you could share this with your friends, share it on
social media, forward an email, mention it to somebody, call in to a
podcast, write a blog, …

We rely on you, our supporters, and the true grass roots to alert the
world to the fact that while immigration patriotism — VDARE’s true
cause — may be winning the battle, VDARE itself has been left bleeding
on the field.

And above all, pray without ceasing. This is a spiritual battle as much
as a legal one and we must ask God to intervene here, where the losses
are so concrete and the victories are still precarious.

The castle still stands and VDARE still lives. The hour is now. Thank
you.\]

**04 — Tariffs, uh**.     The news headliners this past few days have
been all about tariffs. Where does Radio Derb stand on this?

Uh, nowhere very firmly. I don’t know much about Economics and am not
ashamed to admit it. In fact I have [argued previously in this
podcast](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-02-23.html#05) that
Economics is a pseudoscience, not to be taken very seriously.

That opinion goes back to the early 1960s when I was just starting to
form political opinions. Britain’s Prime Minister was a chap named Alec
Douglas-Home, a sort of languid aristocratic character out of P.G.
Wodehouse. He had once [famously
confessed](https://historyofparliament.com/2016/08/24/props-in-parliament/) that
he tried to make sense of economic documents by doodling with
matchsticks.

British voters, feeling that the head of their government ought to have
some deeper understanding of Economics than that, in 1964 booted out the
matchsticks man and replaced him with Harold Wilson. Wilson didn’t just
know Economics, he’d *taught* it at Oxford University. Just the man to
get the country back on the rails, right? Well, to quote myself from
that previous piece, quote:

I wouldn’t say Wilson’s government was an economic disaster, but no-one
thought it was an economic triumph. “Lackluster” pretty well describes
it, with the devaluation of the pound sterling against the dollar in
1967 as a low point.

End quote.

So don’t come to me for sage words about Economics. I understand of
course that governments have to raise revenue somehow, for pensions and
armies and such. Tariffs, it seems to me, are a perfectly sensible way
to raise it. Where income taxes are concerned, I’m inclined (especially
at this time of year) to agree with the character in one of Robert A.
Heinlein’s books who opines that, quote from memory: “Taxation is theft;
income taxes are Grand Larceny.” End quote.

I have of course been following the commentary. My impression is that
the pro-Trumpers have the better of the argument. I’ll admit, though,
that that impression is colored by plain pro-Trump prejudice. The
contrast with Sleepy Joe — you know: Sleepy, Lying, Corrupt Joe — is
simply staggering.

With Trump we have a guy who’s actually been engaged with the mercantile
world for decades: evaluating counterparties, deal-making, winning,
losing, keeping your feet while riding the ice-floes of commerce. I
guess he could be wrong; but when I listen to the opposition, I know for
certain that their wrongness prospects are way higher.

Rather than expound any further on a subject I don’t know well, I’ll
hand you off to the man himself. Here he was in a TV interview earlier
this week.

\[[*Clip*](https://x.com/BrainStorm_Joe/status/1910052398430904603): 
People took advantage of our country and they ripped us off for a very …
for decades. I’ve been thinking about this for decades.

I’ve been … If you ever saw me on television, I was young like these
guys. And, er … Those were the good old days, I’ll tell you, Roger. But
I was like these guys — young. And I was talking about it. Nothing,
nothing changed and nothing was done about it.

Then I did it; in my first term I did it, and did it well. We took in
hundreds of billions of dollars from China — and others — and I started
the process.

But then we had a fix-up from the COVID mess, caused by China. We had a
fix-up from that and we did a good job doing it. And when we handed back
the reins after a rigged election, and when we handed back the reins,
the stock market was higher than it was before COVID coming in.

So, y’know, we did a great job. But we didn’t have time to do the big
things, which we’re doing now. And it’s like the patient is sick, you
have to do surgery. The patient is very, very sick. And, er, Joe Biden
handed us over a country that was in very serious trouble, economically
and in every other way. They let China run away with things; they let
other countries run away with things.

And maybe worst of all in a certain way is what they did at the border.
We had people pouring into our country by the *millions* …\]

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  I don’t normally have anything to say about religion, but
in last week’s podcast there was a segment about atheism.

If you yourself, listener or reader, are an atheist, I hope you found
that segment interesting. One who did sent me a link to an event I
hadn’t known about: American Atheists 2025 National Convention. The
prospectus promises, [quote](https://convention.atheists.org/):

\[O\]ne of the most diverse line-ups of speakers of any atheist,
freethought, or secular convention, including politicians, poets,
international secular activists, and many more.

End quote.

The event takes place in Minneapolis. The dates are April 17th to 20th;
so if you haven’t signed up yet, better get on it. Godspeed!

*Item*:  Thursday the House of Representatives passed a bill,
the [Safeguarding American Voter Eligibility
Act](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/dems-fight-bill-stop-illegal-immigrant-voting-despite-polls-showing-voter-support),
to require that states obtain proof of citizenship in person from people
who are registering to vote. The vote was 220-208, just four Democrats
voting aye.

Coming up to our nation’s 250th birthday and we still don’t require
proof of citizenship for voters? That’s incredible: like not having any
checks on blind people getting pilot’s licenses.

And the Act is not yet law. It still has to be voted on by the Senate.
It’s not clear how that will go. There’s a 60-vote threshold for it to
pass, but Republicans only have a 53-47 majority.

Democrats are passionately opposed to the Act, and we all know why.
Their opposition is fortified by the fact that the Act doesn’t just stop
illegal aliens from voting, it also requires states to remove them from
existing voter rolls and allows American citizens to sue election
officials that don’t follow the proof-of-citizenship
requirements. *Voter suppression! Fascist! Nazi Nazi Nazi!*

*Item*:  My personal favorite headline of the week is
from *Discover* magazine, headline: [Tipsy Fruit Flies Are More
Successful in Mating Than Their Sober
Counterparts](https://www.discovermagazine.com/the-sciences/tipsy-fruit-flies-are-more-successful-in-mating-than-their-sober).

From the text of the story, quote:

Alcohol makes male fruit flies of the species *Drosophila
melanogaster* sexier by stimulating the production of sex pheromones. As
a result, male flies are more successful at mating after consuming
certain amounts of alcohol.

End quote.

Isn’t Nature wonderful?

**06 — Signoff**.     That’s all I have, listeners and readers. Thank
you as always for your time and attention, and please do whatever you
can, if only by reposting, to help VDARE in the fight against Letitia
Lardbutt.

For signoff music, a novelty song from 1953. I gave this song a passing
mention in [my
column](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/columns/trump-tackles-toponymy/) in
the April issue of *Chronicles* magazine. I thought Radio Derb
listeners, many of whom I am sure subscribe to *Chronicles*, might like
to hear it.

The song comes with some historical background. The Middle Ages, as
everyone knows, began on Saturday, September 4th, A.D. 476, when Romulus
Augustulus, last Emperor of the Western Roman Empire, handed in his
lunch pail to Odoacer the Goth. The Middle Ages *ended* on Tuesday, May
29th, A.D. 1453 — “Terrible Tuesday” — when Turkish [Sultan Mehmet
II](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/History/osmansdream.html) captured
Constantinople and killed Constantine XI, last ruler of the Eastern
Empire.

That’s a pretty good innings for a historical epoch — nearly 977 years —
so let’s hear it for the Middle Ages.

Look at that latter date, though: A.D. 1453. The
year *nineteen* fifty-three was exactly five hundred years on from that,
the semi-millennial. If that wasn’t a cue for a novelty song, I don’t
know what could have been. So here were the Four Lads singing “Istanbul
(Not Constantinople).”

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
