---
title: "Radio Derb May 09 2025"
date: "2025-05-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34112"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34112"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m29s The decline of Jim Snow
-   12m40s Somalis all over
-   18m29s *Habemus Papam*
-   28m20s Lock ’em up!
-   31m15s Not a penny for Columbia
-   34m25s Yet another Indo-Pak War
-   36m04s Signoff with Tom Lehrer

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/66022411/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**
<span style="color: #ffffff;">width=”560px” height=”315px;”</span>

Rumble Down

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners and
readers. I am your impressively genial host John Derbyshire, here with
commentary on the week’s events.

In commemorations, the highlight of the week was Thursday, May 8th, the
eightieth anniversary of V-E Day. I can’t think of anything original to
post about the anniversary. However, anyone who was of enlistment age in
1945 is aged today in the upper nineties, so there must be many veterans
still among us. I offer my thanks and respect for the victory they won,
and for the sacrifices they and their comrades and their families made.

Now to lesser matters. First, the decline of Jim
Snow.<span id="more-34112"></span>

**02 — The decline of Jim Snow**.     So how are we doing with the
black-white business? What is the state of race relations in the 2025
U.S.A.? We’ve been vouchsafed a glimpse of the answer this past few
days.

Thursday last week, May 1st, a 49-second video was posted on X of a
young white woman carrying a small diaper-age white child on her hip in
a children’s play park in Rochester, Minnesota, about ninety minutes
south of Minneapolis. The voice of an unseen man was behind the camera;
the video recorded [a heated
conversation](https://x.com/OriginDevel/status/1918072697734447249/video/1) between
him and the young woman.

We’ve since learned their names: the young woman is Shiloh Hendrix, the
man recording is Sharmake Omar. We’ve also learned that Omar is Somali.
He’s in charge of another child, also Somali, and like Omar also out of
sight behind the camera. This child is not Omar’s; the child’s Somali
parents were supervising their three other children elsewhere on the
playground.

The age of this unseen child in Omar’s custody is much disputed, with
estimates up to ten years old. He seems to have tried to plunder the
diaper bag that Shiloh Hendrix was carrying for her child. The lady was
of course angry about this. Those 49 seconds of heated exchanges with
Omar then followed.

A key element of the exchanges was a word that Hendrix had apparently
used when abusing the unseen child, and which she repeated loud and
clear in her videoed exchanges with Omar. I was going to say
“a *taboo* word,” but this word is only *semi*-taboo. It’s taboo for
white people, but blacks use it freely.

Am I going to utter the offending word in violation of taboo? No, I’m
not. I don’t need the aggravation. I went through that aggravation
thirteen years ago, after posting [some true but unwelcome
facts](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/April2012/page.html) about
black-white race relations.

That post, which did not even include the semi-taboo word, got me
cancelled from my writing gig at a respectable magazine; that
cancellation in turn made me the subject of news stories in mainstream
media; and those stories brought in abusive email, mail, and phone
calls, and [possibly other
cancellations](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-03.html#03).
Where loyalty to truth in racial matters is concerned, I’ve paid my
dues.

Along with all the abuse back then I also got plenty of support,
although most of it insisted on privacy. It’s possible that, had I kept
up-to-date with trends online, I could have parlayed my temporary
notoriety into a nice bundle of
money: [GoFundMe](https://www.gofundme.com/c/about-us) had launched two
years previously. Coulda, shoulda, woulda, …

I only said “it’s possible” I could have cashed in, though. The
possibility has become reality for Shiloh Hendrix. After Sharmake Omar
posted that 49-second video of his exchanges with her, she got reactions
similar to those I received back in 2012. Encouraged by those that were
supportive, she signed up with crowdfunding website GiveSendGo. As I
record this on Friday afternoon [her donations have reached
$759,786](https://www.givesendgo.com/ShilohHendrix).

Might *I* have done that well? I actually doubt it. For one thing there
are key differences between our two cases. Shiloh Hendrix is an
attractive young woman defending her infant child; I was a nondescript
sixty-something blowhard just sounding off. She uttered that semi-taboo
word, repeatedly; I didn’t use it.

And 2025 is not 2012. Fashions in social dogma are not static, any more
than fashions in footwear, hair styles, or [home
decoration](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2023-07.html#03).
The social dogma on race that has prevailed since the 1960s is the one
often called [Jim
Snow](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2021-07-30.html#02),
characterized by white guilt and favoritism towards blacks (a/k/a
“affirmative action”) and by deference to what I have called “[the
romance of American
blackness](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/History/romance.html)” —
narratives about cruel leering white people beating up on helpless
pleading blacks.

The condition of that particular dogma, of Jim Snow, is not today what
it was in 2012. If you mentioned Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion back
then, people bowed their heads reverently; today they more often just
roll their eyes. DEI reigned supreme then; today [it is being dismantled
all
over](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/ending-radical-and-wasteful-government-dei-programs-and-preferencing/).

Some of this dogma decline has been accelerated in short bursts by
antiwhite outrages like the George Floyd riots and the witch-burnings
of [the Brunswick
Three](https://www.amren.com/commentary/2021/11/how-horrible-is-the-arbery-mcmichael-verdict/).

Some other of it is just natural decay. We are thirteen years further
away from the earnest hopes of the Civil Rights era, hopes that with
sufficient investment of money and effort, black rates of criminality
and corruption would dwindle down to white levels while black scores on
standardized academic tests would rise to equality with white scores.
Neither thing has happened; the hopes were futile.

So the Jim Snow social dogma, with its strictures and taboos, has lost
force. White people are more willing to say what was once unsayable, and
to support others who do so.

Setting aside those differences between Derbyshire 2012 and Hendrix
2025, Ms Hendrix’s crowdfunding has also surely benefited from the
precedent set by 17-year-old Karmelo Anthony, who is black.

On April 2nd [Anthony fatally stabbed Austin
Metcalf](https://www.newsnationnow.com/crime/stabbing-texas-track-meet/),
who was also 17 years old, but white and unarmed. This was at a high
school track meet in Frisco, Texas. Anthony has been charged with
murder.

Anthony’s family quickly established a GiveSendGo fund for him. This was
declared to be for the boy’s legal defenses, although … [there have been
questions](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-04-18.html#05a) …

As I speak, [donations to Karmelo Anthony’s GiveSendGo
fund](https://www.givesendgo.com/HelpKarmelo) have reached $526,514.
They were well on the way there, and extensively publicized, last week
when Shiloh Hendrix’s encounter with Sharmake Omar occurred. When
Hendrix announced *her* fund, people outraged by the Anthony case saw it
as a suitable way to vent their feelings.

Before there was Jim Snow there was Jim Crow. That dogma began to
decline in the 1950s, with feelings of national solidarity lingering
from World War Two, desegregation of the military, and migration of
blacks out of the South, all combining to generate [the rise of a sturdy
black middle
class](https://nypost.com/2025/05/06/opinion/black-americans-on-the-rise-before-affirmative-action-jason-riley-writes-in-new-book/).
The mid-1960s Civil Rights movement was kicking at a rotting door.

Now the wheel has turned and Jim Snow itself is in decline. Shall we at
last attain true equality: the colorblind meritocracy so many of us
yearn for? I guess we can dream.

**03 — Somalis all over**.     Just a footnote to that. I mentioned that
Sharmake Omar, the fellow who filmed his exchange with Shiloh Hendrix,
is from Somalia. So is the child he was minding; so are that child’s
parents and their other three children.

There’s nothing surprising about that in southern Minnesota. [According
to
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Somalis_in_Minneapolis%E2%80%93Saint_Paul),
94,000 residents of Minneapolis-Saint Paul spoke Somali at home in the
year 2018.

The best-known Somali-American is of course Representative Ilhan Omar,
champion of antiwhite, anti-American, [low-IQ
Progressivism](https://x.com/EndWokeness/status/1919024580359774382). I
am sure that among those 94,000 in the Twin Cities there are Somalis
more worthy of respect than Representative Omar. It’s hard to imagine
anyone *less* worthy. Reports are not encouraging, though.

Some years ago I wrote a column about the general awfulness of Somalis,
title: “[Somalis All
Over](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/somalis.html).”
I took my reader on a tour of the Anglosphere to check what Somali
immigrants were contributing to Britain, the U.S.A., Canada, Australia,
even New Zealand. My conclusion was, quote:

\[A\]ny population has a lot of variation, and I have no doubt there are
many law-abiding and industrious Somalis. When you take in 4,000, or
16,000, or 100,000, though, the law of averages is going to kick in — as
of course it kicks in unmistakeably in Somalia itself.
Human-capital-wise, the Somali averages are simply terrible.

Things are rough in Somalia: chronic civil war, recurrent famine,
disease, piracy. Private persons who are distressed by the plight of the
Somalis should by no means be discouraged from doing anything they can
think of to relieve the distress over there.

The reason nations have governments, though, is to protect and advance
the interests of *their own citizens*. How the interests of Americans,
Britons, Canadians, Australians, and New Zealanders have been advanced
by having thousands of Somalis settled among them, is not clear to me.
Perhaps the State Department could send someone round to explain.

End quote.

That was me back in 2011. Pundit Matt Walsh has just this week caught up
with me. Wednesday he posted the following thing on
X. [Quote](https://x.com/MattWalshBlog/status/1920111997443514408):

The real conversation that should come out of this week is why places
like Minnesota are importing Somalians *en masse*. Somalia is one of the
most impoverished and dysfunctional countries in the history of the
planet. Somalian immigrants bring poverty and dysfunction everywhere
they go. Nobody can explain how this country is improved or enriched in
any way through mass Somalian migration. Nobody wants to live in a
community that’s predominantly Somalian. Nobody can factually dispute
any of the things I’ve just said, though they can act offended by it. So
why are we doing this?

End quote.

Why indeed? I guess it’s been something to do with Minnesota Nice.

Last time I looked that post of Matt’s had 2,500 comments, a high
proportion from people with personal experience of Minnesota’s Somalis.
Check them out for yourself.

Here’s my suggestion for President Trump’s next Executive Order: ban the
entry of Somalis into the U.S.A. I’d even extend the ban to diplomatic
representatives. Private charity aside, why should we, as a nation, have
anything to do with Somalia at all? Let the stinking barbarous crap-hole
go to hell.

**04 — *Habemus Papam***.     The Roman Catholic Church has a new Pope,
and he’s an American, a native of Chicago. Robert Prevost is the first
American Pope ever.

I’m not a Roman Catholic. My family weren’t churchgoers; but I was
educated by Anglicans, in schools that conducted a daily act of
worship — prayers, hymns, Bible-reading — and a weekly lesson of
Religious Instruction, all as required by law in mid-20th-century
England (and still today, although [the law is now widely
ignored](https://www.theguardian.com/education/2022/dec/03/schools-call-for-end-to-archaic-daily-worship-following-uk-census-results)).

Anglicans are also called “Anglo-Catholics”; there’s not a whole lot of
difference with the Roman variety. Anglicans actually recite [the Nicene
Creed](https://www.anglicancommunion.org/media/109020/Nicene-Creed.pdf),
including the line, quote: “We believe in one holy catholic and
apostolic Church,” end quote.

So the Anglo-Catholics I was educated by and the Roman Catholics who
just got themselves a new Pope are cousins in religion. And the Baptist
Church I now belong to is of course also Christian; so Baptists are
cousins to Roman Catholics too, just more distantly related.

In that spirit of family connection, I offer my sincere congratulations
to Roman Catholics everywhere on this week’s election.

That said, I’ll raise again the issue I raised two weeks ago: Can
Christian universalism — all men are brothers! — survive in Western
countries subjected to mass Third World settlement, especially when the
settlers are militant Muslims, as a great many are?

It may indeed be the case that all men are brothers in some deep
spiritual sense. It does not follow — it *obviously* does not follow:
use your eyes — that big numbers of people from widely different
cultures can live together in harmony under the same laws and customs.

To put it another way, and mildly: universalism and nationalism don’t
mix well.

This will be a problem for the new Pope. Journalists have of course
been [trawling through his recorded
opinions](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2025/05/08/trump-hails-first-american-pope-powerful-critic/) to
see where he stands. [Executive
summary](https://nypost.com/2025/05/08/us-news/pope-leo-xiv-in-his-own-words-the-pontiff-on-abortion-climate-change-homosexuality-and-capital-punishment/):

-   Strongly against abortion, assisted suicide, and the death penalty.
-   Definitely “green”:  quote: “The faithful have a responsibility to
    take care of the planet,” end quote.
-   Against homosexuality and, quote: “practices that are at odds with
    the gospel.” End quote.
-   For stronger gun control.
-   Universalist? Oh yeah. Longish quote from the London *Daily
    Telegraph*, quote: “It appears he was directly critical of Vance’s
    insistence that Christians should put people of their own country
    first, apparently tweeting: \[*inner quote*\] ‘JD Vance is wrong:
    Jesus doesn’t ask us to rank our love for others.’ \[*End inner
    quote*.\] ” End quote. (Vice President Vance is a convert to Roman
    Catholicism.)

The Pope gets to choose his own Papal name. This new pontiff has chosen
“Leo,” and commentators have been reading signs in that.

Of the thirteen previous Leos, the last one — in office 1878-1903 — was
somewhat of a social justice warrior, although in the thoughtful
19th-century style, not the nutty shrieking 21st-century one.

The best-known encyclical of that last Leo, Leo XIII,issued in 1891,
opens with the Latin words *Rerum novarum semel excitata cupidine*,
variously translated as either, quote, “The burning desire for change,”
end quote, or, quote, “The spirit of revolutionary change,” end
quote. [Leo expressed
sympathy](https://languagehat.com/rerum-novarum/) with that desire or
spirit. Presumably this new Pope Leo shares that sympathy.

If so, that could be bad news for his church. The great issue in the
Western world today, the issue casting its shadow on all other issues,
is the mass settlement here of people from poorer, more backward parts
of the world, most especially of militant Muslims. Christian
universalism crashes right up against this, making a huge problem for
any figure of religious authority.

Religious people are more conservative than the average. Twenty-first
century conservatism in the West has swung away strongly from globalism
to nationalism. Universalism is of course close kin to globalism. If the
Roman Catholic Church takes a stong universalist line it may lose a lot
of adherents, as [the Anglican Church already
has](https://anglicanjournal.com/membership-decline-steepens/).

Will the new Pope be able to solve that problem? I seriously doubt it.

For myself, I’m with J.D. Vance. The idea that all men are brothers may
have some truth in it at a high metaphorical level, but it doesn’t mean
I should treat every guy in the world the same way I treat my brother.

Our affections and our human ties are organized in concentric circles.
The innermost circle with the strongest loyalties is family; then
friends, colleagues, neighbors; then outwards, with decreasing
intensity, to larger organizations — our church, friendly societies,
political parties.

A little way out beyond those is our nation, which we should cherish and
try to keep stable and harmonious. Bullseye quote from the late
Alexander Solzhenitsyn (concerning whom there is [a long, eloquent
commentary](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/reviews/solzhenitsyn-in-exile-a-giant-among-pigmies/) in
the May 2025 issue
of *Chronicles* magazine), [quote](https://www.solzhenitsyncenter.org/nobel-lecture):

Nations are the wealth of mankind, its generalized personalities; the
least among them has its own unique coloration and harbors within itself
a unique facet of God’s design.

End quote.

The universal brotherhood of man is out beyond that — *way* out beyond.
Whatever this new Pope thinks Jesus taught, we always have, we
everywhere do, and I hope we always will “rank our love for others.”
It’s our nature to do so: deep, deep in our human nature.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Sunday President Trump told us [he wants to restore
Alcatraz](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-05-07/is-trump-s-plan-to-reopen-alcatraz-prison-realistic),
on that rocky little island in San Francisco Bay, as a modern
maximum-security prison. Alcatraz hasn’t functioned as a prison since
1963. Nowadays it’s just a tourist spot.

The President’s intention has been pooh-poohed by public figures all
over. Nancy Pelosi sneered at it as, quote, “not serious,” end quote.
People outside the political realm have noted that to get the place back
up to standard as a secure lock-up would cost a ton of money. Sixty-plus
years of salt air corrosion has done a lot of damage, and some
structures have fallen into ruin.

I don’t have a strong opinion about Alcatraz, but I *would* like to see
the Feds take the lead in building more big, secure prisons. I say “take
the lead” because imprisoning criminals is more a state than a federal
issue.

[The CECOT
prison](https://www.connectas.org/inside-cecot-the-prison-that-nobody-leaves-el-salvador/) built
by President Bukele of El Salvador should be an inspiration. If they can
do it, why can’t we — we, our nation, and we, our states? We put up with
way too much crime, and our courts let loose way too many criminals to
prey on us.

As with prisons, so with asylums. Dangerously crazy people should be
kept apart from us normies. We don’t have to be cruel about it — and
shouldn’t be, either for criminals or lunatics. The object should just
be the safety of normal law-abiding citizens. Give them private cells,
TV sets, soft mattresses and fluffy pillows, personalized meals, I don’t
care. Just keep them away from the rest of us.

Let’s build these places, and let’s recruit and train up capable,
disciplined personnel to man them, firmly but humanely. Why don’t we do
this?

*Item*:  Up there in Morningside Heights in northern Manhattan Island is
Columbia University, the fifth-oldest institution of higher education in
the U.S.A.

I never attended Columbia but I have fond memories of the place none the
less. It has a splendid math library. Twenty-some years ago, writing my
books about the history of math, I spent many happy, productive hours in
that library, walking to it across the university’s serene, well-tended
campus.

Nowadays I wouldn’t go near the place. It’s a hell-hole of leftist
agitation — even the libraries. Wednesday one of those libraries, the
Butler, was [stormed by an antisemitic
mob](https://www.foxnews.com/us/anti-israel-agitators-take-over-part-columbia-university-library-during-finals-call-liberation-zone) —
this, while serious students, of whom there still are a few, are trying
to prep for their final exams.

And the news about Columbia keeps getting worse. I didn’t know, until I
read my *New York Post* this morning, that the famous Pulitzer Prize for
journalism and other serious writing is administered and awarded by
Columbia.

Writing in this morning’s *Post*, columnist David Harsanyi notes that
the 2025 Pulitzer for Commentary went to Hamas Supporter Mosab Abu
Toha, [who has
mocked](https://nypost.com/2025/05/08/world-news/emily-damari-rips-pulitzer-prize-board-for-mosab-abu-toha-award/) victims
and hostages of the October 7th raid in his articles for *The New
Yorker* magazine.

That award was, says Harsanyi, par for the Pulitzer course. [Last year’s
Pulitzer](https://www.politico.com/news/2024/05/06/propublica-wins-pulitzer-in-public-service-00156376) for
“public service” writing went to a lefty outfit called ProPublica for a
series of articles claiming to expose misbehavior by Supreme Court
justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito. Other Pulitzer Prizes for
journalism last year went to *The New York Times* and *The Washington
Post*. Uh-huh. ProPublica scored again this year for some pro-abortion
reporting.

I don’t know how Columbia has fared in Trump’s campaign to cut back on
federal funding for well-endowed Ivy League universities, but if the
stinking place is getting any of *my* tax money, I strongly resent every
damn penny.

*Item*:  Abroad, India and Pakistan have been fighting over Kashmir
again — a disputed territory on their border. They’ve been fighting over
the place since they separated following Britain’s withdrawal from her
Indian Empire 78 years ago.

Both countries have nuclear weapons: 170 or 180 warheads each is [the
usual
guess](https://www.politico.com/news/2024/05/06/propublica-wins-pulitzer-in-public-service-00156376).
Pundits have been prophesying for years that the first nuclear war will
be Indo-Paki, but Mutual Assured Destruction seems to be working as well
over there as it did in the U.S.A.-U.S.S.R. Cold War.

The two countries have fought three *actual* wars, [the last one in
1999](https://www.nbcnews.com/world/india/india-pakistan-history-conflict-kashmir-rcna205286),
just after they had acquired nukes. Now we’re 26 years further on.
They’re fully nuked up, and there have been major advances in military
technology — drones, satellite guidance, et cetera. Will the pundits be
proved right?

My guess is, anything could happen here. For sure this is not a smart
time to book a vacation in either country.

**06 — Signoff**.     That’s it, ladies and gents. Thanks yet again for
your time and attention; and to mothers everywhere, including the mother
of my own children, a very happy Mother’s Day.

Please let me remind you again that the VDARE Foundation, which is down
but by no means out, would greatly appreciate your support in the causes
of free speech and patriotic immigration reform. Subscribe to [Peter
Brimelow’s Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or send a
check to the Foundation itself at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”,
CT 06759. You can support me personally by earmarking that check with my
name, or by any of the other options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/), who publish
my ramblings. Thank you!

For signoff, I’m in the mood for something silly. Bearing in mind this
week’s Papal election, silly songs about the Roman Catholic church came
to mind.

The best of this genre, in my opinion, is Tom Lehrer’s “Vatican Rag.” I
was surprised to find, in a gathering of middle-aged Americans the other
day, that none of them had heard it. Were the 1960s really that long
ago? Yes, I guess they were.

I was surprised all over again when, looking up Lehrer’s Wikipedia page,
I learned that he is still among us, having turned 97 last month. Happy
belated birthday, Sir, and many more.

I was *not* surprised to be reminded that he was an academic
mathematician as well as a writer of silly songs. I also knew that he
was a lefty. So was I, back in the sixties.

I of course intend no offense to anyone, least of all the new Pope, by
playing “The Vatican Rag.” It’s too silly to be offensive. Just enjoy
the clever rhymes and vigorous ragtime piano.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
