---
title: "Understanding The Blob"
date: "2025-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34079"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34079"
---

The term “deep state” remains a popular way for newly awakened normies
to think of how their government operates. It is not the people on the
ballot at election time who are running things, but a shadowy cabal of
people who operate outside the bounds of the political system. Whenever
something goes wrong, they naturally assume it is the work of the deep
state. The problem is that the deep state, as most people imagine it,
does not exist. It is a useful fiction.

The dismantling of USAID is a good example. The reporting on it in the
unofficial media made it seem as if this entity was controlling large
swaths of the government, when in fact it was just a money laundering
scheme. Instead of cleaning cash acquired through illegal means, it put
government cash in the hands of media activists, lobbyists,
not-for-profits, and policy shops tied to permanent Washington. It was a
clearing house and networking hub for permanent Washington.

In a way, the economy of permanent Washington is something like the
economies of ancient city states. Those city states operated what is
called palace economies where agricultural products flowed into the
palace of the ruler and were then distributed back to the populace as
needed. Farmers, craftsmen, and traders maintained their own economy,
but a substantial portion of their economic output flowed into the
palace to be redistributed as the ruler saw fit.

That is how USAID functioned. It got tens of billions from Congress and
used some of that to draw in tens of billions more from other sources in
the government and private donors, which it then directed to friendly
sources. This was not a formal scheme where they sat around in a
hollowed-out volcano figuring out how to use the money to further their
evil agenda. It was more like an extended network of friends who
networked within this large community, underwritten by tax money.

Imagine if the Church of Scientology had infiltrated the government.
Members got positions in the administrative state and the political
system. They then directed money to organizations run by fellow cult
members. Those organizations then used some of the money to lobby for
more money from the system in the form of government contracts, but also
by influence peddling to private actors. They would then organize these
resources to control public policy.

That is the nature of the “deep state.” The people in it do not think of
themselves as part of the deep state. From their perspective, they are
just normal people working in the media, government, politics, and
policy. Everyone they know is a normal person working in one of these
areas. This is how they know they are normal and the people talking
about the deep state are not normal. All the normal people they know
agree with them that the deep state is a conspiracy theory.

As an example, look at the LinkedIn <a
href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/maggie-mitchell-salem-ba5a00/details/experience/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">profile</a> of Maggie Mitchell Salem, the
current Executive Director of something called IRIS. That stands for
Integrated Refugee & Immigrant Services. It is an open borders
not-for-profit located in Connecticut with a fifteen-million-dollar
budget. According to the organization’s website, “IRIS inspired and is
one of the seven organizations implementing a new national resettlement
program, Welcome Corps.” They [want](https://welcomecorps.org/) your
town full of Somalis.

Now, if you scan down Mx. Salem’s resume, you see that open borders is a
new advocation for her. Five years ago, she was the Executive Director
of something called the Qatar Foundation International. According to
their <a href="https://www.qfi.org/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">website</a>, they promote learning the Arabic language,
using donations from the Qatari government. That is nonsense, of course,
as its real purpose is to buy influence in Washington. They hire people
like Mx. Salem to put their money in the right hands.

We know this from a <a
href="https://www.tabletmag.com/sections/news/articles/an-improvised-explosive-device"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> in the Tablet. According to
that report, Mx. Salem was writing anti-Saudi stories for a man named
Jamal Khashoggi, who was supposedly a Saudi journalist working for the
Washington Post. He was a dissident, in that he did not like new ruler
of Saudi Arabia. The Qataris do not like the Saudis, so they paid Mx.
Salem to handle Mr. Khashoggi to place anti-Saudi material in the
hometown newspaper of the Imperial Capital, the Washington Post.

If you scan down further in Mx. Salem’s resume, you will learn that she
started out in life as a foreign service officer, stationed in Tel Aviv.
You will note that technically, USAID was under the supervision of the
State Department. Mx. Salem used her government job to cultivate
friendships in the Middle East and in Washington, so that one day she
could get one of those good jobs at good wages in the deep state. By all
accounts, the Qataris are very generous with their American friends.

Eventually, the Saudis grew tired of seeing anti-Saudi material in the
hometown newspaper of the Imperial Capital, so they kidnapped Jamal
Khashoggi in Istanbul and then chopped him up in their consulate. One of
the reasons the Saudis are planning for a post-America world is they
have grown weary of the perfidy of the deep state, which will fink on
anyone for money. This is a feature of managerialism. Everyone is for
sale, so anyone can buy what they want from the deep state.

This level of bungling by Mx. Salem in the dreaded private sector would
have resulted in termination and banishment from the industry, but in
the deep state where everyone knows your name, it is a minor bump in the
road. She bounced over to the immigration rackets before getting a job
in the Biden years running a not-for-profit in Tunisia and then back
into the immigration rackets. The lines between the government and those
who lobby the government are never very clear.

What you see in this one example is how the managerial state operates
like a community that rules over the country. It is why voting does not
matter, as the people running the thousands of entities that make up the
system are always going to be people who have as their top priority the
preservation of their class. It is not a deep state so much as a broad
state that overlays everything. Every silo of power is controlled by
people who believe the same things.

This is why the first bullet out of the Trump barrel this time was at
USAID. It is also why they are attacking elite colleges like Harvard.
These are important nodes of a system that organized the antibodies
against him the first time. It is why they have systematically broken up
the media connections within the government. The point is to destabilize
and dismember this broad community of people who operate as the
unofficial government of the American empire.

It sounds like an impossible task, given the tens of thousands, maybe
hundreds of thousands, of people who make up this blob. The Khashoggi
story, however, points to something else about this system. It is has
grown increasingly incompetent and corrupt since the end of the Cold
War. Hard times breed hard men and easy times breed perfidious women
incapable of maintaining the structures of power. Trump is a symptom of
a system that is collapsing in on itself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
