---
title: "Materialism’s End"
date: "2025-06-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34328"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34328"
---

**Note:** Tonight at 8:45 PM EDT I will be on a
<a href="https://x.com/BWLH_/status/1931815578010079673" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Twitter Space</a> with Paul Kersey, Peter Brimelow,
Harrison Smith, Dan Lyman and Jared Taylor. The topic will be how best
to remove the alien invaders.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a famous movie line that says, “The greatest trick the Devil
ever pulled was convincing the world he didn’t exist.” The line does not
originate with the film but much earlier, most likely by Charles
Baudelaire. In the 19th century, the line turns up a lot and was used to
mean that people often stand by and do nothing when terrible things are
happening because they fail to appreciate the great struggle with evil
that must define life when one acknowledges the existence of it.

Something similar persists to this day with something we can pin on Karl
Marx and others regarding the nature of human society. Marx argued that
oppression and inequality were the result of economic relations.
Therefore, if you want to get a society free of oppression, then you
need to get the economic relations right. Later, libertarians took up
the same claim but arrived at a different path to liberation. Ever
since, the West has been sure that nothing exists other than economics.

The story of the last century or so in the West has been the spread of
materialism as the defining feature of Western thought. Getting the
economics right has been the center of all political debate. The
left-right axis found new poles with socialism on the left and
libertarianism on the right. One side sees equality as the equal
distribution of goods, while the other side sees it as the equal
distribution of liberty. Both assume that once the economics are right,
paradise must naturally follow.

The reason for the “cultural revolution” of the last decade or so is
that a portion of the left began to see the error in this view. In the
middle of the last century, they embraced the claim that Marxism failed
because people were incapable of transcending their cultural
conditioning. Therefore, the inevitable progress toward egalitarianism
can only happen when the cultural restraints are removed. That required
taking control of the centers of cultural production.

This is why the leftists in this age are perfectly comfortable working
for wealthy oligarchs or even being oligarchs. They deliberately entered
corporate life as they saw corporations as a center of cultural
production. Similarly, they entered and then took over the vast,
sprawling networks of the administrative state and then the
managerialism system that directs it. All the people and things the left
supposedly hated were turned into tools to bring about the revolution.

Ironically, that project is foundering for the same reason that its
predecessors persisted long after reality made clear that Marx was
wrong. The public embrace of economics as the standard against which
everything is measured meant that the cultural revolution would be
measured against its practical utility. The escapist phrase, “go woke,
go broke” was factually incorrect, but it had a kernel of truth. In a
purely materialist age, culture takes a back seat to the price of eggs.

The corrosive power of materialism is clear in the ongoing <a
href="https://www.cbssports.com/college-football/news/house-v-ncaa-settlement-fundamentally-alters-college-athletics-but-dont-expect-it-to-bring-stability/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">destruction</a> of college sports where
“reform” is about getting the money right. The reason college athletics
is a thing at all is tradition, but everyone involved is willing to
throw tradition into the furnace if it helps fire the economics.
Everyone is sure that all they need to do is get the economics of the
sport right and everything will follow. No amount of evidence will
convince them that some things are too important for the marketplace.

You see it with libertarian cranks over the immigration bill. The
so-called “Big Beautiful Bill” is in trouble because weirdos like Rand
Paul are able to
[rally](https://x.com/RandPaul/status/1932178142333968400) the clown
horn gang to oppose it on money grounds. Rand Paul is literally making
the argument that your society is only worth saving at the right price.
It is a great example of the expression, “A man who puts a price on
everything values nothing.” This is the life motto of all those who
embrace materialism.

The people siding with Rand Paul are psychologically incapable of
understanding why a people can survive bankruptcy but not demographic
replacement. For them, the holy crusade is to get the economics right.
Their version of the egalitarian paradise may be different than that of
the Marxists, but it is just as powerful. For them, the imagined Hell is
the long promised fiscal collapse, whatever that means. Staving that off
is the purpose of their life, so they cannot be persuaded.

Therein lies the small bit of good news. There is a growing number of
people who see that there are some things too important to subject to
the marketplace. This is the dissident view, which is the old
conservative view. It is the very heart of the left-right concept that
has haunted the West for centuries. The left says the truth lies with
the people, while the right says it lies outside the people. For today’s
dissident, the truth stands in judgement of the marketplace, not the
other way around.

All the evidence tells us that material prosperity, the key to the
materialist worldview, is not the roots of a healthy society. Instead,
it is one of its flowers. In the West, we have reached material
prosperity, but all of the measures of happiness are in decline, with
some in rapid decline. The demographic collapse that comes with material
superabundance is not a problem to be managed, but a warning that the
logical end of materialism is death. We used to know this.

Again, there are signs that this old knowledge is not dead and buried,
but simply in hibernation and now starting to spring forth. You see it
in the hostility to the libertarian cranks on social media. You see it
in the jeering at socialist cranks. Safety first commentators like Matt
Walsh and Charlie Kirk are now repeating dissident things that used to
be disqualifying for them. Perhaps in the end, the last materialist we
hang shall be the one who sold us the rope.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
