---
title: "The Post Of Judgement"
date: "2025-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33614"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33614"
---

For a long time now, there have been people on this side of the great
divide arguing that the real source of power in American society is the
media. The media has power because they control the moral framework and
the discourse within it. If the media declares a set of facts
unacceptable, then no one talks about them, unless they have a desire to
be hurled into the void. The media controls what is allowed to be said,
so they control how things are done and by whom.

On the surface, this was true, and it was always true to some degree. A
popular political quip from the analog days was that “You should never
pick fights with people who buy ink by the barrel.” If the New York
Times decided to declare a fatwah on you, there was a very good chance
you were going to lose. This was why so-called conservatives and
Republicans would crawl on their bellies to talk with the press, even
though the media treated them as the official punching bag.

The model for this was Watergate. If not for media pressure, the
political class would not have done anything about Nixon. The reason for
that is they had no reason to hate Nixon, even if they disagreed with
him. It was the media that made Nixon into a villain and then demanded
the political class do something. Congress did not force Nixon out of
office because they hated him or they believed he violated the rules of
politics, but because they feared the media.

Ever since, the name of the game in politics has been to make sure you
manage the media, which meant hiring an army of media consultants.
Often, these people came out of the media. Of course, the media was an
extension of the managerial class, so this new relationship created good
jobs at good wages for people long on credentials and short on practical
talent. This peaked under Obama when hundreds of media members got jobs
in his administration.

This is why politics shifted from backrooms and onto the pages of the
media, where narratives, narrative management and narrative collapse
became the defining features of the public debate. The point of politics
was to create a story, in which the hero defeated the villain and
everyone clapped. This was to herd the managerial class into the hero
side and paint the enemies of the managerial class as the villain.
Politics was all about good guys and bad guys, as determined by the
media.

In the end, American politics was like a Greek drama. The players on the
stage were cast in their roles not by their actions, but by the
commentary provided by the chorus, which was the media. It reached the
point where in the Obama years, people truly thought “healthcare” was a
thing that existed in unlimited quantities, but needed to be freed from
the grasp of the monster called the insurance companies. Healthcare
reform was a bizarre pantomime for the entertainment of Washington.

In the digital age, it went beyond the parlor games of the political
class so that media power became the tip of the spear in the cultural
revolution. Every activist declared herself a journalist and dedicated
her life to finding heretics. Her job was to “report on the heretic” but
her hope was that major media would pick up her “reporting” and have the
heretic hurled into the void. Like every political terror in the
ideological age, what started with the politicians was visited on the
people.

This is when ideological and theological fevers break. People can
suspend their disbelief and accept even the most bizarre moral framing,
when it is limited to the action on the stage. They know it is just
entertainment. Even when in the form of a lecture or sermon, they
believe they can take from it what they will. When the directors of the
moral drama begin dragging the people onto the stage, or off to the
gulag, then the people can no longer suspend their disbelief.

The natural questions of all moral disputes then begin to appear. Those
questions are “Who says?” and “So what?”. These questions crept up on
the managerial class over the last ten years and they were never able or
willing to answer them. This became obvious in the runup to the
election. The media kept screaming, “Trump is evil!” and the people kept
wondering, “Who says?” When they yelled about his alleged crimes and
indictments, the response was, “So what?”

A great man once said that you will know that the revolution is upon us
when a conservative waddles onto the stage muttering about the various
“isms” and “who we are” and the audience remains silent. Then someone
giggles, then another laughs and suddenly a wave of laughter sweeps the
room. The great preference cascade is unleashed as everyone all at once
seems to realize that everyone else thinks what they think about these
ridiculous fools.

It is what we are now witnessing. Team Trump has started smashing up the
managerial system in ways thought impossible. The media rushed to their
pulpits to give their sermons, but the audience just laughed. The Wall
Street Journal did the point and shriek at one of the DOGE kids and the
audience not only laughed but turned “Big Balls” into a hero of the
cause. The Vice President now goes on Twitter and mocks reporters who do
the point and shriek.

There was a scene in the movie Braveheart in which William Wallace kills
a group the king’s soldiers in an effort to free his wife. The last of
them is the magistrate, who had killed Wallace’s wife. Wallace initially
lowers his eye when he confronts him, then looks him straight in the eye
and slashes the man’s throat. It is a great scene because it reflects
the reality of power. The man had power over Wallace, as long as had
moral authority, but he had squandered it.

That is what is happening in the United States. The media and the
managerial class they represented held the moral high ground and people
accepted it. This was the real power of the media. Then they squandered
their moral capital on the cultural terror of the last decade. Their
excesses not only damaged their credibility but also discredited their
moral claims. They are now on the same level as the rest of us and we
are cheering as the DOGE kids put them against the post.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
