---
title: "The Ghost Of The People’s Party"
date: "2025-03-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33686"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33686"
---

**Note \#3:** Since we are getting signs of spring, it means it will not
be long before it is hot, which means t-shirt weather. Just in time for
t-shirt season, we have a new shirt for The Occidental Club, which you
can buy <a href="https://theoccidentalclub.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most of the ideas that shaped 20th century America boiled up during the
19th century in the aftermath of the Civil War. Some arrived from the
Old World before and during the war, things like nationalism and
socialism, but most were homegrown ideas that arose out of American
Protestantism and the struggle with secularization. Interestingly, the
Progressive ideology that emerged was sparked by the populist forces at
the time and is now threatened by the same populist forces.

The 19th century was a wild time in America. Prior to the Civil War, it
became increasingly clear to the industrializing North that the
Constitutional framework was not working for them. The Hartford
Conventions, largely erased from the history books now, were a series of
conferences in the North to debate leaving the Union. This process was
short-circuited by the War of 1812, but the sentiment merely found a new
home in abolitionism and finally flowered in the Civil War.

The post-Civil War period was no less tumultuous. Reconstruction was a
failure, but a foreshadowing of what would be a feature of the
progressive ideology. That is the belief that societies can be reordered
in such a way that the people in those societies change how they think
about themselves, their neighbors, and the state. The abolitionist
fanatics did not abandon these beliefs after the failure of
reconstruction. They continued to refine this belief as progressivism
flowered in the 20th century.

Of course, progressivism itself is a 19th century phenomenon. It emerged
out of American Protestantism as a belief that human society can only
advance through relentless social reform. The same people who were sure
they could reinvent society to accommodate the freed slaves as equals
were now sure they could use the lessons from industrialization to
reorder America and the world. Religious social reform became a secular
political movement.

The engine that made progressivism possible was populism, which was not
unique to America or even unique to the 19th century, but if you look at
the populist movements of the 19th century, you see many of the features
of what would later be the progressive movement and then progressivism.
The populists were not angry mobs assembled outside of the homes of the
rich, demanding redress of their grievances. They had an agenda that was
mostly crafted by elites in waiting.

For example, the Ocala Demands were a platform of economic and political
reforms that became the basis of the People’s Party. It was “produced”
by the various farmer’s alliances that had sprung up as mutual aid
societies following the Civil War. These groups were brought together in
the Marion Opera House in Ocala, Florida, where they approved this list
of demands. This was formally called the Ocala Demands and was adopted
by the People’s Party.

When you read the demands, the first thing that is clear is that they
were not written by a collection of dirt farmers in the South. It was
not the work of the Colored Farmers’ National Alliance and Cooperative
Union either. That was a real group that participated in the Ocala
convention, along with the Southern Farmers’ Alliance. These were not
people debating the abolishment of the futures markets, the regulation
of the money supply or the imposition of a graduated income tax.

The platform was the work of intellectuals and reformers who saw an
opportunity to ride the wave of populism to power and influence. They
saw a grassroots movement of disaffected farmers as a vehicle for
building a coalition in support of their reform ideas, so they attached
themselves to it. It is not an accident that the populist agenda looked
a lot like the progressive agenda that would emerge in the 20th century.
Progressivism would not have been possible without populism.

It is why it is fair to wonder if what we are seeing and have been
seeing for the last few decades is the death of the last remaining
ideology, progressivism. Populism seems to be an end of cycle
phenomenon. It is, after all, a disorganized revolt against the current
order, which has reached its maturity and is entering decline. What
follows a populist uprising is either a replacement of the old order, a
reform that replaces the old elite or a reform effort by the elites
themselves.

The assault on the Blob by the Trump administration, led by Elon Musk,
is clearly an assault on the old managerial order. Elon Musk is the face
of the new technological elite, so it is fitting that he is the point
man for this task. Managerialism is the traveling partner of ideology.
It was a feature of both fascism and communism. Its looming demise at
the hands of the Trump administration, which was powered by a populist
uprising against it, fits the historical pattern.

Progressivism has had a long run, but for most of the 20th century it
served as a bulwark against fascism and then communism. Its social
reforms stopped making any sense by the latter half of the 20th century
and either disappeared from the agenda entirely or morphed into bizarre
sexual fetishes. Its main reason to exist was to fight communism, but
once communism was gone, it was left without a devil, so it has gone
insane over the last decades in search of Old Scratch.

The populism that brought Trump to the White House in 2016, sustained
him in his wilderness years and then returned him the White House was
driven by the excesses and insanity of progressives. Populism is usually
framed as the people versus elites, but in this case, it was normal
people versus crazy people. The best way to describe the first weeks of
the Trump administration is the return of normalcy, unless you are a
member of the hive we call the left.

In the fullness of time, what this period may be known for is the death
of the last ideology, knocked off by the same forces that spawned it.
American populism has always been a check on the excesses of the elite,
not as a physical or even political force, but as a cultural force.
Ideology is always about changing culture, so it is ironic that the last
ideology will be vanquished by a cultural phenomenon. The ghost of the
People’s Party has finally called progressivism home.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
