---
title: "The Slaves Of The South"
date: "2025-05-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34136"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34136"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about progressive echo
chambers, a post about old televisions and old ways to watch them, and
the Sunday podcast. On the Substack side of the paywall side, there are
now weekly videos, which are getting better, for those who like video.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A topic that comes up regularly is why the Southern states produced so
many terrible Republican politicians. Many of the most perfidious
elected officials in Washington come from states that are solidly
Republican. The most obvious is South Carolina, which seems to have a
political class as corrupt as Massachusetts. Lindsey Graham might be the
slimiest politician in America. Now Thom Tillis of North Carolina is
making a run at Graham’s crown.

The voters in the South are some of the most conservative in the
country, but they elect most of the unreliable pols in the GOP. If
elections worked as people insist, a guy like Graham would not exist.
Instead, the state’s senators would reflect the majority of the state’s
voters, which are very conservative. The South Carolina delegation would
be the fire-eaters of the Republican Party. Alabama and Mississippi
would be working hard to set the edge in Republican edginess.

Last week, Thom Tillis finked on the President by pulling his support
for Ed Martin, Trump’s nominee for U.S. Attorney in DC. Maybe Tillis
took a bribe, which happens so often in Washington now that it is the
new normal. More likely, he simply agrees with his friends in the
Democratic Party. He agreed to be the Republican who finked on the base
this time, taking one for the team so to speak. Next time, another
Southern Senator will suddenly decide his principles require him to be a
fink.

In states dominated by the left-wing crazies, the pols tend to be even
more fanatical than the typical voter in the state. Oregon politicians,
for example, are reliable spear catchers for the far-left. One of their
Representatives is now living in El Salvador to protest Trump’s
deportation of MS-13 gang members. Ocasio-Cortez is now calling for
violence against federal immigration officials. In progressive states,
the elected officials are always to the left of their voters.

In so-called conservative states and districts, the opposite is true.
The defining feature of Republican pols from the most conservative
states is their willingness to bend their knee to the people they claim
to oppose. They live in fear of being called one of the scary words the
crazies use to control their conservative pets. Thom Tillis would
urinate himself in public if he were ever called a mean word, so he
makes sure to be ahead of all of these things, which means surrendering
on every issue.

The main reason for this is the local elites in the South live in shame
of their heritage and of the white people they represent. Like booshie
people everywhere, they want nothing more than to be invited to the cool
kid’s table. Since Gettysburg, the cool kid’s table has been where the
progressives sit. The winners get to define what is and what is not cool
and that remains true to this day. The United States is a Yankee
imperium, and the South is a conquered land.

It is a good example of how control of the centers of cultural
production can alter the behavior of the people. The managerial elite is
not going to gaslight people into thinking a man in a dress is normal or
trick people into embracing black sociopathy, but they can set the
cultural tone for the elites. If you want to be popular in the centers
of power, Washington, New York, Los Angeles, or Silcom Valley, you
better conform to the cultural norms of the trend setters who control
those power centers.

It is why Patrick Buchanan once quipped that when Southerners send one
of their own to Washington, he quickly goes native. He goes from being
his district’s representative to Washington to being Washington’s
representative to his district. If you look around at the biggest finks
of the Republican Party, they fit that role perfectly. Lindsey Graham
hates the people he represents. They are not his people. It is his
burden that he was born in such a backward state as South Carolina.

The question is why the voters tolerate it. People like to blame the
voters, but when your choice is Graham and a guy with a bone in his
nose, you cannot be blamed for voting for Graham. That is the other side
of this master – slave relationship. For his loyal service to his
friends in Washington, they make sure he never has a serious primary
challenger or a serious general election opponent. The loyal colonial
official, like Graham, gets the protection of his lord.

It is not just the machinations of the parties that account for this.
There are enough white people in the South who are ashamed of themselves
to make forming a majority of the proud impossible. The same cultural
pressures that make a Thom Tillis ashamed his people work on the locals.
Fashionable people in the provinces always ape the ways of those in the
big city. Many booshie South Carolinians are as revolted by Southern
culture as the typical Manhattanite.

William Faulkner described a South undergoing a transition, where the
old elite with roots in the antebellum South, the Compsons, was giving
way to a new class, the rapacious, vermin-like Snopes clan. The old
elite had a natural superiority about them, but they were ill-suited for
the new South. The new elite, on the other hand, was without virtue, so
perfectly suited for the new age. They were willing to say anything and
sell anything to get an advantage.

Faulkner’s description of the Snopes clan is exactly what you would
expect from the ruling elite of a conquered people. They exist not as a
genuine elite but as way to prevent the formulation of a genuine elite.
The conqueror always wants the conquered to remain conquered and the
most efficient way to do that is to make sure their leaders are loyal to
the conquerors. Just as the house slaves keep the field slaves from
revolting, Southern elites keep the South pacified.

In a democracy, this process is subtle and natural. No one in Washington
worries about a revolt against the Yankee imperium. They only have to
make sure that the politicians in the provinces are their sort of
people. The same sorts of selection pressures that exist in the high
school cafeteria exist in official Washington. The social pressures are
all one way and as a result, the compliant representing Southern states
have long careers, while the difficult drop out of politics.

It is why remedying this at the ballot box is impossible. Efforts to
depose Lindsey Graham always fail, because he is the product of a system
that is designed to not just defend his kind but produce them from the
raw material of popular resistance that might get lucky and beat him in
a primary. A populist who beats Graham will go to Washington, and before
long he will go native. He will sound just like the other house slaves
who serve their masters in the Yankee imperium.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
