---
title: "Girl Boss"
date: "2025-04-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33990"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33990"
---

If you consume any of the content from Hollywood produced in the last
decade, you no doubt are familiar with the concept of the girl boss.
This is now the main character in almost every film and television show,
even creeping into video games. These days, gaming is as much about
narrative as gameplay, and anywhere there are narratives being
constructed or undermined, you will find girl boss. This character has
even jumped into the pseudo-reality of the public square.

As usual, the Democratic Party is leading the way. Versions of girl boss
are turning up in their response to what is happening in Washington.
Ocasio-Cortez is waddling around the country doing the girl boss act in
the hopes of running for the party nomination in 2028 and perhaps
becoming the ultimate girl boss. Jasmine Crockett is making a name for
herself as the black version of girl boss. This is when girl boss
pretends to be a character on a daytime trash television show.

Even the old gals are getting in on the act. Elizabeth Warren no longer
pretends to care about “working people,” whatever that means these days.
Instead, she is doing her version of girl boss. She regularly turns up
on social media explaining how things must be done, or she will call the
manager. The old gal version of girl boss still has those vestiges of
the Karen character that entertained and amazed during COVID. The Karen
role was something of a proto-girl boss.

It is hard to know if this character started in the make-believe world
of narrative content or if the creators of narrative content borrowed
from reality. The content production mines have been run by women for a
while now, so maybe the presence of girl boss simply reflects the
creeping reality of girl boss. Like a terrible rash or a fungus, girl
boss is slowly taking over everything. The reason girl boss is a type is
because girl boss is springing up everywhere in late-stage America.

A good starting point for understanding this new character in the public
square is New Hampshire congresswoman
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maggie_Goodlander" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Maggie Goodlander</a>. She won her seat in the 2024
election, defeating a libertarian goofball in the general election. Ms.
Goodlander has immediately set about making a name for herself on social
media, where she seems to spend a great deal of her time. Like
Ocasio-Cortez, Goodlander understands how to play her chosen role in the
drama of politics.

The first thing you will notice about Goodlander is that, like every
girl boss, she is a calculating striver who seems to be operating from a
script. Her career reads like a Hollywood sketch for the lead in a new
television drama. The daughter of a rich local family, she started at
Groton and then went to Yale. She joined the military to get what at the
time seemed like an important credential. This was the peak of the
forever war period, so every politician wanted that on their resume.

That is the thing about girl boss. In addition to being a relentless
striver, she is just as relentless at box-ticking. For girl boss, it is
never about accomplishing things in the conventional sense, as that is
for peasants. Girl boss has a higher calling, so her focus is on ticking
the boxes that the character requires. This is where the influence of
Hollywood is clear. The women playing the girl boss character are
following a script of sorts to create themselves as girl boss.

You see this in the post-college portion of her character profile. Her
family were Bush Republicans, which is where she started ticking boxes.
While she was in the Navy as an “intelligence officer,” which is the
military term for desk jockey, she worked as a senior foreign policy
advisor for Joe Lieberman and John McCain. Then she spent a year
clerking at the Supreme Court and then a year at Skadden, a
super-connected law firm that looks great on a political girl boss
resume.

Frankly, if you were to describe the ideal millennial girl boss for
politics, the resume of Maggie Goodlander would feel a bit over the top.
Audiences might find this character to be too much of a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Sue" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Mary Sue</a>, which is a young woman in films who is
portrayed as free of weaknesses or character flaws. She always gets what
she wants without ever having to suffer setbacks or experience
self-doubt. The resume of Maggie Goodlander looks like it was written so
the rest of the plot can happen.

Another feature of girl boss that you see with every iteration of the
character is what you see in the bio of Ms. Goodlander. There is a lot
of activity. Ms. Goodlander is a whirlwind of activity as a
representative. Every day she is posting pictures of herself being girl
boss somewhere. Her resume is one activity after another. She seems to
have rushed from one ticked box to the other, as if having ticked the
box, the only thing that mattered was moving on to the next box.

This is what makes girl boss so powerful and why she is proliferating
throughout the managerial system. In managerialism, a resume is about
where you were and what networks to which you are connected. It is never
about accomplishments in the sense of leaving behind a product of your
labor. Girl boss is the epitome of this mindset. When girl boss goes for
the walk on the beach as part of the carefully planned photoshoot, she
leaves no footprints in the sand.

This leads to the main flaw of girl boss. Anyone who must deal with girl
boss in the wild knows why we invented a certain word that starts with
“C.” Girl boss is just as relentless in her unpleasantness as she is
about her ambition. That is because every relationship is a temporary
means to an end. For girl boss, your value is in how you can help her
tick the next box. If for some reason you are an impediment to ticking
that next box, girl boss expects you to lose, just like all opponents of
girl boss.

This is why girl boss always has that weird, synthetic face. It lacks
the normal emotions we expect from a female of our species. Every
picture of Maggie Goodlander looks like they stapled a smile onto a
mask. That is because girl boss lacks anything resembling female
compassion. Her mind is singularly focused on the game of going from one
box to the next to become the ultimate girl boss. There is a reason no
girl boss has a trail of former colleagues who speak well of her.

This is what makes girl boss the ultimate expression of managerialism.
Success in the system is never about accomplishments in the tangible
sense, because managerialism is a system that evolved to reduce risk.
Accomplishing things brings risk, as new things bring new variables to
manage. The makers and doers must be sublimated to the managers to
minimize the risk they pose. This means the managers are the antidote to
the doers and makers.

In such a system, never having done anything tangible is another one of
those boxes on the resume, but this box must always remain unticked.
Instead, the boxes for talking about those boxes and meeting about those
boxes must be ticked. Girl boss is ideally suited for a world where
everyone is expected to be good at forming consensus and sharing their
feelings about things never allowed in the room. Girl boss makes the
ideal manager in a system designed for managers.

Of course, girl boss also seems to be the ideal symbol of the end. The
rise of girl boss has led to declining content from Hollywood. They made
*Snow White* into girl boss, and audiences are still laughing at it. The
sure sign a company is about to enter the death spiral is when girl boss
arrives in the C-suites. The sudden rise of girl boss in Democratic
Party politics comes as the party is on the ropes. President girl boss
would surely mean the end of the American experiment.

For those looking for something positive out of girl boss, it is
entirely possible that she is the Boudica of the alien tribe that rules
America. Boudica was a queen of a British tribe who led a failed
uprising against the Roman Empire in AD 60. She was a last-gasp effort
to resist the Romans. Perhaps that is what we are seeing with the rise
of girl boss in the Democratic Party. They are vying to go down in
history as the last gasp of resistance to the forces of restoration.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
