---
title: "The Progressive Formula"
date: "2025-05-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34148"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34148"
---

American progressivism in its current form can be summarized as an
ideology that claims, “we must do A or B will happen.” The A in this
formula can be just about anything and often flips from positive to
negative. There are times when doing A reverses and the warning is to
stop doing it. On the other hand, the B factor is always a negative
consequence of the first term. Usually, it is a vague suggestion that it
is not just bad but the end of civilization as we know it.

The obvious example is the weather. On the grand scale, the first term
will be something like driving cars or heating our homes, while the
second term is climate change, which means climate disaster. If we keep
driving cars the climate will change in such a way that earth dies. They
never make that second term explicit, but the extinction stuff is
assumed. After all, climate changes all the time and has often been to
our benefit, but that just muddies the waters.

That gets to the other aspect of this formulation. The person or people
involved assume that their normative evaluation of both terms is
correct. They may be justifying their prejudice against A on the grounds
that it leads to B, but they always assume that B is a bad thing that
moral people should seek to avoid. You see this with climate change,
which is recast as a moral condition, rather than an observation. It is
a bad thing not a simple observation of earth’s behavior.

The Gaia worship stuff is easy, but it turns up everywhere, even in
mundane things like foreign policy. For a few decades now the American
foreign policy establishment has been warning that if Iran gets nuclear
weapons, then it will be a disaster. It is in the title of this <a
href="https://americanmind.org/salvo/allowing-iran-to-go-nuclear-would-be-a-disaster/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> at one of the Claremont sites.
The post is a veiled argument in favor of going to war with Iran on
behalf of Israel. The post is in response to another <a
href="https://americanmind.org/salvo/striking-iran-would-be-a-mistake/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> on the subject that dismisses
this progressive formulation.

What we see with Iran are two variations of the same theme. One is “If
we do not do A then B will happen.” The other is “If they are able to do
A, then B will happen.” Sometimes they are linked together to get
something like, “If we do not do A then they will do B and then C will
happen.” The point of this formulation is to avoid examining the second
term. The debate must center on the first part, what we ought or ought
not do, while accepting the general badness of B.

Again, the Gaia business is an easy example. Every debate on climate
policy centers on that first term and never debates the second term. It
is always assumed by all sides allowed in the debate, that climate
change is bad. In fact, a condition of getting into the debate is that
you accept that climate change is morally bad. Your reason for accepting
Gaia as your lord and savior may be different from others who accept
Gaia, but accepting Gaia is the only way into the debate.

Note that Spivak in his response to Dobson spends a lot of his time
smearing Dobson as immoral or otherwise out of bounds. One point of the
Spivak post is to anathematize Dobson and anyone who dares question B.
Central to the claims of Spivak is that everyone must accept his
normative claims about Iran going nuclear. That way, the debate is
reduced to the ways to prevent it, since a nuclear Iran is assumed to be
a disaster for the world.

It is the natural way progressives control public debate. This is the
heart of the debate between those two posts on Iran. Dobson, the author
of the post at the start of the exchange, is questioning the veracity of
B. He is correct that there are no arguments to support the claim. The
evidence we have says that if Iran gets the bomb, they will become even
less aggressive toward Israel. We see this with India and Pakistan where
nuclear weapons keep the peace.

Spivak, on the other hand, simply cannot accept Dobson’s questioning of
B in the well-worn formulation, so he repeats all of the ways people
have said, “If A then B” over the years regarding Iran and nuclear
weapons. The reason for this is that any change in B invalidates the
formula. Suddenly, A does not necessarily lead to B, which then causes a
revaluation of the set of choices in A. It also removes the necessity of
the person warning, “If we do not do A, then B will happen.”

If there are a set of conditions in which Iran gets the bomb, but like
all but one other nuclear country, does not use it, then the debate over
American relations with Iran shift from various forms of war with Iran
to include peaceful relations with Iran. Suddenly, the war mongers move
from being one voice in a choir preaching some form of war, to being war
mongers in a room with people calling for peace. They lose their moral
high ground and become the high-risk position.

In this regard, progressive ideology inherited the basic formula from
Christianity but stripped it of all Christian references. Heaven is just
the assumed destination if we follow the progressive formula. If we
follow the tides of history, then we will reach the egalitarian
paradise. On the other hand, if we do not stop doing a long list of
things that meet the requirement of A, then some version of Hell awaits
us. The reason our politics is so preachy is that it is dominated by
preachers.

Progressivism is secular Christianity of the Protestant variety, which
is why all progressive arguments reduce to “Repent or burn in Hell!” You
must ride a bike to work, or you will burn in Hell for angering Gaia. We
must make war with Iran, or we will burn in Hell for letting her get the
bomb. The madness of America stems from the fact that all doors now lead
to Hell. There are no choices in the first term that do not lead to the
second term and the second term is always Hell.

It is why the antidote to progressive polemics is not facts and reason.
Those facts neatly arranged in a chart do nothing to alter the basic
progressive formula. Instead, the solution is a revaluation of the
values contained in the formula. If the value of B is open to debate,
then there is no debate over A. If any part of A is morally
questionable, then B ceases to be a consideration. You do not defeat
moral claims with facts, but with the dismissal of those moral claims by
challenging the underlying assertions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
