---
title: "The Long Retreat Continues"
date: "2025-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33956"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33956"
---

A funny thing happened when Netanyahu arrived in Washington to tell the
Trump administration about how they would proceed with Iran.  The Trump
side told Netanyahu that his longed for war with Iran was not happening.
Instead, the Trump administration was starting talks with Iran
concerning a negotiated settlement to their nuclear program and the
sanctions imposed on Iran. When Trump announced this during the press
conference, Netanyahu looked like he had seen a ghost.

Netanyahu was poleaxed because he was sure he had maneuvered the Trump
people into a corner on Iran. He thought he had done the same thing with
the Biden people, but instead of an American strike on Iran, the
Iranians launched their own missile strike and the Biden people looked
the other way. With Trump he was sure he had a president who hated Iran
as much as he did, but it turns out that Trump was leading Netanyahu on
so he could buy time to make a deal with Iran.

It is a good example of how the Israel lobby, which backs Trump
completely, is not the same as Israel. The two sides frequently disagree
on what is best for Israel, and the Israel lobby typically prevails in
these disputes. Given the source of funding for the Israel lobby, this
is logical. For American Jews, Israel is their symbolic homeland, but it
is not their actual home. It is a place where they send their children
for the summer after graduation or perhaps where they take an occasional
family trip.

For the Israel lobby, an agreement that fosters peace in the region and
ensures the long-term security of Israel is the goal. They do not share
Israel’s aspiration for a greater Israel or of subjugating local rivals
merely out of spite. The manner in which Israel has conducted itself
concerning Gaza has been detrimental to the Israel lobby, as it
significantly undermines support for Israel among average Americans.
Israel now has the lowest approval ratings among Americans since the
issue has been surveyed.

This is also another one of those examples of how the second coming of
Donald Trump is much better than the first one. No one saw the
reproachment with Iran coming until it was about to happen. This meant
that Trump did not discuss it publicly and ensured it remained a
need-to-know matter among his trusted confidants. Consequently, the
usual suspects could not leak it to the media. All those people who lost
security clearances are no longer conduits to the Washington Post.

We see the same thing with Russia. No one outside of Trump and a few
trusted people know what is happening in those dealings. No one knew
Trump was planning direct talks until they were announced by both sides.
Even now, no one has the slightest idea what the two sides are
discussing. Instead, the media runs <a
href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/us/news/2025/04/11/ukraine-divide-berlin-russia-second-world-war/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">nonsense stories</a> like this one fed to
them through Keith Kellogg by the neocons. Team Trump has kept everyone
off balance regarding Ukraine.

The essence of all this is not a change in policy with Trump but a
transformation in his approach to governance. For instance, Trump has <a
href="https://thehill.com/policy/international/middle-east-north-africa/585257-trump-accuses-former-ally-netanyahu-of/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">never been fond</a> of Netanyahu. Worse
yet for Netanyahu, Trump does not trust him. Similarly, Trump never
forgot that Ukraine was central to his impeachment. Trump always wanted
to do a deal with Russia and has always got along with Putin. What is
novel this time is that Trump is far more astute in how he navigates the
den of vipers that is Washington.

Regarding Iran, there is also the reality that no military solution
exists. This has been made evident with the Houthis. The days of
launching volleys of missiles at an adversary and achieve its objectives
is over. To address the Houthi issue militarily would necessitate an
invasion and an occupation. A military solution to Iran would require a
million-man army and the risk of destabilizing the oil markets. It is
not entirely clear that the United States could accomplish this, even if
the will existed.

Instead, Trump has allowed the Israelis to believe that the Trump
administration supported a strike on Iran’s nuclear and leadership
centers. These stories were leaked to the media and then amplified by
online geopolitical analysts. Meanwhile, Trump’s trusted advisors were
utilizing backchannels to arrange direct talks with Iran, which occurred
last week in Oman. There is a strong likelihood that Russia played a
role in persuading the Iranians to attend the meeting.

What we may be witnessing are the results of a transformation in the
Israel lobby and in Trump’s governing strategy. The same populist forces
that spooked the oligarchs into supporting Trump’s political and
economic reforms may have prompted the Israel lobby to reconsider its
approach to Iran. If war is not an option, then another method must be
found to secure Israel. The obvious solution is to resolve the Iran
issue that has persisted for half a century.

In many ways Trump is the closing of a chapter in American history that
started fifty years ago, and Iran is one part of it. The Iranian
revolution was caused by the failure to manage the Israel issue
properly. Fifty years ago, smart people warned about tilting to far in
favor of Israel. The result has been fifty years of turmoil, including
several major wars. That chapter in American history may finally be
coming to close with the normalization of relations with Iran.

Of course, this is another indication that we are at the end of empire.
Even if relations between the United States and Iran cannot be
normalized, it is evident that the days of the American empire ruling
over the region with absolute authority are over. The cost of empire has
long surpassed the benefits to the American people, and that deficit is
now disrupting domestic politics. What Trump represents is a dignified
withdrawal from empire, rather than an ignominious one.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
