---
title: "Radio Derb April 25 2025"
date: "2025-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34004"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34004"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m13s Trump’s second first hundred days
-   08m26s The players, the field
-   13m42s The passing of a Pope
-   19m28s Cardinal Witch-Hunter
-   25m30s Shakespeare’s what?
-   28m29s Conspiracizing the space gals
-   32m09s Meritocracy restored
-   34m35s Signoff with Jimmy Castor

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/65731456/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span><span class="mce_SELRES_start"
mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners.
This is your perfectly genial host John Derbyshire with commentary on
the passing scene.

A thing that is actually passing, and a week from now will have
altogether passed, is the month of April 2025. Next Tuesday, the
penultimate day in April, will also be the 100th day of Donald Trump’s
second Presidency, counting January 20th — Inauguration Day — as Day 1.

That’s a handy hook on which to hang the question: How are they doing? I
shall attempt an answer.<span id="more-34004"></span>

**02 — Trump’s second first hundred days**.     To get a handle on the
matter, I thought I’d glance back through the archives to see what I had
to say when Trump’s *first* first hundred days were winding up back in
April 2017.

So what did I have to say? Nothing good. I was already suffering the
pains of Trump Disappointment Syndrome.

In my podcast for April 28th that year I vented my disappointment by
asking Trump ten questions. You can read all ten in [the archived
transcript](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2017-04-28.html#02) of
that podcast. Just a sample few of those questions in summary.

-   A Filipino named Jose Antonio Vargas had become a celebrity illegal
    alien. Resident in the U.S.A. for 23 years without a visa, he’d
    written for all the big mainstream newspapers, made a documentary
    movie about himself, and founded a nonprofit to change our
    immigration laws — in favor of illegals, of course. Why, I asked,
    had he not been deported?
-   The government of Australia was abolishing its main guest-worker
    program because, said that nation’s Immigration Minister, it wasn’t
    in the national interest. Why had Trump not taken steps to likewise
    end our equivalent, the H-1B visa program? I noted also that
    Australia had abolished birthright citizenship back in 1986. Why had
    we not taken steps to do the same?
-   Full quote: “Europe has a population three and a half times greater
    than Russia’s and a GDP ten times greater. Europe’s two nuclear
    powers, Britain and France, have more than five hundred nuclear
    weapons between them. Mr President: Is Europe sufficiently
    threatened by Russia to require continued military alliance with the
    U.S.A.?” End quote.
-   In what was then the sixteenth year of our military engagement in
    Afghanistan, quote: “Why are political outcomes in Afghanistan
    sufficiently important to the U.S.A. to justify sixteen years of
    military engagement?” End quote.

Those were some of my 2017 questions to Trump.

Trump had already kicked me in my isolationist sympathies at the
beginning of *that* April by sending cruise missiles against a Syrian
air force base, reported to be one from which the Syrian government had
launched a poison-gas attack on a rebel town, an incident in the
apparently endless Syrian civil war which is still going on today. Yet
that poison-gas attack, as deplorable as it no doubt was, had killed no
Americans and harmed no American interests. “So I guess we can kiss
goodbye to ‘America First’,” [I had
snarled](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2017-04-07.html#02) in
my April 7th podcast.

So there was my Trump Disappointment Syndrome on display at the end of
Trump’s *first* first hundred days. How do matters compare now, at the
end of the *second*?

On the particular issues I picked on back in 2017, there hasn’t been
much action by the new administration. Jose Antonio Vargas is still with
us, doing very nicely for himself as an activist, impresario, writer,
and lecturer. He’s still not a citizen, but one of the Biden
administration’s last acts was to issue him a 3-year (but renewable)
special visa.

Trump *has* acted on birthright citizenship. [One of his first executive
orders](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/protecting-the-meaning-and-value-of-american-citizenship/) instructed
federal agencies to stop recognizing it. The order has of course been
appealed; [the U.S. Supreme Court will hear the
arguments](https://news.wttw.com/2025/04/22/supreme-court-hear-arguments-trump-s-plan-end-birthright-citizenship) in
May.

Our guest worker program, however, continues, although the screening and
vetting procedures for applicants [are being
tightened](https://www.fragomen.com/insights/associated-press-what-is-the-highly-coveted-h-1b-visa-trump-administration-moves-put-attention-on-the-program.html).

We are still in NATO, God only knows why. Exit from NATO should have
been a Number One priority in Trump’s *first* first hundred days;
likewise in the *second*. Instead, our President is today wasting his
time and political capital meddling in the eternal, intractable
squabbles of the Eastern Slavs.

It’s no credit to the new administration, but our Afghanistan
involvement has at least been resolved. True, it was resolved with all
the finesse and skill of the proverbial monkey trying to get intimate
with the proverbial football, but at least Trump 47 has one less item of
Save-the-World idiocy to grapple with.

So … a mixed bag there, mostly negativities. Aren’t there more positives
to be noted? Of course there are. Next segment.

**03 — The players, the field**.     In all fairness, it’s not easy to
achieve real, lasting accomplishments in just a hundred days. The
positivities *I* see, looking at the new administration, are
positivities of personality and the political environment — positivities
of *potential*.

Our President himself is a much wiser man politically than Trump 45. His
engagements with the Deep State, both in and out of office, have taught
him a great deal, and he’s been an attentive student.

That’s reflected in his staffing choices. The new administration’s
senior personnel are a huge improvement on the Swamp critters and neocon
opportunists of Trump 45. [Tom
Homan](https://abcnews.go.com/US/shock-awe-trump-border-czar-tom-homan-plans/story?id=115972346) and [Stephen
Miller](https://www.thedailybeast.com/stephen-miller-demands-americans-side-with-donald-trump-against-communist-judges-in-unhinged-rant/) are
worth the ticket price just by themselves. [J.D.
Vance](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2025/04/25/karoline-leavitt-election-trump-press-secretary-profile-00300552) against
Mike Pence? No contest. [Karoline
Leavitt](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2025/04/25/karoline-leavitt-election-trump-press-secretary-profile-00300552) against
the Haitian gal — the one Jesse Watters called “Binder”? A clear win on
both smarts and looks. Game, set, and match.

Pete Hegseth? Yes, there’s some sort of campaign against him in the
media. Who are the campaigners, though? I’m inclined to agree with Glenn
Greenwald on X, April 22nd. [Partial
tweet](https://x.com/ggreenwald/status/1914684656751878359):

That Hegseth of all people is deemed insufficiently pro-war demonstrates
the extremism of the D.C. war machine. He’s enthusiastically bombing
Yemen; got Trump to pardon U.S. war criminals in Iraq; has cheered
multiple wars.

But any reluctance to attack Iran is supremely heretical.

End tweet.

But didn’t Hegseth’s recent air strikes against the Houthis of Yemen
stir my isolationist wrath just as much as those 2017 bombings of Syria
did? No, they didn’t.

The Syrians of 2017, or any other year, were just bickering among
themselves. It was none of our business. The Houthi, by contrast, are
the Barbary Pirates of our time, interfering with key international
shipping lanes. Any nation with the ability — ourselves, the Europeans,
India, China — is perfectly entitled to bomb them for good commercial
reasons.

There have been major changes to the playing field, too — changes the
new administration is aware of and can take advantage of. Chief among
these is the descent of the Democratic Party.

The descent was already under way in 2017. Hillary Clinton was a strong
contestant for the title Worst Presidential Candidate Ever Put Forward
By A Major Political Party until that title was snatched from her by
Kamala Harris. The Biden Presidency brought to everyone’s mind the
importance of Energy in the Executive.

Donald Trump’s Republican Party has some internal issues to resolve, but
he and we are not short on energy. Nor on popular support: what were for
decades reliably Democratic voting blocs — blacks, Hispanics, Jews,
working-class men — have swung Republican to varying degrees.

So we have a wiser Trump with a better staff, and a more favorable
playing field.

Hope, goes the saying, is a good breakfast but a bad supper. Trump 47’s
White House is still clearing away the breakfast things, and it’s a long
time to supper. Let’s hope!

**04 — The passing of a Pope**.     The Pope died on Monday after twelve
years in office. He was 88 years old and died of a stroke and heart
failure — in other words, as we used to say in a simpler time, of old
age.

That was, of course, the day after Easter Sunday, which His Holiness had
observed in the traditional fashion, giving a public blessing to
cheerful crowds from the balcony of St. Peter’s Basilica. That very same
morning, Sunday morning, he had given an audience to our Vice President
J.D. Vance, who is a convert to Roman Catholicism.

I am not a Roman Catholic and take little interest in that church as an
institution. Friends who are better-informed tell me that among Roman
Catholics of a Populist-Nationalist inclination, especially in Europe,
Pope Francis was disliked because of his enthusiasm for mass Third World
immigration. If that’s true, Francis was wrestling with a deep religious
conundrum.

Most of the world’s major religions have a strong ethnic component.
Islam is Arabic and Turkic in ethnicity; Hinduism is South Asian;
Judaism is of course Jewish; Taoism is Chinese; Zoroastrianism is
Persian; Buddhism is East and Southeast Asian. (Yes, I know: Buddhism
has Indian origins. That was a l-o-n-g time ago, though.) They all
accept converts, but the foundational ethnicity is hard to miss, and
none of them has much of a missionary impulse.

Christianity, however, is explicitly universalist. Saint Paul told us
that, [quote](https://biblehub.com/galatians/3-28.htm): “There is
neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither
male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.” The Christian
communities of Africa, India, even Japan and China, are substantial and
long-established — more so than Muslims in South America or Buddhists in
Scandinavia.

That was a stable situation until the world opened up to cheap
international travel. Centuries of Christian universalism had weakened
ethnic loyalties. Nations where Christianity had long been dominant
opened their borders. “Come on in! Neither Jew nor Greek!” The Third
World duly came.

So today the advanced, prosperous nations of Europe, North America, and
Australasia are struggling with large-scale ethnic conflict.

That conflict is most acute where the incoming settlers are Muslim.
Islam is universalist in a way very different from Christianity. It is
aggressively, militaristically universalist.

Traditionally, Islam converted by the sword: “If you don’t accept Allah
and his Prophet, we’ll kill you.” Today’s Islam is somewhat lighter in
its approach, but the aggression is still hard to miss. We have all seen
those news pictures of great throngs of Muslims [blocking our
streets](https://torontosun.com/opinion/warmington-prayer-service-in-busy-downtown-intersection-not-against-the-law) to
perform mass prayer, when they have perfectly good mosques nearby that
they could go to.

So mass Muslim immigration has put great strain on institutional
Christianity. The Anglo-Catholic Church of England and her American
cousin, the Episcopal Church, seem to be responding to the strain with
abject surrender. Full-scale Muslim services have been held in both the
two Saint Paul’s cathedrals: [the one in
London](https://www.facebook.com/sadiqforlondon/posts/history-made-st-pauls-cathedral-hosts-its-first-ever-iftar-real-honour-to-be-par/2408715249181248/) and [the
one in
Boston](https://episcopalnewsservice.org/2019/10/25/boston-cathedrals-call-to-be-a-house-of-prayer-extends-to-muslims-friday-prayers/).

I don’t know whether the Roman Catholic Church has surrendered to that
degree. My guess is, it hasn’t. Roman Catholics are much stronger in
defense of their faith than Anglo-Catholics. It will be interesting to
see what stand the new Pope takes on the issue.

Who will that new Pope be? I have no clue, only an opinion to offer.

**05 — Cardinal Witch-Hunter**.     My opinion is a singular and
negative one. There is one candidate who will, I very much
hope, *not* be honored with the Papacy.

That candidate — and I’m assuming, without any knowledge of the process,
that he *is* a candidate — is Timothy Dolan, the Roman Catholic
Archbishop of New York. Dolan is also, since 2012, a Cardinal, and so I
think a Papal candidate by default. I hope he isn’t chosen, just because
I’d hate to see the s.o.b. further raised up in any way.

What’s my beef with Dolan? Well, twelve years ago I engaged with the
case of Frank Borzellieri, an exceptionally nasty instance of
Progressive
witch-hunting. [Quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Culture/Borzellieri.html):

Borzellieri (“borza-*le*rry”) was principal of a Catholic elementary
school in New York City for the school years 2009-2011. Before that he
was Dean of Discipline at a Catholic high school in the city. His record
in both jobs was spotless; and that is an astonishing thing when you
consider that both schools were heavily Non-Asian Minority and Frank is
white, so that the faintest scintilla of a hint of prejudice on his
part, or even [a careless
word](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/niggardly), would have
cost him his job for “racism.”

End quote.

I pulled that quote from a column I published at *Taki’s Magazine* on
May 23rd, 2013. The column, which is archived at my personal website,
tells the story of Frank Borzellieri at more length. Here I’ll just give
a sketch.

Frank was, and I hope still is, polite, well-educated, correct in speech
and manner, and a devout Roman Catholic. Before starting his teaching
career he’d been a writer, and had written skeptically about progressive
orthodoxies.

In 1999 he’d published a book, title: [*The Unspoken Truth: Race,
Culture and Other
Taboos*](https://www.amazon.com/The-Unspoken-Truth-Culture-Taboos/dp/0965638316/ref=pd_sim_b_2) that,
in a polite and scholarly way, questioned the notion that diversity is a
strength.

Frank then became a schoolteacher, and a very good and dedicated one, as
noted in that quote I gave you. But then, in 2011, the *New York Daily
News* published a story about him under the headline, quote: “[White
supremacist principal running Bronx school with majority black and
Latino
students](https://www.nydailynews.com/2011/07/31/white-supremacist-principal-running-bronx-school-with-majority-black-and-latino-students/).”
End quote.

It was sheer character assassination, full of lies and unsourced
references, but it got a witch-hunt going. Timothy Dolan’s New York
Archdiocese joined in; Frank was fired the day after the *Daily
News* story appeared.

Frank wrote a six-page letter to Archbishop Dolan, countering the lies
and describing his devotion to the church and his calling as a school
principal. Dolan had not yet ascended to the rank of Cardinal, but must
have known that the promotion was in his near future if he kept his nose
clean. He did not favor Frank’s letter with a reply.

So Dolan lined up with the progressive witch-hunters of our age, in the
same spirit as his predecessors back in the Middle Ages gave their
support to *actual* witch-hunters.

Incredibly, it seems to me, Frank Borzellieri remained a devout Roman
Catholic for as long as I followed him in after years.

I occasionally catch sight of [Dolan’s well-nourished
face](https://press.vatican.va/content/salastampa/en/documentation/cardinali_biografie/cardinali_bio_dolan_tm.html) while
I’m TV channel-surfing on a Sunday evening. That, I remind myself, is
the face of one who destroyed a good man’s career to preserve his own.
Then I have to resist an impulse to smash my fist into the TV screen.

**06 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  April 23rd was William Shakespeare’s 461st birthday, or at
any rate is traditionally regarded as such. It was also his 409th
deathday. The Bard was nothing if not symmetrical.

There have for some years been periodic news stories about Shakespeare
being canceled for racism, sexism, colonialism, and so on. I sometimes
read through one of them, just to remind myself how batpoop crazy much
of the Western world has become.

Doing so the other day, I got a tiny reward for my reading — a new word
that I shall try to deploy in my own future writing.

The piece I was reading here was in the *Daily Mail Online* for March
16th. Headline: “Shakespeare’s birthplace to be ‘de-colonised’ over
fears his success ‘benefits the ideology of white European supremacy’.”
Three-quarters of the way through we get
this, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14504153/Shakespeares-birthplace-colonised-fears-success-benefits-ideology-white-supremacy.html):

Writing in *School Library Journal*, Amanda MacGregor, a Minnesota-based
librarian, bookseller and freelance journalist, asked why teachers were
continuing to include Shakespeare in their classrooms.

\[*Inner quote*.\] “Shakespeare’s works are full of problematic,
outdated ideas, with plenty of misogyny, racism, homophobia, classism,
anti-Semitism and misogynoir,” \[*end inner quote*\] she wrote, with the
last word referring to a hatred of black women.

End quote.

Did you know that there is a word for the hatred of black women —
“misogynoir”? I didn’t. Neither did the compilers of my 1971 *Compact
Edition of the Oxford English Dictionary*; nor those of my *Webster’s
Third New International Dictionary*, 1993 edition. “Misogynoir” … We
learn something every day.

*Item*:  One of my foremost culture heroes is the 18th-century writer
Samuel Johnson. Johnson’s friend Hester Thrale, in a book of anecdotes
about him that she published after his death, commented on what she
called
Johnson’s, [quote](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/2423/2423-h/2423-h.htm),
“fixed incredulity of everything he heard,” end quote. It was hard to
get Johnson to believe anything but the evidence of his own senses.

She once asked him if, when he’d first heard it, he had believed the
news of the great earthquake that destroyed the city of Lisbon in 1755,
when Johnson would have been 46 years old. Johnson’s reply, quote:

Oh! not for six months at least. I did think that story too dreadful to
be credited, and can hardly yet persuade myself that it was true to the
full extent we all of us have heard.

End quote.

I’m like that where conspiracy theories are concerned. I have great
trouble taking them seriously.

We live in an age of conspiracy theories, though, and I’m constantly
being surprised by the things that conspiracists will
conspiracize *about*.

Most recently: [The April 14th
flight](https://www.breitbart.com/tech/2025/04/14/blue-origin-completes-all-female-mission-to-the-edge-of-space/) of
Jeff Bezos’ *Blue Origin* rocket, with six young female celebrities
aboard.

I didn’t take much interest in the story itself. For one thing, only one
of the six ladies’ names was known to me: Lauren Sánchez, Jeff Bezos’
fiancée. For another, this wasn’t much of a flight. It only lasted
eleven minutes. The gals experienced extra gravity as the rocket powered
up into the stratosphere; then no gravity at all after the power stopped
and the craft traversed the peak of its ballistic parabola in free fall
around 66½ miles up; then some gravity again as it came down and
parachutes opened to slow its fall.

I was, though, fascinated by the speed with which [conspiracy theories
appeared](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-14617279/Conspiracy-theorists-Blue-Origin-door.html),
and their number and variety. The zero-g film footage was faked, they
told me; so was footage of the passenger-capsule door being opened after
the landing; look! — the paint on the capsule shows no re-entry scorch
marks; the ladies on board were all members of a Satanic cult; …

I haven’t yet seen any theories involving the CIA, Mossad, or the
Russians, but I don’t doubt there are conspiracists somewhere working on
them.

*Item*:  One of the most obnoxious and infuriating concepts to arise
from the Civil Rights movement of sixty years ago has been Disparate
Impact: the idea that group disparities in outcome — in academic
achievement or rates of incarceration, most notably — *must* be the
result of wilful group discrimination.

Disparate Impact is nonsense, and poison to social harmony. To President
Trump’s great credit, Wednesday this week he issued [an Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/restoring-equality-of-opportunity-and-meritocracy/) eliminating
disparate-impact theory from civil rights analysis and enforcement and
restoring colorblind meritocracy to that zone.

However, as Heather Mac Donald says in her report on this at *City
Journal*, [quote](https://www.city-journal.org/article/trump-restoring-meritocracy-executive-order-disparate-impact-theory-civil-rights):

His executive order can be reversed by a hostile successor
administration; the disparate-impact regime can be resurrected with
another flip of the presidential pen. The White House needs to persuade
Congress to clarify that civil rights mean freedom from discrimination —
not the legitimization of “reverse discrimination.” Congress must amend
1960s-era statutes to confirm explicitly their original colorblind
intent.

End quote.

That will require the congresscritters to show some courage, so … lots
of luck. President Trump has shown the way, though, and that’s all he
has the power to do. Thanks and all honor to him for this order.

**07 — Signoff**.     That’s it for the month of April, gentle
listeners. Thank you as always for your time and attention, and sincere
best wishes for you in the merry month of May.

Permit me my customary reminder that you can support the VDARE
Foundation by subscribing to [Peter Brimelow’s Substack
account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a check to the
Foundation itself at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759; and
you can support me personally by earmarking that check with my name, or
by any of the other options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/chroniclesmagazine.org/),
who publish my work. Thank you!

OK, let’s sign off here. My frequent references to New York State
Attorney General Letitia Lardbutt, possibly fortified by recollections
of my past attentions to [the Miss Bumbum
Pageant](https://www.gettyimages.com/photos/miss-bumbum), inspired one
of my listeners to send me a related link.

The link is to a YouTube clip of a fine American musician named Jimmy
Castor, who I confess I had never heard of. Mr Castor passed away in
2012 shortly before his 72nd birthday, but he’d appeared numerous times
in [the R&B
charts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Castor#Discography) from the
late 1960s to the late 1980s.

The title of the song my listener directed me to is *The Bertha Butt
Boogie*, in the charts 1975. Our friend Letitia was only seventeen years
old back then, so it’s not likely she was the inspiration for *The
Bertha Butt Boogie*, but there’s an obvious resemblance between the two
ladies.

If you listen to the song with attention you will learn that the Bertha
Butt of the title was one of four sisters. The other three were named
Betty, Bella, and Bathsheba. That’s a lot of butts, butt … hey. It’s
what appeals to some people.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week
