---
title: "The Data Dump"
date: "2025-01-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33459"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33459"
---

Lost in all the excitement of inauguration day, and there was much to
find exciting, was something Trump said in response to a question. He
said he plans to release everything about JFK, RFK and MLK that is
currently classified. He tried to release the JFK material in his first
term, but was talked out of it for some reason, but now he seems
committed to it and has now added the others.  His attorney general
nominee pledged to release all the Epstein material.

Given how day one unfolded, it is safe to take Trump at his word. He
seems to be sensitive this time to the fact that he got a reputation in
his first term for big talk but little action, so on day one he
delivered some controversial items. The pardoning of the J6 people
without a lengthy review was a welcome surprise. The executive order on
birthright citizenship was a stunner. If he is following through on
these items, it seems reasonable to think he will follow through on the
other items.

The question at the heart of all of these long-held secrets is why this
information has been hidden from the public. The easiest one to answer
is the Epstein material, which is going to include the names of his
friends. Given the activity on that island, powerful people do not want
their name attached to Epstein. It is possible that the FBI has been
using this knowledge to blackmail people. The corruption in the FBI is
so deep, you cannot rule it out.

Given Trump’s new friends in the economic elite, he probably feels safe
to dump this out into the public domain. By now, whatever evidence held
by the government regarding Epstein’s untimely death or his connections
to Israeli intelligence has been destroyed, so there is not much harm in
putting it out to the public. At this point, even if they admit that
Epstein was controlled by Mossad, the only people who would be surprised
by this revelation would be those who live in Washington.

The other stuff is a bit more interesting. What information is the
government hiding about Martin Luther King or his killing? About twenty
years ago, a bill was proposed to require all remaining MLK documents to
be released by 2027. The [MLK Records
Act](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Luther_King_Jr._Records_Collection_Act)
has never passed, but Trump could just order it. Supposedly, the
government has documents about the assassination. No one questions who
did it, but maybe James Earl Ray had friends in the FBI at the time.

The most likely reason for keeping MLK documents hidden away for over
half a century is that they are embarrassing to the government. One of
the interesting bits of cognitive disconnect is that on the one hand the
intelligence services think they are the great manipulators, controlling
things from the shadows. On the other hand, they are sure that the
public has total trust in them, so they do not want this material
released as it would destroy public trust in the agencies.

In the case of MLK, everyone knows that the FBI was bugging his phones
and rooms, spying on him and his associates, and trying to create
trouble in his organization, as they did and continue to do to any
organized opposition. There is a good chance that there is a lot of
information that is not flattering to MLK that has been hidden away for
political reasons. Again, none of this would shock the public, but the
people in Washington think King is a national hero.

Now, the Kennedy stuff is another matter. At this point, the only good
reason to block the release of the remaining Kennedy material is that it
implicates the CIA or the Mossad in the assassinations. Many of the
conspiracy theories revolve around the fact that the intelligence
community did not trust the Kennedys. Both Kennedy brothers were Israel
skeptics who were at odds with the nascent Israel lobby. Give the
direction of Israel policy after JFK left office, this is plausible.

Lyndon Johnson was a super-Zionist. His closest advisers on Israel and
the Middle East were Mathilde Krim and her husband Arthur Krim. The two
of them lived with the Johnsons off and on throughout his presidency.
Mathilde was a convert who in her youth joined Irgun, a Zionist
paramilitary organization fighting the British. Swapping out John
Kennedy for the compliant Lyndon Johnson would have made a lot of sense
to the Israelis at the time, so it is plausible.

The argument again this is that Trump makes all the noises of being as
rabid a Zionist as Lyndon Johnson, so if that is the nature of this
long-hidden material, it seems unlikely that he would release it. That
would not make his Zionist supporters happy. This is what suggests the
information is damning to the CIA or the FBI. Given how the CIA and FBI
treated Trump during his first term, getting some payback this time
around fits in with the theme of this term.

There is also the fact that Trump’s new best friend, Robert F. Kennedy
Jr. is sure the CIA was involved in these killings. Ted Kennedy was a
powerful senator for a long time and despite his problems, he no doubt
had access to people who had access to the information hidden away by
the government. The CIA angle has been the default assumption in
Washington, as well. This is the best argument for why this information
has been hidden away for so long.

In the end, assuming this data is finally released, it will all point to
something that we have known for a long time. That is the managerial
state that first took root in the post-war intelligence agencies, has
been the real power in Washington. Most of what is presented to the
American people has been a lie to one degree or another, because the
people in charge think they know best. “Our democracy” has meant “their
democracy” for much longer than the expression has existed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
