---
title: "Happy Campers"
date: "2025-05-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34178"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34178"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the classic film,
*The Maltese Falcon*, a post about my trip to the Old Glory Club, and no
Sunday podcast. I got back too late on Sunday to do a show, but I will
post something extra this week about the conference or maybe a second
video. On the Substack side of the green door, there are now weekly
videos. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the realities of the late managerial age is that the sorts of
numbers managers love and therefore produce in volume, are increasingly
unreliable and often manufactured to fit an agenda. Good data is usually
too late to be actionable or is simply the accurate version of the
previously reported fake data. Economic data is the most obvious example
of this trend. It used to be central to the news cycle but has now
become so corrupt the media will ignore it.

In the Biden years, much like the Obama years, it became popular with
the reporting agencies to produce fake economic numbers and then come
back at a later date to “revise” the previous data so they could pretend
they were being accurate. It was always a cycle where new data contained
information about how the previous data was revised in a way negative to
the administration, but often made the new data look like the
administration was doing a great job.

Peak managerial mendacity was Covid. The CDC stopped reporting deaths as
a real-time number so they could report fictionalized accounts of bodies
in the streets, always somewhere not where you live, which explained why
you did not see the bodies in the streets, but they were somewhere! Old
metrics that relied on hard data, like dead people showing up in
morgues, were massaged to the point where you could no longer get the
number of actual dead people.

We are getting a version of this now that Trump is back. His tariff plan
has kicked off a new genre of managerial horror stories. These come in
the form of economic reports that, like the bodies in the streets
phenomenon, always focus on a part of the country where you do not live.
Somewhere there are empty Walmart shelves due to the trade war with
China. There are people you do not know who are shocked by the rise in
prices, even though your prices have declined.

The cycle for management is always the same. First, they produce
reliable numbers from trusted sources to measure their performance. Then
they create models from those numbers to justify their continued
employment. This is when they begin to reimagine how the old data is
collected and before long, we have theories about how best to manage
information, which always underscores the need for management to keep a
tight control on the narratives.

Bankruptcy usually follows that last phase, or at least an economic
crisis great enough to warrant restructuring. That is because reality is
indifferent to the model makers and will eventually break every model.
We are living through a version of this process in the twilight of
managerialism. Since the Obama, years the choice has been between your
lying eyes and the model of reality presented by management. Enough
people picked the former and we are now undergoing a change in
management.

For example, during the Biden years we were told that the economy was
going great and those grumbling about egg prices were ingrates. Now that
Trump is in power, the media say we are in a depression. Go on the roads
right now and you will be confronted with miles of RV’s and campers.
This week, which leads to Memorial Day weekend, the nation’s highways
will be full of the things. So much so that massive traffic jams will be
a feature of the weekend.

Why does this matter? RV’s and campers have long been a useful metric
for the economy and the public perception of the economy. The more
people hitting the roads for campgrounds and parks, the better the
economy. In 2023, the industry went into a deep recession to the point
where many companies shut down production. Then it started to slowly
bounce back in 2024. Now it is undergoing a boom with the highways now
flooded with happy campers.

This used to be a metric discussed in public, but like so many of these
things, it fell out of favor in the Obama years. Management and its
marketing department, what we call the media, decided that the customers
really did not know best, so they scrapped those numbers in favor of
metrics that flattered management. The reason they are in the jam that
they currently find themselves is they started to believe their models
of reality instead of facing reality. Now there is a hostile takeover
underway.

A cruder and more hilarious version of this process is the recent
reporting of Joe Biden’s health and fitness. The data in this case was
our eyes. Everyone not blinded by their own models of reality saw a
frail, doddering old man. Management’s model, however, showed that he
was a model of fitness and virility. Now that model is being revised to
show he was actually suffering from dementia and has aggressive cancer.
The new model is now converging with reality.

The Biden story is a version of the basis trade, which pits models of a
point in the future and the models are continuously updated until the
point is reached. It is a way for the model makers to think they can
control the future, so it makes sense that the people running America
Inc. would think in these terms. They just forgot about the part that
says in the end, reality always wins. That is what you see on the road.
America is happy with the state of things, so they are going camping.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
