---
title: "Criminally Stupid"
date: "2013-12-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=653"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=653"
---

Most people have no idea what goes on in their local government office,
because they don’t work for the government. You can have some idea how
the department of motor vehicles operates, but you don’t know what
really goes on inside those offices. You just see the part that faces
the public. The people inside know about the computer systems, the
people who do nothing but take up space and the the ridiculous managers
and supervisors who fill their days with busy work and pointless
meetings.

The revers is true as well. The people working in government offices
have no idea what happens in the dreaded private sector. Most government
workers and just about all managers have never worked in the private
sector, outside of college jobs. They don’t know about the drive for
efficiency, cost cutting, and profit margins. They don’t know what it is
like to keep the computer software up to date so the company can
maintain its competitive edge and continue to reduce costs, by reducing
labor.

The reason this matters is when the government decides they are going to
increase the the number of interfaces between the government and the
dreaded private sector, it means increased opportunities for a clash of
cultures and technologies. The culture within the government office, for
example, is never going to blend well with the culture inside a private
business. Similarly, the technology and process are never going to
interface smoothly with those in the private sector. There’s going to be
problems.

This is what is happening with the <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/obamacare-exchange-errors-scam-frustrate-congressional-staffers"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ObamaCare exchanges</a>. In
government, IT projects are as mostly about rewarding favored companies
in specific districts. They eventually get done and generally work, but
they are never intended to reduce costs or lower the number of people in
the government office. In the private sector, technology is a tool to
cut people and costs, but often a tool to defend against mischief.
Trying to bring government IT systems into the retail space, is like
putting government workers in the private sector.

Now, the reason all of our government systems have not been compromised
is they are not exposed to the world. Most people are unaware of the
alternative “internet” used by security forces, but it exists and it
used by national security, diplomats and parts of government. Secure
communication channels are essential. More often, government systems are
simply so old, they can’t be accessed over the internet.  There are
plenty of government systems running COBOL applications to this day.

This initiative to upgrade these government systems so they can
interface with the private sector systems sounds good in theory, but
that’s where the culture problem comes into the mix. Since none of these
legacy systems were written by people contemplating the Internet, they
have nothing more than old school password security. By exposing them to
the internet, bad actors can now quickly crack the security and get into
the back-end systems where the sensitive data is stored. The whole
system is now exposed.
