---
title: "The Left Side of the Bell Curve"
date: "2013-08-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=130"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=130"
---

One fun way to scandalize most decent people is to tell them half the
people in the world are below average in IQ. Americans hate the idea of
IQ and fixed biological traits. The reason for this is free will is
tightly wound into the American creed. We have rights and we are judged
by how we exercise those rights. The multi-billion dollar self-help
industry exists,m because Americans are sure you can improve on what God
gave you. It is a central part of the American myth that we can be
anything we choose to be.

It is also what drives so much of social science and government policy.
No amount of evidence to the contrary will convince us that you can’t
get better and smarter. It’s why the  phrase “Flynn Effect” has become
an involuntary response from liberals whenever the subject of IQ is
raised. Whenever the topic of IQ comes up on-line, the comments will
have people swearing the Flynn Effect means IQ is malleable. That means
the reason little Matumbo is dumb is not nature, but an insufficiently
funded school system.

The fact is, though, IQ is real. Most of every population falls into the
category of average IQ for that population. Then there are some that are
dimwits and others with above average and even genius level IQ. Every
population of humans has an average IQ, just as they have an average
height. Europeans tend to be smarter than other populations, on average.
This is one reason why Europeans raced ahead of the rest of the world
starting in the 15th century. Not the only reason, but an important one.

European societies have a relatively large number of above average IQ
people compared to other populations. This advantage did not count for a
lot until technology permitted enough extra to support a leisure
class. Once Europeans societies were able to afford a leisure class, the
smart fraction was able to accelerate the progress down the road to
modernity. On the other hand, the societies lacking the human capital to
create a leisure class, also lacked a large enough smart fraction to
overcome scarcity.

<a
href="http://www.technologyreview.com/featuredstory/515926/how-technology-is-destroying-jobs/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is and interesting paper</a> on how
technology is changing our labor markets. The fact is, technology works
great for smart people. It offers all sorts of new ways to make a living
and make life easier. Even credentialization has not limited this. Every
business has a need for smart people. I know lots of people who have
changed careers a few times, because the demand for their smarts
changed. The demand for IQ is constant. Even those with professional
degrees have adapted in a similar fashion.

For the people on the left side of the bell curve, it is a different
story. Their skills are narrow and they acquire new skills slowly.
Technology is often making their skills obsolete. That’s one reason why
we see stagnant wages and unusually high unemployment rates among the
unskilled and semi-skilled. It’s not the only reason, but technology
also makes it easier to plug on foreign low-skilled labor, thus making
open borders more attractive. Many fall into a condition of chronic
under employment.

The question is what to do about it.
