---
title: "The Language of Fantatics"
date: "2013-12-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=730"
---

Fanatics not only deal in absolutes, they have a binary view of life.
Everything is either completely one way or completely the opposite way.
For example, normal people have a wide range of reactions to
homosexuality. At one end are people who hate the gays and at the other
are people who think the guys are great. Most people lie somewhere in
between those two polls. The fanatic sees only homophobes and
homophiles.

As a result, fanatics have a range of words they use to describe the
undifferentiated other on the other side of the wall from them. People
who agree with them, are inside the wall, while the people who don’t
completely agree are on the other side of the wall. As a result, they
have a lot of ways to describe the people outside the wall, but only one
way to describe the people in the inside. They are the righteous, the
anointed.

You see it in <a
href="https://reason.com/2013/12/26/duck-dynasty-pits-free-speech-against-sh"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this article</a> from Reason
magazine about the Duck Dynasty guy. Even they call his comments
“anti-gay.” In other words, because he does not fully embrace the latest
fads with regards to homosexuals, he must hate homosexuals and wish them
harm. he’s anti-gay. His brand of Christianity, like 99% of
Christianity, considers sex outside of marriage a sin. Therefore, gay
sex is a sin. That’s a statement of fact.

He said the same thing about bestiality and drunkenness. No one is upset
at him for being anti-animal or anti-booze. The reason, of course, is
those things lack a band of dedicated fanatics defending them. Sodomites
have a phalanx of Progressive lunatics willing to attack anyone that
gets too close to the walls. They don’t care why he does not embrace
their position, they just see him as the ultimate evil because he is on
the other side.

That’s the way it must be with fanatics. You are either with them or
against them. There’s no room to be indifferent. It try to stake out
some middle ground or you really are indifferent, they will force you to
choose sides. It’s why their language becomes stark. You are either in
favor of “gay rights” or you are anti-gay, a homophobe, a bigot, etc.
You’re either on the side of the righteous or you are an enemy of all
that is good.

The reason for this is, in part, psychological. The fanatic is most
likely biologically driven to be a fanatic. As Eric Hoffer noted, the
true believer will jump from one fanaticism to another, often
participating in many at the same time. For instance, an
environmentalist will also be a member of some Marxist group, a vegan
and an animal rights nut. In other words, the cause is unimportant. it
is being in a cause that matters.

Then there is the fact that the fanatic is often driven by a sense of
self-loathing, which is why they seek to completely submerge themselves
in the cause. They swap their hated sense of self for that of the group.
You really can’t be too extreme when trying to cleanse yourself of that
which you hate, which is you. What the fanatic thinks is worth doing,
they will always assume it worth overdoing. It is what makes them feel
free.

The fanatic probably has a use evolutionary use to humans. The rules of
society need to be enforced. Society needs to be defended. Sacrifices
need to be made for the good of the group. The fanatic can ensure his
genes pass on by defending his group. In settled society, this trait
probably adapted to settled life. Every society has its fanatics and
every society has some use for them. That’s not an accident.
