---
title: "So?"
date: "2013-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=40"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=40"
---

The late great Andrew Breitbart used to respond to liberal pieties with
“So?” The point, I assume, was to challenge the assumptions behind the
passage of the catechism being quoted. I thought of that when looking at
this clip from the state media. The bald dorky guy is pretending to care
what the two ghetto prols are saying, even though he has done everything
possible to make sure he never runs into their kind in regular life.

The two prols, raised on TV, repeat the lines they have heard their
whole life, but never bothered to understand, assuming they could
understand any of it.

http://youtu.be/MzPCbuFkAFg

For the sake of argument, let’s pretend Zimmerman looked at Martin and
thought, “There’s a young black male. I better check him out as they are
always committing crimes.” Heck, let’s take it further and assume he
thought, “I hate niggers, Why is that nigger in my neighborhood?”

So what?

Having bad thoughts is not a crime. Following someone because of those
bad thoughts is not a crime. Punching someone in the face as Martin did
to Zimmerman is a crime. Sitting on top of someone, bashing their head
into the ground, is a crime. Pulling your gun and shooting someone doing
that to you is not a crime. It’s the most fundamental right.

There are a lot of things both men could have done and should have done
different. So?
