---
title: "Believing In False Things"
date: "2013-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=273"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=273"
---

It is a common lament to say that people are dumber today than in the
past or that society is more depraved to day than in another age. It’s a
lament that old men have made in all times and places, even when it is
obviously false. That said, it seems as if the West is getting
institutionally stupid. Basic facts about the human condition that were
commonly understood are becoming forbidden knowledge, discussed only in
secret.

The crush of information that comes at us probably has something to do
with it. Our brains simply can’t hold the volume. Still, it seems like
someone would remember that everyone knew [Bobby Riggs threw the match
against the lesbian tennis player when it
happened](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/10269122/Billie-Jean-King-win-in-Battle-of-the-Sexes-was-fixed.html).
I was just a kid at the time and I recall the adults laughing at the
thing. I’ve gone my whole life assuming the whole thing was a setup. The
mafia angle is probably new.

The funny thing to me is the strange persistence of the feminist lunacy
about the differences between the sexes. Biology is not a social
construct and we have thousands of people, tens of thousands, working in
fields that assume biology is real, sex is real and even race is real.
Especially when it comes to the issue of sex. Yet despite the mountains
of evidence and daily existence, the social construct argument persists.

We have a mountain of evidence now from the military and it is clear
that women can’t do the same things physically as men. It turns out that
10,000 years of observation was indeed correct. That’s why there is one
standard for women and another for men. It is also why we should never
see women in combat units. They simply cannot do what is required. Yet,
saying it in polite company gets you sent out of the room if you’re
lucky.

The magical thinking does not stop at physical skills. Since 1901, women
have made up four percent of the Nobel laureates in Medicine, two
percent in Chemistry, and only one percent in Physics. The number of men
with an IQ of 145 is seven times that of women. At the highest levels,
 the ratio is 30:1. On average, men are clearly better at mathematics
and dominate the higher IQ groups. It turns out boys are better at math.

Men are also over represented in the low end of IQ, which makes a lot of
sense from the perspective of evolution. Human society needed a smart
fraction, but also a strong violent fraction. Someone needs to be in
charge, but someone has to be willing to carry out the orders. Women, in
contrast, have to be good at bearing and raising children, which
requires neither high math skills nor great physical courage.

Despite the mountain of evidence and 10,000 years of observation, put
“women not good at math” and you get back pages and pages of links to
stories claiming the facts are to be ignored. Hilariously, the counter
to decades of test scores will be a paper in Psychology Today claiming
it is part of the conspiracy to maintain the patriarchy. Feminism is
that thing everyone knows is false, but everyone pretends it is true
anyway.
