---
title: "Sports Radio IQ"
date: "2013-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=297"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=297"
---

For a long time I did cognitive testing for companies evaluating
applicants and current employees. Modern people associate this sort of
thing with evil Nazis who view humans the same way farmers look at their
livestock. That said, there is a strain of this in the human sciences
that dates back to the the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efficiency_Movement"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Efficiency Movement</a>. The industrial
revolution did result in the widespread believe that technology and
science could improve the stock of human capital, often by eliminating
the stupid and dangerous.

That said, the work I was doing had nothing to do with eugenics or
genocide. It was about evaluating employees and applicants with regards
to fit within the firm. The idea was to create profiles of the various
roles in the company. Everyone including senior managers were tested and
then a profile was created for each area. There was the marketing
profile, for example, which was used to assess sales applicants. The
closer some one was to the ideal profile, the better the fit. It was not
determinate, just another evaluation tool.

One of the things I eventually learned is that management often selected
against people with a high IQ, particularly for certain sales and
management roles. It was just assumed, for example, that a super smart
person would be unsatisfied in a sales position, unless the position
requires problems solving. Managers looked for simple minded, but
outgoing people to sell commodities. For technical sales or sales
engineer positions, problem solving was more important than personal
skills or aggressiveness.

In other words, before testing, people naturally arrived at some rather
sensible assumptions about human behavior. A guy with a high IQ is going
to go mad sitting ina  toll booth eight hours a day. On the other hand,
he can work out fine in a position where he can kill hours reading a
book, while waiting for some process to run. Einstein famously worked in
a patent office. Faulkner wrote at least one novel working in a boiler
room, as a maintenance man. He wrote while waiting for alarms to ring,
telling him to do something.

Certain professions certainly seem like they are better served by a
certain kind of stupid person. I was listening to sports talk radio the
other day and they were discussing Tim Tebow and it was the usual
blather. They wanted dumb sports fans to call in and say bad things
about Tebow. When the callers did not materialize, the jabbering sports
jocks filled the void by saying stupid things. It occurred to me that
being a sports talk radio person requires a combination of stupidity and
a misplaced sense of self.

In other words, the good sports radio guy is not very bright, but he is
sure he is smarter than the callers, which may be true, but the
differences are small at that level. Yet, the people running the sows
think they are brilliant. it’s possible that the callers think the exact
opposite, that they are the smart ones and the radio guy is the dummy.
The bulk of the listeners tune in to hear dumb people argue about
sports. If the sports jock was smarter and more self-aware, the whole
thing falls apart and is no longer fun for the rest of us.

It is assumed that stupid people fill menial jobs like carrying stuff,
picking fruit and stocking shelves. It is further assumed that robots
will replace these people and we will have a population of idle nitwits.
The truth is, the demand for stupid people may be much higher and their
roles may be more difficult to replace. If the robot future also comes
with a eugenic component, the result may be fewer middling IQ people,
rather than fewer dumb people. The bell curve may be inverted, so it is
the smart leading the very dumb.
