---
title: "The Death Of Pop"
date: "2013-12-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=688"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=688"
---

As John Derbyshire is fond of saying, pop culture is filth, but it is
worth noticing, if you want to get a sense of where the culture is
heading. It is a strange artifact of the modern west, modern America
particularly, so it’s healthy probably speaks to the health of the
American society. Youth culture is not a permanent feature of human
society. In fact, it is an oddity. For most of human history, youth
culture did not exist.Children graduated into adulthood and that was it.
Youth culture is a creation of the American post-war Left.

To be accurate, what we think of as pop culture started in earnest in
the 20’s and 30’s in big cities. People with disposable income could go
to clubs and hear jazz music and carry on in ways that were otherwise
prohibited. That was not really youth culture as we think of it today.
It was an extension of the existing cosmopolitan leisure activity,
brought down to a middlebrow level. Instead of you people attending
formal dances, they went to clubs and listened to black music, smoked
jazz cigarettes and talk about communism,

After the Second World War, an authentic youth culture was born. The
proliferation of media, TV, radio and movies, quickly centered on young
people. The reason is young people are dumb and have bad tastes. It’s
a lot easier to sell them pop culture than to sell it to an
older person with more complex tastes. Radicals also saw it as a way to
recruit the young in their efforts to subvert public order. It’s not an
accident that the long cultural revolution in America started with
a revolution in pop culture.

There was also money to be made selling stupid young people bad music
and silly fads that changed every year. Even though most was crap, some
was quite good. By the late 60’s sixties and early 70’s, a lot of pop
music was very good. Listen to Led Zeppelin, for example, and you hear
very accomplished musicians tapping into old traditions in western
music. It’s not Beethoven of Brahms, but within that genre, many of the
best performers were very talented musicians. In a better age, they
would have been put to better use.

Today, pop culture is noticeably devoid of talent. The automation and
technology have, as is always the case, removed the art and replaced it
with decoration. In the last two decades we have seen a stream of female
pop singers following a standard formula, where they gain great success,
but then fade and are replaced by an updated version, doing the same
act. Madonna was the first to figure out how to be the raunchy power-pop
diva and after here has been a stream of imitators doing the same act.

Heterosexual male singers have just about disappeared from pop music,
instead turning up in country. The beta males like Justin Beiber are
designed to appeal as much to the bath house culture as teens. Just as
the proliferation of gay casting directors has turned the leading man
into a gay icon, the proliferation of homosexuals in the music business
has turned the male singer into a twink. Gays like their men to look
like steroidal freaks or like teenage boys. That’s a truth of life that
is forbidden, but still true.

The trouble with the factory formula is it eventually breaks down.
<a href="http://nypost.com/2013/12/14/what-happened-to-lady-gaga/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Lady Gaga seems to be headed
to the dustbin</a> as her latest record is a flop. Her music was never
anything special, but her marketing was better than most. Her people
fused David Bowie and Paris Hilton with a dash of Marilyn Manson.
Wisely, they kept it PG-13 so they could target young teenage girls, but
also rope in the dorky older girls. It was good timing as the victim
culture was growing, particularly among young females. It was good
timing.

The transcendent theme to all of pop music these days, even country, is
the stunning lack of real talent. Most of the singers need electronic
enhancement. Few can play more than a few notes on an instrument. None
are writing music. Instead there’s a music factory cranking out their
tunes and a whole marketing team to build the back story and narrative
of the performer. The lack of authenticity is near universal, which is
ironic, as the genesis of youth culture was a quest for authenticity
that transcended bourgeois life.
