---
title: "President Mugabe"
date: "2013-10-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=489"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=489"
---

Martin Luther King is treated like a saint these days. According to
popular mythology, he was the Progressive version of Jesus, sent to
cleanse the sins of the white man. The truth is, he was far from a
saint. By most accounts, King was a lot like Al Sharpton. He was
personally corrupt and a degenerate. His great gift was a talent for
manipulating upper middle-class whites, while at the same time appearing
to oppose them on behalf of the blacks. Whites believed they could deal
with him and blacks trusted him.

King had was a sixth sense about the ruling class whites. He knew that
they lacked the appetite for confrontation and were generally in favor
of dismantling segregation. Northern whites wanted it gone because they
hated southern whites, but upper class southerners wanted it gone too.
These whites wanted to be accepted in the national elite and saw
segregation as an obstacle. King understood this and played on that
divide as you can see in his
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_from_Birmingham_Jail"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Letter From Birmingham Jail</a>.

The subtle point, made in the context of the events that got him locked
up, was that whites had a choice. They could negotiate with him or fight
with the brothers on the street. At the same time, the message to
northern whites was that blacks would not submit, so it was safe to back
them against southern whites. This two cushion bank shot had the desired
effect of weakening the resolve of southern elites, who were put in the
same impossible position as South African whites a generation later.

In the end, King’s great gift was not his ability to rally and uplift
blacks, but his ability to pit one groups of whites against another. The
faction willing to fight would be abandoned and used as a scapegoat.
Later, guys like Jackson and Sharpton turned this trick into a racket.
They would threaten to riot outside a corporate headquarters until they
got paid. Jackson became a millionaire shaking down large companies.
Sharpton is less rich, but he certainly lives well scaring white
liberals into paying his way.

In post-Colonial Africa, there was a similar phenomena, but in a
different context. The white colonials were looking to put a black face
on their possessions and went looking for the best and brightest
Africans. The Brits went so far as to send them back to England for
training and education. Eventually, some rose up and took control as the
colonials withdrew. The story over and over with the new African leaders
was they all possessed an ability to sooth the fears of the whites,
while appearing as authentic Africans.

Time after time, the colonials were lead to believe that these guys were
more like them than the typical African. They held no ill will toward
them and would continue on the policies established by the whites. Ian
Smith of Rhodesia, a skeptic of British policy, was even won over
eventually. Once they gained power, however, the new black rulers set
about slaughtering anyone they thought was a threat. Eventually, that
meant turning on the white farmers and administrators and eventually
genocide.

We are seeing something similar with Barak Obama. It turns out that his
only real skill is the ability to make upper-middle class white liberals
do stuff for him. Otherwise, the guy is incompetent. <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/world/la-fg-spying-phones-20131029,0,3235295.story#axzz2j6splOfn"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">You see it in this story from the LA
Times</a>, of all places.  This is the basic stuff of governance.
Governments spy on one another. They get caught. They are always
prepared for both so as not to look
foolish. <span style="line-height: 1.625;">Yet, this administration is
incapable of this basic duty. This is statecraft 101 and the
administration can’t master it.</span>

As an aside, a trouble pattern seems to be emerging with regards to the
use of the intelligence services in this administration. They seem to
have a flagrant disregard for the normal protocols. The reason those
protocols exist is to avoid these sorts of diplomatic blunders. The
story makes quite clear that the White House deliberately broke the
rules in order to spy on European leaders. That suggests a cavalier
attitude toward the limits of the state. Who else are they spying on and
what other rules are they breaking?

<span style="line-height: 1.625;">Anyway, pick an item and the only
thing Obama has been able to do well is rally upper-middle class white
liberals to defend him from his critics. Everything else has been a
mess. He had an opportunity to radically alter government in his first
two years and blundered so badly little was accomplished. Even his most
slavish fans grumble about the blown opportunities. It turns out that
replacing whites with non-whites has a real impact on the
basic </span>functioning<span style="line-height: 1.625;"> of
western-style governments.</span>

Americans are now getting see up close why Africa has failed. We elected
the Robert Mugabe of America politics as President. He’s not threatening
genocide, at least not yet, but there are trouble signs that his
administration is about to unleash a torrent of anti-white rhetoric. His
talk about going “Bullworth” is all about taking the gloves off with
regards to race. The last thing America needs is race talk from the
mulatto president. That could very well be the price of incompetence. A
simmering race war.
