---
title: "The R Word"
date: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=164"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=164"
---

The evidence that Progressivism is a cult is all around us. The main bit
of evidence is how they engage in the most blatant of group think. In
the clip below the nation’s second most famous lesbian thinks she is
being clever by refusing to say the name of the football team at the
heart of this terrible scandal. Of course, She has no idea why her cult
is angry at the sports team. My bet is she has never seen a football
game. She just hears the other loons howling about the team, so she
starts howling so she can be part of the group.

Maddow, of course, is obviously struggling with mental illness. The
disjointed mannerism, the inappropriate facial expressions and odd
smirking are familiar to anyone who has been around people using heavy
duty psychiatric drugs. Medication can make them functional, but they
are never *normal*. <a
href="http://www.mediaite.com/online/rachel-maddow-candidly-discusses-her-cyclical-depression-with-rolling-stone/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">She has discussed this in interviews</a>,
but I suspect she struggles to keep it together every day. Watch the
clip and then imagine such a person working in your office. You would
assume she is seeing a shrink every week.

http://youtu.be/DAs1-NAfDJI

Of course, this is an example of <a
href="https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/9834-factitious-disorder-imposed-on-another-fdia"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Munchausen syndrome by proxy</a>, which
is a mental disorder where a person pretend another is ill, so they can
care for them. The other version is where the caregiver is actually
making the person sick, so they can then care for them. A fireman who
starts fires so he can be the heroic guy putting out the fires is
another variation of this. In the case of childless lesbians like Rachel
Maddow, they find victim groups to champion, so they can feel needed.
Same idea, different victims.

That is the thing you see with Progressives now. They no longer deal in
the practical, like economics, or even the temporal, like real people.
Instead, they invent victims and then conjure ghostly causes like racism
and privilege. The goblin that haunts the minds of Progressive women is
always the heterosexual white man, so they imagine what evil white man
must hate and then invent a victim group. From there it is search for
proof, like the hunt for ancient aliens or Sasquatch. Here we have
imaginary bigots and fake Indians.
