---
title: "The Non-Ideological Ideologues"
date: "2013-11-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=598"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=598"
---

At this point, it should be clear to everyone that American policy
makers have no idea what they are doing in the Arab world. The Iraq
fiasco and the never ending Afghanistan blunder is proof enough. Just in
case it is not clear, the Obama administration is trying to cut a deal
with Iran that underscores the incompetence. The American foreign policy
establishment is just a collection of people with positions not based in
reality, but designed to set them apart from the other experts, because
that’s what they do.

A good example is <a
href="https://nationalinterest.org/blog/paul-pillar/now-comes-the-hard-part-9460"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this piece</a> from someone
named Paul Pillar.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_R._Pillar"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">His bio</a> says he is a
former CIA employee. He’s now “non-resident senior fellow at Georgetown
University’s Center for Security Studies, as well as a nonresident
senior fellow in the Brookings Institution’s Center for 21st Century
Security and Intelligence.” That’s quite impressive until you start
reading his article on the pending Iran deal. It is a strange mix of
logical fallacies and random positions that don’t seem to fit together
very well.

*For anyone who genuinely wants to avoid an Iranian nuclear weapon and
whose attitude toward the nuclear negotiations with Iran has not been
shaped by some other agenda, the “<a
href="http://i.alalam.ir/news/Image/original/2013/11/24/agreement.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Joint Plan of Action</a>” that
was agreed to in Geneva this weekend is a major achievement that
deserves enthusiastic applause.*

When you start with a
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_true_Scotsman"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">no true Scotsman</a> fallacy,
it is safe to assume you have staked out an indefensible position. In
this case, anyone who thinks the deal is a bad one or defective in some
way is guilty of having a hidden agenda. or, worse still, wants to see
Iran get the bomb. If he had come to this conclusion after an exhaustive
analysis of the various criticisms and alternative, maybe it is OK to
make the claim. To unilaterally declare your position the only morally
acceptable one says you have a weak hand. It gets worse.

*First, it unmistakably moves Iran farther away than it is now from any
ability to make a nuclear weapon, and even farther away from any such
ability it would have in the future in the absence of this agreement.
Among the facets of the deal that do this are the stopping of enrichment
of uranium to 20 percent and the conversion of all current material
enriched to this level into forms making it unavailable for enrichment
to the level required for weapons.*

That sounds good except Iran has never stood by any of its past deals.
Why should we believe them now? If you are truly concerned about Iran
getting a deliverable nuclear weapon, what you have to assume is they
are willing to lie, cheat and steal in order to get one, so taking their
word for anything is a non-starter. If you’re just trying to make it
tougher for them, but you accept they will eventually get the
technology, then there really is no point in making any deal with them.

*Second, Iran’s program will be subjected to an unprecedented degree of
international inspection, going beyond the treaty obligations of Iran or
any other country and providing additional assurance that any Iranian
departure from the terms of the agreement would be quickly detected.*

How is this different than what has been in place for a decade or so? He
does not say, but we have technology in place to monitor them now. There
are roughly four ways to develop fissionable materials for a  nuclear
weapon. They are gaseous diffusion, calutrons, centrifuges and breeder
reactors. We know the only option for Iran is centrifuges and we know
that’s what they are using. This requires a lot of resources and human
capital, which we can monitor and get a good idea of their progress. We
don’t need inspectors.

The Iranians, however, <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/tehran-satisfied-with-nuclear-deal/2013/11/24/2836224e-5506-11e3-bdbf-097ab2a3dc2b_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">have weighed on on this
point</a>. Iran’s current president said, “Let anyone make his own
reading, but this right is clearly stated in the text of the agreement
that Iran can continue its enrichment, and I announce to our people that
our enrichment activities will continue as before.” In other words, they
will sign no deal that they think binds them to inspections or halting
their program. That means whatever deal is done, will have no practical
impact to how the West deals with Iran.

The point is, this whole Iran deal is just an exercise. It is a task for
career people in the foreign policy establishment, like recess of finger
painting for school kids. This is fine for European countries like
France, as they don’t count. The American empire does matter, so these
silly exercises have an impact. Whether it is cutting a bad deal with
Iran or <a
href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/iran/10472538/Iran-nuclear-deal-Saudi-Arabia-warns-it-will-strike-out-on-its-own.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">screwing over the Saudis</a>
to get it done, these time waster done by time servers in the foreign
policy establishment can make the world worse.

The fact is, we have no business in the Middle East. Buying oil and gas
does not require a million troops in and around the region. Selling the
Saudis and Israelis the tools to keep the really bad actors under
control can be done from a distance. We can certainly give them quiet
assistance if they need to put a beating on one of these bad actors.
Otherwise, it is not our problem. Left on their own, the Iranians can’t
get a nuke without help from outside and The Jews and Saudis can do a
better job policing that.
