---
title: "The War on Science"
date: "2013-08-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=166"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=166"
---

[I’ve been reading this
article](http://www.newrepublic.com/article/114127/science-not-enemy-humanities)
by Steve Pinker in The New Republic. It has been ages since I have had a
reason to pick up a copy of TNR. Maybe that says more about me than it
does about them, but I actually check into Mother Jones and The Nation
once a week, so maybe TNR just got dull. There was a time, probably in
the late 1980’s, that The New Republic was a must read journal, if you
wanted to know what the ruling class was thinking about policy. Anyway,
the Pinker piece is interesting to me for two reasons.

The first is that he starts with the claim the great thinkers of the
Enlightenment were all scientists.That’s more than inaccurate. He gives
the impression that they were pure empiricists and not influenced by
philosophy or religion. Blaise Pascal was a Christian fanatic in
addition to being a great scientist. Locke and Hobbes were certainly men
concerned with philosophy, economics and politics. I suspect the great
men he lists in his opening would have viewed their science as a hobby,
a sideline to their real work.

It is one of the things I find irritating about materialism. Pinker
carries on at great length about the war on science, but it reads like a
jeremiad against the humanities. I think what he sees as a rejection of
science is really just a rejection of the absolutism we get from guys
like Pinker. It’s similar to how atheists turn the religious into straw
men. The critique is not about explaining the object of the critique, as
it is celebrating the critic. Maybe the humanities are nothing but
magical thinking, but there’s a reason for that too.

Anyway, that’s not why I started this post. Pinker brings to mind the
real trouble for science and that is the corruption of science. Putting
economics, for example, in the same bucket as chemistry is the sort of
corruption I have in mind. Economics is not astrology, but it is
probably closer to wine tasting than it is to physics. A lot of
economics is wishful thinking dressed up with mathematics. It gets even
worse when it comes to other so-called soft sciences like psychology or
sociology.

For the same reason counterfeiting used to be a hanging offense, fake
science should be given rough treatment from the empiricists. The only
way the folks over in the philosophy department are going to respect the
folks in the chemistry department are when both sides know the boundary.
That’s where Pinker goes wrong. He thinks there is some great fusion to
be had between the two. There’s not. Science is an explanation of the
knowable. The scope of what is knowable expands as science expands.

The point being is that the defenders of science never stop to think
that maybe they have some hand in the reaction against their work. They
seem to lack any respect for the common man and his skepticism of
science. The public used to hold science in the highest regard, but
decades of corruption and unaddressed hucksterism has made the average
guy into a skeptic. The old gag is, “where is my flying car.” The first
place to start in the defense of science is to clean out the corruption
in the sciences.

That said, Pinker is right to attack the ridiculous straw man of
“scientism.” This just made up nonsense from neo-Christians. They also
rail against “Darwinism” which they conveniently define as a religion.
The people pitching this stuff almost always call themselves
Bible-believing Christians, which means they practice a bespoke religion
based on whatever they like form the New Testament. There is a good
argument to be made that they are not Christian, but actually
post-Christian pagans.

Regardless, they are noisy, not serious. The defenders of science would
be wise to ignore them in the same way evolutionary biology ignores
intelligent design. They are not making arguments that can be refuted.
They are simply hooting like primitives about things that confuse and
frighten them. Let them hoot. It’s harmless. The world is no more going
to spin off its axis if some small minority believes in voodoo than if
some small minority are young earth creationists. Pinker is thinking
like a totalitarian here.

 
