---
title: "The Opposite Rule of Liberalism"
date: "2013-11-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=561"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561"
---

At various times, I’ve rolled out my rule about how to interpret
statements by liberals regarding non-liberals. That rule is the title of
this post and it goes like this. Take whatever they say, assume the
opposite and you will get close to the truth. When liberals said the Tea
Party was “AstroTurf” and liberal groups were genuine grassroots, you
could flip it around to mean their gang was a rent-a-mob and the weirdos
in the 17th century outfits were just regular folks pissed off and
making some noise.

That was in fact the case. The Left has well funded “volunteer”
operations to bus in protesters when needed. Often they are paid by
their union, like we saw in Wisconsin with the teacher unions. It is a
form of projection, for the most part, but in politics it is a way to
shift the focus away from whatever crooked stuff their doing. One of the
oldest tricks in politics is to falsely accuse your opponent of
something, so the story is about the other guy denying it, not about
whatever you are doing.

A great example of this comes from <a
href="https://isteve.blogspot.com/2013/11/liberal-v-conservative-is-it-genetic.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a post by Steve Sailer</a>. For as long
as I’ve been alive, there have been theories about why there is a Left
and Right in American politics. All of these theories claim the mantel
of science and all of them come from the Left. The reason for this is,
at some level, the Left knows they are not working from facts and
reason, but rather a set of beliefs. Rather than confront that, they
accuse everyone that opposes them of holding irrational beliefs and
acting from emotion.

The formula goes like this. They assign to themselves qualities they
wish they possessed, but don’t. “Open minded” always makes the list
along with “smart” and “unconventional.” Who would not want to be a
smart, open minded guy, who is a little off-beat? Gosh that sounds just
like the protagonist of every cool TV show and movie! Then they usually
assign some bad qualities to the mythical right-winger or conservative.
Then they produce a “study” that confirms all of this as science!

I’ll note that liberals have a long list of words for the people on the
other side of the hive walls. You never hear liberals talk about the
differences between libertarians and paleo-cons or neocons and paleos.
To the liberal, they are part of the undifferentiated other on the other
side of the wall. Often they avoid this and rely on their cartoon
version of the conservative, which is usually a blend of the 1950’s
sitcom dad and a prison guard. It’s Ward Cleaver with a closet full of
Nazi uniforms.

Once the basic descriptions are established, they lard it up with
pseudo-science and rotten statistics. In a prior age, they would have
psychiatrists put their stamp of approval on it. Today, the fake nerd is
all the rage on the Left so they conjure up a few characters from the
social sciences. Almost always a little digging finds that Doctor Nick
Riviera relied on a handful of grad students he paid to answer some
questions. But, he was kind enough to lard it up with jargon so the left
can claim it is science.

It is not just the normal stuff you see in team sport politics. Liberals
invest a lot of time and energy promoting things about themselves that
are not true. In fact, the opposite is usually the case. Go look at that
Sailer post and the qualities listed under liberal.  Liberals are the
most dogmatic people with very narrow opinions on just about everything.
Open minded is, unsurprisingly, the exact opposite of a liberal. They
think that by embracing things that normal people hate, that makes them
open minded. In fact, it just makes them dicks.

The fact that they tend to dress alike and repeat the same things is an
example of their narrow mindedness, not their willingness to try new
things or be unconventional. When was the last time a liberal surprised
you with a non-liberal opinion on something? When was the last time the
NYTimes or MSNBC was unpredictable? The people running around accusing
others of narrow mindedness are always from this hive minded
authoritarian cult that is viciously intolerant and anything that smacks
of deviationism.

The most glaring example of the opposite rule of liberalism is how they
describe themselves as highly individualistic. Put a liberal in a room
full of non-liberals and they are a shrinking violet. Reverse the roles
and the liberals will harangue the non-liberal like a group of Crips
attacking a Chinese delivery guy. Liberals congregate like all herd
animals. They seek protection in numbers. It is why they are over
represented in politics, soft-sciences and journalism. These are
activities best done in groups.<span style="line-height: 1.625;">They
are also high conformity activities which appeal to the hive mind.
</span>

The most important facet of this rule is that whatever the Left is
ranting about, whatever bogeyman or vice they see as a great threat, is
most likely something they are doing or have recently done. For
instance, when the Left is accusing Republicans of abusing government
power, it means liberals have either been doing it or are planning to
it. All of the vices the Left accuses others of doing are habits common
on the Left. Properly understood, the hooting from the Left is both a
confession and a warning.

There you have an expanded definition of the Opposite Rule of
Liberalism.
