---
title: "NHL Overtime Math"
date: "2013-11-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=592"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=592"
---

For a long time now the NHL has settled ties, after a suitable overtime
period, with a shootout. The reason they went to this format is the
typical American fan hates a tie result and they hate seeing games go on
for hours with no result. At least they think the fans hate ties. For
some reason soccer fans seem to be OK with ties, but then again soccer
fans are not really sports fans. There’s also the television factor. The
TV people want the games to last a predictable length of time in order
to sell ads

Regardless, the motivation for adding the shootout was not due to some
practical issue of accounting. The NHL managed just fine for decades
without the shootout. It was an attempt to address what they thought was
a concern of casual fans and it was a way to add some excitement.
Shootouts are fun, even if you think they are stupid. It’s not hockey,
but it is a competition, one with something at stake. That’s the appeal
of sports, seeing men match wits, skill and strength with one winning
and one losing.

The thinking way back when was that teams would seek to avoid the
shootout and take risks in regulation and overtime in order to avoid the
luck of the shootout. Hockey people think of the shootout as random
chance. Elite scorers will beat elite goalies more often than not. It is
really not a test of the goalie’s skill. It is more random chance. Even
if that is not true and skill plays some role, the players and fans
think it is chance. Therefore, the players should be desperate to avoid
it. That’s was the thinking.

The trouble is it did not work out that way. At first it seemed to, but
it has settled into the same old routine with the road team playing for
a tie late in regulation and overtime, figuring the odds favor them.
They get the point for the tie and a 50/50 chance of getting the
shootout point. It is quite rational if you do the math. Playing for the
tie means a 90% chance of getting one point. It also means a 50% of
getting the additional point. A little math means that approach is worth
1.4 points.

Throwing caution to the wind and going for the win means the game ends
in a loss 50% of the time (let’s assume). That’s one point – 50% of 2
points for a win. For the “go for the win” strategy to make sense, you
would need a win chance of greater than 70%, which is unlikely, even for
the top teams. Obviously, if you had such an advantage, you would not be
headed into overtime often enough to care. You would win 70% of your
games and the risk of losing in overtime would not matter very much.

Turns out hockey teams are not that dumb after all.

<a
href="http://boston.cbslocal.com/2013/11/14/felger-mazz-cam-neely-weighs-in-on-possible-changes-to-overtime-fighting-in-nhl/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Now the NHL is thinking about changing
the rules to get rid of the shootout</a>. The main motivation is that it
is stupid to decide games this way. After that, they are finding that
NHL teams are doing the simple math I described above and responding to
risk in a rational way. Modifying overtime by taking a skater off the
ice will change the math. The teams with better skaters will have some
new advantages. It’s an effort to add more risk to over time in order to
encourage risk take by certain teams in regulation.

The other thing they could do is change the points. A win should be
three points and the ties one point. Let’s do the math again. Playing
for the win, assuming the same 50/50 probability, results in 1.5 points
while the tie is just a point. Add back in the advantages and
disadvantages of 4-on-4 hockey and you get a lot more teams either
winning in OT or desperate to avoid OT, thus playing to win in
regulation.  The result could lead to more exciting finishes and far
fewer ties. The teams will figure it out and act accordingly.
