---
title: "Is America Moving Right?"
date: "2013-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=446"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=446"
---

If you are conservative in America, you have grown used to the fact that
the conservative commentariat is more concerned with staying in good
with the Left than making the conservative case on behalf of their
supporters. They are endlessly lecturing the Right about their tone and
their tactics. If some “unauthorized” right-wingers, like talk show
hosts or bloggers, comes up with some way to tweak the Left,
Conservative Inc. starts lecturing everyone about the need for good
behavior.

When the base complains about all this fraternizing with the enemy, guys
like Jonah Goldberg claim that the job of the conservatives like himself
is to sell ideas, win the argument. That means engaging the Left
anywhere and everywhere using facts and reason to change minds. Further,
they say that to do this they have to keep the debate civil and make
sure they are on good terms with the other side. After all, we’re all on
the same team. It’s just a difference of opinion.

The counter to that is that by going on these shows and engaging Lefty
on his terms, they are accepting the premises of the Left. Once you
accept the premise the argument is already lost. What’s left is a
negotiated surrender. For example, by accepting the premise that racism
is immoral, so-called conservatives end up having to sign off on every
Progressive social project, for fear of being called racist. If they
reject that premise, they don’t get invited to cable chat shows, so they
roll over and play dead for Lefty.

Anyway, this <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/monkey-cage/wp/2013/10/09/the-conservative-shift-in-public-opinion-has-happened-in-all-50-states/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> is getting a lot of attention
on all sides. The Libertarians think it means their winning, but they
have been expecting the “libertarian moment” for as long as anyone
reading this has been alive. On the other hand, conservatives wonder why
they are not winning anything, despite the fact the mood is swinging
their way. Of course, the Left fears they are not winning enough. They
have to work harder to defeat the Right. Again, the premise of the study
is suspect, but it is a useful point.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/360861/more-conservative-less-republican-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kevin Williamson has picked up on it and
written a column</a> about the difference between winning the argument
and winning elections. He also notes how support for the GOP at the
national level has waned a bit as local support has grown a bit. Again,
he assumes the premise is correct. Like everyone else on the right
waving around this study, he really wants it to be true. More important,
they want to think they are the ones responsible for altering public
opinion by making those clever arguments to Lefty.

Again, the study and the chattering about it is nonsense, but it reveals
a truth about the political system in modern America. It gets back to
the start of this post. The Left runs everything and the Right works
mostly as a brake to slow the process here and there, but never stop
anything. For that to work, the Right has to be willing to play the role
in the media. That’s why they are always worried about not upsetting the
Left. Their job is to police the right and make sure no one tries to
challenge the system.

Now, one thing about that study which could be useful is this. The
demographic changes happening in the country could be causing a change
among white voters. In other words, the study is picking up a shift in
white attitudes. That has nothing to do with the chattering classes, at
least not directly, but it will have an impact on them at some point. If
the white population is shifting politically, it means the financial
system of Conservative Inc is in for a major disruption, but that’s a
topic for another day.
