---
title: "A World of No Secrets"
date: "2013-09-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=348"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=348"
---

When it was revealed that the US government was reading everyone’s
e-mails and tapping their calls, some not so well informed people
recommended Tor as one way to keep the Feds out of your e-mail.
Unsurprisingly, it turns out to be totally false. Tor was never a
foolproof way to be anonymous on-line and it is entirely possible tor
was always a honey pot. <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-08-05/why-tor-users-should-watch-out"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">According to this Bloomberg story</a>,
not only was the network hacked by the Feds, it has some rather big
security flaws.

The fact that the funding for the project comes from the Department of
Defense should have been a clue, but people want to believe there is a
way to outwit the collective might of the tech industry and the imperial
government. of course, the rumors leaking from the FBI to the main
stream media could be psyops. They can’t crack Tor, so they leak that
they have, hoping people will stop using it. If Tor collapses, some
other option will take its place, maybe created by the Feds. Such is
life in the surveillance state.

The handful of Progressives who care about privacy say the solution is
to pass a bunch of privacy laws like the Europeans. The Euros do have a
more adversarial relationship with the Tech giants, because of their
natural anti-Americanism. In reality, the American Left likes to talk
about Europe, as it allows them to carry on like they are citizens of
the world, rather than local bumpkins.The idea that the US government
will limit himself is laughable, but no American thinks clearly about
this stuff.

The Left has always been deranged about this stuff. They will trust the
government to police itself, but they assume every corporation is out to
get them. This in spite the fact <a
href="https://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2013/09/09/Obama-White-House-had-NSA-limits-reversed/UPI-69311378710000/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">their new ruler is expanding the
surveillance state</a>, while giving the store away to the tech giants.
Of course, the American Left has never been consistent. Even so, 5,000
years of human history tell us that those with power will exercise it
and eventually abuse it. It is why The Founders limited it and diffused
it.

The fact is, the state can get away with just about anything, as long as
the bulk of the people think they safe, fed and entertained. Further, if
the abuse is not direct, as in agents of the state knocking down doors,
people tend to rationalize it. The government spying on everyone is read
by 90% of people as “the government is spying on them.” Lather on some
talk about Muslims trying to blow up the world and most people will view
opposition to the surveillance state as subversion.

Nothing happens until the money runs out. The America middle class is
willing to sit on its hands doing as they are told as long as they have
their Olive Garden and sportsball on the television. When that ends,
then we will see things change. When there’s no more money to fund the
welfare state, the welfare state ends. When there is no more money to
borrow to fund the Imperial Army, the Empire ends. When there’s no more
money for the America surveillance services, that will end.
