---
title: "The Price Of Gesture"
date: "2013-10-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=437"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=437"
---

The American Left is not longer an ideological movement with a practical
political platform and a list of demands. Instead, it has become a
secular religion, that engages in ritual and gesture to signal piety to
those within the movement. To outsiders, these gestures often seem weird
or dangerous, but to insiders they are the coin of the realm. The right
gesture can lead to a rise in the movement, while the wrong gesture can
spell doom.

Gesture politics, however, is not without its costs. It is one thing to
look down your nose at those downscale whites voting Republican and
shopping at WalMart. It is quite another to vote in people who seek to
act on the rhetoric. White liberals voted for Obama and the Democrats
because they hated the people who supported George Bush. They had no
other reason to support a guy unprepared for even minor office, much
less president.

They did it because it felt good. When Obama was inaugurated,
Progressive around the country held parties as if he was the savior and
the rapture was upon us. It’s not that they thought he was Jesus or that
he had supernatural power. They certainly acted like it, because that
signaled their devotion. In a way, Progressivism is a meta-religion, in
that it has all the rituals and spiritualism of a conventional religion,
without the supernatural core, like a deity or a pantheon of deities.
It’s very esoteric and mystical.

But, all that gesturing comes with a price when it results in public
policy. ObamaCare was never a thought out policy. What passed was
nothing like he ran on as a candidate. His proposal was a gesture to
show his virtue. The final product was a collection of give aways to
Democratic constituencies. The result is wrecking ball unleashed on an
already fragile health care system. <a
href="https://www.mercurynews.com/2013/10/05/obamacares-winners-and-losers-in-bay-area/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The cost</a> for that is now coming due.

*But people with no pre-existing conditions like Vinson, a 60-year-old
retired teacher, and Waschura, a 52-year-old self-employed engineer, are
making up the difference.*

*“I was laughing at Boehner — until the mail came today,”*

*Waschura said, referring to House Speaker John Boehner, who is leading
the Republican charge to defund Obamacare.*

*“I really don’t like the Republican tactics, but at least now I can
understand why they are so pissed about this. When you take $10,000 out
of my family’s pocket each year, that’s otherwise disposable income or
retirement savings that will not be going into our local economy.”*

*Both Vinson and Waschura have adjusted gross incomes greater than four
times the federal poverty level — the cutoff for a tax credit. And while
both said they anticipated their rates would go up, they didn’t realize
they would rise so much.*

*“Of course, I want people to have health care,” Vinson said. “I just
didn’t realize I would be the*

*one who was going to pay for it personally.”*

Amazingly, whole generations of Americans have been raised to think
insurance is this magic well of money that is there for you when you
don’t feel like spending your money on stuff like health care. Of course
everyone should have access to this magical resource. It would be unfair
to do otherwise. The Left really thought the only reason everyone did
not have insurance was that the dastardly insurance companies were
withholding it.

One of the strangest aspects of health care debates is that no one can
comes to terms with the fact that all goods and services are rationed.
There are no exceptions. They are either rationed by price, as in a
market, or they are rationed by a monopoly of supply, usually a state
monopoly. In the former, charity can mitigate the realities of the
market place. This was common until it was outlawed. In the latter,
there is no mitigation and the result is always pretty dreadful. Those
are the choices for health care.
