---
title: "The Relevancy of Russia"
date: "2013-09-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=317"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=317"
---

Now that <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/boehners-aboard-obama-gains-syria-strike-support-221323771--politics.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the GOP is riding in to rescue</a>
Obama’s war plans, the stage is set for a week of video game coverage of
the attacks on Syria. It’s always hard to know if this is just media
blather or real preparations for an attack. What we see with Obama is
the strange habit of confusing talk with actions. That’s why the
managerial class hated Dick Cheney. He did not confuse talk with action.
This is how we ended up in two pointless wars of choice in Afghanistan
and Iraq, so there is something to say for talking rather than acting.

Anyway, lost in the run-up is the questionable relevancy of Russia’s
opposition in world affairs. Putin keeps making noises one would expect
from a tough guy with some punch, but he is slowly coming to the
realization that <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/09/04/us-syria-crisis-russia-idUSBRE98307M20130904"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">words speak louder than actions</a>.
Syria’s main patron, the one moving ships into the area and providing
arms to Assad is now on the fence. Rather, Russia appears to be on the
fence. It’s hard to know as Putin is doing as much talking as Obama, who
is probably bluffing about all this.

Regardless, the US, with or without support from Europe, can launch an
attack on Syria knowing Russia will do nothing but complain. Obama could
take out Assad if he chooses, knowing that Putin is not going to war
over it. He can help facilitate waves of Muslim migrants flowing into
Europe and he can choke off energy supplies, but he can’t stop the US
from doing what it wants. He just has to hope Obama gets cold feet, so
he has no choice but to talk out of both sides of his mouth to buy time
and let Obama sweat.

There are two reasons why Russia is becoming a peripheral player in
world affairs. The first is Russia simply lacks the military resources
to do much outside her territory. One of the things we learned after the
fall of the Soviet Union is that their technology was very crude
compared to what the West was using. The years since the Cold War have
given greater access to technology, but military tech is as much a part
of culture and the Russian culture is still deeply warped from 70 years
of communism.

In the case of Syria, the Israelis probably have terrific intelligence
about Syria’s air defense systems, as well as her missile locations. The
Israeli missile defense system is more than enough to ward out the ad
hoc attacks that could come from a full-on attack on Syria by the US.
Then there is the fact the US can own the airspace within hours of a
conflict and deliver missile attacks anywhere it wants. We could take
out the Russian naval assets deployed to the region. Putin certainly
knows this.

The second reason is money. The wealth of nations is now controlled by
central banks, specifically the Federal Reserve and the ECB. Those two
banks control the world’s financial system. Putin and Gazprom may have
hundred of billions in energy resources, but that’s not worth a whole
lot when the Fed can destroy their currency. Russia, like China, needs
to be connected to the grid and that means remaining on good terms with
the United States, which is the world’s banker and money exchange.

That’s the big reason the Russians have to tread lightly. Of course,
geography plays a big role here too. While vast distances have protected
the Russians from invading armies from the West, it keeps her on the
periphery of European life. As a result, these sorts of adventures are
not really meant to confront the United States, but to keep western
government from ignoring the Russian. If the Russians took on the
attitude of the Swiss or the Swedes, there would never be a reason to
think about them.
