---
title: "Fake Nerds"
date: "2013-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=381"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=381"
---

When I was a boy I had a thing for taking stuff apart. I was curious
about how things worked. For instance, I once took the TV apart when my
parents were away. Thinking back it is amazing that I did not
electrocute myself. It’s also amazing that there was a time when parents
thought it was fine to leave an eight year old home alone. It was a
different country back then. Kids in my underclass neighborhood were
home alone all summer with little to no supervision.

Anyway, my thing for taking stuff apart became a problem so my poor
parents bought me some nerd toys to keep me busy. [I got a toy like
this](http://www.amazon.com/Elenco-Electronic-Playground-Learning-Center/dp/B0035XSZDI/ref=sr_1_1?s=toys-and-games&ie=UTF8&qid=1379769569&sr=1-1&keywords=project+lab)
to learn how electricity worked. I got a chemistry set which I wound up
using to kill the fish with by accident. The theory behind the toys was
to encourage the smarter boys to use their brain, instead of playing
sports all the time. In the 1970’s, it was still assumed that boys
played sports, got in fights, rough housed outside and so forth.

I may be mistaken, but the “nerd” was a term people used. Being bookish
was a thing and it was like being gay in the working class. Kids with
brains and curiosity therefore were guided into manly ways to use your
head. My chemistry set, for example, had a recipe for gun powder.
Imagine something like that today. The shrieking from the usual suspects
would be deafening. The electricity set had plans for building radios,
just like they used in the army. It was a way to make being smart have
utility.

Even way back in those olden times, people were starting to sense that
having brains was going to be more useful for boys than being tough. The
technological revolution was just starting to have a practical impact on
the average people. My father, a steamfitter, got a calculator, which
cost a bundle, from his employer to do layout work. My mother, a
secretary, had to learn how to use a word processor. My first
typewriter, in 1980, had an LCD screen to preview what I typed before
committing it to paper.

It was already clear that the world was entering a fork in the road.
Down one path the smart people would go and down the other the not so
smart.  Parents, even old school working class types, saw the writing on
the wall and started to encourage their kids to become nerds. My father
thought it was fascinating that I had a head for numbers. He would quiz
me all the time. When I took up chess, my grandfather would always want
to play, as he loved the game of chess.

Here we are four decades later and the nerds run the world – sort of.
The political class is still the same sort. Few have any math or
science. The financial class, the folks really in charge, rely heavily
on a technological elite, as well as people from the STEM fields. The
rise of the quant, that guy who started out in physics, but ended up
creating investment models, is proof the nerds run the world. Money men
ar still portrayed as alpha males, but the alpha male on Wall Street is
now a Korean or a Jewish nerd.

Nerds have certainly become a dominant force in modern societies. They
have supplanted the “working man” in the popular culture. You just don’t
see too many TV shows, for example, where the main character is a blue
collar guy. When you do see blue collar guy in popular culture, he is
either a  clownish exaggeration intended to make sport of the working
man or a modern of the noble savage that is supposed to validate the
prevailing assumptions about society, culture and politics.

Instead, the popular shows have snarky, high IQ nerds as stars. Big Bang
Theory is a great example of this taken to the absurd. Anyone familiar
with people in fields like theoretical physics knows they are not living
in a hip apartment doing fun and interesting things. But, that’s TV. it
is all fake, even the nerds. Cop shows now feature girls using
technology to outwit the offish white criminals. Criminals on TV, of
course, are nothing like reality, as far as complexion and competence.

That’s the other thing we have now – fake nerds. It makes sense. If the
archetypal hero is a nerd, the beautiful people will imitate him. The
fashionable Left has latched onto this with a death grip. I regularly
see my lefty friends linking to [stuff like
this](https://www.facebook.com/IFeakingLoveScience). None of them can
add past ten without help. They majored in soft subjects like art of
sociology in college and struggle with basic technology. It is really
important to them, however, to be pro-science.

That means memorizing the latest from the Climate Change Cult (CCC),
berating Christians for creationism and talking about their favorite
science shows. The parents always swear their kids mastered the iPad
(Apple being another pseudo-nerd symbol) at birth. That’s always
amusing. Every Progressive mediocrity swears their kid is exceptional,
which violates a basic rule of biological science. We now live in a
world where every kids is above average.

Another manifestation of the fake nerd is the stat geek. ESPN has a
fellow named Pablo Torre, who ticks a number of boxes. They have him on
to perform the role of the young, hip math savvy sports analyst. [I
looked him up](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pablo_S._Torre) and found he
was a sociology major at Harvard. The fact that he went to a swank prep
school and Harvard suggests he is of above average IQ, but his last name
suggests he could have gamed the system so it is hard to know. Still, he
has no math or science.

Now, he is pitched by ESPN and he plays along, as a stat geek. He’s the
nerd with the numbers, juxtaposed with the dumb guys in the sports
department. In reality he reads [FanGraphs](http://www.fangraphs.com/),
gleans a few statistics that sound cool and then spouts opinions on TV
and the internet. Nothing wrong with it, but it is clearly an act, no
different than someone playing a doctor in a drama. That’s TV, but TV
shapes and reflects the greater culture.

The new cool is pretending to be someone who had a pocket liner as a kid
and still pines for his slide rule. Just as the 70’s hipsters were
products of squaresville, today’s nerds are most likely liberal arts
majors that cannot figure out how to change the time on their car’s
radio. That’s not what matters though. What matters is everyone knows
how much you freaking love science. To say otherwise is to risk heresy.

The most ridiculous manifestation of this is the “policy wonk”,  who
plays the role of expert on government and social policy. Like the fake
nerds in sports, these nerds majored in journalism or public policy,
maybe took a basic stats class. Otherwise they have no math or science.
Their “wonkery” is nothing more than memorizing the policy positions of
their party and then reciting them in clever ways on TV or print. The
clever part is key. “Snark” is the call of the fake nerd, no matter the
field.

Snark is an ironic disdain for convention that is really just a
signaling mechanism. The snarky fake nerd makes some comment about
Southerners, for example,  rejecting evolution as a way to publicly
identify himself as an inside the set of right opinions. His coevals
will respond with something similar, thus establishing that they too are
members of the proper set. The person who takes issue with the comment
is then identified as the outsider. Snark and irony are just public
displays of membership in a group.
