---
title: "The Problem With Women"
date: "2013-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=444"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=444"
---

Steve Sailer has a <a
href="https://www.takimag.com/article/in_search_of_sexier_scientists_steve_sailer/#axzz2hEEK8cXx"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> up about the trials and
tribulations of girls in science. His post is commentary on this very <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/06/magazine/why-are-there-still-so-few-women-in-science.html?src=me&amp;ref=general&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">long article</a> by a woman calling
herself Eileen Pollack. The general thrust of that piece that girls
don’t go into STEM field in great numbers, because there is some
invisible force filed that repels them. This invisible force field
cannot be seen, because it is invisible, but it can be described by
women with the right credentials from the women’s studies department.
They call this force field “male privilege.’

Of course, as Sailer points out, Mx. Pollack started out in life as an
undergrad in physics, but lost interest and moved onto creative writing.
It turns out that women are not as good at math, on average, as boys,
but they are also less interested in it. That means the number of girls
in the STEM fields is going to much lower than expected, just using test
scores for mathematical aptitude. Feminism, ironically, can not tolerate
women choosing to be women, so they insist women are being tricked in
some way.

Feminism stopped being a serious topic long before anyone reading this
was alive and now it is quite silly. A century ago, changing the law to
better serve women in the industrial age was a worthy topic. In the
agrarian age, divorce, for example, was not an issue for most people.
Property rights and legal rights were also far less important. As cities
grew and social relationships changed, the law needed to change to
address the needs of both men and women, so feminism made some sense.

Today it is just the stereotypical “feminists” grousing about men. In
college, feminism is where the low self-esteem gals go when they don’t
want to become lesbians. Some thing that has been true for a long time
is the easiest women to get are the ones hanging around the women’s
studies department. Despite all the man-hating and sisterhood talk, they
will jump in the sack with the first guy showing interest. All their
talk about independence and not needing a man is just an act.

Now, it is worth mentioning that the scrambling of the sex roles has
made sorting these things more difficult. Men are far less manly,
especially at elite universities where feminism is rampant. They are
also far less worldly. From the female perspective, being out-competed
in these cognitive fields by wimps and socially awkward losers could
very well look like a conspiracy. The girls are atop the status system
on campus and more aggressive than these males, but they can’t compete.

Even so, the main driver of the gender equity delusions is a studied and
rampant ignorance of biological reality. The starting point is always
the assumption that some mysterious force or perhaps a hidden conspiracy
is preventing the egalitarian paradise from emerging. The default is the
dream, rather than observable reality. Even the basic relationship
 between the sexes is excluded. The fact that boys like pretty girls and
girls like high status males is not <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/08/education/harvard-case-study-gender-equity.html?ref=education"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a mystery</a>.

*The new study goes a long way toward providing hard evidence of a
continuing bias against women in the sciences. Only one-fifth of physics
Ph.D.’s in this country are awarded to women, and only about half of
those women are American; of all the physics professors in the United
States, only 14 percent are women. The numbers of black and Hispanic
scientists are even lower; in a typical year, 13 African-Americans and
20 Latinos of either sex receive Ph.D.’s in physics. The reasons for
those shortages are hardly mysterious — many minority students attend
secondary schools that leave them too far behind to catch up in science,
and the effects of prejudice at every stage of their education are well
documented. But what could still be keeping women out of the STEM fields
(“STEM” being the current shorthand for “science, technology,
engineering and mathematics”), which offer so much in the way of job
prospects, prestige, intellectual stimulation and income?*

Imagine if someone said, “Our study goes a long way toward providing
hard evidence of a continuing bias against whites in the National
Basketball Association…” Everyone gets that blacks are, on average,
better equipped by nature to excel at some sports. No one thinks this is
odd, but in the cognitive fields, it is blasphemy to suggest there are
differences between the sexes and races. It suggests the problem of
gender equity is really just  a problem with women accepting reality.
