---
title: "There Goes Another Amendment"
date: "2013-08-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=142"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=142"
---

[This
story](http://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/sdut-email-service-linked-to-edward-snowden-shuts-down-2013aug08-story.html)
is getting plenty of run in the nerd and conspiracy communities. The
short version is that a company running an encrypted e-mail service has
shut down due to some involvement with the government. Edward Snowden
reportedly used the service in his cloak and dagger work. The assumption
is the Feds have forced the guy to reveal his encryption keys so they
can rifle through the mail sent and received through his service.

Some people think the Feds may have tried to bully him into letting them
read his traffic going forward. The owner chose to go out of business so
we can assume the government made it so he had no choice or they were
prepared to shut him down if he did not do something he is not free to
discuss. It’s hard to know, but it is a good example of how the
government is “partnering” with Silicon Valley to stifle alternatives to
Big Tech.

This is not new. Way back in the olden times, there was an anonymous
mail server in Finland. You did not need an account to use it and it had
no logs. The way it worked is you sent the server an e-mail. The first
line was the address you wanted to reach. The rest of the body was your
e-mail text. The system would forward it to that e-mail and strip away
all evidence of your identity.  [Here’s the Wiki on
it](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penet_remailer), which is mostly
correct.

Even further back when encryption of internet traffic got going, the
governments of the world began to freak out. The US government banned
strong encryption or limited its use because they feared they could not
spy on people otherwise. The United States classifies cryptographic
products as munitions, believe it or not, and therefore bans the export
of such technology beyond a certain strength. That’s how serious they
take the subject.

Since the dawn of time, governments have wanted to prevent private
conversations among the citizenry. There’s a reason why The Founders had
a fetish for private association and freedom of assembly. When citizens
can keep secrets from the state, they can be free. More important, when
they can speak outside the ear of the ruling class, they can conspire to
overthrow the ruling class. Privacy is the seed corn of revolution.

The fact is the real bad guys know how to avoid the
[Panopticon](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticon). They use strong
encryption for electronic communications, but also deploy old fashioned
techniques that are impossible to thwart. Government is always a blind
giant swinging a mallet. The men and women at the NSA think they are the
smartest kids on the playground, but that’s not the case. They simply
have the force of the state to magnify their efforts.

That said, the giant swinging the mallet can cause a lot of damage.
There’s a [crazy
Arab](http://dailycaller.com/2013/08/05/imprisoned-innocence-of-muslims-producer-nakoula-nakoula-i-want-the-world-to-see-the-truth/)
sitting in the Obama administration needed to conceal their shenanigans
in Libya. On a fairly regular basis cops break into the homes of
innocent people because they think they are dealing weed. Thousands of
honest people are on terror lists, spending enormous sums to get their
names cleared so they can get on a plane. The Giant wrecks a lot.

Now, the provider of an e-mail service is out of business because the
Feds can’t force him to violate your Fourth Amendment rights. No one is
going to shed a tear for this guy, because most people are either
blindly patriotic or they don’t understand the issues involved in
technology. There’s going to come a time though, when it becomes clear
to most Americans that the partnership of Big Tech and the Deep State is
very bad for us.
