---
title: "Those Damned Sick People"
date: "2013-12-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=660"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=660"
---

In the fullness of time, this age will be described as one where the
people in charge had to re-learn everything about human nature, that
people had known for thousands of years, but somehow been forgotten.
Maybe forgotten is not the right term. It’s as if people have un-learned
things. A deliberate effort has been made to deny basic parts of
reality, in an effort to prove crackpot theories about human nature and
human organization. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/12/07/republicans-have-medicaids-cost-problem-completely-wrong/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> about health
care costs in the Washington Post is a good example.

*The bottom 72 percent of Illinois Medicaid recipients account for 10
percent of total program spending. Average annual expenditures in this
group were about $564, virtually invisible on the chart. We can’t save
much money through any incentive system aimed at the typical Medicaid
recipient.*

*We spend too little on the bottom 80 percent to get much back from
that. We probably spend too little on most of these people, anyway. For
the bulk of Medicaid beneficiaries, cost control is less important than
improved prevention, health maintenance and access to basic medical and
dental services.*

*The real financial action unfolds on the right side of the graph, where
expenditures are concentrated within a small and incredibly complicated
patient group. The top 3.2 percent of recipients account for half of
total Medicaid spending, with average expenditures exceeding $30,000
annually.*

*Many of these men and women face life-ending or life-threatening
illnesses, as well as cognitive or psychiatric limitations. These
patients cannot cover co-payments or assume financial risk. In theory,
one might impose patient cost-sharing with some complicated
risk-adjustment system.*

*In practice, that is far beyond current technologies and administrative
capabilities. Even if such a system were available, we couldn’t push the
burden of medical case management onto these patients or their
families.*

Decade of analysis has revealed the shocking truth behind medical costs.
It turns out that what drives costs are sick people. No kidding. This is
why the word “wonk” has become a synonym for sophist or a grifter.
Harold Pollack seems like a decent fellow and his credentials suggest he
may even know a few things about the medical business, but you have to
wonder what he was doing before he made this discovery. It’s hard to
imagine why anyone would be shocked to learn that sick people drive
health costs.

People have always known that the young feel like they are
indestructible, because they are healthy and vibrant. As a result, they
don’t need to see the doctor, take a bunch of pills or use various
health services. On the other hand, old people have all sorts of things
going wrong, so they need emergency services, doctors, pills and
treatments. In modern societies like ours, old people organize their
lives around regular trips to the doctor. Most of it is preventative and
low cost, but it adds up as the population grows older.

That’s why the basic question, regarding public health, is how to pay
for the old people and the sick poor people. The former need lots of
care, often more than they can afford. The latter needs less care, but
they have no money. People used to know this. One option is to rely on
private charity and market forces to address the problem. Another option
is to have the state pay for health care. A third option is a mix, where
the state operates as the insurer of last resort, but otherwise private
arrangements prevail.

Look at these discussions a century ago, when the notion of the welfare
state first gained traction in the West. People understood these truths.
No matter what sort of system you adopt, it means some form of
rationing, as all goods and services are rationed. That means some
people are told they can only have so much while others get more. In
some cases, the person gets nothing at all. This is in every part of
life. There are no goods that are not rationed by price or by some
control over supply.

Rationing is a part of life, yet somehow our rulers have decided that
health care is an exception, so there must be a way to arrange things so
everyone gets all the health care they want, without having to pay for
it. Guys who insist on calling themselves wonks keep working on their
perpetual motion machines so that one day, if we arrange things just the
right way, we can have plenty. It’s a form of alchemy. Instead of
turning base metals into gold, the modern alchemists seek to conjure
plenty from scarcity.
