---
title: "Orwell Was Wrong"
date: "2013-08-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=246"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=246"
---

When it comes to the dystopian future, George Orwell is the undisputed
champion for most people on the Right or Left. It is just assumed that
the bad future is something like the cartoon version of Nazi Germany or
maybe East Germany after the war. The assumption is, failure to craft
the glorious egalitarian future will only lead to the hellish Orwellian
future of 1984. The truth is though, the future imagined by Orwell
requires a physical courage our rulers lack. Instead, the future will
more like Brave New World.

It will not be an exact copy of what Huxley imagined, as his vision of
the future was an exaggerated version of what he saw evolving in his
time. Instead of genetically engineered class of stupid people to
performed manual labor, robots will do much of what is now done by
low-IQ people. The ruling class will not go to the “feelies” in order to
get emotional fulfillment. They will instead perform public acts of
piety and provide testimonies to their victimization. Being seen as both
noble and helpless will be the highest honor.

A glimpse of this is in this very strange <a
href="https://www.salon.com/2013/08/19/what_i_learned_from_getting_shot/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">personal affirmation statement in
Slate</a>. The short version is that the author, having been shot
because he foolishly walked into the wrong area, learned nothing from
the experience. A less noble person may have noticed the race of the
shooters and the fact that America has no-go zones. The noble hero, in
contrast, can come close to death, having been shot by blacks, but he
steadfastly refuses to notice any of it. Instead he noticed the race of
the surgeon who removed his spleen.

The frightening part of Orwell’s vision of the future was the brutality.
Getting tortured or killed because for drawing outside the lines touches
man’s basic fear. Huxley’s future is more frightening, because life is
pointless, yet the people in it will fight to maintain a pointless
existence. While Orwell’s future is cruel, Huxley’s future is inhuman,
because it lacks the basics human quality of having a reason to live,
beyond getting high, eating and fornicating. It is the celebration of
this degraded existence that troubles people.

There’s a hint of that in the Salon article. The writer is celebrating
himself and his willingness to adhere to a mode of thought that could
very get him killed. In fact, his absurd acceptance of anti-racism
almost got him killed. The future our rulers imagine for us is one where
people steadfastly adhere to a set of beliefs that are dangerous to
their well-being, when they could acknowledge reality and have a happier
life. It is a strangely anti-human existence that makes a mockery of
sacrifice, in order to promote an inhuman ideology.

The reason people prefer Orwell’s version of the future is because it is
rational. The people in charge benefit from the system, so they
ruthlessly impose their will on the population. Presumably, the people
at the very top have the luxurious material existence that comes from
sitting atop the system. That aspect of it is just assumed and the
privations of the population is proof that a system without freedom is
unable to provide material abundance. Orwell confirms the materialist
belief of modern people.

In the Huxley version, everyone benefits in the material sense, but
everyone suffers in the spiritual sense. Huxley’s hellscape is a world
lacking in spiritual fulfillment and that is what frightens people.
Generations of preaching about the primacy of economics has convinced
modern people that there is an economic answer to cultural and spiritual
needs of people. What Brave New World reveals is that the fantasy of
economic man has always been a lie. In other words, Huxley being right
is what’s frightening.
