---
title: "Liberal War on People – The Smoking Front"
date: "2013-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=708"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=708"
---

<a
href="http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2013/12/19/city-council-to-vote-on-indoor-e-cigarettes-ban/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Left is slowly working to
ban the electronic cigarettes</a>. Their reasoning has nothing to do
with science since science clearly says these things are vastly less
harmful than smoking. The second hand smoking claims, always dodgy in
terms of science, evaporate with these things. What comes out of the
smoker is water and no one has ever claimed harm from second hand water
vapor. Plus, there’s no smell. That’s one of the major selling points,
so, the liberal scolds had to come up with a different excuse:

*City Council Speaker Christine Quinn said the ban would make it easier
to enforce the city’s [Smoke-Free Air
Act,](http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2013/03/27/nyc-marks-10th-anniversary-of-anti-smoking-initiative/)
which [banned
smoking](http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2013/03/15/hudson-county-several-towns-enact-smoking-bans-to-mixed-reaction/ "Hudson County, Several Towns Enact Smoking Bans To Mixed Reaction")
in bars, restaurants and other indoor public spaces.*

*“Because many of the e-cigarettes are designed to look like cigarettes
and be used just like them, they can lead to confusion or
confrontation,” Quinn said.*

So these anti-smoking zealots just hate smoking so much, they don’t even
want to see images of it in public.  Therefore, in order to make it
easier for the scolds to harass people enjoying themselves, they will
now pretend virtual smoking is real smoking. This really does make the
point that it was never about public health. It was always about
imposing their values on others. It’s not even about the values, so much
as the act of forcing people to comply with their rules. It’s about the
scold getting scold the wicked.

Smoking is unhealthful and it is proper to encourage people to avoid the
habit. At this point, everyone knows this. The costs of deleterious
habits should always be on the person engaging in them, where possible.
Smokers should be charged a hefty premium on their insurance and taxes
levied on tobacco. Banning smoking in closed spaces is fine, even though
the science is dodgy. Bars and restaurants that permit smoking should
post a sign over the door making it known. Let the market sort that out.

Vaping, from observation and a little research, is a far less harmful
activity than smoking and not a burden on others. It may pose no harm at
all. If the nicotine is removed, you’re left with an asthma inhaler. The
stuff in these things is propylene glycol, the same stuff they use in
some inhalers. It is used in all sorts of food and medicines, approved
by the FDA for decades. Sucking in anything but air is probably posing
some risk and there may be some unknown risks with these things, but
they are less harmful than smoking.

Sensible public health policy should always encourage the sorts of
trade-offs that improve public health. In this case, giving people an
incentive to switch from tobacco to vaping would be the wise policy.
yeah, it looks weird seeing people wrapped in a cloud of vapor, but it
beats seeing them outside the door smoking. Instead, the busy bodies are
running around looking for a reason to torment those hooked on nicotine.
It’s a good reminder that the people who rule over us are petty
miserable tyrants.
