---
title: "Lawless"
date: "2013-12-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=655"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=655"
---

As I’ve grown older, I have found the police to be increasingly
contemptible. That’s the opposite of what’s supposed to happen. You’re
supposed to become more conservative and more respectful of authority as
you get older. Perhaps there is something wrong with me or I am immature
when it comes to these things. On the other hand, <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2013/12/09/atf-reportedly-used-rogue-tactics-in-half-dozen-cities/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">when you see stuff like
this</a>, cynicism is the only normal reaction.

*Federal ATF agents in cities across the country reportedly used rogue
tactics to go after guns on the street — allegedly exploiting the
mentally ill, buying up weapons for way more than they’re worth and
letting minors smoke pot and drink.*

This is incredible:

*In Pensacola, the ATF hired a felon to run its pawnshop. The move
widened the pool of potential targets, boosting arrest numbers.Even
those trying to sell guns legally could be charged if they knowingly
sold to a felon. The ATF’s pawnshop partner was later convicted of
pointing a loaded gun at someone outside a bar. Instead of a stiff
sentence typically handed down to repeat offenders in federal court, he
got six months in jail — and a pat on the back from the prosecutor.*

The basic tactic seems to be entrapment. They used various methods to
get people to commit crimes. In this case, the crime involved guns. This
is often a problem with police departments in major cities. There is
pressure on cops to make busts and they cut corners. What we are seeing
with the ATF is different. This stuff is coming down from the top.
You’re not renting out retail space without senior level approval.

<a
href="http://reason.com/blog/2013/12/05/how-do-you-charge-an-unarmed-man-with-sh"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Then we have</a> this little
gem. A maniac is running around Times Square so the cops start shooting
into the crowd, wounding two innocent women. Naturally, they charge the
maniac with shooting the women. The argument is the maniac caused the
cops to start shooting people. If that’s not enough, the cops are not
facing discipline for their reckless disregard for public safety. Why
should they?” They are agents of the state which means they are beyond
the reach of the law. This is a Soviet level corruption and it is
getting worse.
