---
title: "The End of Citzenship"
date: "2013-08-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=139"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=139"
---

<a
href="http://takimag.com/article/fiat_citizenship_steve_sailer#axzz2bKH9MJTg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This Steve Sailer piece on the looming
amnesty</a> of 30 million invaders touches on the heart of the amnesty
push. Western elites have largely abandoned the notion of citizenship.
That’s because they see pride in national heritage as the same as Nazi
xenophobia. Seventy years after the end of World War II and the West
remains haunted by old Adolph. Perhaps is a matter of projection or fear
of their own tendencies.

Another explanation is it stems from self-loathing. These people hate
themselves, they hate the society that produced them and they hate the
antecedents that make society possible. They busy themselves trying to
scrub away anything that looks like nationalism, in the same way someone
tries to wash away a stain. Of course, This means your moral standing is
then defined by how far one is removed from a national culture.

That’s why dullards like our president insist on pronouncing foreign
words with a foreign accent. They think it makes them sound worldly.
Obama struggles with English, yet we’re supposed to take pronunciation
lessons from him. It really is amazing that a man with so many
opportunities to master another language at a young age never learned a
word. It’s almost impossible for children raised in other lands to not
pick up some of the language.

Anyway, I think it is something else. Americans are always late to the
party. For instance, church attendance is still common in America. In
Europe, the churches have been turned into museums or turned into
mosques as no one bothers to attend. American church attendance is
declining here in the liberal strongholds and they regularly make war on
the religious. But, we are a few generations from reaching European
levels of religiosity.

The same seems to be true of post-nationalism, but we are working hard
to catch up to our kinsmen across the sea. The Republican Party still
does the flag waving stuff, but the Democrats pretty much hate America.
They always have hated Americans, but now they hate the very idea of
America. It’s why Obama ran on fundamental transformation. In his mind,
America was always a rotten idea, so it needs to be eliminated.

Europe has had a different experience. The reformation and the collapse
of Catholicism as the unifying force in Europe resulted in a series of
wars, collectively known as The Thirty Years War. The war left much of
central Europe in ruins. Parts of Germany were reduced to cannibalism.
Noble families were destroyed and vast wealth was squandered, in an
effort to either restore the Church or find some suitable replacement to
unify Europe.

The fact that the world was set on fire by a
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Luther" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">lunatic, who ate his own poo,</a> had to resonate with
the rulers. What replaced universal Christianity as the organizing ethos
in Europe was nationalism. It was given a good Christian coat of paint,
thus allowing the hoi polloi to believe they were God’s favorites and
their rulers were God’s elect. By the 18th century, The Church was a
side show and nationalism was the faith of Europe.

The result was the The Peace of Westphalia that largely ended the wars
of religion, but it set the stage for endless territorial wars and wars
over monarchical succession. In the 18th century alone there were over
40 wars on the Continent. Then the 19th century brought the Napoleonic
Wars, followed by endless wars of rebellion, annexation and
consolidation, as the borders of Europe were reshaped. Endless war was
the default.

Fast forward to the 20th century and we see the ultimate clash of
religions. Within a 30 period, the powers of Europe had destroyed one
another, slaughtering tens of millions of people and plundering the
West. Like The Thirty Years War, it was a matter of belief that set
brother against brother in a near suicidal conflict. Fascism, Nazism,
liberalism, socialism and Bolshevism were the driving forces of the
world’s first ideological war.

The lesson European elites drew from the bloodbath was that nationalism
was no way to run a society. They set about erasing it from their ranks.
The slow development of a pan-European super state, the end of trade
barriers, a single currency and free movement of people are all about
erasing national identity. They are trying to create the unified Europe
of Christendom, without the religion, in order to maintain peace on the
Continent.

American elites have slowly absorbed these ideas. The trouble is, they
don’t fully understand the point of post-nationalism, so their version
has become anti-nationalism, which means anti-Americanism. The result is
a race to overthrow everything that defines a nation, like language
customs, borders. The selling off of the manufacturing base, for
example, means they get to buy and use products lacking the words “Made
in America.”

Military policy has been warped by this, putting the health and welfare
of foreigners ahead of our servicemen. Of course, wholesale immigration
is aimed at diluting the population. All of those pesky natives and
their demands on government will be replaced with third world peasants
happy for the hand outs. More important, being an American citizen will
lose its value. The elites can be citizens of the world and the rest of
us will just be the peasants.
