---
title: "Religion & IQ"
date: "2013-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - IQ
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=202"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=202"
---

For as long as I have been alive, the Left has been trying to “prove”
they are the smartest kids in the room. One tactic is to attack religion
and by extension the religious, who they naturally see as their enemy.
This makes some sense, given that Progressivism is nothing but a poorly
defined civic religion. <a
href="https://arstechnica.com/science/2013/08/new-meta-analysis-checks-the-correlation-between-intelligence-and-faith/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Stuff like this</a> is the sort of thing
they like to wave around to prove they are super-smart.  I’ll assume the
authors of this study are making a good faith effort, but 30-plus years
of this act naturally makes me skeptical.

I’m not a particularly religious person so I don’t have a dog in the
fight. I just think the Left’s war on Christianity is a lot like what we
see in the Arab world. Islam, like all living religions, is intolerant
of other religions. After all, if you are sure your faith is correct and
others are in error, or worse, an offense to god, then how can you in
good conscience tolerate these false religions? The answer is obvious,
which is why all religions, with the exception of race-based faiths,
always try to dominate other religions through proselytizing or worse.

Of course, Muslims really hate Jews, because Jews put a lot of effort
into pitting one Muslim against another, as part of Israel’s survival
strategy. American have been taught that Muslims hate Jews because
Hitler, but that’s nonsense. Muslims don’t hate Jews on religious
grounds or even geopolitical grounds. That’s part of it, but the real
issue is that faithful Muslims believe in unity of the faithful.
Therefore, they look at Israel’s geopolitical shenanigans as a war on
Islam itself. For Muslims, hating Jews is self-defense.

Now, in the case of this study, assuming it is a serious effort at
examining the issue, is they start with the assumption religion is
strictly about the super natural. Even more specifically, they narrow
religion to Christianity. It leaves out secular religions like Marxism
and anti-religions like atheism. Both are mass movements that hold the
same appeal for adherents. They trade their identity for that of the
group. My bet is if we broadened the scope of religion to include
secular faiths, the difference in IQ would be trivial.

I’m fond of pointing out that even the most brilliant people subscribe
to magical thinking and superstition. Blaise Pascal, the father of
probability, computer science and statistics was a heretical Catholic
fanatic. Many of the men who worked on the Manhattan Project were
religious Jews, as well as Marxists. J. B. S. Haldane was a communist,
were many intellectuals of his day. Belief in the worker’s paradise is
every bit as wacky as anything the Bible believing Christians can
muster. Belief is not just about religion.

That said, <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/356006/how-not-interpret-religion-and-iq-study-jason-richwine"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Jason Richwine is probably right.</a>
Higher IQ could lead to greater skepticism and therefore lower
religiosity. The reason is high intelligence often has a strange
humbling effect. Once you get outside the normal range, the genuinely
gifted can see the limits of human intelligence more clearly, as they
tend to be in frustrating fields like math and science. That’s
inevitably going to result a great deal of skepticism about everything,
not just religion. IQ and skepticism are probably co-dependent cognitive
traits.

A caveat to that would be people with an exceptional verbal IQ and
average quantitative reasoning. That would explain the high number of
Jewish communists, for example. A people bred for solving complex word
games as a part of their status system are probably inclined to accept
magic as within the domain of possible answers. People with high
spatial, could also be an exception. In other words, the empirically
minded will probably be the most skeptically minded, and therefore the
least religions, with some exceptions.

None of this really matters much. Most people are not so smart as to
fall beyond the line between belief and skepticism. That’s certainly
true for the hooting fanatics of the Progressive cult, who fall for
every nutty fad that springs from egalitarianism and the blank slate. it
much more reasonable to believe a Jewish hippy was the son of God, than
to think better pre-school is going to solve black crime. The Left still
think you can talk people out of mental illness. To be on the Left means
the total suspension of disbelief.
