---
title: "The Coming Civil War"
date: "2013-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=463"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=463"
---

The boys and girls over at the flagship of Conservative Inc. have their
panties in a bunch over the increasingly hostile relationship between
them and the rank and file of the conservative movement. Well, what’s
left of the conservative movement. Decades of broken promises and
outright lying from public figures claiming to be conservative leaders
has the hoi polloi looking for other options. Normal conservatives,
which means middle-class white people, for the most part, are feeling
betrayed.

Part of it is due to the awakening of the base to certain realities of
party politics. One of those realities is that most of the people in
charge are just in it for the money. These are career men who have wives
and kids and mortgages. They are risk adverse. It is why they are quick
to plead for a deal to end the bickering over policy. It is why they are
willing to trade everything for stability. Great change means great
tumult and tumultuous times are bad times for the mediocrities that are
party functionaries.

Normal people look at this and think they are being taken for a ride.
After all, what’s the point of voting for conservative candidates and
supporting conservative causes, if the people running these things are
willing to sellout for personal gain? These people are always ready to
tell you about the need to compromise, but they never lecture the other
side this way. That’s what is driving the general discontent with
conservatives. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/361545/intra-conservative-incivility-david-french"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">David French has a post on it here</a>
and <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/361429/art-possible-jonah-goldberg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Goldberg has his say here</a>.

Jonah Goldberg is the king of straw man arguments. His preferred method
of dismissing criticism is to call the critics “populists” and then
claim that populism is crypto-leftism or the precursor to fascism. Once
he has anathematized the messengers he then moves on to explain why it
is dangerous to listen to these bomb throwers. What he is doing is
something the Left likes and that is creating an immoral straw man and
then associating it with the arguments or facts they want to dismiss.
It’s a form of scapegoating.

Of course, it is a ploy to avoid the elephant in the room. The Right
lose every fight. They lose the PR wars. They lose the negotiations.
They lose elections against weak candidates. They conceded ground to the
Left before the debate gets going. Just on practical terms, the Right
has been a near total failure for almost two decades. Whatever the
defects of the critics, the people in charge of conservatism have failed
at every turn, but have suffered no consequences.  In fact, they have
grown quite rich.

The David French piece deserves special recognition for its mendacity.
Every loser who wants to avoid the consequences of being a loser tries
to play the victim card. They always claim to have received death
threats. French claims to have received threatening calls at home. If he
does not have a police report, then he is a liar. It is a serious crime
to call someone and threaten them. Calls are easily traceable and the
police take these things seriously. If true, he should file the report
and post it.

In many ways, David French is emblematic of what is wrong with the
so-called conservative movement. They think politics is a buffet line
where all they need to do is put a few things on the tray and proclaim
their fidelity to those with similar tastes. Put another way, they have
reduced conservatism down to a handful of policy positions that just
happen to be popular with their corporate and wealthy donors. Instead of
maintaining an intellectual tradition, they are a public relations firm
for the highest bidder.

Today it is hard to lie in public. Liberal politicians from normal
states have been learning this the hard way. They used to get away with
lying at home as no one called them on it in the press as long as they
voted liberal. Now they get exposed quickly. The so-called conservatives
are struggling with the problem now. Years of watching the so-called
Right promise and fail, only to lecture their base about making
unreasonable demands has most conservatives wonder if it as not always a
scam.

What comes next, as conservatives wake up to the reality of demographic
change and the emerging identity politics, is a big civil war on the
Right. On one side will be the kept men of Conservative Inc., defending
their perks and positions. On the other side will be a new Right, one
more in tune with today’s realities and much less concerned with
upsetting the feelings of the Left. It will be more populist and
probably more racially aware. Most likely, the old Buckley crowd ends up
on the Left, if the Left will have them.
