---
title: "Egypt’s Conflicts"
date: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=151"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=151"
---

[Here is a well done and very interesting
piece](https://www.weeklystandard.com/reuel-marc-gerecht/the-great-collision)
on Egypt from the Weekly Standard. It is one of the few articles I’ve
seen on the recent happenings that is based somewhat in reality. That’s
a bit surprising, given the publication. Bill Kristol is a forever war
guy and his stable of writers fit comfortably into the neocon warmonger
bucket. Kristol still argues for the [Freedom
Agenda](http://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/infocus/freedomagenda/),
despite 12 years of miserable failure. I guess part of the appeal of the
article is that it is from an otherwise delusional publication.

The interesting bit is the observation that liberalism is exclusively an
Occidental import to the countries of the Maghreb. That’s true
throughout the Arab world. There are no native liberal traditions. More
important and something the author skips is that the essence of Arab
culture is antithetical to liberalism. Islam rejects the foundation
stone of Western thought and that is the contract. Everything springs
from the concept of people freely entering into an agreement with one
another and being held to it by society.

Islam rejects the idea of a covenant between God and man. Muslims
believe that God is unknowable and unpredictable. It is called
occasionalism. This permanent uncertainty is thoroughly baked into the
character of the Arab people. If you have ever done business with
Muslims, you know how crazy it is to nail them down to a contract. In
Islam, the contract only exists in the moment, the time in which to deal
is made and all parties are present. When circumstance change the
contract is no longer valid.

Sharia contract law is pretty much whatever the local Imam thinks is
best at the moment, which usually means that which either keeps the
peace or satisfies the powerful. You cannot have liberalism if you don’t
have contracts. There’s also the concept of private property, which is
mostly alien to the rest oft he world. In a place like Egypt, property
rights largely only exist with regards to personal property. What you
can carry is yours, but real property is not protected. Intellectual
property, of course, does not exist.

Of course, the idea of a social contract is completely alien to the
Arab. They view government the same way people viewed the Mafia. It is
merely the way the rich and powerful enforce their prerogatives on the
rest of the population. Every Arab country operates along feudal lines.
In Egypt, the military has the monopoly of force. Business has the
capital. Together they have ruled Egypt since [King
Farouk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Farouk_of_Egypt). In Iran, the
clerics have taken the country back to feudalism completely by declaring
their rule the will of God.

That brings me back to the central problem with The Weekly Standard
column. There is nothing we can do to change the Arab culture. Most of
our troubles stem from their hostility to our trying to change their
culture. Arab terrorists are not springing from nothing. They have
reasons for doing what they do. The fact that every election in Muslim
world has been won by Islamic parties is what we call a clue. The garden
variety Muslim is not interested in liberal democracy and western
culture. In fact, they are hostile to it.

Just because they like some of the technology that comes from the West,
does not mean they want western liberalism. The truth is, they despise
most of what defines western social democracy, including the democracy.
Mohamed does not want to see a [transgendered fruitcake writing for
their major
newspaper](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/07/opinion/diversity-and-doctor-who.html?hpw&_r=2&#comments).
If the way to prevent that from happening to his society is to stick
with the old ways, they are willing to make that trade. Therefore, the
answer to our terrorism problem is to leave the Mohammedan alone.
