---
title: "Magical Food Thinking"
date: "2013-09-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=310"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=310"
---

Food fetches always seem to be a part of various types of cults. Sex is
another thing that is common, but food is almost a universal in cults.
The ancients had all sorts of dietary rituals tied to piety. The first
known vegans were in Ancient Greece. Pythagoras was a zealous vegan,
believing it was beneficial in all sorts of ways.  He would fit right in
with the modern vegans of today. The Jews, of course, still have weird
food rules, as part of their cult. Until recently, Christians had rules
on what to eat when it could be eaten.

Today, the food fetish is mostly a thing for Progressives, which is
another reason ti is a religion, rather than an ideology. There are
vegetarians and vegans, but those are not all that popular on the on the
Left. instead, being a foodie is the thing. This is a very feminine
thing, as the act of enjoying food becomes a performance that is
supposed to draw attention to the eater. Women are always posting pics
of themselves drinking wine or having some exotic meal. Women love
seeing themselves eating and drinking.

Then there is the food fetish by proxy, where liberal women demand their
kids eat certain things or not eat certain things. Kids are calorie
burning machines yet the scolds are trying to make them eat like an
Ethiopian. Worse, they don’t want them eating meat or fat and instead
give them carb laden diets. While you can pretty much feed kids anything
not poisonous, growing bodies should have plenty of protein and fat. The
former is integral to muscle growth and the latter is a source of
energy. People used to know this.

Instead we see the opposite as the the food crazies are convinced that
only through self-denial and even self-punishment can one be truly pure.
There’s no science to back up any of it. In fact, <a
href="http://www.nature.com/ejcn/journal/v67/n8/full/ejcn2013116a.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the science points in the opposite
direction</a>. Low fat, high carb diets are not healthy at all. Low carb
diets are not just beneficial, but more in line with our body’s food
processing systems. Again, for kids, volume is what matters, along with
plenty of physical activity, but if you going to skip anything, it is
the carbohydrates.

On the other side of the coin, we get rants from people in favor of all
sorts of extreme diets that are supposed to purify the soul. A lot of
this is what gym rats call
<a href="http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Broscience" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">bro-science</a>, but people want to believe in simple
miracles. This stuff is not entirely without foundation, but the people
pushing ti sound like evangelists. It’s not just about losing weight or
maintaining a healthy diet. Being “keto” or some other regimen is
supposed to indicate a purity of mind and good character, form dietary
discipline.

People also want to believe their food is out to get them.The bread
allergy stuff is a great example. A whole pseudo-science has built up
around the gluten free fad, where people swear they gave up bread and
their suddenly changed for the better. The reason people feel better
when they cut out bread is they eat less. The reason for that is carbs
burn quickly, so you eat more, because you are hungry more often. it’s
why people always complain about being hungry after eating Chinese food.

The whole gluten free fad is looking a lot like a food racket, just like
the organic food business. Neither are new. Big Food turned their waste
product into margarine, when people were suddenly sure butter was bad
for their heart. When preliminary data from the Framingham study seemed
to show a link between high fat diets, high cholesterol and heart
disease, Big Food was right there to cash in on it. There’s not a lot of
margin in food production, so they are always looking for a way to
sacralize the product.

Another funny thing about food fetishes is the current aversion to
counting calories. It used to be an article of faith that the only wya
to lose weight was to count calories. My mother was always writing down
what she ate and looking through a calorie guide to avoid over eating.
It was a nice hobby for her. Today, the food zealots rail against it as
if it oogily-boogily from a primitive era. The fact is, counting
calories will work, but most people today can’t handle that much
reality, so they prefer the new oogily-boogily over the old.
