---
title: "An Incompetent Empire"
date: "2013-08-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=240"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=240"
---

American foreign policy has been a mess since the end of the Cold War,
which was a useful restraint on the naive and delusional in the ruling
elite.The threat of nuclear annihilation forced the sober minded to keep
a firm hand on the tiller. That was a long time ago and now feckless
ninnies like those in the Obama administration are in charge. No one
notices just how jumbled and incompetent foreign policy has been under
Obama, mostly because the media ignores it, for fear people will notice
the wrong things.

Syria is a perfect example of the thumbless handling of foreign policy.
Russia has a long history in Syria and they have strong ties with the
Iranians. That means the neocons think America should side with the
Islamist rebels trying to depose Assad. This ignores the fact that
Russia is there fore purely economic reasons. The Russians are not
motivated by ideology. It’s pure geopolitical politics. They seek to
control the flow of energy into Europe, as that gives them money, but
also keeps them in Europe, which is vital to their psyche.

<a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2013/08/22/world/meast/syria-civil-war/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The alleged gas attack</a> is a great
opportunity to strike a deal with the Russians that would put some
limits on Iran’s ability to cause trouble and remove support for the
Jihadists, but this administration has bungled it. The only hope may be
the French. <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2013/08/22/world/meast/syria-civil-war/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They are making noises about using the
recent gas attack</a> as an excuse to intervene. That’s ironic for many
reasons, but it is what it is. The opportunity was there to shame the
Russians into considering some sort of brokered settlement. Instead, the
US is now backing Islamists.

In a perfect world, the US is out of the region entirely and it is left
to the Europeans figure out how to get oil and gas out the place. That’s
not in the cards, so the next best thing is a deal where the oil and gas
in the region is controlled by parties willing to keep the peace locally
and do business with the West. No one really cares about the religious
inclinations of the locals, just as long as it does not spill outside
the region or endanger the supply of natural resources. Otherwise, the
locals can live as they please.

The worst result is having a Russian puppet in charge with a massive gas
pipeline from Iran into Europe. That gives the Iranians the cash to pay
for Russian arms, finance lunatics and become the dominant power in the
Gulf. It also would give Russia the whip hand over Europe, as they would
control their energy supplies. There’s lots of room to screw it up, but
it gives the wrong parties greater access to power. The French seem to
get this and want to prevent it, even if it means squaring off with the
Russians.

The problem, of course, is that American foreign policy is controlled by
a combination of naive and possibly deranged Progressives and
neoconservatives, who have a messianic vision of the future, built
around Israel. The result is American foreign policy is torn between
support for Muslim radicalism on anti-Western grounds and opposition to
radical Islam in support of Israel. Eight years of the latter is now
been followed by four years of the former. The result has been a
collapse in credibility.

As Spengler put it, “As long as the United States declares its support
for the humbug of Muslim democracy in Egypt and Syria, the rest of the
world will treat us as hapless lunatics and go about the business of
securing their own interests without us.” That may be the least worst
option, as America recovers from almost two decades of incompetent
managerialism. If the rest of the world figures out they are better off
without out us, maybe the next President will be happy to let the rest
of the world sort their own troubles.
