---
title: "The Cult of Modern Liberalism"
date: "2013-09-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=353"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=353"
---

<a
href="http://acculturated.com/daily-scene/newton-south-cancels-powderpuff-game-claims-of-sexism-and-that-it-doesnt-include-the-entire-school/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It is easy to chuckle at stories like
this one</a> from Massachusetts. Every day some new outrage emanates
from these hotbeds of lunacy. Right now, Massachusetts is the epicenter
of the suicide cult we call Progressivism. This is a state that replaced
a liberal Republican with a fake indian, who is as dumb as a goldfish.
They followed that up by replacing their retiring senator with an <a
href="http://bostonherald.com/sites/default/files/media/2013/05/02/050213markeysc011.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">aging child weirdo nicknamed Mr.
Frosty</a>.

Massachusetts a good state to examine when trying to understand the
currents in modern Progressive identity. About 45% of the population is
normal. Another 45% is deep in the weeds of the Progressive theology.
Massachusetts has the third lowest rate of church attendance in the
nation and one of the lowest marriage rates. Unsurprisingly, they have
one of the lowest fertility rates. Progressivism is not a fruitful
religion.

The secular religion of liberalism is, like all cults, is based on
self-loathing*.* Christianity and Judaism, in contrast, begin with the
belief that God loves his creations. At their purest, they are a
celebration of life and living. Adherents are attracted to these
religions because they provide affirmation of humanity. For Jews, they
believe they will one day spend eternity with their god. Christians will
go to heaven.

Secular religions work the other way. They are premised on the belief
that the adherent is vile and worthless. They join the movement in order
to exchange their identity for that of the group. Progressivism offers a
sort of cleansing, where the hated self is subsumed into the greater
identity of the cause. The American Left has always been about
self-abnegation, a weird sort of sacrifice of self to an all
encompassing community.

Their fanaticism is due to the lack of a limiting principle. In
Christianity, there is no salvation on this earth. You can practice all
the rites and rituals, live a moral life, but to do so excessively is to
risk the sin of vanity. Put another way, Christianity draw a line at
virtue where beyond it offers nothing extra. Progressivism does the
opposite. The adherent is always looking to be just a bit more pious.

Also note that the inclusiveness is just a modern implementation of the
Puritan sense of communal salvation. That tradition of assuming a
community is only as righteous as its worst sinner has transformed into
a demand that everyone must included in everything, or else. Diversity
is just code for denying that people can have private lives and private
affairs. If everyone can’t be in it, then it is immoral.

A world without borders is a world with just one border, a prison wall
that keeps everyone inside so they can be supervised. That’s what
Progressivism is today. It’s a license for the self-righteous to root
around in your life, looking for signs of bad thoughts. The result is
the end of all private association and all unsupervised separation.
Their vision of society is something closer to a prison, than a utopia.
