---
title: "Moonbat on Moonbat Crime"
date: "2013-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=368"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=368"
---

<a href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jan/31/gender.weekend7"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This</a> has been making the rounds on
social media. It is an old post, almost a decade old, so it will be
curious to see if the authoress will be forced to recant it. Ms. Bindel
is upset that some crazy person hired a doctor to butcher him into
looking somewhat like a woman and he now he wants to be a rape
counselor. By the logic of modern “gender studies” he is on solid
ground. After all, gender is a social construct. he can be a women if he
wants and everyone has to pretend he is a women.

She’s right, of course. There’s no such thing as a sex change procedure.
It is all cosmetic as far as biology is concerned. If this guy is dug up
500 years from now, the DNA test will say he was a man. The reason for
that is you cannot alter your DNA. Therefore, his sex is male because
his DNA says he is a male. He may think he is a woman, a goldfish or a
<a href="http://www.paoweb.com/starseed.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">starseed.</a> That just proves he is in need of
psychiatric care. If he was convinced he was an elf from the North Pole,
he would be in an asylum.

What makes this stuff amusing, obviously, is it is the intersection of
one type of reality denying lunacy colliding into a different brand of
reality denying lunacy. It’s a bum fight between left-wing crazies. In
this case, it is angry old-school feminism against faddish degeneracy.
For the longest time, cropped hair lesbians, dressed like loggers, were
the cutting edge of academic fashion. All of a sudden whites guys in
summer frocks are getting all the attention. It’s unfair!

Ms. Bidel writes, “Feminism is supposed to be based on the premise that
prescriptive gender roles are a cause of women’s oppression.” She could
have written that feminism is about rallying the the hobbits to defend
The Shire and been on more rational ground. Men and women have different
biological destinies. Thousands of years of evolution have made the
sexes what they are, including their roles in human societies. Division
of labor between the sexes is an incredibly useful adaptation. It may be
inconvenient for some small portion of males and females, but Mother
Nature does not care about your feelings.

In fact, mother nature has a funny way of punishing humans for defying
reality. It usually means death and/or great suffering. Animals with
weird mating or dietary adaptions like Pandas tend to get wiped out. Or,
like the Shakers, wipe themselves out. That’s what appears to be
happening with human populations that have adopted the voodoo of
feminism. Fertility rates plunge. It turns out that men, rather than
keep playing their role, have adapted too. The feminist demand for
attention has resulted in them being ignored.
