---
title: "End of the Free Money Era?"
date: "2013-12-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-12-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=728"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=728"
---

It is easy to forget that the way things are now is not the way they
have always been, which means the way things are now is not how they
will be in the future. For instance, the giant book stores that are
going out of business never existed forty years ago. For most of the
post-war period, there were mall shops to sell best sellers and popular
stuff and there were boutique book shops for the stuff aimed at serious
readers.

Then with the invention of free money from the global financial system,
every town in America suddenly had a massive book superstore. Barnes &
Noble started out a rickety old warehouse in Boston. With free money,
they built book warehouses all over the country. The story is similar
with Borders Books, which started in Michigan. Now, they are going under
as people remember that they don’t really read that much after all.

The same is true of casual dining. Thirty years ago, casual dining meant
a local joint run by local people, often foreigners. Immigrants could
start a restaurant, because it required more labor than capital. They
could make it a family business. Then all of a sudden we are flooded
with massive chains like Olive Garden and Red Lobster. Now it appears <a
href="http://blogs.laweekly.com/squidink/2013/12/red_lobster_restaurants_to_clo.php"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">they may be following the
path</a> of Borders and Barnes & Noble.

*In a move sure to set the culinary world and classy guys everywhere
reeling, Darden has announced that it will either sell or spin off its
<a href="http://www.voiceplaces.com/los-angeles/red-lobster-2393599-l"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Red Lobster</a> restaurants.*

*Adding to the devastation, the company, which also runs Olive Garden
and other fine-dining establishments, said it will suspend the opening
of new Olive Garden locations and slow down new locations for LongHorn
Steakhouses.*

*Why, you ask? Dear God, why??*

*Because Darden isn’t doing so good. It seems that consumers are turning
their noses up at hoity-toity sit-down places like Red Lobster and Olive
Garden these days in favor of cheaper chains like Chipotle.*

*Darden is one of the largest companies in the casual dining industry,
with a market value of $6.7 billion, but its core chains have had
stagnant growth, according to <a
href="http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2013/12/19/darden-to-spin-off-of-red-lobster-amid-shareholder-pressure/?_r=2"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The New York Times</a>. Last
quarter the company experienced a 31 percent drop in net earnings. “The
reduced unit growth will lower capital spending by at least $100 million
annually,” the company said in a statement.*

*Red Lobster has 705 restaurants in the United States and Canada and had
annual sales of $2.6 billion in 2013, but we guess that wasn’t enough
for ol’ Scrooge Darden.*

Putting aside the millennial snark from the writer, there could be a
bunch of reasons for this that have nothing to do with the economics of
chain restaurants. For example, Red Lobster is awful. It’s everything
that is wrong with the American diet on the same menu, but made worse
somehow. Olive Garden is better, but they tend to be over priced for
what you get. Paying $25 for spaghetti seems wrong. In other words,
whatever novelty there was to them has worn off and people now realize
these places are not very good.

There’s something else going on with big retail. The rise of massive
chain stores is due in large part to the credit boom. When you can get
money at 2%, you will make different bets than when the money costs 10%.
More important, you can make money from things with 2% money that you
can’t with 10% money. Big capital projects like restaurant and
bookstores can’t exist at borrowing rates at or above historic averages.

Cheap credit allows for a form of pump and dump that cannot exist under
normal borrowing conditions. Cheap money allows for massive expansion,
where revenue is realized today, but the cost of expansion is pushed off
into the future. That draws in more money, allowing the original
investors to get their money out with a profit. The chain expands until
it runs out of room and then those costs come home.

Interest rates remain artificially depressed, but lending is not as free
as we saw for two decades leading up to the crash. Giant corporations
can get plenty of credit, but their customers are a different story. The
Fed keeps pumping money into the system hoping the clogs eventually
break free, but no one know if that will happen, before the consequences
of loose money turn up in other parts of the economy.

Even assuming the smart Jews running the global finance system can keep
the plates spinning forever, there’s another aspect to this problem.
Cheap money allows for cost reductions by eliminating competition. These
chain restaurants have killed off the local dine, for example, but
rigging the supply chain so they get much lower costs. That works for a
while, but there is a natural boundary. Costs never fall below zero.

The free money era feels a lot like a bust out. The boom and bust of
giant bookstores, for example, left us with no bookstores. One company,
Amazon, now controls 80% of the book business. The boom and bust of
chain restaurants is about to leave us with no local restaurants, but
soulless chain stores owned by some global capital group. It’s one
company operating under a dozen brands, selling the same food.
