---
title: "Our Most Dangerous President"
date: "2013-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=574"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=574"
---

The argument for forcing Nixon out of office was that he was an imperial
president, who violated the norms of democracy. That is, he had no
respect for the law and as a result a lawless environment evolved in the
White House. It was, of course, a justification intended to hide the
truth. Nixon was hated by the Left because he was an aggressive
anti-communist in the 1950’s. The Left could never forgive him for his
attacks on the Left, so they could never accept him as a legitimate
president. He had to go.

The charges against Nixon were always nonsense, even on the dubious
moral grounds promoted by the Left. Woodrow Wilson was recklessly used
his power to suppress the media. He jailed 10,000 Americans for opposing
his war. FDR trampled all over the concept of republic, promoting a
program that looked a like Italian fascism. Compared to those two, Nixon
was a piker. Most of the stuff Nixon was doing was done under his
predecessors. Kennedy and Johnson loved spying on people.

That said, a healthy self-governing society should have a fair amount of
transparency and the political class should be deeply invested in the
rules. Once the people in office lose respect for the rules, the road to
authoritarianism opens, as the rules lose their moral power. In other
words, adherence to the rules is purely practical, rather than a matter
of status within the ruling class itself. People obey the rules if they
benefit them and violate the rules if that works. No one is ashamed of
breaking the rules.

We’re seeing this with Team Obama. They figured out how to use the IRS
as a political weapon, stocking the upper ranks with their people who
set about harassing the political enemies of Obama. Today brings word
that the Census Bureau has come in for similar treatment. <a
href="http://nypost.com/2013/11/18/census-faked-2012-election-jobs-report/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They faked the unemployment numbers
leading up to the election</a>. That naturally calls into question all
of the other economic reports. It may also explain how the regional
reports never seem to square with the national statistics.

This is very serious stuff. In a modern economy, information is
currency. Like money, it can be debased. When people lose faith in the
currency, they lose faith in the entity issuing it. <a
href="http://www.gallup.com/poll/164393/fewer-americans-ever-trust-gov-handle-problems.aspx"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Trust in government</a> is near record
lows and that’s with a national media out waving pom-poms for the ruling
class. Imagine where things go if the press throws in the towel on these
people. It may not matter as no <a
href="http://www.gallup.com/poll/163052/americans-confidence-congress-falls-lowest-record.aspx"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">one trusts the press</a> anymore anyway.

Of course, that same poll shows that the people no longer trust the most
democratic institution in the nation – Congress. Fifty years ago, the
alleged culture of lawlessness in the Nixon White House was enough to
force out the president. Here we have actual corruption, real violations
of the basic trust. Yet, the political class cannot bring itself to even
discuss it, much less act on it. The old line about silence being
consent is overused, but it applies here. Lawlessness is now the law of
the land.

Of course, you have to wonder what else they are doing. if they are
willing to abuse the IRS, are they willing to abuse the FBI or the CIA?
They corrupted the FBI by installing true believers into the leadership
layer. What happens if they do the same with the FBI? What are the
chances the media would look into it? If they are willing to excuse the
abuse of the IRS, why would they raise an alarm over other abuse? This
sounds far-fetched, but ten years ago the IRA stuff seemed far-fetched,
but here we are anyway.
