---
title: "How Does He Take A Punch?"
date: "2013-09-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=322"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=322"
---

In politics, being lucky is the critical difference between being John
Kerry and Barak Obama. Kerry, for all his faults, is an able politician.
You don’t get to be senator by not having some political skills. He
played the game carefully and made sure to take care of all the right
people. Obama, on the other hand, is not a great politician, but he is a
very lucky one. He bumped into the right people who helped him move up
the ladder and he had the right opponents. That’s why he’s president and
Kerry is not.

There’s another angle to this. Some politicians make up for bad luck or
bad timing by being plucky and resilient. They figure out how to take a
punch and keep standing. Bill Clinton is a classic example of the
political survivor. Scandals that would have landed most pols in prison
never slowed him down. Clinton could take a punch. We don’t know if
Obama can take a punch. He’s been so carefully protected, no one knows
if he has a chin. Even at this point in his tenure, we don’t know if the
man can take a punch.

It looks like we will find out. <a
href="http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2013/09/05/alan-grayson-syria-intelligence-manipulated"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Left has decided to break ranks</a>
and abandon him over this Syria business. Grayson is a nut and probably
should be in a mental ward, but he is a bellwether of sorts. If he is
breaking ranks, that means the fever swamp is losing faith in their man
over this. Then there is the international scene <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/syria/10289837/Syria-crisis-Barack-Obama-faces-growing-opposition-to-airstrikes-as-he-arrives-for-G20.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">where Obama is getting embarrassed by
Putin</a>. There’s now a viscous cycle at work. As domestic support
flags, international support flags, which drives down domestic support.

Obama is headed for an embarrassing defeat unless the GOP saves him,
which is always a possibility. They think it sells with their voters to
be on the warmongering side of every issues, so to them this looks like
a good way to score points. That could be bad for Obama. The other
choice is to cowboy up and go it alone, but that is not his style. Plus
he does not seem like he is all that excited by the venture. Either way,
he is going to have to win a few fights against some of his own people
to get his way on this.

No matter how this plays out, Obama is going to take a hit politically.
The question is how does he respond. Bush just put his head down and ran
forward. Clinton found some low hanging fruit he could grab to change
the subject. That’s what veteran pols do when they have been through
some tough times. They develop a way to handle a loss. That’s why the
best politicians usually have a loss early in their career. Obama has
lived a charmed life up to this point. Now we find out if has that
something extra to bounce back from a defeat or if he makes an early
transition to lame duck status.
