---
title: "The Death of Reactionary Liberalsim?"
date: "2013-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=563"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=563"
---

One of the oddities of the Barak Obama platform was that is was
reactionary. Everything he talked about was in reaction to some slight
or affront to liberalism over the last few decades. It was if they were
keeping a list starting in the Reagan years and were nursing a grudge
over each and every failure. His policies were both anti-intellectual
and anti-ideological. Most was either the opposite of whatever Bush or
Reagan had done or a promise to redress some failure to implement
liberal dogma in the past.

Once he was in office that become more obvious. The whole Russian
“reset” nonsense was particularly strange. The Russians accepted the
fact they lost the Cold War and they were pretty happy about it. After
all, it made Russian rulers much wealthier. On the other hand, the
American Left was still angry over the end of the Cold War. They
resented the fact Reagan threw them overboard and confronted the
Soviets. They insisted that they would have ended it better, thus the
talk of “fixing” relations with Russia.

The last five years have seen a series of such moves by this
administration. In foreign policy, doing the opposite of Bush is the
default. They threw away the peace deal in Iraq and tripled up on the
pointless Afghan campaign. They threw over every ally we had left in the
Middle East and embraced the Arab Spring nonsense. In Europe, all of our
traditional relationships were cast aside to the point where even the
[French hate
Obama](http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/france-iran-fools-bargain/2013/11/09/id/535782).
The Iran policy is an attempt to vindicate Carter and repudiate the
Reagan critique of him.

On domestic policy, we see the same things. ObamaCare is just a re-do of
the failed HillaryCare initiative the Left pushed in the 1990’s. The
Left was convinced that they were wronged by the Clintons and wrongly
blamed for the failure of HillaryCare. Here, the narrative gets weird.
The Left argued that the failure to pass an unpopular proposal was the
[cause of the 1994 election](http://prospect.org/article/lessons-94). If
only had rammed it through, they would have been fine, so they were
determined to ram through ObamaCare.

For the last five years, liberal policy has been driven by reaction to
the past or simply doing the opposite of the Republicans. From the
stimulus bill forward, if Republicans are for it, the Left is against
it. If liberals of a bygone era were thwarted in their past attempts,
then now it is time to pass it, even when it made no sense at all.
Undermining welfare reform, for example, is counterproductive. That was
the one “reform” in the 1990’s that made any sense and was embraced by
both parties and state government.

Liberalism today is nothing more than a grab bag of slights and grudges.
It’s a strange form of reactionary politics, in that they are not
actually protecting the status quo against reforms. It’s as if they
think they need to rewind everything to some starting point in the
1960’s and have a do-over. They long for a present that never came to
be, so they seek to go back and recreate the past in order to arrive at
a new present. It’s a very oriental form of reaction, when you think
about it. It’s spiritual and mystical.

Some right-wing Progressives like Jonah Goldberg argue that American
Liberalism may be in a final stage and about to expire. The surge of
liberal candidates was a rear guard action signaling the end. That’s
mostly wishful thinking. A key argument of the ossified Right is that
doing nothing will result in victory. It is a weird appropriation of the
old Progressive line about being on the right side of history. It an
appeal to authority, but the authority is an unmentioned spirit force
that is just assumed to exist.

Now <a
href="https://www.politico.com/story/2013/11/charles-krauthammer-obamacare-liberals-099785"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Charles Krauthammer</a> is peddling the
same idea. It’s an odd thing that all of the neocons have suddenly
embraced this weird new right-wing mysticism. They also entangle
tangible politics with ideological currents. That’s what Krauthammer is
doing with ObamaCare and the Democrats. It is bad for the party, but it
has nothing to do with what Progressive is becoming. If anything, the
death of the old pragmatic politics of the Left, in favor of this new
reactionary mysticism says the Left is reborn.

Maybe this type of politics is doomed. The weirdness of addressing all
of these old sins and old slights is too obvious. Politics is about
bread and circuses, not mystical trips to the before time in order to
recreate a new present. That stuff is for grad school seminars on
ontology, not practical politics. Still, the intensity of this new type
of liberalism, however, suggest it is just getting started, rather that
headed to the dust bin of history. The Left has believed in nuttier
things than mystical reaction.
