---
title: "Why Obama Lost To Putin"
date: "2013-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=338"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=338"
---

One of the things you learn when you go from working class to middle
class is that the men get softer the further you go up the class ladder.
By softer I mean less inclined to throw a punch. At the lower end of the
scale, you better be able to back up your words with your fists or a
knife or a gun. Otherwise, you better know how to keep your mouth shut
and steer clear of trouble.

In elite society, alpha males are quick with the witty jibe and enforce
their dominance with clever
repartee. <span style="line-height: 1.625;">Careful politicking,
networking and favor trading is how one advances in the upper classes.
Words, not deeds, are the currency of the rich. In the lower classes,
too much talking can get you killed. In the upper classes, being glib is
like being tough, it is the thing expected of people of high
status.</span>

I thought about that as Obama stumbled and bumbled is way back from the
brink of war yesterday. He and his advisers are from the same world.
Upper middle and upper class childhoods. Prep schools then elite
colleges. After college it was law school, government service and
perhaps stints at elite Wall Street firms to take care of the finances.
Then eventually service in the upper reaches of government or perhaps an
NGO.

In the hermetically sealed world of American politics, this is not big
thing. Everyone is playing by the same rules of the pseudo-meritocracy.
Obama played the game better than most and was able to parlay his race
into the top job. He has always dealt with people who have have the same
mental models as he has, so he is unable to comprehend that there are
people working from different mental frameworks.

In foreign policy, things are a bit different. In the Syria crisis, one
of the major players is [Vladimir
Putin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Putin). He has [probably
killed people as a member of the
KGB](http://larussophobe.wordpress.com/putinmurders/). He has certainly
ordered people killed as he has gone up the food chain. He’s not Ivan
the Terrible, but he is a genuine bad ass who made it to the top of the
heap in a world where mistakes get you killed or let you kill your
rival. He’s also dealt with the fashionable careerists who not dominate
the elites of western countries.

You may think I’m overdoing it with Putin, but consider another major
player. That would be Assad of Syria. He could easily have negotiated a
deal to leave Syria and settle in Europe. Hell, he could do a deal with
Obama and moved to New York City. Instead, he stays in Syria, fighting
the rebels. According to various reports, [100,000 civilians have been
killed](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/09/01/syria-death-toll_n_3851982.html)
since this thing started. It takes a genuine badass to be in charge of a
tribe willing to kill anyone in their way. Assad may have got to his
place through nepotism, but he remains in power by killing anyone who
challenges him.

You can go through the entire roster of players in this story, Jews,
Arabs and Persians, and find a whole bunch of seriously bad dudes. The
thing about bad dudes, whether they are Arab dictators or the president
of the local Hell’s Angels chapter, is they have no illusions about the
human condition. They also know their limits. Sonny at the biker bar
knows he is not talking you out of your interests. The House of Saud
knows the only way to stay in power is to use it. Talking about it does
nothing.

That’s why Obama & Co were outwitted by Putin and Assad. These are men
fully equipped to deal with the realities of that part of the world.
They have no illusions about what can be done. Obama and his people walk
around thinking that a clever speech or well crafted argument is going
to get everyone to do what they say. That’s how it has always worked for
them. It is how they were trained. The result is they lost this round to
Russia and the empire is showing it weakness.
