---
title: "These are the Good Times"
date: "2013-08-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=114"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=114"
---

Everything is relative. When I was a boy, by grandfather would tell me
stories of his youth in the second decade of the last century. He was
born in 1910 and came over here at some point from Russia. That was
always a mystery. The family was dirt poor, but he remembered it fondly.
He told stories of the Depression too. Of course, he had stories from
the war years. Again, all were fond memories despite the fact he and his
family survived great deprivations. All of us tend to romanticize our
youth when old.

Our younger years are the best of times, even when those times are
terrible. The reason is youth. Being young means having hope because
everything is in front of you. Even if the present is terrible, it’s all
you know and tomorrow is another day. I have fond memories of the
1970’s, even though my family could barely keep the lights on. I was a
kid and did not care. I had fun anyway. The turmoil in the greater
society did not touch me and I have no way to compare my circumstances
with the alternatives, so I enjoyed my youth.

Anyway, this post by <a
href="http://ashokarao.com/2013/08/06/has-the-labor-market-adjusted-a-keynesian-price-floor-and-employment-dynamics/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ashok Rao</a> is interesting and a bit
scary. Fake unemployment is at ~7.5% right now. Real unemployment is
something closer to 11%. Some claim the figure, when backing out the
part timers, is probably over 15%. I’ve always hated such games, but the
government keeps playing games with the numbers. <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887324616604578304072420873666.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This WSJ article</a> is a good read on
the subject of part-time workers. What jumps out from Ashok’s post is
that job gains have flattened out now. We see that in the weekly numbers
and the monthly NFP.

The reason for the troublesome labor numbers is that employers are
filling jobs with temporary workers when possible. There are lots of
incentives for avoiding any permanent increases to their work force.
There also the availability of indentured servants from abroad. No one
ever talks about the fact that the labor pool keeps growing at the same
pace as job growth and this is due to the flood of foreign workers.
Instead, the government just keeps pushing their fake employment
numbers, hoping no one notices.

What this means, form the perspective of present workers, is that we are
in the bets of times. if you are a boomer looking to retire, you don’t
care. The good times are gone anyway. The 20-somethings, on the other
hand, are getting screwed and are going to get even more screwed. This
economy, with all of them living at home and hustling part time work, is
as good as it gets for a while. Looking at the recent economic data, we
are headed into a period of near zero growth, when you net out money
creation.

Of course, the employment numbers are largely worthless, as they assume
things have not changed since the 1960’s. When the labor force was
domestic and its growth was organic, the statistics meant something. Now
that employers are permitted to import ringers from abroad to drive down
wages and get around labor laws, those numbers are meaningless. The only
number that counts for anything is the workforce participation rate, but
that is never advertised as it reveals the truth of the current labor
markets.
