---
title: "Poor Little Indians"
date: "2013-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=410"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=410"
---

The people who came to settle in the Americas, after migrating from Asia
over the Beringia land bridge during Late Pleistocene era, make for a
great case study with regarding human evolution. For example, science
can now use DNA to tell the difference between those who settled ion
South America from those in North America. The initial population split
and became isolated enough from one another to develop different genetic
mutations from one another. That buttresses has been observed elsewhere
in the world.

Of course, it is interesting to try and puzzle through what happened to
ancient or forgotten civilizations. In some cases where they put
together something that looked like an advanced civilization, then
suddenly it collapsed. Figuring out why it disappeared in a few years is
fun. It can also tell us something about human civilization in general.
Although, knowing why the Greeks and Romans failed at the end has not
changed a single mind among the modern ruling classes so it may not be a
worthwhile endeavor.

The trouble, of course, when it comes to talking about the Amerindian
societies is the modern primitives and their superstitions get in the
way. We are no longer allowed to point out that sub-Saharan Africans
never advanced far beyond the stone age until the white man arrived with
the wheel, writing and so forth. Similarly, any discussion of American
Indians must be is such reverent tones that it makes discussing the
topic close to impossible, at least in an objective way. <a
href="https://io9.gizmodo.com/a-mysterious-fire-destroyed-north-americas-greatest-ci-1390275275"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a>.

In an otherwise straight forward story  you get something like this:

*The first evidence of a settlement in the Cahokia area is from the year
600 CE, at a time when the Maya civilization would have been at its
peak. But it wasn’t until after the largest cities of the Maya began to
fall in the 1000s that Cahokia came into its own. It’s estimated that
the city center held as many as 15,000 people (making it comparable in
size to European cities of the same era), and reached the height of its
productivity between roughly 1000-1300 CE.*

The implication, something we routinely see in stories about the Mayan,
Aztec and other Mesoamerican groups, is that these people had reached a
comparable level of civilization to that of Europeans. Sometimes they
are described as being more advanced, at the time, than Europeans.
Always lurking somewhere in the discussion is the implication that
everything was fine until the pale face came along and screwed
everything up. It’s a version of the noble savage, with the white man as
the villain ruining paradise.

The first step in human civilization was agriculture. This required
something larger than kin-based organizational units. One guy planting a
garden is not enough. Figuring out how to raise crops required large
scale (relative to hunter gatherers) cooperation amongst people. The
mesoamericans got this far. They also got to the point where they could
have specialization. Instead of farming, some portion of society were
craftsman, tradesmen and government functionaries/religious class.

That’s a big deal as it allows for a class of people who come up with
new ideas and improve on old technology. Successful agriculture allows
for an intellectual class. If Bill Gates had to till his fields every
day, he was not going to have time to steal code from IBM. Having a
class of people dedicated solely to metallurgy allows for constant
improvement in that technology. The results help a society grow richer
and add to its stock of people working on non-agricultural projects.
There is a compounding effect.

That’s thing with these ancient people. They never made it that far.
Europeans were smelting metal for 2,000 years before the Maya were
stacking rocks on top of one another to make a simple wall. When they
were at their richest, presumably allowing their best and brightest to
try new things, they did some impressive stuff with stonework and
architecture. More often than not, however, it was used for ceremonial,
cultural and religious ends, rather than practical ends, like plumbing
and sewage.

They did not invent any new technologies that would help them take
control of their natural surroundings. While the Maya were perfecting
stone age technology, Europeans had passed through the bronze age and
were well into the iron age. Comparing the civilization achievements of
these people with Europe is simply ridiculous for these reasons. Why one
group went down a blind alley and one did not is interesting and useful
to know, but it is not allowed to be discussed in the current climate of
righteous hysteria.

Of course, we’re all supposed to feel bad for what happened to the
Indians. To show that, we celebrate the achievements of the Maya, Aztecs
and whoever else we can find that was kicking around the Americas before
the white man. Throw in a healthy dollop of the noble savage myth and
you have middle-aged white women claiming to have “Native American”
ancestry. The American Indian has become a stock character in the never
ending morality tale of white guilt and the quest for redemption.,

Reality is something different. The Indians were a dead end of sorts. At
least when comes to technological achievement. The most advanced
civilizations in the south never developed a large enough smart fraction
to overcome their environment to a degree that allowed the shape their
environment. They maxed out their ecosystem, but where never able to
take control of it as happened in Europe and Asia.There were a few smart
Indians around, but never enough to reach the necessary critical mass.

That last bit is the key. Europe in the 900’s was not a fun place. War,
disease, famine and general mayhem made living beyond 30 a rarity. We
called it the dark ages for good reason. Still, the ingredients were all
there for a breakout. People had figured out the basics of agriculture
to the point where they could produce more than they consumed and there
fore have an inventive class, working on making better tools, better
weapons and better ways to organize themselves in order to capitalize on
their advances.

Understanding that process and why it happened is important. We know
Amerindians have an average IQ a little higher than Africans. We know
Europeans and Asians have significantly higher IQ’s than other human
groups. That’s probably the place to start when trying to understand why
the Aztec went down a dead end and were never able to get over the hump
in terms of cultural development. This is all taboo, so instead we waste
time worshiping people for having been mankind’s greatest losers.
