---
title: "Sometimes a Banana is Just a Banana"
date: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=157"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=157"
---

The race hoax is becoming something of a trope these days. Usually it is
the alleged victim who is behind the hoax. Sometimes it is the alleged
victim simply interpreting a normal event as a racial assault, just to
get attention. <a
href="http://www.espn.com/mlb/story?id=9559671&amp;_slug_=adam-jones-baltimore-orioles-claims-fan-att-park-threw-banana-him"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This looks</a> like an example of the
latter. In fairness, he could really believe he was the victim of a
racist taunt, but most likely he is just doing what all blacks are
trained to do these days and that is cry racism. it is not a matter of
conditioning, as much as a part of their identity as former slaves.

Cameras cover every inch of a modern ballpark including the stands,
concessions, gangways and bathrooms. If it did happen, they will quickly
find video of it and locate the monster who did it. I watch a lot of
baseball and the announcers always mention when something is thrown on
the field. The fact that this player is currently the only witness makes
me suspicious. The desire for victim point is so overpowering now, even
black millionaires cook up scenarios where they are victims of down
scale whites.

At some point, ESPN will hold a town hall meeting on this so we can get
lectured by them on banana etiquette. That’s one reason for the
escalation in hate hoaxes. The Progressive media is so thirsty for these
tales, they never stop to ask any questions. Of course, the demographics
of the media make them especially receptive to anything that casts
whites as immoral. The resulting pattern is a claim is made, it accepted
on face value, then a long lecture from our betters and finally the
truth is revealed and the whole thing is forgotten.

Putting my skepticism aside, there is something else going on here. The
player is on social media looking for people to agree with him and tell
him he is a good guy. It would appear some have decided he is a pansy
who has over reacted. Others think he is mistaken. Some just think he
needs to toughen up. His reaction to that is to threaten to leave social
media. We now have black snowflakes, who fall to pieces whenever anyone
tries to hold them to civilized standards of behavior. That seems to be
an issue here.

The thing is, if it did happen the person who did it probably just
happened to have a banana and chucked it on the field. This is San
Francisco for goodness sakes. Anyone who has been to that park knows the
stands are full of hipsters eating healthy. To an east coast guy used to
grimy ballparks like Fenway, the first trip to San Fran was weird and
unsettling. People bring their damned dogs to the park. The fan threw
the banana because he was not done with his soy latte or his arugula
salad.

Update:  <a
href="http://espn.go.com/mlb/story/_/id/9561840/san-francisco-giants-fan-apologizes-throwing-banana-adam-jones-baltimore-orioles"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Looks like I was mostly right</a>. It had
nothing to do with race. Jones is free to place that chip back on his
shoulder and continue his hunt for the great white devil.
