---
title: "Detroit & Debt"
date: "2013-08-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=121"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=121"
---

<a
href="http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-08-06/detroit-austrian-moment-making"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This post on ZeroHedge</a> reminds me of
something that never gets much discussion these days. That is, how can
you create a system of governance that prevents the state from
borrowing? The gold bugs and libertarians are the only people who see
borrowing as the source of all trouble. The people in charge never think
about it, as borrowing makes it possible for them to be in charge. Easy
money allows the worst elements to dominate a democracy, because it
makes it possible for the unprincipled to buy votes.

The outlandish growth of the Federal government is due to debt. There’s
no way the public would tolerate the tax burden to pay for it. Instead,
the rulers found subtle ways to tax the people, always through debt. In
order to mask the erosion of purchasing power, they allow banks to
create  unlimited credit for the public to use in lieu of earnings.
State and local government uses debt in lieu of taxes to pay for
expanding unionized workforces. Of course, public pensions are just
taxing future tax payers for present vote buying.

Public debt is a type of Ponzi scheme. Like all Ponzi schemes, this one
will eventually run out of new money to pay off old money. At the peak
of the baby boom, for example, the Feds will be paying 78 million
Boomers to sit around at about $50,000 per year. That’s $4 Trillion a
year in welfare payments. No one has the slightest idea how to pay it.
State and local pension obligations are something like a trillion a year
short of being solvent and that may be a polite fiction. No one really
knows how broke pensions are right now.

Within the next two decades, the money runs out. It will happen with
cities, then a state and finally the Federal government will run out of
money. There’s also the fact that global debt has reached levels never
seen in human history. There has to be some upper limit to debt
creation. The world is based on never ending debt growth, so what
happens when that limit is reached? People talk about peak oil as when
growth in demand out-paces the growth in supply. That never happens with
oil, but it has to happen with debt.

Then what?

The end of one era is the start of a new one. The new one is always
about addressing the errors of the old one. If the end of the credit
economy is ugly enough, serious people will have to come up with a
solution to debt. That means some hard limits on borrowing. This assumes
a soft landing from the financial crisis that comes from the end of the
credit boom. if it ends in a world war, then maybe what comes next does
not matter. The challenge for the post-collapse rulers will be keeping
the bread lines peaceful.

Assuming the ideal denouement to the credit boom, how would nations put
safe limits on public borrowing? State government have limits written
into their constitutions, but those are often circumvented. A currency
based in something useful like energy stocks could achieve a mix of
gold’s limit’s ion credit growth, while allowing for a growth in the
money supply as energy becomes more available and cheaper. It’s a hard
puzzle to solve, for the simple reason people love spending today on the
promise to pay tomorrow.
