---
title: "Weiner Goes Limp IN NYC"
date: "2013-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=175"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=175"
---

[I saw this posted on the former Half Sigma
blog](http://lionoftheblogosphere.wordpress.com/2013/08/13/bill-thompson-next-mayor-of-nyc/).
If you were hoping Anthony Weiner would win the democratic primary, it
looks like you will be disappointed. There’s a month to go and people
tend to forget quickly that one of the candidates is a mental patient,
but even New Yorkers have too much self-respect to give Weiner a third
chance. The next mayor will be the dreary socialist, the dreary
bureaucrat or the flamboyant communist. The New York Times is backing
the communist, to no one’s surprise, so he is the pick

The fact is the forces that drive the fortunes of a big city are beyond
the control of the political class. A city is measured by its crime
rate, public school system, unemployment rate, property values and
culture. There’s some other stuff that we judge a city by, but that’s
enough. Demographics drive the crime rate. San Francisco is 43% white
and 33% Asian. Both groups have very low crimes rates so San Francisco
has a low crime rate. Detroit is 80% black and has a crime rate
commensurate with the black population.

Schools are similar, but median income pops up here. Areas with a solid
middle class composed of families will have good public schools. Areas
with a big underclass full of baby mommas and absentee fathers will have
crappy public schools. You can’t fix that with good policy. These class
and race issues are beyond the reach of government. Even if you gave
city government dictatorial power, they could not fix the broken
families that make up most of Newark or Camden or Baltimore. Government
is not God.

Of course, the local economy is entirely driven by serendipity. If your
city is lucky to be based on industry with a future, your city has a
future. Cities in New England, for example, that depended upon making
shoes or paint were looking good 100 years ago. When the banks sold off
those industries to foreigners, those cities collapsed. Lowell Mass was
a great mill town into the 20’s and 30’s, but textiles moved South and
Lowell went down the crapper. No amount of good government was going to
fix that problem.

I could go on, but the fact is the big things affecting a city are out
of the reach of politicians, unless they are willing to be immoral or
corrupt. For example, Giuliani gets credit for reviving New York by
lowering crime. What he really did was ride the financial boom to push
out the blacks from Manhattan. The newly rich were willing to look the
other way as the cops hassled young black males with the policy of stop
and frisk. They also agreed with polices to drive off businesses that
cater to the lower classes.

The great credit boom that blew up Wall Street filled NYC with rich
people and rich people like a nice places to live. Rudy did fix the
police department, but he could not have done it without the support of
the army of bean counters filling the ranks of the booming financial
houses located in the city. The next mayor will have no impact on the
city. As long as the free money keeps flowing and the [demographics keep
going this
way](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2013/08/07/sign-of-things-to-come-integration-without-blacks-in-new-york-city-neighborhoods/),
the next mayor will do just fine, regardless of their ideology. Even a
commie will not screw it up.
