---
title: "We’re Doomed – Again"
date: "2013-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=439"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=439"
---

In every time and every place there have been those predicting doom just
over the horizon. Eventually, one of them is right and is often
remembered long after by future prophets of doom. No one remembers the
millions who were wrong, unless they flamed out in a particularly <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heaven%27s_Gate_%28religious_group%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">spectacular fashion</a> or a
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">psychologist wrote a book about them</a>.
It’s why predicting the end of the world is much more popular than
predicting everything will be just fine. It’s all upside and no
downside.

The HBD blogger JayMan has <a
href="https://jaymans.wordpress.com/2013/10/07/a-second-great-depression/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a post</a> up predicting the end of the
world. Those inclined to this sort of thinking will surely find plenty
to recommend it. That’s the other thing about doom-saying. There’s a big
audience for it. People really seem to like hearing that it is all going
to come crashing down. maybe it is a form of class grievance that is
acceptable, because it lacks the vengeful quality of Marxism.

I have not read the whole thing or had much time to mull over his
arguments, but what jumps out to me immediately is the Great Depression
Syndrome. This is a cognitive bias I just made up to describe the myopic
view of economics history. The field seems to be entirely warped by that
one event.  I suspect it is because it is the big economic event that
gave birth to their profession. That and they don’t have reliable data
for prior events.

Still, you would think someone would notice that the world was buggering
along for a few thousand years before Keynes. The other issue is the
cultural overhang. The story of the American empire starts with the
Great Depression and World War II. The Boomers grew up hearing tales
about their parents making it through the Depression to then beating the
Nazis. Jews, of course, dominate the economics field, so they bring
their cultural biases to the table. For them, economics is all that
matters.

The Great Depression is not the standard we should be applying today.
For starters, the Great Depression was not what romantics of today
claim. It was bad for a lot of people, but it was not catastrophic for
most people. In fact, most people did well enough and some people did
really well. That and it was relatively short compared to other economic
downturns. The Long Depression was worse and it lasted much longer.

It is probably fair to say that the Long Depression is a better analogue
to today than the Great Depression. Instead of one big dive over the
cliff, followed by a period of adjustment, there were a series of shocks
around the world that fed on one another, leading to a global
depression. Today, Europe has different troubles than the US, which has
different problems than Japan, but all of these systemic problems are
influencing one another, threatening the global economy.

Even so, it is not a great analogue. There are lessons to be drawn, but
policy makers never learn from the past so it is left to history buffs.
Read <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Currency-Wars-Making-Global-Crisis/dp/B00DPNUVLC"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"><em>Currency Wars</em></a> and you can
get a nice easy to read on the history of the Long Depression as well as
the Great Depression. Again, the main issue we have with drawing lessons
from previous economic turmoil is we don’t have a lot of useful data
from those eras. That and the modern nation is demographically different
from anything in the past.

Then we have the <a
href="https://lionoftheblogosphere.wordpress.com/2013/10/08/about-the-current-invisible-depression/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this</a>. He too suffers from Great
Depression Syndrome. In his case, no pics of bread lines today means it
is better than the 30’s, because he remembers seeing all of those pics
of breadlines back in school. The 1930’s did not have sprawling black
ghettos either. They did not have trailer parks full of meth labs. They
did not millions of foreign peasants crossing in the country. It’s what
makes comparisons between now and 80 years ago incomplete. These are two
different countries.

Anyway, plenty of good stuff for the doom and gloom types. The most
likely outcome is we stagger from crisis to crisis as the world emerges
from the post-Cold War delusions and comes to terms with the
technological and demographic realities. There will be a slow winding
down of the American Empire and rapid change in American politics, as we
descend into tribal multiculturalism. All transitions come with a price,
so maybe it is a slow decline or a quick on, the good economic days are
probably over.
