---
title: "The American Progressive"
date: "2013-10-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=425"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=425"
---

The great Eric Hoffer wrote <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/The-True-Believer-Movements-Perennial/dp/0060505915"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"><em>The True Believer</em></a>, a classic
meditation on the fanatic. Hoffer is a bit of a mystery as there seems
to be some dispute about his early life. What we know is the fascist and
communist movements were in full bloom during the first half of his
life. He would have been 15 when the Bolsheviks overthrew the Czar. He
was in his twenties when Fascism got going in Italy and Germany. He was
in his 30’s when Hitler reigned over Europe.

In 1952, when he wrote the book, that was the frame of reference from
which he worked. He was a longshoreman, so he would have been very
familiar with the union movement in America and the men who were
attracted to it. Some would argue that Jacobinism was the first secular
religion, but it is fair to say that communism and fascism were the
first to sink roots outside their native lands. They are certainly the
only ones to have real staying power.

There’s been a lot of water under the bridge since then. Marxism and
communism have lost all credibility because of mathematics. The claims
to science by the early promoters of those religions seem laughable
today. That’s true even if you are skeptical of global capitalism. The
piles of corpses make it impossible to accept the premises of these
great secular religions from the last century.

Fascism suffered a similar fate for obvious reasons. Like a virus,
however, it had mutated several times prior to the denouement of German
fascism. In Spain and Portugal, it took on a distinctly Catholic nature.
In America, it attached itself to Progressivism, like an ideological
parasite, influencing the Left in minor ways. Despite what Jonah
Goldberg claims in his book, Liberal Fascism, the American Left is not
fascist.

Fascism had another problem for Americans. In Europe, you have
relatively small states with people conditioned to living under the rule
of an elite. They are fairly homogenous and all white. America through
the 19th century was a hodgepodge of voluntary associations. The
national government was limited to managing trade and foreign affairs.
State government was limited to public works. Everything else was hashed
out by individuals and their neighbors as they saw fit.

That changed with the waves of immigration, but that old ethos was still
strong among the ruling elite into the 20<sup>th</sup> century. It was
very strong in the heartland among normal Americans. Throw in the
ethnic, racial and cultural divisions and a unifying religion like
fascism could never work the same wit worked in Europe. Then you have to
throw in the fact that America was always a very Christian nation.
Secular religions cannot coexist with Christianity.

The virus mutated, however, from what we think of as fascism, and
attached itself to the ruling ideology of the American empire. There was
a subset of fascism that preached an internationalism, which was more
like a federation of fascist nations, bound together by a common
interest among the fascist elites. That seems to be what survived and is
now flourishing in American and Europe.

Today’s American Progressive is as much a true believer as the Nazis
though. They sign onto the cause out of a desire to belong to something
they see as superior to themselves. Joining a movement is an act of
self-abnegation. The adherent swaps their identity for that of the
group. In the case of the modern Progressive, they seek salvation.
Taking on the identity of the group allows the adherent to be saved from
his sinful self. Rigorously enforcing the internal codes of conduct is
the proof. The Calvinist element of Progressivism remains.

Over the last half century scholars have described the Nazi, the
Bolshevik and the fascist fairly well. We really don’t have a similar
taxonomy for the modern Progressives. Like pornography, you immediately
know one when you mean them, but they are hard to describe. Everyone
knows that person who was a little flaky and little lefty, but then they
went full-on crazy with some form of radical politics. It’s like a form
of mental illness than gets progressively worse.

Mental illness is not a bad metaphor. When you run across posts in
mainstream publications titled “Taking Carbon Personally” you have to
assume the author and audience are struggling to keep it together. These
bare the people with “COEXIST” stickers on their car, but they live in
the whitest neighborhoods on earth. That worry about racism, but would
not be caught dead on a street named after Malcom X. It’s as if they
can’t see themselves or hear what they are saying.
