---
title: "Fake Libertarians"
date: "2013-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2013-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=466"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=466"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, my liberal friends would occasionally
claim to be libertarian or “mostly libertarian.” They would usually bust
that out whenever I was making sport of their hive mentality. When Bill
Clinton was raping interns, it was great fun to mock the feminists who
somehow managed to get past the rape business to support Clinton against
those prudish inquisitors. That’s when they would suddenly discover
their inner libertarian and say that what adults did on the floor of the
oval office was no one’s business.

It was the Clinton years when I began to look at liberalism as a cult.
Cult leaders always end up indulging in deviant behavior that their
followers manage to overlook. It’s as if the charismatic leader crosses
some threshold, where his strength of personality becomes more of a
factor than his ideas. The proof of that is how his followers
rationalize their leader doing things he allegedly opposes. Those who
can do this become more committed, while those who can’t are boiled off
and join some other cult.

Of course, one reason liberals think they may be “slightly libertarian”
is they are in favor of legalizing weed. Liberals are the modern
[Roundheads](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roundhead) so to them, this
feels like a huge concession toward personal liberty. Their movement has
been stamping out smoking, eating, sex, sloth and everything else that
seems like fun for so long, they think it is radical to oppose the drug
war. Those Puritan instincts tell them that even the most private of
behavior must come under public scrutiny, so being OK with weed feels
radical.

That and they obsess over their crotch. For whatever reason, the Left
has an obsession with lady parts to the point of distraction. It’s an
odd obsession that is in part a need to be vulgar. They associate
probity with middle-class white culture, which they oppose, so being
vulgar feels like rebellion to them. Therefore, indulging in sexual
degeneracy, which would seem at odds with other aspects of their secular
religion, is acceptable because it offends an enemy of their movement.
It’s an exception that supports the cause.

I was thinking about this the other day when looking at the Lion of the
Blogosphere’s [latest pro-abortion
rant](http://lionoftheblogosphere.wordpress.com/2013/10/13/more-about-abortion-an-family-values/).
He has an obsession with cultural conservatives and therefore he dwells
on abortion, thinking it is the opposite of decency. He is a guy
who will occasionally try to pass himself off as libertarian which is a
bit ridiculous. The HBD guys like him and they tend not to be liberal,
but there’s no reason to think one excludes the other. In fact, an
oblique form of race realism has always been at the heart of American
radicalism.

Still, I wonder why it is some on the Left feel the need to play the
libertarian card. It could simply be a part of their natural tendency to
deflect. People are attracted to secular religions out of self-loathing.
They seek to swap their hated self, for the identity of the group.
Therefore they are always trying to avoid discussion of themselves,
because that requires facing up to their nature. Playing the libertarian
card is a lure to draw attention away from them onto something else,
anything else.

Alternatively, we see conservatives in Progressive enclaves using the
libertarian ruse to avoid conflict. Anyone who has lived in
Massachusetts knows that child molesters get better treatment than
conservatives. If you are at a social event and say something that
violates one of their many taboos, you can be sure the screech owls from
the local feminist coven will be trying to rip your flesh from your
bones. For reasons I’ll get into another day, the Left does not view
libertarians as a threat.

Of course, this suggests that libertarianism is not a real ideology or a
real social movement, but rather a way station of sorts.
Left-libertarians can code-switch between liberalism and libertarianism,
depending upon their situation. Right-libertarians can do something
similar, in order to avoid the wrath of lefty. That means as the divide
grows, libertarianism will collapse, as it will be impossible to exist
in both camps. That’s a topic for another day, but it means
libertarianism is not a real thing.
