---
title: "Obama Speaks At Klan Rally"
date: "2014-09-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2899"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2899"
---

President Obama spoke at a Ku Klux Klan rally today.

*Hello, CBC!  (Applause.)  Thank you so much.  Everybody, have a seat. 
It is good to be with you here tonight.  If it wasn’t black tie I would
have worn my tan suit.  (Laughter.)  I thought it looked good. 
(Laughter.)*

*Thank you, **Chaka**, for that introduction.  Thanks to all of you for
having me here this evening. I want to acknowledge the members of the
Congressional Black Caucus and Chairwoman Marcia Fudge for their
outstanding work.  (Applause.)  Thank you, Shuanise Washington, and the
CBC Foundation for doing so much to help our young people aim high and
reach their potential.*

*Tonight, I want to begin by paying special tribute to a man with whom
all of you have worked closely with; someone who served his country for
nearly 40 years as a prosecutor, as a judge, and as Attorney General of
the United States:  Mr. Eric Holder.  (Applause.)  Throughout his long
career in public service, Eric has built a powerful legacy of making
sure that equal justice under the law actually means something; that it
applies to everybody — regardless of race, or gender, or religion, or
color, creed, disability, sexual orientation.  He has been a great
friend of mine.  He has been a faithful servant of the American people. 
We will miss him badly.  (Applause.)*

*This year, we’ve been marking the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights
Act.  We honor giants like John Lewis — (applause); unsung heroines like
Evelyn Lowery.  We honor the countless Americans, some who are in this
room — black, white, students, scholars, preachers, housekeepers,
patriots all, who, with their bare hands, reached into the well of our
nation’s founding ideals and helped to nurture a more perfect union. 
We’ve reminded ourselves that progress is not just absorbing what has
been done — it’s advancing what’s left undone.*

*Even before President Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act into law,
even as the debate dragged on in the Senate, he was already challenging
America to do more and march further, to build a Great Society — one,
Johnson said, “where no child will go unfed, and no youngster will go
unschooled.  Where no man who wants work will fail to find it.  Where no
citizen will be barred from any door because of his birthplace or his
color or his church.  Where peace and security is common among neighbors
and possible among nations.”  “This is the world that waits for you,” he
said.  “Reach out for it now.  Join the fight to finish the unfinished
work.”  To finish the unfinished work.*

*America has made stunning progress since that time, over the past 50
years — even over the past five years.  But it is the unfinished work
that drives us forward.*

*Some of our unfinished work lies beyond our borders.  America is
leading the effort to rally the world against Russian aggression in
Ukraine.  America is leading the fight to contain and combat Ebola in
Africa.  America is building and leading the coalition that will degrade
and ultimately destroy the terrorist group known as ISIL.  As Americans,
we are leading, and we don’t shy away from these responsibilities; we
welcome them.  (Applause.)  That’s what America does.  And we are
grateful to the men and women in uniform who put themselves in harm’s
way in service of the country that we all love.  (Applause.)*

*So we’ve got unfinished work overseas, but we’ve got some unfinished
work right here at home.  (Applause.)  After the worst economic crisis
since the Great Depression, our businesses have now created 10 million
new jobs over the last 54 months.  This is the longest uninterrupted
stretch of job growth in our history.  (Applause.)  In our history.  But
we understand our work is not done until we get the kind of job creation
that means everybody who wants work can a find job.*

*We’ve done some work on health care, too.  I don’t know if you’ve
noticed.  Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, we’ve seen a 26 percent
decline in the uninsured rate in America.  (Applause.)  African
Americans have seen a 30 percent decline.  And, by the way, the cost of
health care isn’t going up as fast anymore either.  Everybody was
predicting this was all going to be so expensive.  We’ve saved $800
billion — (applause) — in Medicare because of the work that we’ve done —
slowing the cost, improving quality, and improving access.  Despite
unyielding opposition, this change has happened just in the last couple
years.*

*But we know our work is not yet done until we get into more
communities, help more uninsured folks get covered, especially in those
states where the governors aren’t being quite as cooperative as we’d
like them to be.  (Applause.)  You know who you are.  It always puzzles
me when you decide to take a stand to make sure poor folks in your state
can’t get health insurance even though it doesn’t cost you a dime.  That
doesn’t make much sense to me, but I won’t go on on that topic. 
(Applause.)  We’ve got more work to do.*

*It’s easy to take a stand when you’ve got health insurance.  (Laughter
and applause.)  I’m going off script now, but — (laughter) — that’s what
happens at the CBC.*

*Our high school graduation rate is at a record high, the dropout rate
is falling, more young people are earning college degrees than ever
before.  Last year, the number of children living in poverty fell by 1.4
million — the largest decline since 1966.  (Applause.)  Since I took
office, the overall crime rate and the overall incarceration rate has
gone down by about 10 percent.  That’s the first time they’ve declined
at the same time in more than 40 years.  Fewer folks in jail.  Crime
still going down.  (Applause.)*

*But our work is not done when too many children live in crumbling
neighborhoods, cycling through substandard schools, traumatized by daily
violence.  Our work is not done when working Americans of all races have
seen their wages and incomes stagnate, even as corporate profits soar;
**when African-American unemployment is still twice as high as white
unemployment; when income inequality, on the rise for decades, continues
to hold back hardworking communities, especially communities of color. 
We’ve got unfinished work.  And we know what to do.  That’s the worst
part — we know what to do. ***

*We know we’ve got to invest in infrastructure, and manufacturing, and
research and development that creates new jobs.  We’ve got to keep
rebuilding a middle class economy with ladders of opportunity, so that
hard work pays off and you see higher wages and higher incomes, and fair
pay for women doing the same work as men, and workplace flexibility for
parents in case a child gets sick or a parent needs some help. 
(Applause.)  We’ve got to build more Promise Zones partnerships to
support local revitalization of hard-hit communities.  We’ve got to keep
investing in early education.  We want to bring preschool to every
four-year-old in this country.  (Applause.)  And we want every child to
have an excellent teacher.  And we want to invest in our community
colleges and expand Pell Grants for more students.  And I’m going to
keep working with you to make college more affordable.  Because every
child in America, no matter who she is, no matter where she’s born, no
matter how much money her parents have, ought to be able to fulfill her
God-given potential.  That’s what we believe.  (Applause.)*

*So I just want everybody to understand — we have made enormous
progress.  There’s almost no economic measure by which we are not better
off than when I took office.  (Applause.)  Unemployment down.  Deficits
down.  Uninsured down.  Poverty down.  Energy production up. 
Manufacturing back.  Auto industry back.  But — and I just list these
things just so if you have a discussion with one of your friends —
(laughter) — and they’re confused.  Stock market up.  Corporate balance
sheet strong.  In fact, the folks who are doing the best, they’re the
ones who complain the most.  (Laughter and applause.)  So you can just
point these things out.*

*But we still have to close these opportunity gaps.  A**nd we have to
close the justice gap — how justice is applied, but also how it is
perceived, how it is experienced.  (Applause.)  Eric Holder understands
this.  (Applause.)  That’s what we saw in Ferguson this summer, when
Michael Brown was killed and a community was divided.  We know that the
unrest continues.**   And Eric spent some time with the residents and
police of Ferguson, and the Department of Justice has indicated that its
civil rights investigation is ongoing.*

***Now, I won’t comment on the investigation.  I know that Michael’s
family is here tonight.  (Applause.)  I know that nothing any of us can
say can ease the grief of losing a child so soon.  But the anger and the
emotion that followed his death awakened our nation once again to the
reality that people in this room have long understood, which is, in too
many communities around the country, a gulf of mistrust exists between
local residents and law enforcement.***

***Too many young men of color feel targeted by law enforcement, guilty
of walking while black, or driving while black, judged by stereotypes
that fuel fear and resentment and hopelessness.  We know that,
statistically, in everything from enforcing drug policy to applying the
death penalty to pulling people over, there are significant racial
disparities.  That’s just the statistics.  One recent poll showed that
the majority of Americans think the criminal justice system doesn’t
treat people of all races equally.  Think about that.  That’s not just
blacks, not just Latinos or Asians or Native Americans saying things may
not be unfair.  That’s most Americans.***

Draw whatever conclusions you like.
