---
title: "The Tranny Wars"
date: "2014-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1889"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1889"
---

I get home the other night and in the mail box was the latest
<a href="http://time.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Time magazine</a>. I’m not a subscriber. The name on the
front is unfamiliar and the address is not even close to mine. I did not
think about it until throwing some stuff away last night. Almost all of
my mail is junk these days. My bills come via the miracle of the
Internet. No one sends letters anymore. That leaves a few magazines and
mountains of junk mail. I pile it up and when the spirit moves I sort
through it.

The Time website is useless so I can’t link the cover or even find it.
<a
href="http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/gossip/la-et-mg-laverne-cox-time-cover-transgender-orange-is-the-new-black-20140529-story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This article</a> from the LA
Times has a pic of the cover. I would not have bothered to look at it if
not the obvious fact the person on the cover is a tranny and the word
“transgender” on the front. I no longer watch television so I’m going to
guess that they are starting to fill up the roles with trannies, much
like they filled up shows with flaming homosexual men a few years ago.
One night of TV and you see more homosexual males than you meet in
lifetime.

I’ve seen exactly three trannies in my life. One was a very tall and
muscular black guy that frequented a coffee shop near my office. He was
at least 6’5″ in heels and built like a linebacker. Everyone would freak
out seeing this giant black dude in drag so that was always good for a
few laughs. The other two were in Key West. I was walking around and
passed by a tranny club of some sort. Two of them dressed as Marilyn
Monroe were manning the door, so to speak.

I’ve been on earth a long time and seen a lot of things. If I’ve met
three trannies, I’m thinking the numbers are microscopic in terms of
population. Maybe it is more common than most think, but still, the
numbers have to be really small. if homosexuals ate three percent of the
population, men who dress as women must be a tenth of that. Those who
think they are women must be even smaller.

That said, the tranny has become the dividing line between two groups of
people. On the one hand we have liberal white people who engage in all
sorts of magical thinking about the world, including things like biology
and physics. They think someone can change their sex if they choose to
do it. They think evolution stopped 50,000 years ago and that all humans
are exactly the same. They think putting a dumb person in school long
enough will make them smart. These things not only contradict accepted
science, they contradict objective reality. They disbelieve and curse
their lying eyes.

On the other side of the line is another group of believers. These folks
believe in conventional religions, nationalism, fraternity and so forth.
In the case of religion, they accept it may contradict science, but not
in important ways that alter the functioning of society. In the case of
nationalism, they know there’s no good reason to feel the way they do
when the national anthem is played, but they accept it and relish it. In
other words, these folks believe in things because they appear to make
life more pleasant, their societies more successful and the future more
palatable.

That would be the end of it if the first group of people did not hold
the second group in such contempt that they wanted to kill them. The
magical thinking crowd has not committed to the actual killing of the
latter group, but they do want to kill all the stuff they believe. They
want to stamp out Christianity, love of country and all of the things
normal people think are important.

The great battle between these two camps of believers is what shapes our
times. The fact that the fault line is the waist line will one day be
great fodder for a wise cracking historian. The first group’s sudden
embrace of deranged men in drag is based solely on the belief that the
second group find this disgusting. If Evangelicals were to embrace
homosexual marriage and drag queens, the first group of whites would
make unholy war on gays and trannies.

The trouble for the “normals”, as I call the second group, is they keep
hoping the fanatics, as I call the first group, will relent. They will
never relent. The fanatics will continue to attack the normals until the
normals are all dead. Then the fanatics will attack other groups of
fanatics they deem insufficiently fanatical. This will repeat itself
until the whole thing collapses on itself.

Maybe at some point normals will come to recognize this and join the
fight. I don’t know. In my lifetime it has not happened or shown many
signs of happening. In the 1980’s it looked like the nation finally
snapped out of it and was ready to shrug off Cultural Marxism, but it
was not the case. The fanatics were back in force by the 1990’s and
every white guy was being marched off to diversity camp for
re-education.

The smart bet in the Tranny Wars is on bearded weirdos demanding and
winning the right to take your sons into the woods unsupervised as camp
counselors.
