---
title: "Casual Corruption"
date: "2014-07-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2177"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2177"
---

One of the interesting things about 18th century America is the way
government sold favors to private interests. Ben Franklin got government
printing contracts through bribery. It was not considered bribery at the
time, but it would be today. Buttering up local officials to grease the
skids was just the way things were done. In a land with a tiny amount of
government and a tiny number of laws, you’re getting a tiny amount of
public corruption. Corruption, like government, does not scale up well.

Today we have vast and complex state apparatus. So vast and complex no
one knows the limits. In fact, you break the law every day. It is this
vast and complex web of laws that provides cover for the colonizing pod
people to rob us blind. The old expression about the devil being in the
details means that the more details, the more opportunity for the devil
to do his work. Big government is, if nothing else, a vast thicket of
details and minutiae. <a
href="http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2014-07-05/congressional-panel-accused-leaking-insider-information-refuses-comply-probe"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> at ZeroHedge is
a good example.

*It was back in April 2013, when the [WSJ
reported](http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424127887323916304578400981652818670)
of a peculiar surge in various health insurance stocks that came moments
after a report from Height Securities, a Washington-based
investment-research firm that ferrets out policy news and analysis for
investors, correctly predicted the Obama administration would reverse
course on big spending cuts that would have hit health insurers. The
note was released about 15 minutes before markets closed on Monday,
April 1, leading to the following surge in the biggest Obamacare
beneficiaries.*

*Needless to say, it is quite clear that non-public info was leaked by
US legislators to a “expert network” consulting company, which in turn
further propagated the information to its own clients, making them
profits of up to 8.6% in milliseconds. As the WSJ summarized at the
time, “The resulting stock surge is one of the most dramatic examples in
recent years of how tips and insights from Washington’s burgeoning
political-intelligence business can drive trading on Wall Street,
potentially leading to big profits for those in the know.”*

*It took the SEC 14 months to finally figure out there may have been
something illegal with this setup and as the [WSJ followed up three
weeks
ago](http://online.wsj.com/articles/prosecutors-gathering-evidence-for-grand-jury-in-cms-leak-case-1403130561),
“prosecutors are gathering evidence for a grand-jury probe into whether
congressional staff helped tip Wall Street traders to a change in
health-care policy, an indication the long-running investigation has
entered a more serious phase.”*

Trading on inside information has become so common in Washington, no one
bothers to hide it. It was not always this way. In the olden thymes,
officials relied on foreign junkets to cash in on their position. A
Congressman would decorate their homes with goods “gifted to him” by
foreign potentates. His big fancy house was probably paid for by donors
or a special deal made possible by his donors. It was all legal and
mostly small potatoes. Compensation in lieu of salary.

Today, public criminals like Harry Reid become millionaires making shady
land deals with organized crime. John Kerry went to DC penniless. He is
now worth north of $100 million. A lot of it came from marrying two rich
widows, but that was levered into a fortune using inside information.
With the parasitic financial system, politicians can now grab millions
for themselves trading their knowledge of new rules, new investigations
and new taxes.

As we see with this story, they think it is their right and privilege.
Where have we heard that before?

What is unknown – and perhaps unknowable – is how much of the
legislative tsunami is strictly for privateering purposes. Those million
word bills are not only packed full of favors; they are packed full of
gimmicks the pols can use to grow their portfolios. Since no one reads
these things in their entirety, no one knows where to look for the deals
tied to specific pols. In fact, the laws are now written by law firms
lobbyists working on behalf of wealthy interests like corporations.

The outrageous part of this is not the corruption. Men are not angels.
Washington controls trillions of dollars and that will attract the worst
sort, determined to skim some for themselves. The outrage is the lack of
outrage. In the 18th century you could shrug at Franklin buying off a
local official for a printing contract. It was small money and the
printing needed to be done. Today’s pols are like highway bandits,
robbing for the sake of robbing. Yet, no one seems to care.
