---
title: "Liberal Eugenics"
date: "2014-10-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2940"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2940"
---

One of the things fairly well known in black America is that abortion
and “family planning” is about reducing the number of black babies. This
should come as no surprise, as liberal whites have been quite explicit
about it since Roe. <a
href="http://www.lifenews.com/2012/10/16/79-of-planned-parenthood-abortion-clinics-target-blacks-hispanics/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Abortion Inc has been targeting black
neighborhoods</a> for a long time.

It’s a pretty good business for rackets like Planned Parenthood. They
get paid to round up the customers and then they get paid for the
service. That’s why the Left is obsessed with state funded abortion.
It’s eugenics with a smiley face. The Left gets to pretend it is about
health and safety, but it’s really about ethnic cleansing and
eugenics. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/02/science/teenage-pregnancy-and-abortion-rates-plummet-with-long-acting-female-contraception-study-says.html?partner=rss&amp;emc=rss&amp;smid=tw-nytimes&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This article in the Science section</a>,
of all place, of the NY Times is emblematic.

*Marlice House was determined to take a different path from her mother,
who had gotten pregnant with her at 17.*

*“I do not want that to be me,” she said.*

*So when Ms. House heard about a study offering sexually active
teenagers in St. Louis free birth control, she signed up.*

*Three in 10 girls and women in the United States become pregnant before
20, a rate significantly higher than that in many other rich countries.
The 14- to 19-year-old participants in the study Ms. House joined,
nearly half of whom had already had an unintended pregnancy, were
offered free birth control and counseled on the benefits of long-acting
contraceptives like intrauterine devices and implants, methods used by
fewer than 5 percent of teenagers.*

*Overwhelmingly, Ms. House and other teenagers — 72 percent of the 1,404
participants — chose long-acting birth control. And it had an enormous
effect.*

*Pregnancy and abortion rates plunged to less than a quarter the rates
of sexually experienced teenagers nationally, the group most comparable
to those in the study. Rates were also significantly lower than those
among all teenagers.*

There’s not much new about this. In the 1970’s the Left was excited by
the idea of making newly available drugs like Norplant mandatory for
welfare recipients. The Left has learned from past attempts to
exterminate black people, so they couch it in language of choice and
opportunity. But, they can’t help themselves, as they put a picture of a
black girl on the article.

They also seem to be trying to draw in the anti-abortion people by
claiming their new eugenics program reduces abortions. They repeat that
a few times in the article. It’s a common error on the Left. Abortion,
for them, is all about abortion. For pro-life people, abortion is just
one aspect of the larger fight over human life, hence the name of their
cause. The Left always projects its manias onto the wider world.

Come to think of it, that may be why they put a black face on their
eugenics cause. They just assume their enemies are the bogeymen they
imagine. They think the undifferentiated other outside their cult is
shot through with racism. Therefore, they can market their eugenics
program to the rabble by (wink, wink) targeting the blacks.
