---
title: "The Future Is Not Here"
date: "2014-05-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=782"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=782"
---

For a while, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Second-Machine-Age-Prosperity-Technologies-ebook/dp/B00D97HPQI/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this book</a> was a big deal
for people in certain tribes of the dissident right, but also with some
in the mainstream. People like Thomas Friedman were championing it in
the NY Times. so the beautiful people may have been reading it. The very
short version is the robot revolution will have the same impact on
humanity as the industrial revolution in the 19th century. There’s some
truth to it, but like the paperless office, it is a thing that no one
will live to see.

That’s the thing with futurists. They are almost always wrong. Most of
them look around at current trends, then project those trends into the
future. The trouble is no tree grows to the sky. Assuming some current
trend will go on forever is like assuming your child will keep growing
forever. The lack of 100-foot tall people tells as that trends always
slow, come to a halt and often reverse themselves. The current
technological trends will also slow and maybe go down dead ends and then
end entirely.

On the other hand, many futurologist are just running a racket to get
attention, sell book ans get on television to sell books. The way to do
that is to either predict things that flatter people or predict things
that scare people. Telling people their future will be the same as their
present, but more boring, is not a big seller. Astrologers tell their
female customers they will meet a mysterious stranger, for the same
reason pulp writers crank out bodice rippers. Women by them.

<a
href="http://www.newstatesman.com/culture/2014/04/why-futurologists-are-always-wrong-and-why-we-should-be-sceptical-techno-utopians"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This column</a> in the New
Statesman is a good summary.

*<span style="text-indent: 2.85pt; font-size: 11pt;">Futurologists are
almost always wrong. Indeed, Clive James invented a word – “Hermie” – to
denote an inaccurate prediction by a futurologist. This was an ironic
tribute to the cold war strategist and, in later life, pop futurologist
Herman Kahn. It was slightly unfair, because Kahn made so many fairly
obvious predictions – mobile phones and the like – that it was
inevitable quite a few would be right.</span>*

*Even poppier was Alvin Toffler, with his 1970 book Future Shock, which
suggested that the pace of technological change would cause
psychological breakdown and social paralysis, not an obvious feature of
the Facebook generation. Most inaccurate of all was Paul R Ehrlich who,
in The Population Bomb, predicted that hundreds of millions would die of
starvation in the 1970s. Hunger, in fact, has since declined quite
rapidly.*

Science fiction writers are probably the best at getting some things
about the future right, because they often have a good working knowledge
of science. They also understand that human nature and human
organization does not change all that much with technology.  Jules Verne
got a bunch of stuff right and Aldous Huxley is looking to have nailed
large chunks of cultural change. Still, most of what these people
described never happened and will never happen.

*Perhaps the most significant inaccuracy concerned artificial
intelligence (AI). In 1956 the polymath Herbert Simon predicted that
“machines will be capable, within 20 years, of doing any work a man can
do” and in 1967 the cognitive scientist Marvin Minsky announced that
“within a generation . . . the problem of creating ‘artificial
intelligence’ will substantially be solved”. Yet, in spite of all the
hype and the dizzying increases in the power and speed of computers, we
are nowhere near creating a thinking machine.*

*Such a machine is the basis of Kurzweil’s singularity, but
futurologists seldom let the facts get in the way of a good prophecy.
Or, if they must, they simply move on. The nightmarishly intractable
problem of space travel has more or less killed that futurological
category and the unexpected complexities of genetics have put that on
the back burner for the moment, leaving neuroscientists to take on the
prediction game. But futurology as a whole is in rude health despite all
the setbacks.*

This is where the predictions about our machine future fall apart. Yes,
massive leaps have been made recently, but we are not close to building
machines smarter than their creators. When <a
href="http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/163051-simulating-1-second-of-human-brain-activity-takes-82944-processors"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">one second of human
thought</a> requires a room full of servers, we are a long way from
Terminator. Even assuming some breakthrough where the machines self
learn in an increasingly fast recursion, we’re a long way from the
machines becoming aware and taking over the planet.

*Benjamin Bratton, a professor of visual arts at the University of
California, San Diego, has an astrophysicist friend who made a pitch to
a potential donor of research funds. The pitch was excellent but he
failed to get the money because, as the donor put it, “You know what,
I’m gonna pass because I just don’t feel inspired . . . you should be
more like Malcolm Gladwell.” Gladwellism – the hard sell of a big theme
supported by dubious, incoherent but dramatically presented evidence –
is the primary Ted style. Is this, wondered Bratton, the basis on which
the future should be planned? To its credit, Ted had the good grace to
let him give a virulently anti-Ted talk to make his case. “I submit,” he
told the assembled geeks, “that astrophysics run on the model of
American Idol is a recipe for civilisational disaster.”*

*Bratton is not anti-futurology like me; rather, he is against
simple-minded futurology. He thinks the Ted style evades awkward
complexities and evokes a future in which, somehow, everything will be
changed by technology and yet the same. The geeks will still be living
their laid-back California lifestyle because that will not be affected
by the radical social and political implications of the very technology
they plan to impose on societies and states. This is a naive, very local
vision of heaven in which everybody drinks beer and plays baseball and
the sun always shines.*

This really is the crux of it. There’s money in predicting the future.
In every town there exists a tarot card reader or psychic. Women with
advanced degrees go to these people to get their future. Religion is all
about the future. Live your life a certain way and you gain ever lasting
life or languish in hell. The animating philosophy of modern political
elites is based on the belief that the right arrangements will result in
heaven on earth, however that is currently imagined. The demand for
these promises is unlimited.

The bits about Gladwell and Kurzweil in the article are interesting. It
seems that the people who get rich from telling ruling class types about
the future never know a lot about the science they promote. The two guys
who authored The Second Machine Age have no science. One has a degree in
math, but has never worked in science or technology. Instead he has
remained in college teaching management. The other guy just writes
books.

Thomas Friedman is a guy who appears to learn the jargon of science and
technology, but knows nothing about science and technology. His skill is
flattering rich people, especially his wife who is mega-rich. This
allows Friedman to flit around the world telling rich people they are
the best. The court jester has been a feature of human societies since
the Bronze Age. Telling the boss he’s wonderful by predicting the
current course will lead to times of plenty is never going to get you
fed to the lions.
