---
title: "Smokey And The Fatman"
date: "2014-03-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1302"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1302"
---

It used to be that public health was focused on the health of the
public, which meant basic sanitation, medical care and so forth. An
expanded definition would include education about nutrition and
prevention of disease though vaccinations and public education. Today,
public health means pointless virtue signalling from the ruling class
over things that have little to do with public health. The news brings
word that New Jersey’s governor is <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/03/18/Christie-s-E-Cigarette-Tax-Could-Lead-To-Even-Bigger-Drop-In-Revenue-For-New-Jersey"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">looking to tax
e-cigarettes</a>.

*Cash-strapped New Jersey is leading the charge against e-cigarettes,
with Governor Chris Christie and state legislators proposing high taxes
that could propel sales into the black market and diminish the state’s
tax intake.*

*Fox News reports that the booming, currently still unregulated
e-cigarette industry is enticing a number of states to propose new taxes
to cover for the sales. While the health effects of e-cigarettes are
still not fully known, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
claim that e-cigarettes have “far fewer of the toxins found in smoke
compared to traditional cigarettes,” and many individuals suggest that
they have been able to stop smoking cigarettes by switching to this
nicotine-providing alternative. One study found that e-cigarettes are as
effective as nicotine patches in helping smokers quit.*

Lots of people who have switched to the e-cigarettes and then quit using
nicotine entirely. Even heavy smokers, who have tried all of the other
remedies have found relief through vaping. They don’t start vaping in
order to quit nicotine, but that is a happy result of making the switch.
it turns out to be an effective way to break the habit, because it first
eliminates the link between the hundreds of chemicals in cigarettes and
the nicotine. This seems to make quitting less difficult.

You would think that would be welcomed news by the anti-smoking people,
but you would be wrong. They never gave a damn about the health of
smokers. The people in these movements just like pushing people around.
The advent of e-cigarettes is now making that plain. Instead of
encouraging harm reduction, <a
href="http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/08/25/ban-e-cigarettes-the-anti-smoking-lobby-s-clueless-crusade.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">they are trying to ban this
new gadget</a>. New York City also banned e-cigs, which is hilarious as
it is impossible to enforce, as the user can do it undetected with
little effort.

Of course, the politicians just want the money. The hilarious part is
this whole thing is it pits the busybodies against the legal plunder
crowd. <a
href="http://money.cnn.com/2014/03/17/news/companies/pharmacies-tobacco-ban/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The anti-pleasure fanatics are
out trying to ban the sale of cigarettes</a>, while the blood suckers in
every state capital are trying to figure out how to make more money from
the sale of cigarettes. One side is quietly encouraging vice in order to
tax it, while the other side loudly condemns, while quietly happy to
have people to lecture.

*A group of state attorneys general are asking the nation’s top pharmacy
chains to follow rival CVS and stop selling tobacco products.*

*The prosecutors sent letters to Walgreens (WAG, Fortune 500) and
Rite-Aid (RAD, Fortune 500) as well as three other retailers with
pharmacies in their stores — Wal-Mart Stores (WMT, Fortune 500) as well
as grocers Kroger (KR, Fortune 500) and Safeway (SWY, Fortune 500).*

*“There is a contradiction in having these dangerous and devastating
tobacco products on the shelves of a retail chain that services health
care needs,” the AGs wrote.*

*The push is being made by a bipartisan group of prosecutors, led by New
York AG Eric Schneiderman and Ohio AG Mike DeWine, from 26 other states
and territories.*

The funny part is watching the pols struggle to come up with a way to
tax something that may be impossible to tax. There are millions of sites
selling these things. Taxing cigarettes is relatively easy. The
distributors are licensed by the states and put a tax man on-site.
Taxing bits of metal that can be shipped from anywhere on the planet for
pennies is a different matter. You could tax nicotine at the
manufacturer, but then you raise prices of all sorts of other goods.
Nicotine is used in pesticide, for example, in the organic food
business. There’s some irony.
