---
title: "Rich People on Welfare"
date: "2014-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1801"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1801"
---

Welfare programs for the poor are resented by the middle-class for good
reason. Money is siphoned from the taxpayer and given to people who
refuse to work or obey the laws and customs of society. The welfare
class, when given a chance, makes clear they do not appreciate the help
and resent the fact the taxpayer expects them to be grateful. It is no
wonder the middle generally resents the lower in a social democracy like
America.

Welfare takes many forms. <a
href="http://canadafreepress.com/index.php/article/63139?utm_source=twitterfeed&amp;utm_medium=twitter"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> about Tesla is
an example of how the rich get tax money shoved into their pockets.

*Tesla Motors, an electric car maker backed by the U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE), posted a $49.8 million loss in the first quarter of 2014.
This loss compared to a profit of $11.2 million in the same period a
year earlier despite selling more cars.(i) Last year’s profit was not
due to electric car sales, but to sales of California
zero-emission-vehicle environmental credits to other auto manufacturers.
Those lucrative credits have declined and tight battery supply has made
it harder to produce the carmaker’s electric vehicles.*

“Sales of California zero-emission-vehicle environmental credits to
other auto manufacturers” is a nice way of saying free money from the
middle-class. The state forces the normal car makers to tax their
customers on behalf of Tesla. The cost of those credits, after all, is a
part of the cost of building cars. That cost is passed onto the consumer
in the price of the car. Tesla, in effect, gets to tax every car buyer
in California.

*During the first quarter of 2013, Tesla received about $68 million (12
percent of revenue) from the sale of zero vehicle emission credits. Note
that without the sale of these credits, the company would have lost over
$50 million during the first quarter of 2013.\[v\] According to a Wall
Street analyst, Tesla earned as much as $250 million in 2013 on their
sale. Translated into dollars per vehicle, Tesla made as much as $35,000
extra on each sale of its luxury Model S electric sports sedan through
state environmental credits that it sold to other auto manufacturers
that need to buy credits to satisfy California regulations. Adding in
the Federal tax credit of $7,500 per vehicle and a state rebate of
$2,500 per vehicle, the state and federal incentives totaled as much as
$45,000 per vehicle that Tesla sold for as much as $100,000, depending
on the model and options.\[vi\]  Essentially, regular taxpayers who buy
typical cars, trucks and minivans are heavily subsidizing an additional
car for a clientele whose average income is just under $300,000 per
year.*

This is the math problem that haunts modern corporatism. Hidden taxes to
subsidize unprofitable ventures looks like a great solution to the
“problems” of the market. The rulers look around and say we need to be
using electric cars, but the pesky market refuses to comply. That’s
called a market failure. The solution to “market failure” is to form
these public-private partnerships to “jump start” business like Tesla in
order to “nudge” the market in the preferred direction. In theory,
electric cars will become competitive at some point and then the market
will take care of the rest.

There are two problems with this. One is the money spent on this hidden
tax does not come from nothing. It is money that would be spent on some
other good or service. These other industries go to the state looking
for help for the same reason Tesla gets help. The system quickly becomes
a game of whack-a-mole. The state is forever on the hunt for new Peters
to rob in order to pay the growing list of Pauls. Government becomes a
highwayman, robbing anyone trying to operate a business.

The other problem is the math is not zero sum. The state thinks it can
supply an unlimited amount of energy to the economy, as if it is a first
order perpetual motion machine. That’s no more possible in an economy
than it is in physics. Eventually, the economy begins to grind to a halt
or the state grinds to a halt. In California,  the state is bankrupt.
Several of its cities are in bankruptcy and the state has no way to pay
its pension obligations. Looks like the state will fail first.

That’s the big difference between welfare for the rich versus the poor.
The poor are an annoyance. The cost of the various programs is not
insignificant, but it is largely paid by the rich. The high earners pay
the bulk of the taxes which cover the <a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/report-us-spent-37-trillion-welfare-over-last-5-years_764582.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">trillions in welfare
payments</a>. The vast web of corporate welfare, subsidy schemes like
Tesla and financial shenanigans in the banking system loots the middle
class. That’s what the war on the middle is intended to accomplish. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/03/business/the-middle-class-is-steadily-eroding-just-ask-the-business-world.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">That’s why the middle-class is
disappearing.</a>
