---
title: "A Glimmer of Hope?"
date: "2014-05-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1886"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1886"
---

I was decidedly unimpressed with the European elections. In some ways,
they reminded me of the 2010 congressional elections. I wanted to think
the people woke up and realized it was a horrible mistake putting the
liberal democrats in power, but I knew better. I wanted to think the GOP
learned some hard lessons and was ready to become a right of center
political party. Again, I knew better. Two years later the GOP put up
the Monopoly Guy and the people voted for the head nitwit in charge.

<a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2014/05/28/cantor-claims-to-be-anti-amnesty-champion/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This from Virginia</a> has me
thinking I may be too pessimistic. Cantor should sail to victory. His
primary opponent is a nobody and his district is R+11 according to the
Cooke Partisan Voter Index. Given the tenor of this election, Cantor
should expect to win by a landslide. That’s not the case as it appears
Cantor is in for a serious battle to win the Republican nomination.

*The campaign manager for House Majority Leader Eric Cantor isn’t
backing down from their new campaign-trail flyer lauding Cantor for
fighting against President Barack Obama’s amnesty bill.*

*“He stopped the bill when it came out of the Senate,” Ray Allen,
Cantor’s campaign manager, told The Daily Caller.*

*The defender-against-amnesty claim appeared in flyers sent to GOP
primary voters near Richmond, Va., two weeks before the vote on June 10.
“Conservative Republican Eric Cantor is stopping the Obama \[and Sen.
Harry\] Reid plan to give illegal aliens amnesty,” says one of the
flyers.*

*But his critics, including primary challenger and economist Dave Brat,
are hitting back: Cantor’s claim has prompted hoots of contempt, some
anger and some Bronx cheers from the many activists who have fought the
massive push by progressives, media outlets and business groups [to
double](http://dailycaller.com/2013/05/06/immigration-rivals-agree-senate-bill-will-legalize-more-than-30-million-migrants/) the [current
inflow of 2
million](http://dailycaller.com/2014/05/20/feds-welcomed-12-million-guest-workers-since-2000/) immigrants
and guest workers each year.*

*“7th district votes are not going to fall for these outright lies that
Brat is selling,” Allen said.*

*But the flyers “suggest that Eric Cantor is scared,” said Zachary
Werrell, Brat’s campaign manager.*

*Cantor said “immigration reform” was a top priority for 2013, said
Werrell, but now “he’s realizing that voters in his district are
overwhelmingly against it, and all of a sudden, he’s saying he’s against
amnesty.”*

*“Is there any limit to the degree of lying that may be deemed off
limits during the campaign?” said an article by Daniel Horowitz, policy
director for The Madison Project.*

*“It is perfidious that these people use their money collected from
pro-amnesty special interests to paint themselves as anti-amnesty so
they can win re-election and pass amnesty,” said Horowitz, in <a
href="http://www.redstate.com/2014/05/27/establishment-campaign-strategy-shameless-cowardly-perfidious/"
class="external" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">an
article</a> headlined “Establishment Campaign Strategy: Shameless,
Cowardly, and Perfidious.”*

There are a few possibilities. One is this is an inside Washington game.
There are financial benefits to playing both sides of the fence. With
billions being poured into the amnesty push, driving a hard bargain is
good business for a greedy politician. Cantor has always struck me as
unusually craven, even by modern political standards. I think the guy
would pawn his children for political advantage.

The most obvious and most likely answer is their internal polling is
concerning. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/virginia-politics/eric-cantors-tea-party-opponent-in-va-primary-may-be-picking-up-momentum/2014/05/13/1a2d92d0-d9d7-11e3-b745-87d39690c5c0_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from a couple
weeks back suggests his primary opponent is doing a bit better than
expected. This could just have been a ham-handed way to sure up support.
Republican consultants continue to operate as if the Internet was never
invented and voters cannot look up past statements and the candidate’s
voting record. Still, picking an immigration fight is not the smart
play.

Except maybe if immigration is starting to make the ground shake. I’m
generally pro-immigration and what our ruling class is pushing makes me
want to vomit. It is hard to know where the public stands because the
polling is so sketchy. <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424052702304831304579545821862595810"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This from the Wall Street
Journal</a> is a good example. None of the questions get at the issue in
a sensible way.  Option three may as well ask the respondent if they
would like a ride on a flying carpet.  <a
href="http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2014/02/17/polls-publics-immigration-priorities-changing/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I found this old story</a>
covering a few polls and the results are mixed.

The thing polling does not capture and what is most important to
politicians. That is which way the tide is going. They obsess over it.
It is not enough to be the on the right side of the issue after it has
majority support. A wise pol is right there at the front of the mob when
they have the advantage. That may be what we’re seeing with immigration
and Cantor. The tide is rising and he wants to get on the right side of
the issue, even if he takes some lumps in the process.

If that’s true, then maybe there’s hope for us yet.

 

 
