---
title: "Iraqafornia"
date: "2014-06-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2094"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2094"
---

There seems to be two great currents in human history that are now
colliding with one another. On the one hand, there is a definite long
term trend toward larger organizational units. The first human
settlements were tiny camps that become villages and then grew into
towns. These towns were the administrative centers for the surrounding
farm and pasture lands. Those towns grew into cities and eventually
city-states. The Bronze Age was peak city-state.

The city state gave way to the regional power that was a collection of
city-states speaking the same language and having a shared history.
Eventually, after a lot of war and conquest, we got nations, mostly
composed of people with a shared genealogy and culture. There are
exceptions, but the nations of Europe mostly track the ethnic grouping
of the continent. The 20th century gave us world government, in bits and
pieces. The European Union is all about creating a super-state.

Now, the other great current is disaggregation. This is where large
complex social organizational units break up into smaller units. The
Czechs split from the Slovaks. The Walloons and Flemings are close the
breaking up Belgium. Scotland may be ready to bolt the UK. Quebec is
once again making noises about leaving Canada. The Catalans want to
leave Spain and the Venetians want to leave Italy. Of course, Iraq is
about to break into pieces.

In the US, we have states making noises about breaking into smaller
states. This is not exactly new, but it is usually confined to cranks.
On the other hand, people fond of federalism really are advocating the
reintroduction of autonomous zones based in the natural divisions int he
country. It’s not a big leap from there to having a big state lead a
walkout of the union.  <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-petition-drive-underway-to-split-california-into-six-states-20140621-story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">California is moving closer
than many realize to having it on the ballot in two years</a>.

*Advocates for Six Californias, a plan to split the Golden State into a
half dozen separate states, are holding a petition drive this weekend to
get their plan on the ballot in 2016.*

*Tom Knorr, holds a State of Jefferson flag in Corning, Calif. The idea
of forming their own state has been a topic among local secession
dreamers for more than a century in the state. (Terry Chea / Associated
Press)*

*The idea is the brainchild of Timothy Draper, a venture capitalist from
Menlo Park – or as he hopes to some day call it, the state of Silicon
Valley. Draper has sunk $2 million into signature gathering for the
proposal. He maintains it will break bureaucratic deadlock in Sacramento
(proposed state of North California) and attract more business.*

*“California has become the worst managed state in the country,” he told
The Times this spring. “It just is too big and too ungovernable.”*

*Anna Morris, spokeswoman for Six Californias, said in an e-mail that
 the group has collected “a significant amount of signatures and are
hoping to get the remaining signatures we need this weekend.”“For people
who put our chances at zero, we say that we are dedicated to challenging
the status quo and are hopeful that Six Californias will be the much
needed refresh for state government,” she said.*

*Joe Rodota, the co-chair of OneCalifornia, an opposition group,
downplayed the significance of getting signatures on a petition.*

*“This is just a process that pretty much any well-funded interest can
pursue,” said Rodota, former cabinet secretary for Gov. Pete Wilson. The
real challenge, he said, is ballot approval and “it’s just very
difficult to get a yes vote historically.”*

*Times political columnist George Skelton called Six Californias “crazy”
and “really crackpot,” but he noted that attempts to break up the state
have been around since its inception and can be highly diverting if
never successful.*

*“Go ahead and put this thing on the ballot,” he wrote in April. “We
could use some fun.”*

There’s a strong argument for breaking up California. It’s too big to
operate as a state, but not competent enough to be a country. A better
argument is for state government to get much smaller and let local
government take on more responsibility. You could keep the state intact
if county and city government were left to their own devises for
providing services. The great mistake of centralization is the belief
that spreading the misery makes it go away. The opposite actually
happens.

There’s no record of the centralizers ceding control back to the locals,
at least not without a bloodbath, so it is unlikely to happen. That’s
the problem we see everywhere in America. Things like education policy,
food charity, housing charity and health care arrangements have been
handed to the Federal government and there’s little chance they hand
them back to the states. Even staggering, outlandish incompetence is not
enough to get the pols thinking about devolution.

The same thing is happening in states like California. State government
took over the schools, the police and the collection of taxes. Cities,
counties and towns are just administrative arms of the state, often
working at cross purposes with state agencies that allegedly run things.
The result is <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Managerial_state"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">anarcho-tyranny</a>.  The
locals have no real power, so they harass local business and citizens,
who just try to play by the rules. The state government is to big to do
the job, so we get anarchy.

The two trends I described at the start of the post are in conflict.
Logic says one force must prevail, but look at Iraq. Logic says it
should be broken up or it should have one sect dominate the rest. Yet,
it staggers on as a weirdly inefficient and incomprehensible version of
Switzerland. It is a federation of people who have no business being in
the same country, but have no will or interest in being their own
country. That seems to be the problem with California and America as a
whole.
