---
title: "Answering The Dorm Stormers"
date: "2014-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1572"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1572"
---

<a
href="http://legalinsurrection.com/2014/04/dorm-storming-at-nyu-targets-jewish-students/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This was linked up at National
Review</a>. The commentary at NRO is pretty much what you expect from
people on the Right these days. There are are no greater defenders of
Israel and American Jewry than American Conservatives. Even Israelis are
not as enthusiastic for the Tribe as these people. They are so over the
top, you can’t help but wonder where their loyalty lies, but that would
be called antisemitic.

The strangeness of it is America Jews are mostly hostile to the Right in
America. Some think that speaks well of Conservative Inc. and those who
look to them for guidance. It means their position is a philosophical
one, not political. On the other hand, it is every bit as insane as
chasing the black vote or thinking Hispanic immigrants are natural
conservatives. It wastes energy on a fruitless venture.

*“Dorm Storming” is a tactic used by anti-Israel activists at many
campuses to slide mock eviction notices under student bedroom doors in
the middle of the night, allegedly to let students know how Palestinians
feel when served with eviction notices prior to demolition of their
homes. The content of the flyers, including the frequency, number, and
practice of such pre-demolition eviction notices is disputed, but that’s
somewhat besides the point.*

*Students for Justice in Palestine frequently is the perpetrator of
these dorm stormings, as happened at Northeastern University recently,
resulting in SJP’s suspension.*

*The point of sliding political flyers under dorm doors, rather than
handing them out on the street as students enter and exit, is to
intimidate students in their most vulnerable place, their bedroom, and
at their most vulnerable time, while they sleep. That is why many if not
most universities ban the practice.*

I’m not sure if it is intended to intimidate. Maybe it is. Maybe
sometimes it is. Maybe it is also intended to draw attention to their
cause. There’s a tradition in America of this sort of outlandish
behavior for the purpose of drawing attention. These activists may be
anti-Semites, but in America we don’t do thought crimes. All we can know
is they are using  a tactic to press their case in a way that is very
American.

There’s a time and place for everything in an orderly society. Harassing
people who have zero to do with any of this is exactly what the school
should discourage. On the other hand, This is not a legal issue. This is
a culture issue. Why in the world are we inviting this here? The easy
solution is to send all of them back to their respective lands so they
can sort it out over there, not over here.

*Assuming the constitutional right to free speech applied to private
college campuses as in public spaces, the U.S. Supreme Court has upheld
ordinances protecting homeowners against unapproved intrusions.  Rowan
v. U.S. Post Office Dept., 397 U.S. 728, 738 (1970)(“We therefore
categorically reject the argument that a vendor has a right under the
Constitution or otherwise to send unwanted material into the home of
another…. That we are often ‘captives’ outside the sanctuary of the home
and subject to objectionable speech and other sound does not mean we
must be captives everywhere.”)*

This is where it is time to change gears. There are no Muslim run
countries where this sort of deliberation is possible. There are no Arab
countries where this is possible. The concepts of free speech, peaceful
protest and privacy are strictly Western concepts. More precisely, they
are northern European concepts. If not for that collection of eccentrics
on a barren island in the North Sea, liberal democracy would have
remained a mystery to mankind. If the people called “Palestinians” got
their way, we would all be dead, including the Jews.

The “dorm storming” is really much broader than just this college
campus. By letting these savages into our lands, they are treating our
country the same way they treat this college. These people have no
interest in being Americans. They have no interest in the culture that
allows for liberal democracy. The only reason they are here is to cause
trouble for the West. The response  to macro-scale “dorm storming”
should be mass deportation and a ban on all immigration from Muslim
countries.
