---
title: "Ebola and You"
date: "2014-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2843"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2843"
---

I’ve developed an interest in Africa of late. A few books got me going
and I find the place endlessly fascinating. The English have always had
an obsession with Africa and I’m starting to appreciate why. It is a
complex riddle. The Ebola outbreak has therefore caught my attention. An
epidemic like this tests a lot of theories popular in population
genetics. You get the hardcore HBD’ers jumping in, but also the more
nuanced types looking for a way to stay between the lines of acceptable
opinion.

The left-wing media outlets are largely oblivious to this growing
underground. Instead, they stick with the old time religion and produce
articles like <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/07/31/world/africa/ebola-virus-outbreak-qa.html?_r=2&amp;smid=tw-nytimes"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this one</a> in the New York
Times. There’s nothing terribly wrong with it, but the headline makes
people like me chuckle. The near total lack of self-awareness from these
folks is amazing. I often wonder if they bother having mirrors in their
homes. What would be the point?

*More than 5,800 people in Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal and Sierra
Leone have contracted Ebola since March, according to the World Health
Organization, making this the biggest outbreak on record. More than
2,800 people have died.*

*The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday that in a
worst-case scenario, cases could reach 1.4 million in four months. The
centers’ model is based on data from August and includes cases in
Liberia and Sierra Leone, but not Guinea (where counts have been
unreliable).*

*Estimates are in line with those made by other groups like the World
Health Organization, though the C.D.C. has projected further into the
future and offered ranges that account for underreporting of cases.*

There are roughly 209 million people in the countries affected by this
outbreak. Nigeria has a murder rate of 20 per 100,000. The other
countries on the list have slightly lower rates, but those are guesses.
Even assuming a much lower rate, about 20,000 people are murdered in
these countries annually. That does not count warfare, which is a
regular feature in places like Sierra Leone.

The point here is to put the numbers in perspective. The best case
scenario makes the epidemic something close to a massive spike in
violence. The worse case puts it on par with a bloody civil war. The
difference is the inevitable refugee problem it brings, along with
people carrying the disease to new areas. The people in those areas will
most likely respond with force to keep them out. The neighboring
countries probably lack the ability to do it peacefully so it will get
very ugly.

Another difference is the domino effect. Millions of Africans are moving
north in hopes of making their way into Europe. The <a
href="http://www.aljazeera.com/news/middleeast/2014/05/libya-threatens-eu-over-african-immigrants-201451151638149598.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">nations of the Maghreb</a> are
being paid to block their path, but how long that lasts is anyone’s
guess. It’s one thing to block people carrying their belongings. It is
another to block people carrying a deadly virus. It’s not the zombie
apocalypse that causes the mayhem; it is the fear of the zombie
apocalypse.

Interestingly, no one bothers to ask why Ebola is an African problem.
The reason for that is the answers don’t fit into the narrative.
Everywhere on earth, except Africa, humans are an invasive species.
There are a lot of things different about Africans beyond skin color.
They evolved alongside their environment. Everyone else evolved outside
their environment, for the most part. But, we are not allowed to think
of these things so it is best not to ask.

What are the chances of the disease reaching the West? Unless we take up
bat hunting, there’s little to no chance.

*Ebola was discovered in 1976, and it was once thought to originate in
gorillas, because human outbreaks began after people ate gorilla meat.
But scientists have since ruled out that theory, partly because apes
that become infected are even more likely to die than humans.*

*Scientists now believe that bats are the natural reservoir for the
virus, and that apes and humans catch it from eating food that bats have
drooled or defecated on, or by coming in contact with surfaces covered
in infected bat droppings and then touching their eyes or mouths.*

*The current outbreak seems to have started in a village near Guéckédou,
Guinea, where bat hunting is common, according to Doctors Without
Borders.*

There’s an expression old Africa hands used to use. It is “AWA” and it
means Africa Wins Again. The Europeans tried everything they could to
turn their colonies into outposts of civilization, but they all failed.
No matter what you do, Africa can’t stop being Africa and Africans
cannot stop being African. That’s been the lesson in America since the
Civil War. You’re not allowed to think that so we think other things.
