---
title: "Welcome to the Madhouse"
date: "2014-07-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2188"
---

The worst despotism is an arbitrary one. If you find yourself living
under a set of rules with which you disagree, you can adapt. Jews living
in countries that banned Jews from public office, for instance, adapted
and carved out happy. Blacks in the American South did not like Jim
Crow, but they could live with it. The fact that literacy rates, crime
rates and illegitimacy rates were much better for blacks under Jim Crow
speaks to the toughness of humans. As long as the rules are fixed and
known, people can and will adapt to those rules, not matter how much
they hate them.

Where things get ugly is when the rules are unknown and variable.
Imagine driving on a highway where the speed limit is never posted and
the cops get to set the limit according to their whim. Word would
quickly get out and no one would drive that road for fear of being
victims of the police.  It is this arbitrariness that makes for madhouse
societies. Anyway, <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/jul/7/court-immigrant-dreamers-can-get-drivers-licenses/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this comes to mind reading
stories like this one</a>.

*A federal appeals court ruled Monday that young adult illegal
immigrants whom President Obama has given tentative permission to be in
the country — so-called “dreamers” — are also entitled to driver’s
licenses and ordered Arizona to issue them.*

*The ruling comes while the government is debating policy about a new
wave of illegal immigrant children who are surging across the border in
Texas, overwhelming federal authorities’ ability to handle them.*

We now live in a land where the President can wave his hand and the
people’s laws are invalidated or altered in ways that are contrary to
their intent. We live in a land where a Federal court can force a state
to issue driver’s licenses to people who are not citizens and not even
in the nation legally. In theory, it means the government would have to
issue licenses to an invading army.

*Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer blasted the court’s ruling, saying it could end
up meaning her state would have to grant driver’s licenses to some of
those in the latest wave of illegal immigrants if Mr. Obama finds ways
to avoid deporting them too.*

*But immigrant-rights advocates hailed the decision, saying it is a
major step in helping the Dreamers, who were brought to the U.S. as
minors by their parents, move toward some sort of normal life in the
U.S.*

*“This is a huge victory for the young immigrants who want nothing more
than to make meaningful contributions to communities in their home state
of Arizona,” said Alessandra Soler, executive director of the American
Civil Liberties Union of Arizona.*

*A three-judge panel on the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that
the Dreamers — so-named because of pending federal legislation known as
the Dream Act — are in the same situation as other illegal immigrants
who have applied for legal status and to whom Arizona law grants
driver’s licenses while they await a final ruling in their cases.*

*The judges said to treat the Dreamers differently violates the Equal
Protection Clause of the Constitution.*

Think about the madness baked into that last sentence. The US
Constitution provides the structure of American political institutions.
The people of France do not consider it binding on them. They have their
own rules and structures. The people of Kenya have their rules. In other
words, the US Constitution applies to Americans in America. These
lunatic judges have just declared that all humans on earth are now
covered by the US Constitution, thus making them Americans.

The 9th Circuit is a well known holding pen for liberal fruitcakes.
Sadly, they are no longer outliers. They are the norm. The super
structure of the nation is falling apart around us and we are left with
the whimsical, arbitrary decisions of these petty despots dressed like
goth druids. These people hate us and enjoy rubbing our noses in the
fact we no longer are a nation of laws. The contempt for Americans in
the words and deeds of these immigration fanatics is stunning.

In a madhouse society, the rulers are perpetually at war with the ruled.
That’s where we are today. Elected officials furiously work to discredit
the offices they hold in the eyes of the people. The keepers of the law
undermine the people’s faith in the law. The law abiding today are
criminals tomorrow. There are no fixed points and there are no rules.
Nothing is on the level and there’s no grift that is too small. Welcome
to the madhouse.
