---
title: "National Suicide, American Style"
date: "2014-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2300"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2300"
---

 

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/383413/leaflets-left-chicago-cars-threatening-violence-against-jews-caroline-rizzo"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This was posted</a> on
National Review Online, but they seem to be the only people making an
issue of it. A quick Google search and there are more comprehensive
stories about the event. <a
href="http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/ct-chicago-israel-rally-0722-20140723,0,1745221.story"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This one</a> is
representative.

*Dueling protests between hundreds of supporters of Israel and the
Palestinians briefly snarled downtown traffic Tuesday afternoon, while
diplomats wrangled over the conflict in Gaza thousands of miles away.*

*A crowd of pro-Israel demonstrators, many toting the blue-and-white
flag of the Jewish state, gathered in front of Chicago’s Israeli
consulate on Madison Street for what organizers billed as a call for
peace. A large group of supporters of Palestinians, with a
public-address system and flags of their own, gathered on the next block
just days after thousands marched downtown to protest Israeli military
action.*

*The tense scene was observed by a phalanx of police personnel —
uniformed and plainclothes, federal and local — who segregated the two
sides with steel gates, bicycle-mounted officers and cruisers.*

*Officers searched the bags of pro-Israel demonstrators who entered that
rally zone, while a string of equine patrol officers ringed part of the
pro-Palestinian side. Police K-9 units moved through the protesters,
amid the blare of sirens, chanting and hovering helicopters.*

*“I’m Israeli. I support my country, and I want to stop any aggression
from Hamas,” said Chicago resident Alex Paz, who was among the many
demonstrators calling for an end to the conflict.*

*“If I knew how to stop it, I would probably be prime minister,” Paz
said. “My opinion is it should be stopped, instead of being scared of
missiles at night.”*

Alex Paz is probably a fine fellow, but what is he doing in Chicago? Why
are we permitting a foreign national to make a nuisance of himself in
one of our cities?

*Meanwhile, across the street, suburban resident Qais Salah, 17, said
much of his father’s family is trying to avoid airstrikes in the Gaza
Strip.*

*“My grandfather got sick because of how many times he’s got to run
outside the house, because Israel calls him and tells him they’re about
to bomb the house and he’s got three minutes to leave,” Salah said. “But
where can they run? Gaza’s small, they’ve got nowhere to go and
everywhere’s being bombed.”*

Qais Salah is probably a wonderful young man too, but why is he here?
Can anyone find a single citizen of Chicago who was demanding we import
young men from Gaza, Israel and wherever? What possible reason could
there be for our State Department to issue travel documents to a young
man from Gaza? It’s not as if the region is know for its tranquility.
Why are we importing these problems?

Look, you can be partial to Israel and wish her the best. of all the
countries in that region, Israel is the most Western. Next would be the
Lebanese and then maybe the Turks or possibly the Jordanians. Still,
they are not Western and their issues are not our problem to solve. I
the government wants to sell them guns so they can fight one another,
that’s fine, but importing these people into this country is nothing
more than national suicide. There’s no reason for it.
