---
title: "Thomas Cranmore is Spinning in His Grave"
date: "2014-11-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3216"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3216"
---

I have a close friend who is an Episcopal minister. He has many stories
about the schism within the Anglican Communion. He also has many stories
from his time at Yale Divinity, where there is no shortages of weirdos.
This is a truth of modern divinity schools that gets missed. The
selection process for clergy has been captured by multicultural cranks
and despots.

He described one woman as an atheist lesbian studying the role of
Christianity in the male domination of women. From what I gather, most
of the students at divinity school these days are non-conforming
Catholics,  progressive Episcopalians and a sprinkling of bespoke
lunatics. The whole scene is a riot of nonsense, with the exception of
the Muslims, who stick to their studies and avoid mingling with the
infidels. You can’t fault them for their ambition. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/2014/11/14/40c49d06-6c41-11e4-a31c-77759fc1eacc_story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It certainly looks like they are
winning.</a>

*In a corner of Washington National Cathedral, several hundred Muslim
worshipers and other invited guests gathered Friday afternoon for a
first-ever recitation of weekly Muslim prayers at the iconic Christian
sanctuary and to hear leaders of both faiths call for religious unity in
the face of extremist violence and hate.*

*The Arabic call to prayer echoed among the vaulted stone arches and
faded away, followed by an impassioned sermon from Ebrahim Rasool, a
Muslim scholar who is South Africa’s ambassador to the United States.
Rasool called on Muslims, Christians and others to come together and
make “common cause” in the fight against extremists who appropriate
Islam.*

*“We come to this cathedral with sensitivity and humility but keenly
aware that it is not a time for platitudes, because mischief is
threatening the world,” Rasool said. “The challenge for us today is to
reconstitute a middle ground of good people . . . whose very existence
threatens extremism.”*

*The event was closed to the public, and there was heavy security, with
police checking every name and bag. Organizers from several area Muslim
institutions said there had been concerns about security and threats
after the event was publicized and that they and cathedral officials
wanted to limit it to a small and selected group.*

*Nevertheless, the carefully scripted ceremony was marred once when one
well-dressed, middle-age woman in the audience suddenly rose and began
shouting that “America was founded on Christian principles. . . . Leave
our church alone!” She was swiftly ushered out by security aides, and
the service continued.*

*Numerous speakers, including cathedral officials and local Muslim
leaders, echoed Rasool’s message about the urgent need for religious
understanding and collaboration. Most made pointed references to the
symbolism of the majestic Christian building, where rugs had been laid
for prayer.*

*The Very Rev. Gary Hall, dean of the cathedral, spoke of Saint
Benedict, who he said believed equally in the importance of prayer and
hospitality. Marveling at the sounds of Arabic prayers, which he called
“a beautiful sacred language in a beautiful sacred space,” Hall said he
hoped the service would serve as the start of more efforts to work
together for good.*

*Other speakers said they hoped the service would help correct some
Americans’ misperceptions of Muslims as extremists and reinforce
tolerance among faiths.*

The people peddling the nonsense about “correct\[ing\] some Americans’
misperceptions of Muslims as extremists and reinforce tolerance among
faiths” should be shipped off to Iran or Iraq so they can learn about
tolerance from the Mohammedan. If they survive it, maybe they will not
be so quick to inflict it on innocent Americans. There are over 50
Muslim countries. There’s no reason for these people to be here. No one
in America is walking around thinking, “Man, we really need some
Muslims.”

Of course, this is typical of the Episcopal faith these days. It’s
barely a coherent religion and it will probably be but a memory in
another generation. A religion that no longer believes it should exist
is not going to exist for every long. Letting the savages overrun the
premiere Episcopal church in America is perfectly symbolic of what’s
happening with that religion. When the <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/1578017/Adopt-sharia-law-in-Britain-says-the-Archbishop-of-Canterbury-Dr-Rowan-Williams.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Archbishop of Canterbury wants to adopt
sharia law</a>, it’s all over but the shouting. Thomas Cranmore is
spinning in his grave.
