---
title: "Ted Cruz"
date: "2014-09-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2733"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2733"
---

I’m not sure where I am with Ted Cruz. I like some things he has said,
but I have my doubts about his sincerity on issues important to me like
immigration, guns and the size of government. I’m still open minded
about him, but given the state of his party and the Right in general,
he’s probably just another grifter working a scam. <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2014/09/10/ted-cruz-booed-off-stage-at-middle-east-christian-conference-video/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Stories like this</a> make me
wonder if he is an idiot or extremely clever.

*Sen. Ted Cruz was booed offstage at a conference for Middle Eastern
Christians Wednesday night after saying that “Christians have no greater
ally than Israel.”*

*Cruz, the keynote speaker at the sold-out D.C. dinner gala for the
recently-founded non-profit In Defense of Christians, began by saying
that “tonight, we are all united in defense of Christians. Tonight, we
are all united in defense of Jews. Tonight, we are all united in defense
of people of good faith, who are standing together against those who
would persecute and murder those who dare disagree with their religious
teachings.”*

*Cruz was not reading from a teleprompter, nor did he appear to be
reading from notes.*

*<span style="line-height: 1.5em;">“Religious bigotry is a cancer with
many manifestations,” he continued. “</span>ISIS, al-Qaida, Hezbollah,
Hamas, state sponsors like Syria and Iran, are all engaged in a vicious
genocidal campaign to destroy religious minorities in the Middle
East. Sometimes we are told not to loop these groups together, that we
have to understand their so called nuances and differences. But we
shouldn’t try to parse different manifestations of evil that are on a
murderous rampage through the region. Hate is hate, and murder is
murder. Our purpose here tonight is to highlight a terrible injustice, a
humanitarian crisis.”*

*<span style="line-height: 1.5em;">“Christians have no greater ally than
Israel,” he said, at which point members of the crowd began to yell
“stop it” and booed him.</span>*

*EWTN News Nightly’s Jason Calvi caught the moment on video.*

*<span style="line-height: 1.5em;">“Those who hate Israel hate America,”
he continued, as the boos and calls for him to leave the stage got
louder. “</span>Those who hate Jews hate Christians. If those in this
room will not recognize that, then my heart weeps. If you hate the
Jewish people you are not reflecting the teachings of Christ. And the
very same people who persecute and murder Christians right now, who
crucify Christians, who behead children, are the very same people who
target Jews for their faith, for the same reason.”*

*The cries of “stop it, stop it, enough,” and booing continued. “Out,
out, leave the stage!” At this point IDC’s president, Toufic Baaklini,
came out to the stage to ask for the crowd to listen to Cruz, but Cruz
had already had enough.*

I probably know more about Arab Christians than most people, but guys in
his league have sharp people around them who do their homework before
sending their man out to speak. Arab Christians hate Arab Muslims and
they hate Israel. They have good reason to hate both camps. They are
typically used as canon fodder by both sides. The Israelis and Arabs
have run most of the Christians out of Lebanon, for example.

Now, maybe Cruz is just a blockhead, who assumed all Christians are like
American Evangelicals. He went in thinking he had a great pitch only to
find they thought he was flinging poo at them. On the other hand, it may
have been a setup. The three “I’s” still apply to some degree in
American politics. That’s Iowa, Ireland and Israel. Get the support of
all three and you win the presidency. Ireland has fallen by the wayside
now, but Israel still counts for a lot. Taking one for the Tribe looks
pretty good on the resume if you’re planning to run for president.
