---
title: "Inequality Thoughts"
date: "2014-01-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=763"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=763"
---

Jim Geraghty has a post up on National Review Online about the
“polarization” of the public over politics. Usually what these guys mean
by polarization is that the public is not buying what the media is
selling them. When a non-liberal shows up on campus to give a speech and
is heckled, he is polarizing. When an abortion fanatic shows up at a
Catholic college and is heckled, he is courageous. Anyway, the point of
his post is that people are mad and it has nothing to do with politics. 
I posted this in the comments:

*First off, Frank Luntz is probably a sincere person and all around
great guy, but his profession is closer to witchcraft on the empiricism
scale than it is to science. He makes his living telling the Sean
Hannity audience what they want to hear. I don’t want to call him a
charlatan as I think he believe this stuff. If he were not performing on
the Hannity show, he would be watching it.*

*Second, income inequality is not just a leftist fad for the political
season. Keep in mind that the Left has embraced the modern tools of
crowd sourcing. While far from perfect, they are very useful in defining
trends. Americans are increasingly aware that the folks in charge live
vastly different lives than the rest of us. There’s also a growing
suspicion that the interests of the ruling class are at odds with the
middle class. A rich tech billionaire moaning about paying his market
rate does not go unnoticed.*

*Third, this is not the first time America has seen this sort of
problem. The new robber barons are different in that they are Davos men,
cosmopolitan citizens of the world who got rich from global capitalism.
Their loyalty to country and culture is nearly non-existent. That makes
them seem &lt;i&gt;alien&lt;/i&gt; to the hoi polloi. The robber barons
of old were men who embraced country and culture.*

*Global capitalism is a boon to rich people in rich countries and smart
people in poor countries. It is a bane to the middle class of rich
countries. As a political matter, the GOP has a choice. It can be the
party of the middle class and stop chasing after the favor of the
plutocrats. This, I suspect, is a lost cause. Alternatively, they can go
back to their historic role as accountants to the ruling class. The Left
works on reorganizing society and the Right keeps the books.*

The narrative says the GOP represents conservatives, by which is meant
middle-class white people, but that’s a myth. The recent actions of
Boehner and McConnel make that clear. The early embrace of Chris
Christie as the choice for 2016 is another clear sign the party would
like to be rid of the Tea Party and the other non-conformists. For half
a century, the GOP was about defending the public finances and defending
against the communists. Otherwise, they went along with whatever the
liberal democrats wanted.

A careful reading of history shows that all ruling elites have these two
factions. One side wants to charge ahead with all sorts of schemes. The
other side wants to tap the breaks and steer clear of trouble.
 Otherwise, they agree on most of the important stuff. In modern times,
we are seeing the ruling elites move closer, as they begin to define
themselves in opposition to the people over whom they rule. In Europe,
this is well under way as formerly ideological opposites are now in
power sharing deals. The Tories and Labor, for example

The question is whether the people on the outside will go along with
this deal. In America, the slow grinding down of the middle-class is not
going unnoticed. Europe has all sorts of weird social unrest. People are
unlikely to go along with a new system where everyone is relatively poor
compared to the ruling elite. Then there is the question of
sustainability, as global capitalism rests on the belief that borrowing
rates at the top can always be zero.

This can only work if the elites can control capital almost entirely and
even then, it is hard to see how that can be sustained. People will
first note that “both parties” fail to deliver, while the wealth gap
grows ever wider. Then the people notice that voting has no effect on
the process. That’s when people start looking for option, usually at the
extremes. The Left will search out screamers who promise to rally the
fringes against the middle-class whites, while those middle-class whites
tart listening to those promising to defend their stuff.

In the end, gross inequality leads to social unrest.

 
