---
title: "Science at the Gate"
date: "2014-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - IQ
params:
  original_slug: "?p=944"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=944"
---

The 21st century is going to look a lot like the 17th century in that
the organizing faith will be under constant assault from new thinking.
In 1500, the ruling and intellectual elites of the western world
believed in God and accepted the Church. By 1550, the Church was under
assault as the Protestant Reformation spread through central Europe. The
prevailing orthodoxy was under assault on all sides.

Fifty years later the schism within the Church was challenging the
prevailing secular order in Europe. The Thirty Years War was kicked off
in 1618 and by the end of the century, the world was an entirely
different place. The jostling between the people of Europe was no longer
about Christendom. It was about nationalism. More important,
Christianity was no longer the organizing faith of western societies.

The Enlightenment swept away the old religion and offered up a range of
secular replacements. Various forms of socialism, like Marxism, Fabian
socialism and Bolshevism, were more than political or economic
movements. They may have started with the material, but they ended with
the spiritual. They became civic religions that would attempt to fill
the role of the Church. Politics would become the public ceremony for
the new religion. This is especially true of liberal democracy.

If you look around, the firm belief in the malleability of man is all
around you. Test prep courses and materials promise to improve your
scores on IQ tests. Americans are bankrupting themselves in pursuit of
education. Billions are spent on health regimes that promise to make fat
people thin and ugly people attractive. Behavior modification is so
deeply ingrained in our culture we hardly notice it.

Economics, the closest thing we have to witchcraft in America, is
entirely based on the belief you can make people do anything with the
right incentives. The military is putting women in combat units, despite
the obvious physical and psychological problems. Disparity of outcomes
between races and the sexes are proof of bad behavior, not natural
differences in talent. Mentioning black crime, of course, is as
heretical as claiming, in 15th century France, that the Pope was a Jew.

All of this depends on a fundamental denial of science. Jacobinism, the
mother culture of every left-wing movement, is a rejection of nature and
therefore a rejection of science. Later movements bolted on science here
and there as a marketing ploy, but the Left is by its nature,
anti-science. It has to be. If you allow that some parts of the human
animal are beyond the reach of social planners, you open up the
possibility that large parts of humanity cannot be altered by social
structure.

If the debate shifts from what should be done to what can be done, then
the debate about what ought to be done changes as well. In a world where
humans are infinitely malleable, what ought to be done is limitless. In
a world where humans are the product of the mating decisions of their
ancestors, what ought to be done is bounded by the limits of the human
condition. Trying for make college scholars out of low-IQ people with
poor impulse control becomes as immoral as torturing the mentally ill.

Science is slowly undermining the claims of these secular religions. On
the one hand, we have evolutionary biology, which is telling us
immutable truth about humanity. On the other hand, we have genetics,
which is making a steady assault on the tenets of Standard Social
Science Model. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/science-news/10631319/Is-intelligence-written-in-the-genes.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> in the
Telegraph tells us that science may have found a gene that determines
intelligence. We know these genes exist. The question is how many and
how much each one influence the general intelligence.

*They found that, on average, teenagers carrying a particular gene
variant had a thinner cortex in the left cerebral hemisphere,
particularly in the frontal and temporal lobes, and performed less well
on tests for intellectual ability.*

*The genetic variation affects the expression of the NPTN gene, which
encodes a protein acting at neuronal synapses and therefore affects how
brain cells communicate.*

*Their findings suggest that some differences in intellectual abilities
can result from the decreased function of the NPTN gene in particular
regions of the left brain hemisphere.*

*Although the genetic variation identified in this study only accounts
for an estimated 0.5 per cent of the total variation in intelligence.*

*However, the findings may have important implications for the
understanding of biological mechanisms underlying several psychiatric
disorders, such as schizophrenia, autism, where impaired cognitive
ability is a key feature of the disorder.*

To sensible people, this may not sound ground breaking, but it is the
sort of ripple that knocks over buildings down the line. If IQ is a
matter of genetics, IQ tests can no longer be dismissed. Similarly, as
behavior is linked to specific proteins, or the lack of them, whole
swaths of social science fall into the category of witchcraft. If humans
are not infinitely malleable, then 300 years of political theory goes
out the window. At some point, there is the Galileo moment, when the old
faith no longer has meaning.
