---
title: "The Dishonesty Society"
date: "2014-05-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1821"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1821"
---

An underappreciated truth of the Obama years is that all of the things
the Left accused Nixon of in the 1970’s have been done by Obama with
enthusiasm.
<a href="http://watergate.info/impeachment/articles-of-impeachment"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Articles of
Impeachment</a> makes for an interesting read forty years later. Some
are narrowly specific, but the misuse of the IRS, CIA and Justice
Department sound like the daily schedule at the White House. That’s just
what we know about thus far. They have no doubt abused the FBI and NSA
as well.

The other irony is that during the Bush years, the Left warned that Dick
Cheney was rummaging through your phone records and library activity.
They warned that the new surveillance powers given the state would be
abused for political reasons. Thus far, no evidence of that has emerged,
but it seems pretty clear that the Obama administration was abusing at
least some of these powers. A good example of the gross corruption of
government is right here in <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-insurance-bailout-20140521-story.html#page=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this LA Times story</a>.

*The Obama administration has quietly adjusted key provisions of its
signature healthcare law to potentially make billions of additional
taxpayer dollars available to the insurance industry if companies
providing coverage through the Affordable Care Act lose money.*

*The move was buried in hundreds of pages of new regulations issued late
last week. It comes as part of an intensive administration effort to
hold down premium increases for next year, a top priority for the White
House as the rates will be announced ahead of this fall’s congressional
elections.*

*Administration officials for months have denied charges by opponents
that they plan a “bailout” for insurance companies providing coverage
under the healthcare law.*

*They continue to argue that most insurers shouldn’t need to
substantially increase premiums because safeguards in the healthcare law
will protect them over the next several years.*

Let’s first start with the fact Congress gave the Executive carte
blanche to hand out cash to whoever they like at the moment. This is
pretty much the opposite of republican self-government. This is closer
to the temporary dictatorships the Ancients were fond of in times of
trouble. Instead of it being a temporary state, it is a permanent state
with debates about who will play dictator every four years.

Then we see the casual dishonesty of the administration. They’ve
obviously been lying about what they are doing, but no one seems to
care. Another day, another lie. Of course, they are not even bothering
to hide the fact they are hoping to game the insurance rates to avoid
answering for it at the polls.They have no fear of being called on this
stuff by the media, so they just lie anyway they like.

*But the change in regulations essentially provides insurers with
another backup: If they keep rate increases modest over the next couple
of years but lose money, the administration will tap federal funds as
needed to cover shortfalls.*

*Although little noticed so far, the plan was already beginning to fuel
a new round of attacks Tuesday from the healthcare law’s critics.*

*“If conservatives want to stop the illegal Obamacare insurance bailout
before it starts they must start planning now,” wrote Conn Carroll, an
editor of the right-leaning news site Townhall.com.*

*<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, 'Nimbus Sans L', sans-serif;">On
Capitol Hill, Republicans on the Senate Budget Committee began
circulating a memo on the issue and urging colleagues to fight what they
are calling “another end-run around Congress.”</span>*

Obama administration officials said the new regulations would not put
taxpayers at risk. “We are confident this three-year program will not
create a shortfall,” Health and Human Services spokeswoman Erin Shields
Britt said in a statement. “However, we want to be clear that in the
highly unlikely event of a shortfall, HHS will use appropriations as
available to fill it.” OK, but how will we know? Well, how would we
know? If they will lie about all the other stuff, why would anyone
expect them to be honest about this?

*The stakes are high for President Obama and the healthcare law.*

*Although more than 8 million people signed up for health coverage under
the law, exceeding expectations, insurance companies in several states
have been eyeing significant rate increases for next year amid concerns
that their new customers are older and sicker than anticipated.*

*Insurers around the country have started to file proposed 2015
premiums, just as the midterm campaigns are heating up. Obamacare, as
the law is often called, remains a top campaign issue, and big premium
increases in states with tightly contested races could prove politically
disastrous for Democrats.*

*If rates go up dramatically, consumers may also turn away from
insurance marketplaces in some states, leading to their collapse.*

The total disregard for truth by the ruling class is like a tidal wave
of sewage. The foulness of it makes it hard to focus on anyone bit. We
have no idea how many people signed up through these websites. We have
no idea how many actually bought insurance. We have no idea how many had
insurance, but were canceled due to this silly law. We don’t know how
many went on Medicaid.

No one knows because the government refuses to publish the numbers for
examination by the citizens. The lefty media, however, takes whatever
the rulers say on faith. I guess all that talking truth to power stuff
was just more bullshit.

This is the central feature of the Custodial State. The government is
never going to be very good at tending to the needs of the citizens. The
abuses coming out of the Veterans Administration are just the beginning.
The response will be habitual lying by the ruling elites to the point
where no one knows what is truth and what is fiction. This, of course,
trickles down to the rest of us.

Ours is now a dishonesty society. Nothing is on the level. Everything is
a deal. No deal is too small or too outlandish. And, it is only going to
get worse.

 
