---
title: "American Crackpot"
date: "2014-02-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=922"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=922"
---

The American Conservative is a publication that seems like it should be
better than it is and have a greater influence that it does. They have
always struggled to keep it going, so that’s probably part of the
problem, They tried to be a traditional paper journal, but that’s not
something with a future. They have a website, but it is the antiquated
“webzine” style that does not seem to work very well. The content has
often been of the paleo variety, which is becoming a bit of an
anachronism these days.

Anyway, this was posted the other day. It hits on why conservatism in
general, but paleoconservatism in particular, never seem to work. There
was always an effort to superimpose whatever they meant by conservatism
onto the culture. That is, they often tried to take something that was
obviously not Right and argue that it was actually conservative. often,
the result was taking yesterday’s radicalism and making ti today’s
right-wing orthodoxy. You see that in the Seeger piece.

*Seeger was the authentic voice of the old American left and understood
that conservatism, far from being inimical to socialism, was actually an
essential component of it. In an interview with the New York Times in
1995 he declared, “I like to say I’m more conservative than \[Barry\]
Goldwater. He just wanted to turn the clock back to when there was no
income tax. I want to turn the clock back to when people lived in small
villages and took care of each other.”*

*Seeger’s vision of the ideal society was not some high-tech futuristic
metropolis but was rooted firmly in the past. America’s past. “When I
was a boy, I read every single book by naturalist Ernest Thompson
Seton,” he said in a 1982 interview.*

Seeger was an unrepentant communist, long after it was clear Stalin was
a murderous psychopath. He actively conspired with foreigners to do harm
to his fellow citizens for no other reason than ideological zeal. If
mass murder is a conservative principle, the Right may want to have a
meeting or something to figure out what went wrong. Just because someone
has fond memories of the past, it does not make them Edmund Burke. There
is more to being conservative than being a reactionary.

*Seeger rejected the egotism of the modern elbow society which
neoliberal capitalism has created. “There was no ‘I’ in Seeger’s music,
only a big, broad encompassing ‘we’” writes Jody Rosen. Seeger never
liked to talk in terms of his career. “I hate the word ‘career’ because
it implies one is searching after fame and fortune—two of the silliest
things to want,” he said. He abhorred commercialism. When he was given a
microphone he used it to forward the causes he believed in—and not push
a new album or CD.*

<a
href="http://takimag.com/article/if_i_had_a_sickle_kathy_shaidle/print#axzz2smwh2ghR"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">As Kathy Shaidle covered last
week</a>, Pete Seeger was a money grubbing thief who would screw his
mother for a nickel.

He was a better socialist than the Trotskyite ideologues who accused him
of being a Stalinist, and he was a better conservative than the
McCarthyites who persecuted him. He understood, probably better than any
other figure on the American Left, that in order for the human race to
go forward we need to go back. Way, way, back.

That’s complete nonsense. Seeger was never “persecuted.” He was a proud
Stalinist long after Khrushchev revealed the details of Stalin’s
crimes.  In fact, he was dissembling about Uncle Joe right up until the
end. <a href="http://www.steynonline.com/6052/changing-his-tune"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">As Mark Steyn</a> pointed out,
Seeger could never bring himself to condemn the man who murdered fifty
million people just to prove a point. if being on the Right means
anything it means opposing grand social experiments that slaughter tens
of millions of people.

That gets back to the weirdness of American Conservative and that whole
fringe right-wing world that operates around paleoconservatism. Maybe it
is just the nature of fringe politics. As these people were pushed out
of the main stream, many went looking for something else they can
support. Inevitably, that mean embracing or accepting some crap pot
stuff. Of course, everything outside the main looks like crack pottery
when you’re standing inside the main. Crack pots are a matter of
perspective.
