---
title: "J. B. S. Haldane"
date: "2014-02-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=919"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=919"
---

I’m reading, as time permits, *The Inequality of Man*. This was written
around when Haldane was converting to Marxism. You can tell he was
deeply fascinated by the doings in the Soviet Union at the time. Haldane
was convinced humanity was in decline, as he thought that was the
natural evolution of all species. The only way to arrest that would be
for man to alter his evolution. The only way to do that would be to
alter his social arrangements.

I suppose it was only natural for him to be fascinated with what the
Western intellectuals thought was the greatest social experiment in
human relations since the French Revolution. [According to his Wiki
biography](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._B._S._Haldane) he became a
full-throated Marxist in 1937, which was the start of the
*Yezhovshchina*, the most intense of Stalin’s purges. A recurring theme
of the time is the academic communists in the West became true believers
just when the slaughter in the Soviet Union got going.

Two things keep popping into my head as I read through what is rather
dry and painfully out of date genetic discussions in the book. One is
that the most of the popular social theories of my grandparent’s age
were mostly nonsense. Haldane talks about psychology as being the great
savior of mankind because it will lead to the end of crime and mental
illness. His fondness for eugenics is a bit chilling, even if what came
next was wildly exaggerated.

The second thing is how belief and science are not incompatible. Haldane
was an atheist, but he was a Marxist. There’s nothing rational or
logical about Marxism. It starts with the assumption that heaven on
earth is possible if things can be arranged just the right way. There’s
no reason to believe it, but adherents do and they do so in order to be
a part of the cause.

Catholics have no logical reason to have warm feelings toward the Pope,
but they do because that’s what you do in that religion. Haldane was a
rigorous and talented scientist, a brilliant scientist. Yet, he believed
in some crazy religions like Marxism and eventually Hinduism. It is
often assumed that belief and empiricism operate at polar opposites on
the plane of human thought. It is simply not the case. True believers
often make the best scientists.

I’m not sure if this is true today, I have no way of knowing, but
science had a teleological thread to it well into the modern era. A guy
like Haldane set aside God, but he still believed nature had a purpose
and a design. Chance really did not figure into the science of his day.
Discovering the truths about nature meant solving the purpose. “Why does
a duck have a bill?” is a different starting point than “How did the
bill win over the known alternatives?”

If I head off to Home Depot for a hammer and return with one, there’s
agency involved throughout. If I head off to Home Depot and end up
married to a Ukrainian in Florida, it is a series of choices that appear
to be chance from a great enough distance.  It may not be chance in the
strict sense of the word, but it is certainly not design. Teleology
drove a good deal of early science and may be driving current science.
