---
title: "Ramblings on the Ruling Class"
date: "2014-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=961"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=961"
---

Every society goes through periods when its ruling class can no longer
police itself. The Founders of America recognized this problem and
designed a political system that would turnover a little more frequently
than what they saw in Europe. For example, the typical king was on the
throne for a couple of decades. [According to this
site](http://www.britroyals.com/reigned.asp), which seems authoritative,
the typical British monarch hung around for 21 years.

Even when you drop out long serving monarchs and the short timers,
you’re looking at a two decade reign. Most likely, Britain has had fewer
violent changes of power than other countries, but that could be wrong.
The French had a long run of peaceful transition. [The
Germans](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_German_monarchs) were at
the other end as far as length of reign. Even so, most subjects could
expect to serve maybe two monarchs in their lifetime.

Hereditary rule has some obvious problems. No matter how well the ruling
elites police their own, you can still end up with a lunatic on the
throne. [Charles VI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_the_Mad)
reigned for 42 years, despite thinking he was a wolf and made of glass.
[Christian VII of
Denmark](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_VII_of_Denmark) stuck
around for over four decades, despite having an obsession with his
penis. He jerked off so much it effected his health. He also would slap
people for no reason and insisted on playing leap frog with visiting
dignitaries.

When there is no system to prevent a lunatic from gaining power, you’re
pretty much guaranteed to get a few lunatics in power. When you have no
way to remove them you either get some long serving lunatics or you get
a lot of assignations. A system that requires the occasional
assassination of the ruler invites all sorts of intrigue and paranoia.
Every king has to assume he is surrounded by potential assassins. It is
just a terrible way to police the ruling class.

Representative democracy is a cure for that. Even if you cannot prevent
a [lunatic from gaining
office](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woodrow_Wilson), his term will end
soon enough. In theory, the churn of office holders will allow the
ruling elite to sideline a nut before they get into office. If one slips
by, then he can be removed in the next election. It’s not perfect, as
the fickleness of voter’s means a good ruler could be turned out over
something silly. But, everything is trade-offs, so not having a lunatic
in charge comes with the risk of losing a good ruler on occasion.

Up until the 20th century the system worked pretty well in America.
There was no way to be a career politician, unless you were wealthy.
Most office holders either got rich first or inherited their money.
Getting office without having got rich was extremely difficult. It was a
pretty good system until socialism came along. The Founders could not
imagine a sprawling welfare state with highly paid, semi-permanent
office holders in charge of it. But, that’s what Progressives gave us.

[Reading this bit of
nonsense](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/370976/11-million-2100-scholarships-kids-real-answer-inequality-sen-lamar-alexander)
from Lamar Alexander, who is still alive and still in office, suggests
we have entered one of those times when the elites can no longer police
their ranks. He is a senator from a sensible state, which means he can
be a pest on a national scale. Such an important job should be filled by
someone with a stake in the success of the state and its people. Instead
it is filled with a lifetime seat warmer who probably lives in Northern
Virginia. He takes his vacation to the state he theoretically
represents.

It is not a handful of wackos here and there. If some states or regions
were struggling to find competent men to staff the elected posts, it
would be self-correcting. That’s not the case. It appears to be a
problem almost everywhere. Florida has a [career
criminal](http://alceehastings.house.gov/) in the House. They also have
a [paranoid
schizophrenic](http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CGEQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fgrayson.house.gov%2F&ei=htT8Uv28KoS0yAHCh4Fg&usg=AFQjCNHnY92FVft3omsK3PC6fCSPeAdMaA&sig2=1ZKGh6fEEmgzOo5RyP0HcQ&bvm=bv.61190604,d.aWc).
Massachusetts has a
[sociopath](http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CCcQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FElizabeth_Warren&ei=wtT8UrqkPKiCyQHhsoGoCg&usg=AFQjCNEdJJvwgOyAbNN-r-pp50pk1SaYSQ&sig2=2EbAXc2jNWcMca4M6MMsPQ&bvm=bv.61190604,d.aWc)
with an imaginary family tree as one of their Senators. You could spend
all day listing Congressmen and Senators who are completely nuts or just
plain grifters.

The nuts appear to be a minority, but the grifters and sociopaths are
probably a *majority all elected officials* at this point. It is not
just the legislature. The ruling class of America has [very little in
common with
Americans](http://www.forbes.com/2009/11/24/michael-cembalest-obama-business-beltway-cabinet.html).
These people look sort of like the people they claim to represent, but
they may as well be space aliens. They live in a different world from
their citizens and they have alien ideas about the nation.

I think a good starting point of any reform program is to accept the
rule that if you have never had a job, you are not an American. That
disqualifies you from office. Term limits has been discussed for a long
time and it sounds good until you take a look at how the elites operate.
The office holders are the tip of the iceberg. The important bit is
under the waterline. That’s the vast bureaucracy that ruthlessly
enforces the rules, the administrative and managerial class that
formulates the rules and the vast army of lobbyists and think tanks who
provide the elected officials with marketing material.

So, how is it that Americans have allowed things to degrade to this
point? Part of it is fanatics wake up every morning with a plan to
advance the cause. Normal people wake up every morning with more
pedestrian thoughts in their heads. Another is the natural evolution of
a ruling class is to tend to the walls of the castle. They are always
looking to secure their position. Over time, they tinker with the rules,
change the laws, alter the contract so they face less pressure. Their
position becomes unassailable.

The solution, of course, is for the public to revolt and hang all of
these people. It’s not that the next group will be better quality. It’s
that they will operate with the knowledge they could be hanged at any
moment. Perhaps installing a gallows outside the door of the House.
Every poll has to pass through the shadow of it on the way in and out of
the building. They say the prospect if imminent death focuses the mind.
