---
title: "We Be Stoopiderer"
date: "2014-08-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - IQ
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2570"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2570"
---

One of the amusing parts of following the Ferguson riots was watching TV
people turn themselves into pretzels avoiding the obvious. You’re simply
not allowed to notice vast swaths of reality. When it comes to race, you
could find yourself living in Steve Sailer’s basement if you slip and
notice something. That makes reporting on human activity nearly
impossible. <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2730791/Are-STUPID-Britons-people-IQ-decline.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> is a good
example.

*Technology may be getting smarter, but humans are getting dumber,
scientists have warned.*

*Evidence suggests that the IQs of people in the UK, Denmark and
Australia have declined in the last decade.  Opinion is divided as to
whether the trend is long-term, but some researchers believe that humans
have already reached intellectual peak.*

*An IQ test used to determine whether Danish men are fit to serve in the
military has revealed scores have fallen by 1.5 points since 1998. And
standard tests issued in the UK and Australia echo the results,
according to journalist Bob Holmes, writing in New Scientist.*

*The most pessimistic explanation as to why humans seem to be becoming
less intelligent is that we have effectively reached our intellectual
peak. Between the 1930s and 1980s, the average IQ score in the US rose
by three points and in post-war Japan and Denmark, test scores also
increased significantly – a trend known as the ‘Flynn effect’.*

*This increase in intelligence was due to improved nutrition and living
conditions – as well as better education – says James Flynn of the
University of Otago, after whom the effect is named.*

*Now some experts believe we are starting to see the end of the Flynn
effect in developed countries – and that IQ scores are not just
levelling out, but declining.*

*Scientists including Dr Flynn think better education can reverse the
trend and point out the perceived decline could just be a blip. However,
other scientists are not so optimistic.*

*Some believe the Flynn effect has masked a decline in the genetic basis
for intelligence, so that while more people have been reaching their
full potential, that potential itself has been declining.*

*Some have even contentiously said this could be because educated people
are deciding to have fewer children, so that subsequent generations are
largely made up of less intelligent people.*

*Richard Lynn, a psychologist at the University of Ulster, calculated
the decline in humans’ genetic potential.*

*He used data on average IQs around the world in 1950 and 2000 to
discover that our collective intelligence has dropped by one IQ point.*

*Dr Lynn predicts that if this trend continues, we could lose another
1.3 IQ points by 2050.*

*Michael Woodley, of the Free University of Brussels, Belgium, claims
people’s reactions are slower than in Victorian times, and has linked it
to a decline in our genetic potential.*

*It has previously been claimed that quick-witted people have fast
reactions and Dr Woodley’s study showed people’s reaction times have
slowed over the century – the equivalent to one IQ point per decade.*

*Jan te Nijenhuis, a psychology professor at the University of
Amsterdam, says Westerners have lost an average of 14 IQ points since
the Victoria Era.*

*He believes this is due to more intelligent women have fewer children
than those who are less clever,The Huffington Post reported.*

*Dr Woodley and others think humans will gradually become less and less
intelligent.*

*But Dr Flynn says if the decline in IQ scores is the end of the Flynn
effect, scores should stabilise.*

*He thinks that even if humans do become more stupid, better healthcare
and technology will mean that all people will have fewer children and
the ‘problem’ will regulate itself.*

The study referenced in the story does not appear to adjust for race.
Logically, if you increase the number of people from low IQ populations,
average IQ will fall, so the population explosion in Africa  probably
accounts for most of it. But, you’re not allowed to point out that
Arabs, for example, like marrying their cousins, which lowers IQ over a
few generations. Britain is now 4% Arab and those Arabs account for a
third of the genetic defects.

That said, maybe there is an adjustment for race in the study, but
buried in such a way as to make is hard to notice. The researcher in
question does not seem to be hobbled by political correctness, so who
knows. We could be getting dumber and the dumb are out-breeding the
smart. Both claims would be easy to accept, based on observation of
Western societies and immigration.
