---
title: "Rambling about MSNBC"
date: "2014-12-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3475"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3475"
---

<a
href="http://nypost.com/2014/12/29/struggling-msnbcs-griffin-eyes-changes-to-fix-ratings/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I saw this on Drudge.</a>

*MSNBC president Phil Griffin, whose cable news network is the only one
among the big three to lose primetime viewers this season, told staffers
he would look to turn things around by continuing a push for younger
viewers in 2015.*

*Griffin, in a memo sent Monday, also promised “to get on the road — and
outside of Washington” to broaden the network’s coverage.*

*“It’s no secret that 2014 was a difficult year for the entire cable
news industry and especially for msnbc,” Griffin wrote.*

*“We have a long history of finding and nurturing great talent — and
with an eye toward 2016 — we continued to build our next generation of
top-notch journalists,” Griffin wrote.*

*The memo then singled out such 20-something hosts as Ronan Farrow,
Kasie Hunt and Alex Seitz-Wald.*

The fact that I had to run Kasie Hunt, Mike’s brother, and Alex Two
Names through the google machine tells me they need to keep looking for
the next “great talent” to nurture. The only reason I know anything
about that squealing sissy, Ronan Farrow, is he was fun to mock at one
point. Clips of him having a hissy fit would turn up in my mailbox. If
Frank were alive today, Ronan would not be.

*It also touted Shift, MSNBC’s just-launched streaming news service,
which “is already allowing us to reach new, younger audiences.”*

*MSNBC’s push to embrace youth makes sense for the only cable news
network to see its primetime audience erode in the current season, as
measured by Nielsen.*

*Its 548,000 primetime viewers age 2 and older — down 18 percent from
the comparable season a year ago — ranked third to CNN’s 560,000 (up 15
percent) and Fox News Channel’s 1,845,000 (up 1 percent).*

Viewers “2 and older”?? You’ve got to be kidding me. The fact there’s a
metric for toddlers left in front of the TV while mommy gets another
glass of wine says that TV ratings are mostly bullshit. Regardless, in a
country with over 100 million cable homes, getting one half of one
percent to tune in says you’re about as appealing as ass cancer. There’s
no way to spin those numbers.

This is why a la carte pricing of cable should be at the top of the
conservative agenda. MSNBC would not exist without cable fees. If people
could drop it, everyone would and 99% of the money to this outfit would
disappear. The same is true of CNN. Fox would make it because they have
a solid audience with money to buy stuff. The ad dollars would probably
go up for Fox once the others folded. Just as Fox tries to play both
sides of the street, competing news outlets would be forced to follow
suit. The news would start to look like America.

This is a microcosm with what’s gone wrong on the professional right.
They never understood the long game. Public sector unions were never
about public sector workers. It was about taxing those workers to
finance liberal causes. Grants to non-profits were never about charity.
They are jobs programs for liberals, usually engaged in get out the vote
activity. Up and down American society you see a skim. Wherever money
changes hands, the Left is getting a cut to finance their operations. In
that regard, they operate just like the Mafia.

The Feds finally broke the Mafia by cutting off their money. Tax laws
turned out to be the best weapon. The annual audits of unions, pension
funds and front companies made it impossible for the mob to make a
living. The American Right needs to take the same view. Scott Walker
paved the way in Wisconsin, of all places. Now that he has cut the Left
off my from union money, the state is suddenly a lot less progressive.
