---
title: "Panda Man"
date: "2014-04-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1552"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1552"
---

A problem that vexes economists and (soon) politicians is what will be
done with all of the extra humans. It appears that we are running out of
ways to keep people busy. In America, the labor participation rate
remains stuck at all-time lows. Technology promises to eliminate the
need for many jobs. Farming and manufacturing are two obvious examples
of how technology eliminates the need for labor. Automation is now
coming for white collar jobs and professions like the law.

Even growth industries like health care are ripe for technological
upheaval. Much of what a doctor or nurse practitioner does can be
automated. Getting a physical at a local kiosk is not far off.
Accounting and engineering can and will be done by robots at some point
in the near future. <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/The-Second-Machine-Age-Technologies-ebook/dp/B00D97HPQI"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">That’s the claim of this
book</a>, anyway. Of course predictions about the future tend to be <a
href="http://publicdomainreview.org/collections/fashions-of-the-future-as-imagined-in-1893/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">hilariously wrong</a>. This is
great.

<img
src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7386/13698028443_c2bfc88640_b.jpg"
class="aligncenter" decoding="async" width="979" height="458" />

The <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luddite_fallacy"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Luddite Fallacy</a> is nothing
new. The counter to that is we have arrived at a time of genuine plenty.
In the West, no one is going without food. Medicine is universally
available, even if the delivery mechanism is unnecessarily expensive.
Violence is slowly ticking down and plague appears to be unlikely. In
other words, the big things that have threatened humanity have been
conquered.

So much so that most of the human population can avoid work entirely.
With further technological improvement, a very small number of people
will be able to provide for the rest of humanity. The great challenge
facing humanity over the next century will be how to organize ourselves
in  world without work or want. <a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/revealed-scientists-edit-dna-to-correct-adult-genes-and-cure-diseases-9273555.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> is what should
get everyone’s attention.

*A genetic disease has been cured in living, adult animals for the first
time using a revolutionary genome-editing technique that can make the
smallest changes to the vast database of the DNA molecule with pinpoint
accuracy.*

*Scientists have used the genome-editing technology to cure adult
laboratory mice of an inherited liver disease by correcting a single
“letter” of the genetic alphabet which had been mutated in a vital gene
involved in liver metabolism.*

*A similar mutation in the same gene causes the equivalent inherited
liver disease in humans – and the successful repair of the genetic
defect in laboratory mice raises hopes that the first clinical trials on
patients could begin within a few years, scientists said.*

Given the state of medicine, the big challenge to extending human life
is almost entirely genetic. The ability to fix these defects in our
genome means, barring accident or environmental issues, humans could
live to the maximum of their natural life. Better understanding of
aging, <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/05/business/in-pursuit-of-longevity-a-plan-to-harness-dna-sequencing.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">which is moving along
quickly</a>, means living an extended youth. Whether or not human
lifespans can be extended much beyond 100 years is debatable, but living
to 100 in peak physical condition is a good deal.

That sounds great, but here’s something else we know from genetics.
Roughly 50,000 years ago modern man emerged on the scene. Humans were
physically and behaviorally human. Up until last week, scarcity was the
rule for humanity. In fact, evolution depends on it. Competition for
food and mates is what drives the whole process. It is not just what
makes us human, it was necessary for there to ever have been humans.
Just as important, it is what we are designed for as a species. All of
our physical and behavior wiring is geared for a world of competition
for food and mates.

Just as economists puzzle over what to do with all the extra people, we
should also puzzle over what happens when all of those extra people are
suddenly in a world for which they are poorly designed. The obesity
issue is an obvious problem that comes from having unlimited food
supplies. What happens when people have unlimited safety and unlimited
pleasure? Are we even human at that point?

Another possible result is the falling birth rate. Liberals like to
claim this is due to low infant mortality rates and high wealth. This is
ridiculous. Others, like David Goldman, point to cultural decay. Having
children is about celebrating the present and past. It is a gift to the
future from those thriving today. That comes from culture. The old
saying about proud societies is they are ones where old men plant trees
in whose shade they will never sit. A strong and confident people wish
to be remembered and the way to do that is through children. Otherwise,
why bother?

An alternative may simply be confusion. For 49,900 years, humans had to
have children as soon as they could. Every signal from their environment
was triggering that urge, but now all those signals are scrambled. It is
no wonder the receiving end would misinterpret these new signals. Just
as obesity results from plenty, plummeting fertility rates may result
from the lack of status and competition for mates. It’s not just the
lack of babies; <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/mar/18/why-generation-y-less-sex"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">it is the lack of sex</a>.
Like people who work in a candy factory not liking candy, humans in a
world of cost and objective free sex on demand may simply turn away.

This may sound ridiculous, but studies of the Khoisan people in Africa
show us that humans quickly adapt to their environment. The
hunter-gatherers of the Kalahari are the world’s oldest people according
to geneticists. That means they are closest to the original people who
are the foundation stock for humanity. Because they walk everywhere,
women have one child at a time. If they have twins, the mother smothers
one newborn. Carrying two children is too difficult so they can never
have more than one small child at a time.

If you’re inclined to think a world without work or want is Eden, again
consider the Khoisan. Until outside forces forced them onto farms, they
were able to gather and hunt for enough food in about 20 hours per week.
Attending other needs like food preparation, tool making and so forth
took up another 20 or so hours. That means the Khoisan were working far
less per week than most other peoples on the planet. They also had a
murder rate of Detroit, including fratricide, and they were in constant
conflict with other groups.

I have no idea where it is all heading. Predicting the future is a lousy
business, but we are looking a lot like Panda Bears. While we have no
natural enemies and plenty of food in our environment, we have stopped
having sex and children. Archaeologists in the far away future will dig
through the remains of our time and call us Panda Man, the human species
that simply had no reason to carry on. Having arrived at the end goal of
evolution, we looked around and decided it was not worth the effort.

Our future is going to be very strange.
