---
title: "Fake Science"
date: "2014-07-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2231"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2231"
---

The documenting of junk science is hardly new. I recall reading skeptics
taking on nonsense studies back in the 1980’s. I’m old and my mind is
slipping, but I think the term “junk science” was in use back then, but
I may be misremembering. Alar is probably the first example I recall
reading about, where the “science” turned out to be complete nonsense.
DDT is the most famous example.

Still, the debunking of pseudo-science has a long history. It is
generally tangled up in some cause, claiming to be about fending off an
emergency. Anthropomorphic Global Warming is looking like the Godzilla
of all junk science. Everything about it is fanciful, even the labels.
The shadow of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rachel_Carson"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Rachel Carson</a> will be with
us forever.

The rise of the fake nerd has only made it worse. Fake nerds, as
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=381" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">I have written about before</a>, are all around us these
days. Pretending to be “tech savvy” or really into technology is one
part of it. Another is the use and abuse of statistics. The sporting
press is being over run by guys with a couple of stat classes, carrying
on like they are Bill James. Nate Silver is making a career out of it.

The mistake all of these guys make is in thinking statistics are
science. Science uses statistics, but it also uses hammers and blow
torches too. No one calls a carpenter a scientist or a geek, yet the
typical carpenter is more empirically minded than most of these nerds.
He understands cause and effect. He also understands that correlations
can be misleading, so they must be treated with care.

Anyway, fake science has become the religion of the fake nerd cult. Take
any amount of wishful thinking, slap on some statistics, scientific
jargon and you have catnip for the fake nerds. <a
href="http://www.collective-evolution.com/2014/05/15/new-harvard-study-proves-why-the-bees-are-all-disappearing/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story is a great
example</a>.

*The human race is really starting to feel the consequences of their
actions. One area we are waking up to is the massive amount of
pesticides we spray (especially in North America) on our food that has
not only been linked to human disease, but a massive die off in the
global bee population within the past few years.*

*A new study out of Harvard University, published in the June edition of
the Bulletin of Insectology puts the nail in the coffin, neonicotinoids
are killing bees at an exponential rate, they are the direct cause of
the phenomenon labeled as colony collapse disorder (CCD).
Neonicotinoid’s are the world’s most widely used insecticides.*

Right away you see one of the hallmarks of fake science. That’s the
apocalyptic warnings about humans living better than they deserve. In
this case, it is the use of chemicals to ward off horrible plagues and
produce more food.  Then you have the “case is closed” assertion that
tells you the case is anything but closed. The fact that science is an
ongoing debate is lost on the fake nerds.

*For this study, researchers examined 18 bee colonies at three different
apiaries in central Massachusetts over the course of a year. Four
colonies at each apiary were regularly treated with realistic doses of
neonicotinoid pesticides, while a total of six hives were left
untreated. Of the 12 hives treated with the pesticides, six were
completely wiped out.*

This is an example of the classic logical fallacy they used to teach
kids back in the olden times. It goes like this. If A then B, therefore
if B then A. This is the error of affirming the consequent. In this
case, overuse of this pesticide results in fragile bee colonies. There
*may* be many reasons for fragile bee colonies. At best, this study
suggest there may be a relationship between pesticides and fragile bee
colonies.

<span style="line-height: 1.5em;">Real scientists, <a
href="http://www.npr.org/blogs/thesalt/2014/07/09/329994522/biologist-says-promoting-diversity-is-key-to-keeping-the-bees"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">like this guy</a>, understand
that there can be many causes to a single observed phenomenon. Those
causes can interact with one another to mask and amplify their effects.
Teasing out the true causal relationships is difficult. Correlations can
help locate causes, but they often lead us down a blind alley. That’s
the plight of the fake nerd. They believe they are empirically minded,
but fall for this sort of nonsense all the time. The result is a flood
of junk science.</span>
