---
title: "A Very Tall Moron"
date: "2014-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2515"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2515"
---

I always had a soft spot for Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Maybe it is is
freakish physique or his weird demeanor. I don’t know. He’s just a weird
dude in so many ways I can’t help but like him. John Derbyshire talks
about old weird America from time to time and Kareem is part of old
weird America. He’s one part black guy, one part California weirdo, one
part famous athlete and one part crazy philosopher. Lately Time Magazine
has been letting him express <a
href="http://time.com/3132635/ferguson-coming-race-war-class-warfare/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">his crazy side</a>.

*Will the recent rioting in Ferguson, Missouri, be a tipping point in
the struggle against racial injustice, or will it be a minor footnote in
some future grad student’s thesis on Civil Unrest in the Early
Twenty-First Century?*  
*More*  
*Hungry Heroes: 25 Percent of Military Families Seek Food Aid NBC
News’We Have Had Enough’: Ferguson Rally Remembers Michael Brown NBC
NewsMore Charges Planned Against Amish Girls Kidnap Suspects NBC
NewsHeidi Klum Wears Dress Made Of Tiny Strings, Spins Around A Lot At
The Creative Arts Emmys Huffington PostPhoto Emerges Of Darren Wilson,
Cop Who Fatally Shot Teen Michael Brown Huffington Post*

*The answer can be found in May of 1970.*

*You probably have heard of the Kent State shootings: on May 4, 1970,
the Ohio National Guard opened fire on student protesters at Kent State
University. During those 13 seconds of gunfire, four students were
killed and nine were wounded, one of whom was permanently paralyzed. The
shock and outcry resulted in a nationwide strike of 4 million students
that closed more than 450 campuses. Five days after the shooting,
100,000 protestors gathered in Washington, D.C. And the nation’s youth
was energetically mobilized to end the Vietnam War, racism, sexism, and
mindless faith in the political establishment.*

*You probably haven’t heard of the Jackson State shootings.*

*On May 14th, 10 days after Kent State ignited the nation, at the
predominantly black Jackson State University in Mississippi, police
killed two black students (one a high school senior, the other the
father of an 18-month-old baby) with shotguns and wounded twelve
others.*

*There was no national outcry. The nation was not mobilized to do
anything. That heartless leviathan we call History swallowed that event
whole, erasing it from the national memory.*

That’s not true at all. There was a big showy commission that addressed
both Jackson State and Kent State. The Jackson State incident was due to
the students trying to burn down the university and the cops being put
into a situation for which they were unprepared. They basically threw a
bunch of cops into the middle of a riot and they panicked. But hey, who
has time for details?

*And, unless we want the Ferguson atrocity to also be swallowed and
become nothing more than an intestinal irritant to history, we have to
address the situation not just as another act of systemic racism, but as
what else it is: class warfare.*

*By focusing on just the racial aspect, the discussion becomes about
whether Michael Brown’s death—or that of the other three unarmed black
men who were killed by police in the U.S. within that month—is about
discrimination or about police justification. Then we’ll argue about
whether there isn’t just as much black-against-white racism in the U.S.
as there is white-against-black. (Yes, there is. But, in general,
white-against-black economically impacts the future of the black
community. Black-against-white has almost no measurable social impact.)*

*Then we’ll start debating whether or not the police in America are
themselves an endangered minority who are also discriminated against
based on their color—blue. (Yes, they are. There are many factors to
consider before condemning police, including political pressures,
inadequate training, and arcane policies.) Then we’ll question whether
blacks are more often shot because they more often commit crimes. (In
fact, studies show that blacks are targeted more often in some cities,
like New York City. It’s difficult to get a bigger national picture
because studies are woefully inadequate. The Department of Justice study
shows that in the U.S. between 2003 and 2009, among arrest-related
deaths there’s very little difference among blacks, whites, or Latinos.
However, the study doesn’t tell us how many were unarmed.)*

*This fist-shaking of everyone’s racial agenda distracts America from
the larger issue that the targets of police overreaction are based less
on skin color and more on an even worse Ebola-level affliction: being
poor. Of course, to many in America, being a person of color is
synonymous with being poor, and being poor is synonymous with being a
criminal. Ironically, this misperception is true even among the poor.*

*And that’s how the status quo wants it.*

Poverty is simply not an issue in modern America. I see a lot of poor
people. Way more than Kareem does out their in Malibu. Most of the poor
are fat. Most of them have plenty of drugs and booze. It’s not a life I
want to live, but it beats starving or shivering in the cold. The poor
have it better than any poor people on the planet.

The rest of it is more of the same nonsense he picked up from TV. Like I
said at the start, I’ve always had a soft spot for Kareem. I wish him no
harm. He would be better off just enjoying is remaining years and
feeling good about having lived a better life than all but a handful of
humans in the history of man. Kareem had a great life.
