---
title: "The Muslim Veto"
date: "2014-11-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3206"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3206"
---

When the Left decided that the word “religion” was bad, they quickly
forgot their reason for the declaration. It had nothing to do with
religion and everything to do with Christianity. In fact, in Lib-Speak,
the word religion is a synonym for Christianity. The trouble with that
is they forgot that their own whack-a-doodle belief-set is a religion
and they lost the ability to properly deal with a religion that is
willing to take them on, toe to tow. They now find themselves <a
href="http://www.wtop.com/46/3740504/Md-county-strips-religious-holiday-references"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">giving ground to Muslims on their home
turf</a>.

*Montgomery County Public Schools will remove religious labels from
school holidays, but members of the Islamic community say the
adjustments to the school calendar do nothing to gain parity and a day
off for the Muslim holiday of Eid.*

*The school board approved the school calendar for the 2015-2016 school
year Tuesday. The calendar will no longer reference specific religious
holidays but rather state simply that school will be closed on dates
that correspond with holidays, such as Eid, Yom Kippur and Christmas.*

*Saqib Ali, a former Maryland state delegate and co-chair of Equality
for Eid, was not happy with the board of education’s action Tuesday.*

*“Equality is really what we’re looking for,” Ali said. “Simply saying
we’re not going to call this Christmas, and we’re not going to call this
Yom Kippur, and still closing the schools, that’s not equality.”*

A few things worth mentioning here. Montgomery County is a liberal
stronghold. Many of the Cult’s famous members live there. For instance,
Chris Mathews lives in the whites-only town of Chevy Chase Village,
which is in Montgomery County. It is not Marin County, but more a
respectably WASP version of it. The same beliefs, but far less
ostentatious.

The big item in that selection is the quote from the savage. The savage
says they are looking for equality, which is total nonsense. Islam does
not play well with other religions. That’s a fact backed by 1400 years
of evidence. The savage is also doing what the Left has always done in
America. That is, equate a microscopic minority with the vast majority.
There are very few  Muslims in America, but they demand equal footing
with Jews and Christians, who are orders of magnitude more populous.

Again, we see the similarities between Islam and Liberalism.

Of course, this just points out two things. One is the Founders made an
error regarding freedom of religion. It was an error they could not
foresee. They never imagined Christian Europeans surrendering to savages
on their own lands so they never thought to ban the savage and his
religion from America. It’s too late to ban Islam from America,
something that will happen one day, but not now. Instead, we should ban
all immigration from savage controlled areas. Some will slip in, for
sure, but keeping these people in their 50 or so countries should be a
priority.

*School board members said they were sympathetic to the desire to have
Eid recognized and close schools but that legal precedent in Maryland
bars them from closing for religious purposes.*

*“We can’t close for religious holidays. We can only close for
operational purposes,” like high absenteeism, school spokesman Dana
Tofig said.*

*That explanation doesn’t sit well with Zainab Chaudry, with the Council
on American Islamic Relations.*

*“What’s really concerning to us is that similar conditions weren’t
placed on any other faith community,” Chaudry says.*

*In the 1970s school officials decided to close on Jewish holidays
because of high absenteeism.*

*But school board member Michael Durso said that the schools effectively
close for a religious reason: the schools had high absenteeism because
of a religious holiday in the community.*

*Noting the attempt to move away from favoring religions by instead
referring to school days off as “winter break” and “student holidays,”
Durso said as long as the Islamic community’s concern for parity wasn’t
somehow addressed “it comes off as insensitive, and I just think we
cannot afford to be in that light”.*

*That drew applause from parents who filled the seats in the board of
education’s meeting room.*

*The adoption of the 2015-2016 school calendar does give students the
day off on Eid but only because it happens to fall on another school
holiday, Yom Kippur.*

*Several school board members, Chris Barclay, Judy Docca and Michael
Durso, made it clear that they want to see a permanent policy change but
that discussion would continue.*

*Board member Judy Docca acknowledged Tuesday’s action does little to
satisfy a community that’s been waiting for years to see a change.*

The fact that the vast majority of people in the County now have to
flush their culture down the drain to satisfy these savages who don’t
belong here is never mentioned explicitly. As I’ve said many times, I’m
not a religious person. I come from a culture and people who have been
shaped by and inspired by Christianity and that heritage is important to
me. It is important to the overwhelming majority of people in Montgomery
County.

So, the people there should adopt the Islamic solution. That means
beheading the school board members for apostasy and then chasing every
Muslim out of the county. That way, we can all celebrate Islam together
one last time and also get our country back.

Instead, look for the Muslim Veto to come to your town next, as soon as
you get your first Muslim.
