---
title: "The Coming Collapse"
date: "2014-02-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1107"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1107"
---

Nothing lasts forever. Human societies rise, reach their peak and nthen
go into decline, or possibly collapse. The US has had a great run the
last 100 years or so. Even Rome did not have the global influence we see
with the USA. Like Rome, American culture is altering the cultures of
the world. How much of a lasting influence it has is up for debate. What
is not up for debate is that America and American influence is in
decline.

<a
href="http://www.frontpagemag.com/2014/dgreenfield/the-coming-collapse-of-the-welfare-state/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s an interesting bit of
math</a> on the state of the country.

*In 1935, the year that FDR signed the Social Security Act into law, the
birth rate was 18.7 per 1,000. In 1940, when the first monthly check was
issued, it had gone up to 19.4. By 1954, when Disability had been added,
the birth rate at the heart of the Baby Boom stood at 25.3.*

*In a nation of 163 million people, 4 million babies were being born
each year.*

*By 1965, when Medicare was plugged in, the birth rate had fallen back
to 19.4. For the first time in ten years fewer than 4 million babies had
been born in a country of 195 million. Medicare had been added in the
same year that saw the single biggest drop in birth rates since the
Great Depression.*

*There could not have been a worse time for Medicare than the end of the
Baby Boom.*

*Today in a nation of 317 million, 4.1 million babies are being born
each year for a birth rate of 13.0 per 1,000. 40.7% of those births are
to unmarried mothers so that it will be a long time, if ever, before
they pay back into the system, and most will never put back in as much
as they are taking out.*

 According to people who measure these things, the United States
generates $50,000 of income per person. That’s the sum of all income
divided by the population. That ties out to GDP close enough for
economics. Experience says the American economy can tolerate about 25%
of tax at the federal level before bad things start happening. That’s
$3.7 Trillion in spending that the tax base can support. Once you exceed
that you have to borrow and that creates trouble in future years.

*Liberals and libertarians both act as if the crisis facing us can be
fixed if we take more from the “wealthy elderly” or give them less. The
crisis is born of demographics. It can’t be fixed by targeting the
elderly because they haven’t been the problem in some time.*

*It’s the same crisis being faced by countries as diverse as Russia and
Japan. The difference is that Russia is autocratic and has little
concern for its people while Japan shuns immigration and has a political
system dominated by the elderly.*

*The United States however takes in a million immigrants a year. In his
2013 State of the Union address, Barack Obama praised Desiline Victor, a
102-year-old Haitian woman who moved to the United States at the age of
79 and never learned to speak English, but did spend hours waiting in
line in Florida to vote for Obama.*

*Between 1990 and 2010, the number of immigrants over 65 doubled from
2.7 million to 5 million. Twenty-five percent of these senior immigrants
were over 80. Elderly immigrants are also much more likely to become
citizens, in part because the requirements for them are lower. Many,
like Desiline Victor, don’t even have to learn English to be able to
stand in line and vote.*

*15 percent of senior immigrants come from Mexico largely as a result of
family unification programs. If amnesty for illegal aliens goes through,
before long the country will be on the hook not just for twelve million
illegal aliens, but also for their grandparents.*

Decades ago, Milton Friedman noted that you can have a welfare state or
immigration, but not both. Cities and states tested this in the last
fifty years by offering generous welfare benefits. What they found is
they became *welfare magnets*. America is now the premiere welfare
magnate in the world. If you are a poor person in Guatemala, getting to
America is your only goal. Since cheap labor makes the ruling class
rich, they are happy to import world’s poor into your neighborhood.

*The welfare state has been spending more money with an unsustainable
demographic imbalance. There are fewer working families supporting more
elderly, immigrants and broken families. The Russians invest money into
increasing the native birth rate. Instead we fund Planned Parenthood
because liberal economic eugenics dictates that we should extract “full
value” from working women as a tax base to subsidize the welfare state
while discarding the next generation.*

*The “modern” system that we have adopted with its low birth rates, high
social spending and retirement benefits is at odds with itself. We can
have low birth rates, deficit spending or Social Security; but there is
no possible way that we can have all three.*

*And yet we have all three.*

*In the European model that we have adopted, men and women are supposed
to spend their twenties being educated and their thirties having two
children. These Johns and Julias will work in some appropriately
“modern” field building apps, designing environmentally sustainable
cribs for the few children being born or teaching new immigrants to
speak enough English to vote. Then they plan to retire on money that
doesn’t actually exist because they are still paying off their student
loans.*

*John and Julia began marriage with tens of thousands in debts, only one
of them will work full time, while the other balances part time work,
and they will do all this while being expected to support social
services for new immigrants and a native working class displaced by the
outsourcing of manufacturing jobs, not to mention the elderly and the
entire bureaucracy that has grown around them. If John and Julia are
lucky, they will find work in a technology field that is still growing,
or, more likely they will pry their way into the social services
bureaucracy which will keep on paying them and cover their benefits
until the national bankruptcy finally arrives.*

*In this post-work and post-poverty economy, those most likely to have
children are also least likely to work or to be able to afford to have
those children.*

*Birth rates for women on welfare are three times higher than for those
who are not on welfare. Within a single year, the census survey found
that unmarried women had twice as high a birth rate as married women.
These demographics help perpetuate poverty and feed a welfare death
spiral in which more money has to be spent on social services for a less
productive tax base.*

*Children raised on welfare are far more likely to end up on welfare
than the children of working families.*

*Fertility rates fall sharply above the $50,000 income line and with a
graduate degree; that has ominous implications in a country whose
socio-economic mobility rates continue to fall.*

*Progressive activists still talk as if we can afford any level of
social service expenditures if we raise taxes on the rich, but workers
can’t be created by raising taxes. Everything that the left has done,
from breaking up the family to driving out manufacturing industries to
promoting Third World immigration has made its own social welfare
spending completely unsustainable.*

*By 2031, nearly a century after the Social Security Act, an estimated
75 million baby boomers will have retired. Aside from the demographic
disparity in worker ages is a subtler disparity in worker productivity
and independence as senior citizens are left chasing social spending
dollars that are increasingly going to a younger population. ObamaCare
with its Medicare Advantage cuts was a bellwether of the shift in health
care spending from seniors to the welfare population.*

*Increasing welfare is only a form of Death Panel economic triage that
doesn’t compensate for the lack of productive workers. It’s easy to
model Obamerica as Detroit, a country with a huge indigent welfare
population and a small wealthy tax base. The model doesn’t work in
Detroit and it’s flailing in New York, California and every city and
state where it’s been tried.*

*After a century of misery, the left still hasn’t learned that there is
no substitute for the middle class. It’s not just running out of money,
it’s running out of people.*

*The welfare state has no future. It is only a question of what terms it
will implode on and what will happen to the social welfare political
infrastructure when it does. The violence in Venezuela and the slow
death of Detroit give us insights into the coming collapse of the
welfare state.*

The flaw in the math posted above is that income is not distributed
equally. Half of the population is made up of children. Some portion is
too old to work, 10-15 percent, and some are broken in some physical or
mental way. We know that half the work force is not working. That means
the bulk of earnings are in the hands of a tiny minority. The super rich
don’t pay taxes. It is why the Reason Magazine guys noted that there
seems to be a <a
href="http://reason.com/blog/2010/11/29/the-remarkably-stable-amount-o"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">hard cap of about 19% on tax
receipts</a>.

Economists, who have been wrong about every prediction they have made
since Keynes first published, argue that the gaps can be bridged with
credit creation from central banks and unlimited borrowing. This is
being tested now. Obama has been borrowing and spending like you would
expect from his kind. Debt is piling up at record rates to record
levels. The fact that we have not had an Argentine collapse is proof it
will never happen, according to the profession that is never right.
