---
title: "Rambling About Israel"
date: "2014-12-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3347"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3347"
---

One of the thorniest problems in modern public debate is how to talk
about Israel, without talking about Jews. If you have something bad to
say about Israel, you will be called an anti-Semite by the usual
suspects. On the other hand, anti-Semites cloak their Jew-hating in
criticism of Israel. Of course, if you have anything to say about Jews,
from an HBD perspective, you can be sure to have Israel held up as a
counter, as if there’s no difference between Ashkenazic and Sephardic
Jews.

There’s so much
[chaff](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chaff_%28countermeasure%29) in the
air it is hard to get a bead on any of it. Ron Unz continues to publish
[this
guy](http://www.unz.com/article/whom-the-gods-would-destroy-they-first-make-mad/),
despite the radioactive weirdo vibe. He hangs out with conspiracy buffs
and has an obsession with Israel. Put his name in the google machine and
you get nothing but Israel stuff, with some 9/11 conspiracy stuff tossed
in the mix. Looking at his [Wiki
page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philip_Giraldi), nothing jumps out
and Wiki is edited by raging lefties so maybe I’m off-base, but it is
just so hard to know.

Similarly, [I saw
this](http://www.algemeiner.com/2014/12/08/new-york-times-attempts-to-resuscitate-reputation-of-american-anti-semite-max-blumenthal/)
on Maggie’s Farm the other day. I admit I never heard of Max Blumenthal,
at least not *the* Max Blumenthal in question. I once played racquetball
with a Max Blumenthal, but he was not [this
one](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Blumenthal). His father is [Sydney
Blumenthal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sidney_Blumenthal), a loathsome
scumbag that worked for Clinton in the 1990’s. Still, I have no idea if
Max Blumenthal is a self-hating Jew, a crank or just a guy with opinions
about Israel that are unpopular. That’s the thing about all of this, it
is impossible to tell the players even with a scorecard.

One of the things that no one is allowed to mention is the fact many
Jews in American and Europe hate the very idea of Israeli. Well, they
are fine with Israel as an abstract construction, but not as a real
place with real people. They look at Israel in the same way Americans
look at people from West Virginia or New Jersey. The crazy crackers from
the mountains and the guidos from the Jersey are a reminder of a past a
lot of people would just as soon forget. The hairy Jews haggling over a
spot at the Wailing Wall are something most American Jews would just as
soon forget too.

Then you have the other problem. *Ashkenazi* Jews are a remarkable group
of people. A small group of people bound together by what most think was
an imported religion, managed to survive and prosper, despite being
surrounded by people hostile to their religion. They have not just
survived; *Ashkenazi* Jews have dominated the cultural life of Europe
and America. As Steve Sailer is fond of pointing out, *Ashkenazi* Jews
are 1% of the US population and 30% of the richest Americans.

People tend to notice this remarkable success and that’s not a good
thing for a distinct minority. If Israel was a country that existed in
the 1930’s, odds are the Nazis would have gone for mass deportation of
the Jews, rather than other options. There’s no way to know that, but it
would have been the easiest path and people tend to seek the path of
least resistance. Given the attitudes of early 20<sup>th</sup> century
Europe, it probably would have been the policy of every country in
Europe.

That’s the problem Israel presents Jews everywhere. If Israel is the
Jewish homeland, why are Jews living in Denmark, Paris, Bangor Maine and
Bozeman Montana? It offers up a handy excuse for majority populations to
round up their Jews. Given recent history, you can’t blame Jews for
being more than a little worried about it. In America, anti-Semitism has
never been popular, but in Europe it has never been unpopular. Most Jews
in America had close relatives that either fled Hitler or survived
Hitler.

Of course, maybe that’s the point. If it is impossible to separate
honest criticism from bigotry, decent people will avoid criticism.
Americans are strangely polite in their public discourse. The last thing
a chattering skull wants is to be called is rude or mean. If you can’t
win a debate, shutting it down is the next best result. I’m not sure
that’s the case here, but it is certainly true that any discussion of
Jews is off-limits and discussions of Israel better be glowing.
Otherwise, you risk being called a bigot.
