---
title: "Our Weirdo in Chief"
date: "2014-06-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1928"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1928"
---

Way back when Obama started to run for president, it was wise to be
skeptical about his chances for a few reasons. The main reason was that
he was a weirdo. The number of people you will meet, who are the son of
an African immigrant, is small. The number of mixed race people in the
country is tiny. The number of mixed race people raised in Indonesia and
Hawaii is the set of one. Obama is an extreme outlier when it comes to
his personal story. He’s no like anyone you know.

Then there are the odd things he says, like calling Hawaii Asia or not
knowing the number of states. During the 2008 primary campaign, he
repeatedly displayed an unfamiliarity with America that was striking.
That’s not the birther stuff. It’s just that the guy seemed to be a
stranger. Pols always put on an act to seem like a regular guy from the
neighborhood. Obama works hard to act like a human familiar with our
customs, but it is not very convincing, but he won anyway.

That’s what is at the heart of the Bergdahl fiasco. At first it looked
like it was a tempest in a teacup, but the furor is quite intense.
Because Obama is immunized by the ruling tribe, he’ll suffer no
consequences from it, but it will underscore that alien quality and that
of the inner party that has put him in the job. Americans respect
veterans so when they get pissed, <a
href="http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2014/06/02/229148/anger-explodes-over-treatment.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">they have our attention</a>.

*For all the yellow ribbons strewn across his hometown in Idaho and the
gratitude expressed by his parents in an emotional visit to the White
House on Saturday, it’s looking increasingly unlikely that Army Sgt.
Bowe Bergdahl will receive a hero’s welcome when he returns to the
United States after nearly five years in Taliban captivity.*

*From military forums across the country, a groundswell of anger is
rising over the Obama administration’s silence on perhaps the most
controversial question surrounding the deal that freed Bergdahl in
exchange for five senior Taliban members: Was he a deserter?*

Veterans of Afghanistan are livid. Apparently, this story has been
percolating in veteran circles for years. Vets have the advantage of
knowing how the military works, but also knowing how the politicians
make the military work. They are much more cynical about the reality of
military life than people who have no m,military service. It appears a
lot of vets suspected a deal was coming. Now that the deal is official,
the anger has spilled over into the general public.

Given the embarrassing behavior of the American media these days, it is
truly shocking to see <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/03/us/us-soldier-srgt-bowe-bergdahl-of-idaho-pow-vanished-angered-his-unit.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">reports like this</a> from the
New York Times. Here’s another <a
href="http://thehill.com/policy/defense/208070-white-house-apologizes-to-senate-intelligence"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">critical report</a> from The
Hill new site. Then you have this <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-nation/wp/2014/06/02/the-curious-case-of-bob-bergdahls-apparent-tweet-to-the-taliban/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">negative portrayal</a> of the
creepy parents in the Washington Post. If Obama has managed to shock his
most loyal followers, this deal has gone beyond unconventional. The
puzzle is why in the world would Obama sign off on this? It does not
make a lot of sense.

That’s what brings us back to the weirdo factor. To an American, a
soldier who walked away from his post is hard to defend. One that joins
the enemy is intolerable. We all know that. Some of us may have sympathy
for the guy or blame his defects on larger issues, but even the most
liberal American draws the line at helping the enemy. It is why Jane
Fonda remains an object of revulsion for most people.

For Obama, none of this registers. Obama has put a lot of time and
effort into showing the Muslim world he relates to them and respects
them. This has been assumed to be in reaction to the cowboy tactics of
Bush. Today it seems like Obama really does relate to the Muslim world
more than he relates to America. He seems to have more respect for the
Taliban, which he never fails to pronounce with a foreign accent, than
he does the US military. That’s rather un-American.

Presidents are usually strange ducks. Reagan had no friends and lived an
unconventional life. He was thoroughly American. Clinton was a very
strange man, but he was a familiar picaresque figure in southern
politics. Even Poppy Bush was a familiar character on the American
scene. Obama is a cross between vacuous French intellectual and African
despot. He’s nothing like anyone you have ever known. We have a deeply
weird man in the White House and the results have followed.
