---
title: "Fake Safety"
date: "2014-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Sports
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1904"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1904"
---

The wearing of helmets while cycling is a new thing. People started
putting them on their kids in the safety scares of the 1990’s. Then they
because a weird fashion statement for middle aged people. The pros
started wearing them, so the amateurs started wearing helmets, for the
same reason they wear jerseys. The fact that they look stupid and
probably <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/health/healthnews/10866273/Cycle-helmets-are-useless-says-brain-surgeon.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">don’t work</a> does not
matter.

*A leading neurosurgeon has controversially claimed that cyclists who
wear helmets are wasting their time.*

*Henry Marsh, who works at St George’s Hospital in Tooting, London, said
that many of his patients who have been involved in bike accidents have
been wearing helmets that were ‘too flimsy’ to be beneficial.*

*He made the comments while speaking at the Hay Festival during a
discussion with Ian McEwan, whose 2005 novel Saturday featured a
neurosurgeon.*

*He cited evidence from the University of Bath that suggests that
wearing a helmet may even put cyclists at greater risk. The research
showed that drivers get around 3 inches closer to cyclists who wear
helmets because they perceive them as safer.*

*He said: “I ride a bike and I never wear a helmet. In the countries
where bike helmets are compulsory there has been no reduction in bike
injuries whatsoever.*

Of course not. Think about the ways you can crash on a bike. One is you
just fall over to the side while not moving. Unless you strike your head
on a curb or rock, you bruise an elbow and that’s it. Since this is less
likely than falling down the stairs and we don’t wear helmets walking
around the house, it makes no sense to wear a helmet on a bike to
mitigate against this possibility.

Another way to crash is you hit something and go over the bars. That’s
going to hurt, but you’re much more likely to break an arm or wrist than
break your melon. That’s why broken arms and wrists are vastly more
common than broken heads. More important, that flimsy piece of plastic
is not saving your head if you take a direct hit.

The other possibility is you get hit by a car. A broken melon is the
least of your worries in that case. The sudden deceleration is going to
cause a lot more damage than just cracking your skull. of course, that
bit of plastic and foam is not going to matter, other than to make it a
bit easier to identify your body. That’s always been the real benefit of
wearing a motorcycle helmet

*“I see lots of people in bike accidents and these flimsy little helmets
don’t help.”*

*Mr Marsh said that he had been riding his bike for 40 years, wearing a
cowboy hat, and had only fallen off once.*

*“I have been cycling for 40 years and have only been knocked off once.
I wear a cowboy hat and cowboy boots. I look completely mad.”*

*Cyclists travel around 3.1 billion miles each year in Britain. Lights
and reflectors are a legal obligation after dark, and reflective jackets
an increasingly common sight.*

*But helmets are not compulsory in the UK, unlike in Australia and parts
of the US, yet the government encourages cyclists to wear one.*

*Research conducted by Dr Ian Walker, a professor of traffic psychology
at the University of Bath, showed that motorists drove around 8cm closer
when overtaking cyclists with helmets.*

*He suggested that drivers think helmeted cyclists are more sensible,
predicable and experienced, so therefore the driver doesn’t need to give
them much space when overtaking.*

*Non-helmeted cyclists, especially non helmeted “women” are less
predictable and experienced, according to this study and so motorists
give them more room.*

That’s something experienced cyclist know. The safest way to ride on
public roads is in the middle oft he road with traffic. The drivers will
see you and not try to pass you at a high rate of speed. They will also
see that you can’t see them. They may get pissed and blow the horn, but
they are unlikely to drive over you.
