---
title: "Reality Complicates Diversity"
date: "2014-12-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3337"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3337"
---

<a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/demographics-complicate-hartford-desegregation-140702273.html;_ylt=AwrBEiKyiIRU6U0Awe3QtDMD"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> about the problems
desegregating the Hartford public schools is amusing. For the Cult,
hatred of white people has become such a natural instinct, they can’t
separate reality from fantasy anymore. They really think they can force
the hoi polloi to live together according to the popular fads of the
Cult. They never stop to think that maybe there’s a reason people are
not embracing diversity.

*The shrinking population of white students in Hartford’s suburbs is
complicating efforts to comply with Connecticut’s landmark school
desegregation settlement — and even making it harder for some of the
capital city’s students to attend new schools created to help meet the
racial integration goals set by the lawsuit 25 years ago.*

*State education officials are currently negotiating the latest changes
to the agreement, reached with the plaintiffs after they won a 1996
Connecticut Supreme Court ruling, but say it is becoming harder to
attract white students to Hartford’s schools because they’re living
farther away.*

*About half the students living in the 22 communities subject to the
agreement, according to state officials, are non-white. That’s up from
about 38 percent in 2008, when the parties negotiated a revised
timetable for progress on reducing racial, ethnic and economic
isolation. Another revision was made last year.*

*“The state is in the position of, how do you meet the requirements of
the State Supreme Court given the fact that the demographics of the
region have changed so completely,” said Kathleen Demsey, state
Department of Education’s chief financial officer who worked for years
on the issue. “Financially, it’s a burden for this transportation
system, money that could be used for education is being used to bus
kids.”*

The hilarious bit here is the same people trying to force the
proletariat to live together, based on some magic racial formula, will
move heaven and earth to make sure their kids are are not going to
school with the other races. Yet, they are mystified to learn that
everyone else does the same thing.

*But lawyers for the plaintiffs in the case, Sheff vs. O’Neill, say
there are still plenty of predominantly white communities in the region
that can be drawn from to attract additional students, or where Hartford
students can attend school in a racially integrated setting.*

*“We’ve made some progress but we still think there’s more that can be
done,” said Dennis Parker, a lawyer for the plaintiffs and director of
racial justice programs for the American Civil Liberties Union.*

*The issue of changing demographics has come up before. In 2013, the
parties redefined the standard for diversity, allowing Asian, American
Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islanders to
count toward the 25 percent “white enrollment” threshold. Further
changes could be among the proposals in this round of negotiations.*

I’m sure the Asians are thrilled to know they will be used as cannon
fodder in the ghetto.

*Newly released statistics show 47.5 percent of Hartford’s 21,458
minority students are currently enrolled in “reduced-isolation
settings,” a marked improvement from 11 percent in 2008. That comes
after the state spent about $2.25 billion on new magnets and other
programs throughout the region over a 10-year period. Yet the plaintiffs
contend that progress falls far short of giving every Hartford student
the opportunity to learn in a racially integrated setting.*

*Attorney Martha Stone said the state could create incentives to
encourage suburban school districts to take in more Hartford students
and foster more collaborative projects involving different entities,
such as the proposed elementary magnet aerospace academy in Rocky Hill.*

*“There are so many different ideas that have been on the table for
years that the state has not taken the initiative on,” Stone said.*

*Unlike other states where there has been forced busing and redrawn
school districts, Connecticut’s settlement relies on voluntary
desegregation and additional state funding. Parents inside and outside
of Hartford can choose to enter a lottery in order for their children to
approximately 45 magnet schools. Meanwhile, Hartford students can also
choose to attend suburban public schools.*

*But the makeup of some suburbs is changing: East Hartford, for example,
shifted from 23 percent minority enrollment in 1989, when the lawsuit
was first filed, to 84 percent in 2013. Manchester jumped from 12
percent to 60 percent, Windsor from 31 percent to 71 percent, and
Bloomfield from 74 to 96 percent.*

This is pattern you see everywhere in the northeast. The FDR version of
the Cult thought they should pack blacks into urban ghettos. They used
white ethnics as a buffer, but then the ethnics bolted to the suburbs.
The cities collapsed and we ended up with all of these urban jungles.
Starting in the 80’s, the new plan was to move the blacks out to the
suburbs so the Cult could reclaim the nice spots in the city. The white
ethnics living in the inner suburbs are now bolting to exurbs and gated
neighborhoods.

One of the reasons I say liberalism is a religion is I’ve been to places
like Hartford and New Haven. The latter is a great example. Yale
dominate New Haven, financially, politically and geographically. Down
the hill from the idyllic campus lies the black side of New Haven. The
only interface the students have with the people down the hill is the
occasional robbery or beating. Otherwise, down the hill may as well be
another planet. Every student on that campus knows where not to go and
who not to trust.

Despite that reality all around them, the students at Yale are as
liberal as they come. They go off into the world full of righteous anger
about how  middle America treats its black people. You point out to them
that the Yale campus is more like an antebellum plantation than normal
America and they look at you like you’re speaking in tongues. That
degree of self-delusion only comes from intense belief.

A normal person trying to integrate the Hartford schools would look at
the results thus far and conclude it is a failure. Decades of effort
have come up empty so it is time to try something else. The true
believer, faced with dis-confirmation, redoubles their efforts,
convinced that this time things will be different.
