---
title: "The Ad Scam"
date: "2014-12-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3339"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3339"
---

Many moons ago, I sat through a presentation by the director of
marketing for a company where I was working. He put up charts and graphs
showing the effectiveness of the various market programs. It was very
well done, but complete bullshit. Talking with the guy after his
presentation, he admitted as much.

There was no way to measure the effectiveness of his programs. I had
been tasked with trying to come up with a way to do it, which was why I
was in his presentation. To the guy’s credit, he knew there was no point
in trying to fool me so he came clean. He was just making assumptions
from anecdotes and wishful thinking.

The guy was not an asshole or a crook. He was doing his job like every
other marketing guy. His bosses and coevals made all the same
assumptions he made and relied on the same pseudo-logic to justify the
marketing budget. Everyone just assumed smart people had worked it all
out a long time ago.

That’s why every great company spent money on ads, campaigns,
promotions, etc. The one very memorable thing he said was that he made
sure to spend a little more than his budget every year. That way, he
would get  a bigger budget the next year.

I’ve always wondered if there would come a time when companies figured
out that much of their advertizing was a waste of money. Dr. Pepper
spends millions on college football, but their product still tastes
awful. The percentage of people who will like odd flavored soda is
fixed. No amount of advertizing with change it. Beyond product awareness
and sales, advertizing strikes me as rather pointless. As I type this,
I’m watching an ad for something that may be for clothes or possibly
wheat. I have no idea and doubt anyone else does either. Millions were
spent for something and I doubt the company will see a nickel in return.

On TV, most of these ads are filtered out by our brains as background
noise. On-line, they are blocked by the browser and browser add-ons. I
suspect most of us have become so good at blocking out web ads that we
don’t even notice them. When I bother to look, I wonder why anyone would
be spending money on them. Sites that lard up on ads, like Brietbart and
the Daily Caller, I tend to avoid. If I have to close eight windows and
then find and mute some stupid video in order to get to your site, your
site sucks.

Of course, it has long been suspected that skimmers like Facebook use
click farms to scam companies into advertizing with them.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVfHeWTKjag" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">This video</a> from earlier in the year is pretty good.
No one has ever bothered to refute it. <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2013/aug/02/click-farms-appearance-online-popularity"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It has been known for a while</a> that
there are “like farms” for hire that will boost a Facebook page for a
fee. Twitter has been plagued by zombie accounts to boost the follower
counts of celebrities. The fact that Facebook, and presumably others, is
using robots and click farms to scam advertisers should not shock
anyone. The degree is the question. How much of scam is on-line
advertising?

<a
href="http://qz.com/307204/google-admits-that-advertisers-wasted-their-money-on-more-than-half-of-internet-ads/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It appears half of these ads are never
actually seen by humans.</a>

*<span class="anno-span">Online advertising is a fickle thing. It
accounts for 20% of the ad industry’s total spending, and over 90% of
revenue for the internet giants Google and Facebook. That said, no one
seems to have any idea whether it actually works.</span>*

*<span class="anno-span">That uncertainty reached a new high this week,
as Google announced that 56.1% of ads served on the internet are never
even “in view”—defined as being on screen for one second or more. That’s
a huge number of “impressions” that cost money for advertisers, but are
as pointless as a television playing to an empty room.</span>*

*<span class="anno-span">This is not a big revelation. The web metrics
company ComScore reported last year that 46% of online ads are never
seen. Spider.io, an ad fraud company acquired by Google in February, has
pointed out that a large portion of ads are “viewed” only by robots,
revealing that one botnet of 120,000 virus-infected computers viewed ads
billions of times, running up the tab for advertisers without offering
them the human eyeballs they sought.</span>*

*<span class="anno-span">Still, the acknowledgement by a heavyweight
such as Google that ad viewability is a problem could shake up the
industry by delaying possible IPOs of ad companies and
requiring new ways for advertisers to gauge the effectiveness of their
ads.</span>*

*<span class="anno-span">The nineteenth-century retailer John Wanamaker
famously said, “Half the money I spend on advertising is wasted. The
trouble is I don’t know which half.” In this case, it’s the obviously
the half that pays for ads which are never seen, and now advertisers are
looking for new tools to figure out which those are.</span>*

*<span class="anno-span">It’s worth noting that Google made this
acknowledgement of the deficiency of the model it has profited richly
from while also offering a new model to advertisers: In July it
introduced its Active View product, which measures only viewed
ads.</span>*

This goes back to the puzzle of Facebook and Twitter. How can they be
worth billions? Yeah, they have lots of users, but so what? Those users
pay them nothing. The ads on Twitter are minimal and you can’t even see
them on your phone. I don’t do Facebook anymore, but the ads I used to
see were mostly scumbags like dating services and fake medicines. At
some point, the guys writing the checks will figure out they are wasting
100% of their money these sites.
