---
title: "Sunday Ramblings…"
date: "2014-03-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1376"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1376"
---

Every Sunday I head off to the market for my supplies. I’m somewhat of a
cheap bastard so I bring a lunch every day.  It is not just the expense;
it is the quality of food. I can’t keep my weight down without preparing
my own food. I’m not sure what it is, but I can’t seem to judge the
calorie content of restaurant food. I know restaurants load up their
food with salt so maybe that has something to do with it. I don’t know.
All I know is I would weigh 300 pounds if I went out for lunch every
day…

At the market the checkout girl was a short little gal with a nose ring.
It is the ball ring type, which almost always means lesbian. She also
wears boy’s pants, another sign of being a dyke. Her causal hostility to
the penis people also suggests she is a dyke. I’ve been on earth for a
long time now and I have never met a dyke who was cheery. Even the
pleasant ones seem to be struggling with rage or depression.

Homosexuals have a significantly higher rate of mental problems, as well
as drug and alcohol abuse.  [Lesbians struggle more than
homosexual](http://www.glma.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.viewPage&pageID=691)
males so perhaps that’s why I notice the angry/depressed dykes. Women,
by design, are more expressive than men. Their unhappiness seems odd,
though. Straight men find male homosexuality to be disgusting, while no
one really thinks that about female homosexuality. But, maybe the cause
of female homosexuality carries a high incidence of depression as well…

I’m fond of pointing out that the easiest way to refute libertarian
arguments about market genius is to go to a market. Today, I saw a dozen
or so couples, with small children, at the market. That’s common. It is
also is entirely irrational. They spend a lot of time and energy
bundling up the kids for the trip. The kids are a hassle in the store.
Nothing about what they are doing is rational, yet they are always
there. Worse yet, they are spreading their irrationality because the
kids and the giant carts they use slow down the rest of us…

This trend of making mundane tasks a family event is new. When I was a
boy, parents rarely took their kids to the store. Mothers during the day
would drag pre-school kids around on errands, but that was it. It was
considered inappropriate, for example, to take kids to the hardware
store or to the furniture store. Today, people expect the rest of us to
help mind their kids. Everywhere you go there are kids running wild.
Home Depot has carts shaped like race cars for the kids to ride in while
mom and dad shop….

People believe all sorts of weird things about food. It is because we
are programmed, I think, to accept direction from authority. When Food
Inc. or Uncle Sam says something is good, people believe it. An example
of this was in the cereal aisle. I rarely eat cereal. Health-wise, it is
no different than ice cream. As a treat it is fine, but not as a meal.
That includes the healthy stuff. Carbs are carbs.

I’m looking for something and I hear a couple debating one form of
[Kashi](https://www.kashi.com/) to another. All of it is crap, but you
can see from the website why moonbats like it. They have all the
buzzwords and tribal chants packed into their marketing. The couple
truly believed that stuff is superior to a bowl of Fruit Loops, which it
is not. They would be better off snorting a bowl of sugar…

A commenter mentioned his conversion to a low-carb diet. When I
wrestled, our coach called this an athlete’s diet. In wrestling, the
goal is maximum strength and stamina at the lowest possible weight.
Wrestlers are always cutting weight and are obsessed with their diet.
You have to be. Our coach preached a diet of chicken, turkey, eggs,
green vegetables and fruit as a snack. When I hit my middle years I went
back to that diet and lost most of the weight I gained in my 30’s. I eat
a dozen eggs a week and all the meat I can stand. My cholesterol is low
so my doctor tells me to stick with it…

Another commenter complained that I ignored the real issue facing our
electric grid when I went off on that fat tub of goo, Newt Gingrich.
Here’s the thing. There’s nothing we can do about the electric grid. The
chances of someone getting a nuke here and setting it off are
infinitesimally small. Even if they manage it, the chances they do so in
a way that wrecks the grid is equally low.

I’m old enough now to have a few scares under my belt. Every one of them
comes with hands out demanding cash from the public till. In the
fullness of time, all but a few were shown to be scams. Air pollution
from cars is a notable exception. Lead in gas is probably another. Given
Gingrich’s habit of selling his opinion to the highest bidder, we should
assume he is being paid to lie in an effort to scam money from Congress.

My advice here is simple. Never trust a dishonest man…
