---
title: "Me & LED"
date: "2014-03-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1284"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1284"
---

I’m fond of saying that government makes liars and weasels of the
citizenry. A good example is the light bulb. Like everyone reading this,
I have used incandescent bulbs by default for my whole life. Modern
hipsters insist on calling them “Edisons.” The young guy who sold me the
fancy new LED bulbs the other day seemed proud of himself when he had
the chance to say “Edisons” with confidence of someone who is sure he is
about to bring a new believer into his cult.

Anyway, I got talked into trying an LED the other day, so I decided to
go to the local light bulb emporium. [These
stores](http://www.batteriesplus.com/) are popping up all over. I guess
that means we have joined the future in the same way small towns used to
celebrate getting a McDonald’s. Right out of the chute you know we are
headed to a bad place when you can build a nationwide retail chain
around batteries and light bulbs. Then again [The Christmas Tree
Shops](http://www.christmastreeshops.com/) are built around a single
holiday.

The store is not big and probably exists mostly on batteries. We have
all sort or weird battery needs these days. I asked the kid for the LED
bulbs and he took me to the display and started in on the sales pitch.
While he was talking I’m looking at the price of these things. Looking
at $19.99 for a light bulb is a bit of an eye-opener. I then hear the
guy say something about the LED bulb producing the same amount of light
as a much higher watt incandescent bulb.

At that point I started focusing again, realizing that it takes a good
sales pitch to sell a $20 light bulb. He’s telling me about lumens and
watts, while I’m thinking about physics.  *A watt is equal to the amount
of energy in 1 ampere of current flowing at 1 volt. A lumen has
something to do with the amount of light visible to humans.* It was one
of those moments when I wish I had retained more of my physics training.
It’s a safe bet the retail clerk really has no idea what any of this
means.

I’m thinking about the lumens, trying to remember if there was a
conversion to watts when he says, “The real benefit of the LED is that
it will last 40 years.” I’m 48 so that means the bulb will still be
going strong when I’m 88 or dead. I look at the kid and say, “So I can
leave these bulbs in my will?” He just looks at me, probably trying to
wrap his mind around the idea of his light bulbs lasting longer than my
life. When you’re young, death is a foreign concept. I just give him the
stony face to see what he will do.

Eventually, he just says, “I guess you could. I never really thought of
that.” I take some pleasure in the knowledge he will now be thinking
about that the next time an old person comes in the shop. When he gets
ready to tell some old guy that the bulb will last forty years, but the
old guy may not make it forty months. It underscores the ridiculousness
of selling something people still think of as disposable, on the
argument that it will last two generations.

Of course, no one thought about putting light bulbs in their will,
unless they were a vindictive jerk. For close to a century now light
bulbs cost a few pennies and you threw them away when you moved. The
typical house may have a dozen or more bulbs. The total cost of all of
them less than this one LED he was holding. Never have I heard someone
complain about the bulbs in their house. Sure, you have to spend money
on an outside spot light or those weird little bulbs in a dining room
fixture.

Like everyone else to this point, I’ve never needed a professional
consultation on my home lighting. At most, you spend time with an
electrician on how best to wires the house or an outside area, so you
can get proper lighting. That’s a different matter than getting
professional advice on where to place the lamp. Government has created a
whole class of people, who make a living helping people do what
generations took for granted. We live in the age of make-work.

That’s not the end of it. The reason we’re now including our lighting
choices in our wills is corporate titans figured this was a good way to
monetize their country’s green obsession. In this case, “Big Bulb” got
Congress to ban the cheap alternative so we will be forced to spend a
mortgage payment to replace the light bulbs in the house. Phillips and
GE are not even lubing up before they monetize us. It is just a full on
prison rape with light bulbs. Yeah capitalism!

I know, these bulbs will save me money. I can do math. Looking at my
electric bill, I fail to see how the energy savings is worth
investigating. If I lived in a stadium or an arena, I could see it. The
only real savings I can see is the replacement. Let’s pretend the guy at
the battery store was right. My “Edisons” will cost about $20 until my
death. That’s about the same as the LED. Since we know the LED will not
last that long, I’m losing on that score. In fairness, the LED’s will
get cheaper so the math will get better over time.

Here’s the math that matters. Big Bulb was making about 10% profit on
bulbs before the green lunatics got involved. That’s about a penny per
bulb when you consider the manufactured cost. If they have the same
margins on the LED, they are making 100 times that per bulb. The
bulb-person ration will not change anytime soon. Initially people will
be buying these expensive bulbs in the same volume as the normal bulbs.
Big Bulb gets to see their profit soar for a couple of years.

What are the odds that Big Bulb will go out of business in a few years
after all of our bulbs are replaced with these lifetime bulbs? After
all, if everyone goes to these new bulbs that last forever, how long
before bulb sales collapse? That’s where you know the longevity argument
is bogus. The LED will last longer, for sure, but the smart people at
Big Bulb did the math and they know their new bulbs will not so long as
to make the bulb business irrelevant.

The topper is the bulbs I bought are not all that great. Maybe it is
just a matter of getting used to it, but my bedroom now looks like a
film school scene. The area immediately around the lamps is brighter and
whiter. Everywhere else is in shadows. Maybe I got bad bulbs, but for
$20 a pop, well, I expected more. Forty bucks is not what it used to be,
but it is lunch for the week. Thanks to the helping hand of government,
I spent $40 to get monetized and I sleep in a film noir movie.
