---
title: "Free Riders"
date: "2014-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2115"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2115"
---

An interesting topic in human evolution is the free rider problem.
<a href="http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/free-rider/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Economics has tried to tart it
up</a> with their nonsense, but it is a central problem of all human
society. Well, it’s a problem as long as there is scarcity. Having
people that consume more than they produce is not much of a problem when
you have excess. Having people that subtract from the wealth of the
society is not even a problem if you lots of extra, like Western
societies. America has over two million people in jail. If we were
struggling to feed everyone, the criminals would not be in jail. They
would be dead or exiled.

People who claim to know about these things say religion probably
evolved to deal with the loafers. On the one hand you have the gods
looking poorly upon those who don’t pull their wait. That thought works
as an incentive to contribute. On the other hand, it gives cover to the
group when they have to punish a loafer. It’s easier to punish a
relative when you believe the gods demand it of you. Similarly, it also
rewards charity to those who can’t contribute. Religion solves a
problem, but it also rewards the sort of behavior that makes the problem
less of a problem in the long run.

When you see <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2667123/Pregnant-glamour-model-NHS-funded-boob-job-tells-Loose-Women-wants-inspiration-women-small-breasts.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">stories like this one</a>,
it’s easy to see how the death of the gods undermines the whole effort.
The Left has tried to fill the role once filled by Christianity with a
mountain of rules and regulations. But, that leads to <a
href="http://www.nbcphiladelphia.com/news/local/Prisoner-Sues-Pizza-Place-He-Tried-to-Rob-268048731.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">stuff like this</a>. A
mountain of laws and a massive regulatory bureaucracy is just not the
same as an angry and vengeful god. Regardless, the West has enough
wealth to tolerate a large welfare class without undermining the the
general belief in pulling your weight. The tax payers may bitch about
these loafers, but they are ashamed to join them. That suggests a bit of
hard wiring, rather than just culture.

Futurists like to talk about how <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/The-Second-Machine-Age-Technologies/dp/1480577472"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">robots will be doing all our
work</a> in the near future, but that’s not quite right. The technology
is nowhere near as close as they would like to pretend. That does not
mean that some jobs cannot be done by robots. <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/momentum-machines-burger-robot-2014-8"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This company</a> thinks they
can liberate the nation’s burger makers. Automating fast food jobs is
probably going to happen within the next ten years. Assembling a Happy
Meal requires no decision making at this point. The human merely
supplies mechanical work and that can be done by machines. Humans are
cheaper at the moment, but that’s probably about to change for lots of
these jobs.

The driverless car, which sounds pointless to most people will probably
put taxi and limo drivers out of work. Bus drivers could probably be
replaced. It’s not happening tomorrow, but a decade from now it is not
unreasonable. Again, the great robot takeover is not happening anytime
soon, but within the lifetime of people reading this, it will happen, at
least for low-skill work. Anything that does not require mobility and
thought is ripe for takeover by the new robot workers. The question is
how quickly the cost of the robots can fall below the cost of humans.

What never gets mentioned by modern economists or public policy types is
the fact we already have scads of people in useless jobs. Having
experience with the federal government, I know about a third of the
people employed do nothing. They show up, perform tasks as instructed,
but it is all busy work. Another third do real work, but we should
probably stop them. The army of people coming up with new warning labels
for shampoo bottles are a net negative to society. The rest probably do
useful work, but I’m probably being generous. The same math is true in
state and local government.

It’s not just the public sector. The private sector has millions of
pointless workers. Lawyers are an easy example. Health care is packed to
the gills with people who are there because the law requires it. The
business does not need them, other than to meet the demands of the
state. Education is another obvious example of make work. Tyler Cowen
gets paid to write a blog for goodness sakes. It is easy to overlook the
value of these jobs, but the truth is we got along fine for a long time
without them. The growth of these sectors coincides with the end of
manufacturing and that’s not a coincidence. We found something for idle
people to do.

The question then is what happens when most people are idle? What
happens to the free rider problem when robots are able to do all of our
work and serve all of our needs? We’re already close to having a robot
army to guard us. If robots can produce our food, shelter,
transportation and entertainments, what do we do with our time? How does
our morality about work and leisure adapt?

I don’t know the answer, but one option is Marx was right. Eventually,
capitalism destroys itself. We will advance to the point where we
eliminate our reason to exist. The robots will not become aware and
stamp us out like in sci-fi movies. We will become aware of what we have
done and stamp ourselves out. Those falling fertility rates may turn out
to be good times a generation from now.
