---
title: "Is Kevin Williamson Headed Our Way?"
date: "2014-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=977"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=977"
---

By our way, I mean the into the race realism camp.The answer is most
certainly no, as he likes his pay check, but he flirting with dangerous
ideas of late. Unsaid in the this post is that he obviously read and
probably still reads Steve Sailer, who made some unfortunate
observations about New Orleans once. <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2014/02/deeper-naginism-kevin-d-williamson/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This essay</a> by Williamson
has some observations that are the sorts of things that got Sailer
hurled into the void. First he gives the standard lines conservatives
are allowed to say about economics.

*Economists have many different models explaining how economic growth
happens. And though the relative merits of those models are hotly
contested among economists, as are the relative weights that should be
assigned to many variables, a few factors keep turning up: productivity,
capital accumulation, population growth, and technological progress.
(Those are the basis of the Solow-Swan model of growth.) While
government policy certainly has an effect on those factors, they
generally operate at some remove from it: You cannot simply pass a law
mandating greater productivity or technological innovation. You can
encourage your population growth by (for example) liberalizing your
immigration rules, which will probably work if you are New Zealand or
the United States but not for Rwanda or Haiti, or a sparsely populated
rural community in the United States. Policy can encourage capital
accumulation, but it cannot ensure it. We have invigorating political
fights about the tax code and stimulus spending, and those are important
fights to have, but many of the most important factors driving economic
growth are beyond direct political control.*

That’s the standard product from Conservative Inc. Their’s is a fight
lost long ago, but they are still allowed to wear their uniforms and
have parades once in while so they wave the flags of free market
capitalism. Then we have this:

*But there is a critical variable that is at least partly within the
direct control of government: the quality of government. The quality of
government — its honesty, competence, reliability, and predictability —
has an effect on most of the important economic variables. And not just
government itself, but other institutions with the power to shape public
life, such as unions and large firms. Quality is something outside of
and different from policy specifics, which is why similar policies often
produce wildly different outcomes in different polities: **Single-payer
health care in Bahrain turns out to be very different from single-payer
health care in Canada. A high level of government-enforced union
involvement has been catastrophic for the U.S. automotive industry but
not for the German automotive industry, which is a lot less of a mystery
than it seems when you account for the fact that the UAW is not IG
Metall, GM is not Audi, and the U.S. government is not the German
government.***

Guess what else is different? That’s right.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ingolstadt"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ingolstadt</a> is full of
Germans while Detroit is full of non-Germans. It is a lot easier to have
a sane government when your smart fraction invented large chunks of
Western Civilization. When your smart fraction is barely capable of
running a small-time drug den without killing one another, you’re
probably getting a government that reflects that fact.

*There is no way to put a happy face on this fact: Critical American
institutions are of shockingly low quality. Corruption is a part of
that: At No. 19 on the Transparency International rankings, the United
States is tied with Uruguay. Its transparency score of 73 is far behind
where you want to be, among such category leaders as Denmark, New
Zealand, Sweden, and Finland (91, 91, 89, and 89, respectively). We lag
well behind our Canadian neighbors and such important international
competitors as Germany. Our overall standing is not terrible, but it
does not place us among global leaders, either. Moderation in the
pursuit of honesty is no virtue.*

There’s an elephant in the room here. Kevin is a bright guy and he must
surely know it, but he likes living an easy life so he avoids stating it
directly. Further, he surely knows his readership knows it too. Perhaps
Kevin Williamson is deliberately doing the dog whistle thing. On the
other hand, the blinkered way these guys see the world can never be
discounted. it’s possible he has described the elephant in the room
without actually noticing it. Some people never notice what’s going on
around them.
