---
title: "Now We Have “Ethical Conservatism”"
date: "2014-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2152"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2152"
---

Conservative Inc. and the Republican Party are struggling to come to
terms with what the neocons did to the movement and the party,
particularly the Bush years. The “new” conservatism was supposed to do
all the things Reagan failed to do by appealing to a broad audience on
liberal terms. Instead, it turned the GOP into the Democratic Party
circa 1975, with endless wars of choice in the Middle East. The latter
is a debacle from which the country may never emerge.

Anyway, The American Conservative is featuring a long essay from somepne
named <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Patrick_Mitchell"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Brain Patrick Mitchell</a>. He
is some sort of political thinker slash theologian, pushing a new
political theory. His “new” contribution to the hyphen party is <a
href="http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/what-is-ethical-conservatism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ethical-conservatism</a>,.
which is different from other conservatism because it is ethical. That
sounds a lot like the Bush compassionate-conservatism of a decade ago.
It actually starts out on an interesting footing

*The modern age is an age of anarchy, an era of habitual rebellion
against old ways and existing order in the name of liberty, equality,
enlightenment, and progress. It began as a rebellion against religious
hierarchy, burgeoned into a rebellion against political monarchy, and
finally boiled over in a rebellion against social patriarchy, leaving in
its wake a new civilization endlessly at war with civilization itself.*

*Raised to rebel, the modern, anarchistic, progressive personality is
always impatient with the world as it is and ever insistent that it
change to suit him. Believing himself innocent, he blames others for the
suffering he sees, indicting Society, Civilization, the Church, the
State, the Establishment, the System, the Corporations, or the Man for
crimes against the People and the Planet. Consistent with the age’s
Luciferian culture of grievance justifying rebellion, the progressive
lives passionately and impulsively as the hero of his own personal
revolution, in which anything that stands in his way—that limits his
autonomy, inhibits his self-expression, frustrates his ambitions,
convicts his conscience, offends his sensibilities, or denies him
satisfaction—can be condemned as unfair, unjust, intolerant, and
therefore intolerable.*

That’s some fine writing and a rare attempt to take an honest look at
the people cult running America since the end of World War II. I don’t
agree with his analysis, but I don’t think he is too far from the truth.
It is rare to see an attempt to understand the Left on its own terms so
that’s encouraging, even if it misses the mark.

*This is the spirit riling the two competing passions of our age,
libertine individualism and envious egalitarianism. Both deny the moral
relevance of the objective other to the subjective self. Both insist on
the self as the point of origin and reference for all definitions of
goodness, truth, and justice, in effect replacing the First Person of
the Holy Trinity with the selfish first person—the singular “I” in the
case of individualism, the plural “we” in the case of egalitarianism.*

This is where this type of analysis falls down the stairs. The writer
sets up a false dichotomy and then uses it as a launching pad for his
own opinions that he thinks are unique and different from whatever else
is kicking around today. It has always struck me as a get out of jail
free card. If you can dismiss current reality, you’re free to indulge in
whatever you like. Libertarians tend to do this by pretending Left and
Right are two sides of the same coin, when they are right there with
them.

That said, I’m all in favor of rejecting the left-right model of
describing political thought in the modern age. That is nothing more
than a tarted up version of the Left’s us-versus-them world view. It is
how you end up with Hitler on the Right, alongside Burke and Reagan.
Somehow we are to believe that the polar opposites are Hitler on one end
and Marx on the other. The truth is that all of these sects are the sons
and daughters of the marriage of Rousseau and Hobbes.

The one thing I think he needs to explore more deeply is the Left’s
impulse to destroy for the sake of destruction. He gets into it a
little, but can’t seem to bring himself to accept that it is destruction
for its own sake. The old 1960’s rallying cry of “burn, baby burn!” is
instructive. There are no rallying cries from the Left that bring images
of anything other than destruction. Whatever Utopian fantasies are at
the start of the movement, the end is always about pulling the roof
down.

It’s what makes all of these attempt to slap a new coat of paint on the
Baby Boomer Conservatism pointless. White Americans are throwing in the
towel on their race and culture. <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/white-deaths-outnumber-births-for-first-time/2013/06/13/3bb1017c-d388-11e2-a73e-826d299ff459_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">People who stop having
children</a> are saying it is better to have never been born than to
carry on the traditions of their age. You’re not turning the tide with
ten point plans and clever tax reform proposals. At least this brand of
hyphen philosophy gets a little closer to the truth.
