---
title: "The End Of The Homo-Verse"
date: "2014-10-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3124"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3124"
---

Admittedly, I know very little about homosexuals, other than I find
homosexual males to be mildly unpleasant and homosexual females to be a
bit absurd. I’m not a homosexual and I have had minimal dealings with
homosexuals. Many moons ago I worked a job in Cambridge Massachusetts.
There was a lesbian bar and a leather chaps bar within a block of my
work. I got to observe scads of homosexuals, but I can’t say I learned
much from watching them.

I once had a gay guy working for me. This was when I was working near
the gay bars mentioned above. He deeply resented the leather chaps
crowd, because he thought they made his kind look bad. That sounded
reasonable to me, given that they were dying like flies from AIDS. They
also reinforced the idea of gays being generally weird, not just
sexually weird. He also detested lesbians. I have no idea if this was
just him or common with male homosexuals.

I know a woman who sells real estate to higher end clients. Her area is
mostly $750K condos and million dollar suburban homes. Some of her
properties are two and three times those rates, but her bread and butter
is the million dollar range. She gets to deal with all sorts at their
most unpleasant. Buying a house is on the list of most stressful events
in life, along with birth and death.

She ranks homosexuals at the bottom of her preferred list of clients.
Indians are the next worse followed by East Asians. Indian males are
abusive to women in the workplace and East Asians can’t stop haggling.
Homosexual males, I’m told by my friend, are petty, mean, pointlessly
cruel to one another, overly dramatic and unwilling to follow the rules.
She hates dealing with them as a result.

The point of this is as a preamble to <a
href="http://gawker.com/how-we-got-rolled-by-the-dishonest-fascists-of-gamergat-1649496579"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a>.

*On October 1, the computing giant Intel pulled its ads from Gamasutra,
a trade website for game developers, over an essay called “‘Gamers’
don’t have to be your audience. ‘Gamers’ are over” by a journalist named
Leigh Alexander. Intel had been successfully harassed by a small,
contemptible crusade called “Gamergate”—a campaign of dedicated
anti-feminist internet trolls using an ill-informed mob of alienated and
resentful video game-playing teenagers and young men to harass and
intimidate female activists, journalists, and critics.*

*Unable to run Alexander out of game writing, as they had with the
writer Jenn Frank, or force her from her home, as they did to the
developer Brianna Wu, or threaten her from public engagements, as they
did the following week to the critic and activist Anita Sarkeesian,
Gamergate went after her publisher. And, in an unbelievable and
embarrassing act of ignorance and cowardice, Intel capitulated. The
company’s laughable “apology,” released late on that Friday afternoon,
didn’t cover up the fact of Gamergate’s victory: Intel was not replacing
its ads.*

*Failing to adequately cover this act of spinelessness was the first big
fuck-up we at Gawker committed. Intel surrendered to the worst kind of
dishonesty, and we allowed it to do so without ever calling it out. So
let’s say it now: Intel is run by craven idiots. It employs
pusillanimous morons. It lacks integrity. It folded to misogynists and
bigots who objected to a woman who had done nothing more than write a
piece claiming a place in the world of video games. And even when
confronted with its own thoughtlessness and irresponsibility, it could
not properly right its wrongs.*

I may be mistaken, but my impression is that Gawker is a site run by and
for homosexual men. If I recall, they got started “outing” people they
did not like and then moved onto harassing Hollywood people. Homosexual
males have a fetish for the entertainment business for some reason. They
populate all of the gossip sites. Even in the dead tree era, Hollywood
gossip writers were almost always gay men.

What makes this piece hilarious to me is how the pink mafia is being hit
with the very same tactics they have used to assault normal people for
three decades. Everything about the “gay rights movement” has been a
fraud from the beginning, including their
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stonewall_riots" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">creation myth</a>. Organized crime used gay clubs as
cover, thinking the cops could not send in undercover officers to spy on
them. The mob made money selling drugs to the gays and letting them
fornicate in the back.

Anyway, the tactics used by the rainbow party have always been
dishonest. They were one of the first to bully advertisers to pull ads
from people they disliked. They organized boycotts aimed at liberal
nitwits who would then join in and force normals to go along with
whatever the gays were demanding. The harassment of Christian bakers is
the most recent example of the petty and nasty habits of the “gay
rights” crowd. Seeing the tables tuned on them and their fellow
travelers is just too funny.

Everything about the campaign against the white men in the STEM world is
based on lies. The broads at the heart of the gamergate controversy are
simply attention whores making a buck off people seeking grace on the
cheap. Set yourself up as a victim in a way that fits the Narrative and
the world is your oyster. It turns out that nerdy boys like video games
way more than girls, in every way that sentence can be construed. That’s
why they end up writing code at game shops. Women end up in nursing and
medicine for the same reason.

I’ve said for a while that homosexuals will regret having thrown in with
the CML. Liberals hate homosexuals more than they hate blacks. As soon
as “gay rights” stops being a useful weapon against normal people, the
homos go back into the liberal dungeon. There’s also a limit to the
amount of cultural insanity a society can tolerate. Unless you can
monopolize violence like the North Koreans, the people will eventually
get fed up and replace their rulers. It is the lesson of history. The
lunatics in charge of western countries are pushing the natural limits
with this stuff and the inevitable consequences will follow. In the end,
nature always wins.
