---
title: "Time To Ban Toy Guns"
date: "2014-11-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3266"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3266"
---

Years ago the Left was opening up another front on their war on normal.
They wanted boys to stop playing with toy guns. Cap guns fell out of
favor and mothers of young boys were told to keep their boys from
“violent toys.” It went nowhere since boys like fighting. They will
fashion anything handy into a gun, sword or club. Even lefty mothers had
to concede it was a losing battle, but the Left never quits.

They will try to lever <a
href="http://www.toledoblade.com/State/2014/11/24/Cleveland-boy-with-fake-pistol-killed-by-police.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this tragedy</a> into a campaign to ban
toy guns.

*A 12-year-old boy shot by police after grabbing what turned out to be a
replica gun died from his wounds on Sunday, one day after officers
responded to a 911 call about someone waving what the caller described
as a “probably fake” gun at a playground.*

*Deputy Chief Ed Tomba said one officer fired twice after the boy pulled
the fake weapon — which was lacking the orange safety indicator usually
found on the muzzle — from his waistband but had not pointed it at
police. The boy did not make any verbal threats, but grabbed the replica
handgun after being told to raise his hands, Deputy Chief Tomba said.*

*“That’s when the officer fired,” he said.*

*The Cuyahoga County medical examiner identified the boy as Tamir Rice.*

*An attorney for his family, Timothy Kucharski, said the boy went to the
park with friends Saturday afternoon, but he did not know the details of
what led to the shooting.*

*The police department is investigating the shooting.*

*Both officers who responded, a first-year rookie and a 10-year
department veteran, have been placed on administrative leave pending the
results of the department’s investigation.*

As is always the case with these things, the details will take a while
to come out, but that won’t stop the trouble makers from jumping to wild
conclusions. I will say that I have been around a lot of guns and I have
never seen a kid’s toy that would fool me at shooting distance. Pellet
guns are a different thing so maybe that’s the issue here. On the other
hand, cops have killed innocent people because they mistakenly thought a
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shooting_of_Amadou_Diallo"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">wallet or cell phone was a weapon</a>.

*The county prosecutor’s office also is investigating.*

*Mr. Kucharski said he will conduct his own investigation into the
shooting and review the police’s investigation to determine “how exactly
an innocent young 12-year-old boy could be killed playing at the park.”*

*“His mother is devastated,” Mr. Kucharski said.*

*The shooting of the boy, who was African-American, occurred as a grand
jury is expected to make a decision soon over whether to charge a white
police officer who shot an unarmed black teenager in Ferguson, Mo.,
setting off months of protests.*

*Mr. Kucharski said he did not know the race of the officer who shot the
boy, and the shooting did not appear to have anything to do with race.*

*The important question, he said, was why the officers did not act with
more caution because they were dealing with a child.*

*“The police have to address these things in the proper context,” he
said.*

*“This is a 12-year-old boy. This is not a grown man.*

*“I’d think you would handle situations with children differently than
you would with an adult. They don’t fully understand everything that is
going on.”*

*Police said the weapon was an “airsoft” type replica that resembled a
semi-automatic handgun.*

The proper context is that in the ghetto, 12-year old boys are regularly
toting around guns and shooting people. Bangers have long assumed that a
child can get away with one murder before the law treats him as an
adult. It’s also why you see boys running drug corners. Even if they get
popped, they are facing a trip to juvenile detention and therefore have
no reason to talk to the cops.

Normally I would assume this will be used by the gun grabbers, but the
Ferguson fiasco may trump the gun grabbers. Ferguson is looking like
Burning Man for the Anarchists so maybe that’s run out of steam. It’s
tough to know, but my guess is the Cult is ready to throw in the towel
on Ferguson so that leaves the gun angle as a useful way to push
Ferguson off the radar.
