---
title: "It’s Always About Race With These Guys"
date: "2014-07-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2201"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2201"
---

If you pay attention, you cannot help but notice the blatantly racist
attitudes of the black sports reporter. Some are worse than others, but
all of them wear they’re resentments on their sleeve. Michael Wilbon is
a notorious bigot. He must have been told to tone it down after the Rush
Limbaugh imbroglio, but he is still pretty racist. Kevin Blackistone is
a click short of being Louis Farrakhan. J. A. Adande is far from the
worst, but <a
href="http://espn.go.com/nba/story/_/id/11194890/how-lebron-james-play-dan-gilbert"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">his slip shows from time to
time</a>.

*If I could get a meeting of my own with LeBron James, I’d ask him how
he could even consider compromising his values and stepping down from
the moral high ground he ascended to during the playoffs by weighing an
offer from Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert.*

*LeBron produced the sharpest and most noteworthy criticism of Clippers
owner Donald Sterling after TMZ made Sterling’s racially offensive
diatribes public, saying “it’s unacceptable in our league.” No one has
accused Gilbert of holding the same misguided racial perceptions as
Sterling. With Gilbert, it’s about the personal attacks on LeBron’s
character, and his diametrically opposed views on the business of the
NBA.*

For black sports reporters, the black icons are untouchable. Until his
Thanksgiving meltdown, criticizing Tiger Woods was forbidden by black
reporters. Saying Bird was better than Jordon was racist. Saying
anything bad about LeeBong is treated like a cross burning. Conversely,
saying bad things about Donald Sterling is required, because he is a
racist. Similarly, the owner of the Cavaliers is the great Satan because
he said bad things about Leebong.

*Gilbert, for those who never bothered to read his unhinged response to
The Decision in 2010 before the Cavaliers recently purged it from their
website, called LeBron’s departure to the Miami Heat a “cowardly
betrayal” and said LeBron was a bad example for the children of
Cleveland. This wasn’t just a critique of the televised announcement; it
was a tantrum about the very premise of free agency, as if anything
other than a career-long commitment to the team that drafted a player
constituted treason.*

The little noted fact of the Leebong move to Miami was how blacks viewed
it as an escape from bondage. Leebong moving from one team to another
was the seminal moment in the game, when the black players finally took
control of their league from the Jewish owners. That last part is
another seldom discussed aspect of this story. Blacks harbor a deep
resentment of Jews. That’s because Jews tend to be landlords and
business owners in black communities.

*A year later, Gilbert was among the group of owners holding to the hard
line when the NBA locked out its players, willing to sacrifice games to
institute a new collective bargaining agreement that limited player
earnings and hampered the formation of superteams.*

*A return to the Cavaliers by James would be a tacit endorsement of all
he rejected. It wouldn’t represent just a swallowing of his own pride —
it would be a surrender in the battle for self-determination for NBA
players.*

We see it again. Gilbert is leading a conspiracy to keep the black man
down.

*There’s an undercurrent to this summer’s free-agency period that makes
it more than just a reshuffling of rosters. The proceedings are a
referendum on the labor conflict fought in 2011 and perhaps the grist
for a new battle in the next round of negotiations.*

*I’ve interpreted reports that LeBron will take nothing less than a
maximum contract as his way of rejecting the premise that it’s incumbent
on players to make the financial sacrifices to win, as if the owners
don’t also have the option of paying the luxury tax to assemble a
championship team. To play for Gilbert would be to reward a man who
wanted it this way. It would also mean leaving Heat owner Micky Arison,
who made it clear on Twitter that he didn’t approve of the way
collective bargaining negotiations were headed in 2011. (Arison also
showed he had no love for Sterling, responding to a tweet criticizing
Sterling in his mentions with an “lol.”)*

Adande is a reasonably level headed reporter compared to most. Still,
his column is dripping with racial hatred of the Jewish owners, merely
because they will not let the black players do what they want without
repercussions. Owners in all sports try to drive down the cost of labor.
That’s what they do. In basketball, the black man’s game, that’s treated
as the ultimate sign of disrespect. Of course, they pretend the owners
are white, rather than Jewish, so the Jews in the media are fine with
it.

That’s the great paradox of modern times. Whites in America would
happily go along with a race blind society. In fact, most whites still
think the goals is a color blind society, you know, like Martin Luther
King wanted. In reality, non-whites will never stop hectoring whites
about race. Here you have two groups, Jews and blacks, who owe
everything to white people in America, but they can’t let the race issue
go. It is what defines them, so it must always be about race,
particularly the white race.
