---
title: "The Media"
date: "2014-05-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1848"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1848"
---

Something most right-wing people don’t get is the true nature of the
media. They think the media is biased, but otherwise reasonable and
accurate. They may promote some stories over others, but the stories are
mostly true. In reality, the mass media is just the marketing department
for the ruling class. Like a marketing department, they are not afraid
to make up stuff when it suits them. A good example is in <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/white-house-mistakenly-identifies-cia-chief-in-afghanistan/2014/05/25/ac8e80cc-e444-11e3-8f90-73e071f3d637_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this article</a> about the 
Obama presidency.

*The CIA’s top officer in Kabul was exposed Saturday by the White House
when his name was inadvertently included on a list provided to news
organizations of senior U.S. officials participating in President
Obama’s surprise visit with U.S. troops.*

*The White House recognized the mistake and quickly issued a revised
list that did not include the individual, who had been identified on the
initial release as the “Chief of Station” in Kabul, a designation used
by the CIA for its highest-ranking spy in a country.*

*The disclosure marked a rare instance in which a CIA officer working
overseas had his cover — the secrecy meant to protect his actual
identity — pierced by his own government. The only other recent case
came under significantly different circumstances, when former CIA
operative Valerie Plame was exposed as officials of the George W. Bush
administration sought to discredit her husband, a former ambassador and
fierce critic of the decision to invade Iraq.*

There we have it. Nothing in that last paragraph is true, but the person
who wrote the piece wants you to think it is true. The editors certainly
know it is nonsense, but they don’t care, just as long as it promotes
the cause. More important, they found a way to attack someone on the
official opposition. They don’t really hate the other side, but they are
the foil in the political show. The whole point of which is to keep
people from noticing who really runs the country and for what purpose.
