---
title: "Legalizing the Weed"
date: "2014-06-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1913"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1913"
---

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/01/us/after-5-months-of-sales-colorado-sees-the-downside-of-a-legal-high.html?partner=rss&amp;emc=rss&amp;smid=tw-nytimes"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> in the NYTimes
is becoming common.

*Five months after Colorado became the first state to allow recreational
marijuana sales, the battle over legalization is still raging. Law
enforcement officers in Colorado and neighboring states, emergency room
doctors and legalization opponents increasingly are highlighting a
series of recent problems as cautionary lessons for other states
flirting with loosening marijuana laws.*

Everyone who had been making big money from the war on weed is screaming
bloody murder about legalization. There are legitimate arguments against
some of this, but the general tone suggests the prohibitionists are
unlikely to make them.

*There is the Denver man who, hours after buying a package of
marijuana-infused Karma Kandy from one of Colorado’s new recreational
marijuana shops, began raving about the end of the world and then pulled
a handgun from the family safe and killed his wife, the authorities say.
Some hospital officials say they are treating growing numbers of
children and adults sickened by potent doses of edible marijuana.
Sheriffs in neighboring states complain about stoned drivers streaming
out of Colorado and through their towns.*

*“I think, by any measure, the experience of Colorado has not been a
good one unless you’re in the marijuana business,” said Kevin A. Sabet,
executive director of Smart Approaches to Marijuana, which opposes
legalization. “We’ve seen lives damaged. We’ve seen deaths directly
attributed to marijuana legalization. We’ve seen marijuana slipping
through Colorado’s borders. We’ve seen marijuana getting into the hands
of kids.”*

One of the features of the modern social welfare state is official
lying. That is people telling obvious lies, but everyone pretending they
are just alternative opinions. Calling your organization “Smart
Approaches to Marijuana”, when you’re clearly not smart or interested in
anything other than prohibition, is an obvious lie. What Kevin Sabet
goes onto to say is clearly made up nonsense that no adult would ever
believe. Yet, here we are with the Times treating this crook like a
legitimate source of knowledge.

*Despite such anecdotes, there is scant hard data. Because of the lag in
reporting many health statistics, it may take years to know legal
marijuana’s effect — if any — on teenage drug use, school expulsions or
the number of fatal car crashes.*

*It was only in January, for example, that the Colorado State Patrol
began tracking the number of people pulled over for driving while
stoned. Since then, marijuana-impaired drivers have made up about 1.5
percent of all citations for driving under the influence of drugs or
alcohol.*

*Proponents of legalization argue that the critics are cherry-picking
anecdotes to tarnish a young industry that has been flourishing under
intense scrutiny.*

*The vast majority of the state’s medical and recreational marijuana
stores are living up to stringent state rules, they say. The stores have
sold marijuana to hundreds of thousands of customers without incident.
The industry has generated $12.6 million in taxes and fees so far,
though the revenues have not matched some early projections.*

*Marijuana supporters note that violent crimes in Denver — where the
bulk of Colorado’s pot retailers are — are down so far this year. The
number of robberies from January through April fell by 4.8 percent from
the same time in 2013, and assaults were down by 3.7 percent. Over all,
crime in Denver is down by about 10 percent, though it is impossible to
say whether changes to marijuana laws played any role in that decline.*

That’s not a lot to go on, but at least it is honest. Maybe the Times
highlighted the hysterical nonsense as a way to support the legalization
case. It is hard to know. Propaganda sheets like the Times are expert at
this sort of subtle campaigning.

The potheads are winning right now. They are handing the pols money in
the form of new taxes. They have avoided any trouble, which keeps the
suburban moms off their back. Most important, their critics sound
foolish. Being blessed by the right enemies is always the key to winning
public debate.

I’m not enthusiastic about legalization, but I was never enthusiastic
about prohibition. I’d prefer a world where people did not smoke pot. It
makes you stupid and it causes you to think idleness is a good thing.
That said, it is not going to bring down civilization if *some* people
smoke pot. There are other ways to discourage bad behavior that don’t
require the state shooting citizens and locking them in cages. Just look
at cigarettes.

Still, there are trade-offs to everything. We don’t know what else comes
with legalizing weed, but we do know something does come with it.
