---
title: "Retiring Science"
date: "2014-01-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=792"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=792"
---

Poor old <a
href="https://isteve.blogspot.com/2014/01/more-edge-questions-john-mcwhorter.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer</a> is about to
go into overload over the latest <a
href="http://www.edge.org/responses/what-scientific-idea-is-ready-for-retirement"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">big question</a> on the Edge
website. The question posed to scientists and pseudo-scientists is “What
Scientific Idea is Ready for Retirement?” It is an interesting question
for two reasons. One is some ideas in science hang around long after
their validity is expired. Despite the philosophy of science stuff that
tells us how science is supposed to work, bad ideas still creep in and
stick around as truth. Vested interests defend invalid theories for all
the familiar reasons.

Most of what makes up psychiatry, for example, is fairly worthless now
that we have some understanding of genetics and brain chemistry. The
idea that you can talk someone out of being depressed or schizophrenic
is ridiculous, but we still have talk therapy. All over America, drug
counselors try to talk people out of being addicts, even though it does
not work and can never work. There’s money in the old bad idea, so the
profession will not let go of it, no matter what’s happening in
neuroscience.

The other reason this is a great question is it flushes out the fakers
within our intelligentsia. All societies have an intellectual elite. In
theory, our intellectual elite is based in reason, so they should always
be ready to purge bad ideas. In reality, they are just as superstitious
as prior elites, maybe more so. Dumb ideas that support the prevailing
secular morality, for example, are protected, while good ideas that
challenge it are rejected.

A good example is the second respondent in the list, Nina Jablonski, the
Distinguished Professor of Anthropology at The Pennsylvania State
University. Her idea to retire is race.

*The mid-twentieth century witnessed the continued proliferation of
scientific treatises on race. By the 1960s, however, two factors
contributed to the demise of the concept of biological races. One of
these was the increased rate of study of the physical and genetic
diversity human groups all over the world by large numbers of
scientists. The second factor was the increasing influence of the civil
rights movement in the United States and elsewhere. Before long,
influential scientists denounced studies of race and races because races
themselves could not be scientifically defined. Where scientists looked
for sharp boundaries between groups, none could be found.*

Granted, anthropology is not science. At best, it is taxonomy.
Anthropologists can add to the stock of human knowledge by cataloging,
describing and recording human societies, past and present. It is useful
to know the daily life of the typical Spartan, for example. That allows
us to build a realistic model of Spartan life which can help explain
their history as a people and their demise. This kind of information
helps fill in the picture of history. It helps us understand why they
lived and why they gave way to some other people.

Similarly, detailed descriptions of modern people are useful to real
scientists teasing out genetic relationships between collective traits
and specific genes. That said, this women should know that race is a
real thing and an important aspect the human animal. But, she wishes it
were not and would like everyone else to pretend it were not real. She
is an example of why many fields are dismissed by the empirically
minded. They tolerate and promote unserious people like Nina Jablonski.

The fact is, the modern word is in a race of sorts. One side of the
intellectual elite is learning the true nature of human diversity, which
increasing looks to be invalidating core beliefs of the ruling elite.
The other side of the race is where proselytizers like Nina Jablonski
come into the picture. She is trying eliminate any decent from the
prevailing orthodoxy before science invalidates it. It’s nice to think
that the truth will win out, but the way to bet is the inconvenient
science is what eventually gets retired by these people.
