---
title: "What the End of the Left Looks Like"
date: "2014-12-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3438"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3438"
---

Apparently, the end of the latest Progressive awakening will be queer
Nazis, perverts and low-IQ black people making war on old Jews, for
their racism. Or something. The increasingly laughable
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta-Nehisi_Coates" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">ornament</a> over at the Atlantic was <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/12/the-new-republic-an-appreciation/383561/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">promising to hold his breath and turn
bluer</a> if the queer Nazi running The New Republic did not right the
wrongs committed by those dastardly Jews that ran the magazine for so
long. “Black lives matter,” by the way, is code for “kill the blue-eyed
devil.”

I’m not going to go into the Apostrophe Coates article because it is
incoherent schlock written by a man with a tenth grade understanding of
the world. I used to post about Coates, but then I started to feel bad
for making sport of him. He can’t help it. The people who decorate their
magazine with guys like him are to blame. It’s the person hanging the
ornament, not the ornament.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.politico.com/blogs/media/2014/12/new-editor-says-tnr-will-be-more-diverse-200281.html?ml=po"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the new editor of The New Republic seems
to agree with Ornament</a>.

*Gabriel Snyder issued his first editor’s note as head of The New
Republic on Monday, promising that the magazine will survive the latest
turmoil and be home to more ambitious and diverse journalism.*

*“The New Republic has always been both in love and at war with its
prior self,” Snyder, a former editor of The Atlantic Wire who replaced
Frank Foer earlier this month as the editor, [wrote in the
note](http://www.newrepublic.com/article/120619/new-republic-editor-chief-gabriel-snyders-note-readers).
“The magazine’s early decades were marked by abrupt ownership changes,
unceremonious dismissals of editors, shifting policy positions, and
uprooted headquarters, all accompanied by masthead upheavals.”*

*The majority of The New Republic’s masthead resigned en masse during
the first week of December after the owner’s decision to [force out the
editorial
leadership](http://www.politico.com/story/2014/12/the-new-republic-moves-to-new-york-city-113343.html?hp=t3_r),
move the magazine to New York and rebrand the venerable, century-old
publication as a “digital media company.”*

Yeah. What we lack is “digital media” companies. All this time we have
been waiting for this guy to come along and give us a reason to have the
Interwebs. My goodness.

*Snyder also announced a crew of new contributors to upcoming issues
including Ann Friedman, Batya Ungar-Sargon, Cathy Park Hong, Inga
Safron, Jazmine Hughes, Jeff Ball, Thomas Rogers, Jen Doll, William
Giraldi and Jeet Heer. Snyder wrote that these new voices and experts
will “be diverse in race, gender, and background.”*

*“As we build our editorial staff, we will reach out to
talented journalists who might have previously felt unwelcome at The New
Republic. If this publication is to be influential, and not merely
survive, it can no longer afford to represent the views of one
privileged class, nor appeal solely to a small demographic of political
elites,” Snyder wrote.*

You can be sure they will be diverse in how they look, but not in how
they think. If any of them dare say something nice about Jews or
something mean about queers, they will be sent off to an internment
camp. It’s why I call them ornaments. They are there to make it look
like a lot of new and different stuff is going on, but in reality it is
just the same old drab display with new ornaments.

*In his note, Snyder recounted the many years of turmoil and change at
the magazine, defending owner Chris Hughes and CEO Guy Vidra’s plans.*

*“\[I\]f our founders sat down today to settle on the best way to
achieve this mission, they would not have picked a weekly printed
magazine and ignored a vast array of digital publishing possibilities.
And just like any publication with hopes of success in the world of
2014, they would want The New Republic to be better at welcoming into
our fold readers, writers, and editors who reflect the American
experience as it exists today,” Snyder wrote.*

People who know Chris Hughes say he has great social skills, but is as
dumb as a brick. He got rich by hitting the lottery so now he is a
pissed off blockhead with money to burn. The proof of that is what we
see going on here. The New Republic was a magazine of the ruling class.
It was never intended to reach a general audience. What he’s done is buy
a Bentley and then equip it with spinners and a fur interior.

But, there may be something else other than rank stupidity. <a
href="http://www.the-american-interest.com/2014/12/19/next-up-in-america-the-liberal-retreat/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Walter Russell Mead has a post</a> up on
the cresting of the liberal wave and what comes next. The past says the
final denouement is an orgy of violence as we saw in the 60’s and 70’s.
The trouble with that is the young people today are too soft and silly
to riot in the streets or plant bombs in public buildings. Instead they
have Twitter rants.

That may be what we’re see with Hughes and the New Republic. It is a
tantrum. Frustrated by reality not yielding to wishful thinking, this
generation of radicals will take it out on their cult leaders and each
other. Instead of burning down *your* neighborhood, they will burn down
*their* own stuff. The gays will make war on the Jews. The blacks will
make war on the gays. The one-legged lesbian Elvis impersonators will
make war on the transgendered.

Godspeed.
