---
title: "An Island of Pedophiles"
date: "2014-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2250"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2250"
---

The word “pedo” gets thrown around way too much, but there is question
that there are a startling number of people who are kid-diddlers. At
least they aspire to be kid-diddlers, butt hey only traffic in child
porn. There also seems to be some correlation between degenerates and
the ruling class. Maybe we just notice it more among the rich and
famous, but there are a lot of them in elite society <a
href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/crime/10970142/More-than-600-suspected-paedophiles-arrested.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from Britain
about a sweep of pedos among the professional classes is stunning.

*Doctors, teachers, care workers and former police officers are among
more than 600 suspected paedophiles arrested following a massive
nationwide police operation.*

*The unprecedented investigation, involving every police force in the UK
and coordinated by the National Crime Agency (NCA), took six months to
complete.*

*The operation initially targeted people suspected of accessing indecent
images of children online, but some of those arrested have now been
charged with a wide range of offences, including serious sexual
assault.*

*A total of 660 people were arrested as part of the operation and
spokesman for the NCA said more than 400 children throughout Britain had
been safeguarded.*

*Many of those arrested were people who had access to children in the
course of their work. The majority had not previously been on the
police’s radar and had not previously been arrested for sex offences.*

The way this story starts, you can’t be sure if the people arrested were
actual pedophiles or merely thinking about it.

*Phil Gormley, deputy director general of the NCA, said: “This is the
first time the UK has had the capability to coordinate a single targeted
operation of this nature. Over the past six months we have seen
unprecedented levels of cooperation to deliver this result.*

*“Our aim was to protect children who were victims of or might be at
risk of sexual exploitation.*

*“A child is victimised not only when they are abused and an image is
taken, they are victimised every time that image is viewed by someone.”*

*A spokesman for the NCA refused to reveal the methods used to track
down the suspects so that the same tactics can be used again in the
future.*

*The NCA said suspects included doctors, teachers, Scout leaders, care
workers and former police officers.*

*In total, only 39 of those arrested were registered sex offenders known
to the authorities.*

*As part of the investigation, officers searched 833 properties and
examined 9,172 computers, phones and hard drives.*

*While Mr Gormley refused to discuss the tactics used to snare the
suspected paedophiles it is believed many of those arrested had been
operating on the so-called Dark Web, a part of the internet, which has
in the past been extremely difficult for the authorities to monitor and
police.*

*But Mr Gormley said sex offenders should realise that they cannot avoid
detection while using the internet, even the dark web.*

Interestingly, looking at a forbidden act is now the same as performing
the act. Human society has enough criminals and degenerates without the
need to create them. Britain, it seems, wants to declare itself the
pedophile capital of the world. Teasing the numbers out of the report,
it looks like they found 39 real sex offenders in this operation. The
other 561 people were just found to be looking at naughty pictures
on-line.

The other thing that comes to mind is how proud the police are that they
ransacked over 9,000 computers and 800 homes. The implication is that
the state is watching you at all times and you better stick to the
straight and narrow. This is becoming more and more common, despite the
fact the state is failing to do the basics of government. Britain can’t
prevent hoards of Muslims from entering their lands, but they are hell
on the perverts getting their jollies looking at naughty images.

Why can’t these guys manage this level of “unprecedented cooperation” to
round up terrorists before they blow up the subway system? Why were they
unable to apply this power to stopping the Muslim rape gangs? We know
the answer. This story is part of the larger pogrom against white
people. They will arrest people for viewing content on-line, which may
be revolting, but it is not the same as being a pedo. On the other hand,
they let non-whites ruin wild in the streets.
