---
title: "Artsy Right"
date: "2014-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2674"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2674"
---

Art reflects the culture of the people who produced it. We live in the
Progressive Age and what passes for art reflects the bland,
transactional conformity of our times. Modern artists think and act like
global retailers. They find a target audience and produce product for
it. Performers set out to flatter their audience by pandering to their
worst instincts. Being a trendy Progressive means carefully repeating
lines from the catechism at the prescribed moments.

In one of life’s many ironies, it is outside the hive where the weirdos
live and where the fun is. Grover Norquist is a fairly despicable
person, but he not a liberal. He’s also fairly typical of what you find
on the right these days, as far as diversity. People outside the hive
like weird and enjoy being weird. It’s conservative, middle American
audiences that drive the success of cutting edge TV shows like True
Detective or Breaking Bad.

<a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/sep/02/my-first-burning-man-grover-norquist"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> seems to
support that assertion.

*What is Burning Man?*

*It is a larger version of … what? Woodstock? That was a bunch of
teenagers coming to watch artists perform. At Burning Man, everyone is
expected to be a participant. Burners bring their art work, their art
cars, their personal dress and/or undress: everyone is on stage. The
story of Woodstock was thousands of young people, without the sense to
bring their own food and water, being rescued by the state police and
sensible bourgeois rural folks. The story of Burning Man is one of
radical self-reliance.*

*It is a more intense than … what? Not quite the Edinburgh Fringe
Festival. Burning Man is an arts festival in the middle of the Nevada
desert. It takes hours to get there, and you must bring what you eat or
wear or need: you cannot buy anything there. Burning Man is more like
Brigadoon – a western ghost town that springs to life. Dust storms. Cold
nights. Black Rock City is completely built and then taken apart and
disappeared each year, by 65,000 people.*

*Burning Man is greater than I had ever imagined. I have been to large
demonstrations in favor of the environment, and the trash left behind is
knee-deep. At Burning Man, you are hard-pressed to find a cigarette butt
on the ground. There are no trash bins. Participants carry it in, and
they carry it out. I have been to the Louvre. It is a very big place
with many nice paintings. I knew that. I was not disappointed. Burning
Man is more like Petra, the lost city in Jordan, which I found more
impressive than its advance billing or reputation.*

*My wife and I had planned to join the “event” in 2012, but some idiot
scheduled the Republican National Convention in Tampa for the same week.
I objected, but the overlapping bit of the Venn diagram of Burners and
Mitt Romney enthusiasts was perhaps not as large as I had thought.*

*Some self-professed “progressives” whined at the thought of my
attending what they believed was a ghetto for liberal hippies. Yes,
there was a gentleman who skateboarded without elbow or kneepads – or
any knickers whatsover. Yes, I rode in cars dressed-up as cats, bees and
spiders; I watched trucks carrying pirate ships and 30 dancers. I drank
absinthe. But anyone complaining about a Washington wonk like me at
Burning Man is not a Burner himself: **The first principle of Burning
Man is “radical inclusiveness”, which pretty much rules out the
nobody-here-but-us liberals “gated community” nonsense.***

It is the first principle of anything truly artsy or cultural. It’s why
art is by definition conservative. Only lunatics and barbarians
celebrate destruction. It is the lovers of life that capture their times
in paintings, buildings and literature. It is the truly conservative
soul who wishes to leave memories of his times to those who come after
him. Art is, after all, nothing more than a memory passed from one
generation to the next.
