---
title: "When Madness Stops Being Notable"
date: "2014-12-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3384"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3384"
---

<a
href="https://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/2014/12/16/federal-appeals-court-overturns-ruling-ordering-sex-change-surgery-for-mass-prison-inmate/WqBuLuGI14yZ6nVoFCIfjK/story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The following news story</a> is an
example historians will use in the future to note the general madness
that has afflicted our age.

*A divided federal appeals court in Boston on Tuesday overturned a lower
court’s ruling that a **transgender Massachusetts prison inmate,
convicted of committing a domestic murder, was entitled to
taxpayer-funded sex change surgery.***

*The ruling by the First US Circuit Court of Appeals came after a 2012
ruling by US District Judge Mark Wolf, who ordered the surgery after
finding that **the state’s failure to provide it violated the inmate’s
Eighth Amendment protection against cruel and unusual punishment.***

*In January, a three-judge panel of the appeals court upheld Wolf’s 2012
decision, but the state of Massachusetts then asked for an en banc, or
full bench, review, which led to Tuesday’s ruling.*

*The ruling came in the case of Michelle Kosilek, who was born Robert
Kosilek. Kosilek is serving a life sentence for killing her wife, Cheryl
Kosilek, in 1990.*

*The court ruled 3-2, with Judges O. Rogeriee Thompson and William J.
Kayatta Jr. filing separate dissenting opinions.*

*“We are faced with the question whether the \[state Department of
Correction’s\] choice of a particular medical treatment is
constitutionally inadequate,” the court said in the majority opinion.*

*“After carefully considering the community standard of medical care,
the adequacy of the provided treatment, and the valid security concerns
articulated by the DOC, we conclude that the district court erred and
that the care provided to Kosilek by the DOC does not violate the Eighth
Amendment,” said the opinion, which was written by Judge Juan R.
Torruella.*

***Kosilek and the DOC — under successive administrations, both
Democratic and Republican — have battled in the courts for decades over
what medical treatment, clothing, makeup should be provided to deal with
Kosilek’s gender identity disorder.***

*Wolf ruled in 2012 that the only medically appropriate treatment for
Kosiliek’s condition was the surgery, which would be paid for by the
state since Kosilek is a state prison inmate.*

*But the appeals court ruled Tuesday that Wolf had wrongly substituted
his own judgment for the medical professionals, who did not unanimously
endorse the surgery as the only appropriate solution for the condition
that all sides acknowledged contributed to a depressed mental state and
suicide attempts by Kosilek.*

*Wolf also went too far by “circumvent\[ing\] the deference owed to
prison administrators’’ under federal laws when the issue is the safety
of prison inmates, Torruella wrote.*

*“The prison administrators in this case have decades of combined
experience in the management of penological institutions, and it is
they, not the court, who are best situated to determine what security
concerns will arise,’’ Torruella wrote.*

*The ruling said the DOC made a valid argument when it expressed concern
about the safety of Kosilek and women prisoners he potentially could be
housed with once the surgery was done.*

*“The DOC’s security report reflected that significant concerns would
also arise from housing a formerly male inmate — with a criminal history
of extreme violence against a female domestic partner — within a female
prison population containing high numbers of domestic violence
survivors,’’ Torruella wrote.*

*In a statement, Public Safety Secretary Andrea Cabral said the DOC
accepts as true that Kosilek suffers from gender identity disorder
diagnosis, and added that was not the issue that the latest round of
Kosilek litigation was resolved by the courts on Tuesday.*

*“The First Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the medical and mental
health care provided to Kosilek by the DOC did not violate the Eighth
Amendment of the U.S. Constituion,’’ Cabral said in the statement.*

*“While we acknowledge the legitimacy of a gender identity disorder
diagnosis, DOC’s appeal was based on the lower court’s significant
expansion of the standard for what constitutes adequate care under the
Eighth Amendment, and on substantial safety and security concerns
regarding Ms. Kosilek’s post-surgery needs,’’ Cabral said in the
statement.*

***In a statement, the Transgender Rights Project of Gay & Lesbian
Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) noted that it had joined the legal battle
on Kosilek’s behalf.***

***“I am appalled by this decision, which means that Michelle Kosilek
will continue to be denied the life-saving medical care she needs and
has been seeking for years,’’ Jennifer Levi of GLAD said. “This decision
is a testament to how much work remains to be done to get transgender
people’s health care needs on par with others in the general public.”***

***In a passionate dissent, Judge O. Rogeriee Thompson compared the
majority’s conclusions to those drawn by the judges who upheld the
constitutionality of the separate but equal doctrine for
African-Americans in the late 19th century and the judges who approved
internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II.***

***Like the rulings in those cases, Plessy v. Ferguson and Korematsu v.
United States, the Kosilek ruling will not stand the test of time, she
wrote.***

*The majority, Thompson wrote, ruled the way they did, in part, because
the surgery Kosilek seeks is considered “strange or immoral. Prejudice
and fear of the unfamiliar have undoubtedly played a role in this
matter’s protraction.’’*

*“The precedent the majority creates is damaging,” she added. “It paves
the way for unprincipled grants of en banc relief, decimates the
deference paid to a trial judge following a bench trial, aggrieves an
already marginalized community, and enables correctional systems to
further postpone their adjustment to the crumbling gender binary.’’*

*Kayatta, writing separately, said, “Scientific knowledge advances
quickly and without regard to settled norms and arrangements. It
sometimes draws in its wake a reluctant community, unnerved by notions
that challenge our views of who we are and how we fit in the universe.”*

*“The notion that hard-wired aspects of gender may not unerringly and
inexorably correspond to physical anatomy is especially unnerving for
many,” Kayatta said.*
