---
title: "The Pansy-verse"
date: "2014-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3101"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3101"
---

The weird emotionalism of modern times is one of those things that goes
on without anyone commenting upon it. If you read cultural writers, it
seldom comes up. Maybe it has always be thus, but it seems like the
propensity to burst into tears in public is stronger now than ever.
After 9/11, I remember watching Bush get choked up on camera and
thinking, “He’s no Churchill.” Can you imagine Eisenhower blubbering on
stage after the Normandy invasion?

Anyway, <a
href="http://espn.go.com/blog/boston/bruins/post/_/id/17202/bs-say-senators-can-help-their-city-heal"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this was in my sports feed.</a>

*When Boston was rocked by bombings at the finish line of the Boston
Marathon on April 15, 2013, the Bruins and their fans received
unconditional support from the NHL and the other 29 teams. Now, the
Bruins will return that favor.*

*On Wednesday, a gunman entered the Parliament area in Canada’s capitol
city of Ottawa and killed one solider and injured another person. The
Senators were scheduled to host the Toronto Maple Leafs Wednesday night,
but the game was postponed.*

*The tragedy in Ottawa hit close to home for members of the Bruins.
Coach Claude Julien is a native of Ottawa, while Zdeno Chara and Chris
Kelly both played for the Senators.*

*“It was very shocking, especially for that area. It’s a capitol city
but it’s fairly quiet and not a busy area, so to see something like that
happening is very shocking, very surprising,” Chara said. “Obviously,
you’re feeling for everybody in the city and in the country. I know when
it happened here we received so much support from everywhere around the
league, across the country and around the world, so for sure it’s
something we’re thinking about and people in Ottawa and Canada are in
our thoughts and prayers.”*

*Julien said Wednesday’s situation in Ottawa was unsettling.*

Last night, a dozen people were murdered in Chicago. Toronto is not a
crime riddled city, but they have plenty of homicides. Why is this one
so emotionally unsettling?

*Added Julien, “Every city rallies around its own city and I’ve talked
to a few people, including my family that’s still back there. My parents
and brothers and sisters, it’s affected them even if they weren’t around
that area. It affects the whole city like the bombing affected us here.
They’ll have to get used to it in a way where that’s reality,
unfortunately, and it’s happening. Again, Ottawa is a pretty — or Canada
is a pretty laid back country that tries to continue to be laid back.
But it’s also a country that supported the U.S. in some of its decisions
and more than likely those are the consequences that it faces because of
that.”*

This is what I’m getting at. Why do public figures have to pretend to be
emotionally distraught over events happening far away from them? If the
gunman shot someone he knew, then sure, he should be upset. If it
happened at his place of work, I can see it. Further, how is a hockey
game healing anything? What in the hell does healing even mean in this
context?

It seems like the high status males in modern times feel the need to
blubber in public. I’m not sure why that is or what it means. Like the
stoic male lead, the level headed male leader is a thing of the past.
Instead, the hallmark of high status is the ability to emote on cue.
