---
title: "The Ghetto Time Warp"
date: "2014-06-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1917"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1917"
---

Spend time in or near the ghetto, and you can’t help but notice some
things. When you live and work across the social spectrum, you get a
daily dose of comparisons, which makes noticing things easy. It is a
dangerous game these days, of course. On the other hand, people get in
trouble in the ghetto when they *don’t* notice things. Modern times is
full of these weird, inexplicable juxtapositions.

White people know to avoid certain areas, even certain streets. Give a
white person directions that include <a
href="http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Martin+Luther+King+Boulevard"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Martin Luther King
Boulevard</a> or <a
href="http://blog.stompandcrush.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/PAR104105.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Malcom X Avenue</a> and they
ask someone else for directions. They know those names are never used
for places that house people like them. On the other hand, make a
comment about it around them and they will harangue you about your
racism and narrow mindedness.

I do not suffer from this malady, despite being white. I’ve learned to
speak three languages: SWPL, normal and ghetto. I’m most fluent at
normal because I try to hang around normal people as much as possible.
On the other hand, living on the edge of the ghetto, I have picked up
the tongue, which is mostly what normal people said before the lunatics
took over. Watch any old 1970’s TV show and you get my meaning.

The other day I was on the way home and remembered I needed cat food. On
the edge of the ghetto is a Food Lion, which seems to target the lower
classes as a business strategy. They have a big sign announcing they
accept EBT and WIC. I’ve stopped there many times, but rarely after
work. In my work clothes, I stand out like a sore thumb. Social class is
one of those things people notice instinctively, even though we pretend
it does not exist. In jeans and a tee-shirt, it is not so obvious.

I get my cat food and get in line. I was in a hurry, being the end of
the day, but I should have known better. In the ghetto, time works
differently than everywhere else. The employees of the Food Lion are
mostly black. They work on CPT. That’s *Colored People Time*. Start
talking about CPT at your place of work and they fire you. Mention it
around black people and they laugh, surprised that a white person would
know the term and bother say it in public.

What CPT means is not just slowness. It is also a certain deliberate
tardiness. Black people will tell you that black people are always late.
That’s when you’re most likely to hear them break out the term CPT. The
lateness is not meant as disrespect or even something done on purpose.
Blacks have complicated lives and events just get away from them. As a
result, they struggle to be on time for anything. At the same time, they
are not in a great hurry to get anything done.

The two cashiers working that evening were chatting with one another,
hardly paying attention to their work, which they were doing at a
snail’s pace. The customer in front of me had a mislabeled product so
the girl just stopped working and waited for a manager to solve the
problem. It’s not laziness or attitude. The two girls were just working
at a pace based on their own weird internal metronome. That’s CPT.
Things just take the time they take and no one thinks much of it.

For reasons I’ve never understood, the deli counter at this Food Lion is
manned by Latino males. They are a beehive of activity, but you still
wait in line for an hour to get even the smallest thing. Standing there
in line, I watched four or five Latinos buzzing around in a flurry of
activity. There was one lonely customer patiently waiting for whatever
he ordered. He was still there when I left, which is not surprising. he
was experiencing something called the Latin Way.

The Latin Way is a term you hear from Latinos. Like CPT, they are
surprised to hear a blanco say it. Unlike blacks, Latinos are oddly
proud of it and quite open to talking about it if you ask them. They
fully admit that the disorganized chaos is just the way they do things,
even though it makes no sense. It’s like how the Irish are proud of
being alcoholics. Or Italians proud of their gestures. It’s a part of
what makes them who they are and they are mostly proud of it.

Unlike CPT, I find the Latin Way to be rather amusing. I guess it
pleases my Anglo-Saxon sensibilities to see people rushing about trying
to get their work done, even if they are mostly spinning their wheels.
They may not be getting things done, but they seem to care about getting
things done. Blacks don’t get anything done and they seem to take pride
in their idleness. Latins seem to know they should be getting something
done, which counts for a lot while you are waiting.

While I’m cataloging the denizens of the ghetto in this way, Hindus are
an interesting case. We have a lot of them around here for some reason.
My guess is they work at the engineering firms located in the suburbs.
I’ve had some Hindus work for me over the years and they move at their
own pace too. maybe those old school observations about people close to
the equator are true after all

Judging from what I see around town, I’m thinking it is cultural. In the
Food Lion, I always see the old women wandering around in their brightly
colored saris. They never seem to buy anything, but they are fat as hell
so I know they’re not skipping any meals, but I just see them looking.
Then again, I don’t feel the need to watch them as much as the other
denizens of the ghetto.

Anyway, the whites are not models of Anglo-Saxon efficiency and
alacrity. The difference is when motivated, they move as fast and
efficiently as anyone else. It’s just that they never seem to be
motivated. On summer afternoons they sit on their front step or loiter
in the parking lots. Poor people of all types are happy to while away
their time doing nothing but chatting with friends.

Smoking is still popular in the great white ghetto, along with
Oxycontin. You see the fat girls waddling behind strollers, while the
males sit around shirtless. The idea is to show off the collection of
ridiculous tattoos they love so much. Nothing tells the world you are a
violent felon like a neck tattoo. In all of the retail stores on the
edge of the ghetto, you never see whites working.

That’s the thing about poverty and the underclass. SWPL types think it
is education, but it is time that keeps people in the ghetto. They have
no sense of it. Middle and upper class people are obsessed with time.
Being on time is an essential part of being a respectable person. The
efficient use of time is how one is measured in their job. If you’re
good at what you do, you get an assistant at work to help you make the
most of your time. The rich have personal assistants to make sure no one
wastes their time.

Like father’s day, I doubt watches are of much use in the ghetto. When
you have no place to go and no reason to get there, knowing the time is
pointless. People I know who hire entry level labor tell me the biggest
challenge they have is figuring out how to tell ghetto types how to show
up on time and work at a decent pace. That’s why they hire Latinos. They
may be a circus of disorder without supervision, but they show up on
time and at least look like they are in a hurry.

Anyway, I think that’s the dividing line in modern life. The great class
line is is time preference. Conventional wisdom says the poor lack
impulse control. They buy cheap crap now rather than save for better
things later. They don’t understand the value of putting off today’s
pleasure for something better tomorrow.

I don’t think that’s right. I think it is the lack of time preference.
The middle class person understands how to comprehend the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discount_function"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">discount function</a>, at
least conceptually. The poor have no idea about any of this. A bag of
weed today is just a bag of weed today. Saving for a bigger bag of weed
tomorrow is inconceivable because tomorrow may as well be next century.
