---
title: "A Cornucopia of Liberal Crazy"
date: "2014-11-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3209"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3209"
---

If you watch ESPN, you can’t help but notice how hard they are selling
the NBA. They have a financial interest, for sure, but they are well
into extreme slurping at this point. Their obsession with the Donald
Sterling story was uncomfortable to watch. The parade of ESPN
personalities performing sacred rituals showing their loyalty to the
cause was a little like watching a UFO cult appeal to the stars.

Part of it is the network is run by Jews and the Tribe loves basketball.
In the book, A *Renegade History of the United States,* Thaddeus Russell
detailed how basketball was originally a Jewish sport. [The Forward did
a
story](http://forward.com/articles/197643/why-are-so-many-pro-basketball-owners-jewish-like/?p=all)
on the dominance of The Tribe in basketball back when Donald Sterling
was drawing unwanted attention to the fact. It stands to reason that a
sports network run by the Tribe is going to cover the Tribe’s favorite
sport.

That’s only a small part of their obsession. ESPN is stocked to the
gills with liberal fanatics. The brighter types like Tony Kornheiser
know how to blunt their fanaticism in order to hold an audience. Guys
like Bill Plaschke are too stupid to pull that off so they go on the air
ululating like lunatics whenever the opportunity arises. I find myself
fast forwarding through a lot of their offerings because it is cringe
inducing to watch it.

The Cult is berserk for the NBA because it is a fringe sport now. Like
soccer, it is not enjoyed by the core of America. The NBA is the black
man’s league and played by freaks that represent such a tiny slice of
humanity that they may as well be from another planet. That appeals to
the Cult’s anti-white male attitudes, their anti-Americanism and their
general hatred of normal people . Not only are there no white males in
the NBA, the sport has very little to do with the forms of masculinity
that so offends the Cult.

Anyway, that setup was in lead up to [this
story](http://espn.go.com/nba/story/_/id/11868612/nba-owners-expendable-players-union-chihttp:/espn.go.com/nba/story/_/id/11868612/nba-owners-expendable-players-union-chief-michele-roberts-saysef-michele-roberts-says)
I spied on ESPN today. First off you have Pablo Torre. He is the fake
nerd ESPN likes to promote. He is a two-fer, in the head counting of
modern liberalism. He plays his role without question and he has a
Latino name. He’s also a polite ball washer who never wanders off the
reservation and says anything vexing to his bosses.

Then we have the female head of the players union. She’s black and lacks
a penis so the folks at ESPN were probably fainting in the aisles over
this story. Her big talk about taking on the evil pale penis people, who
run the NBA, is catnip for the Cult. The fact that she was an ornament
at an overclass law firm is even better. Skadden is the pinnacle of
ruling class law firms. You don’t go to them when you need a parking
ticket fixed. You hire them when you’re in a beef with some other ruling
class guy. They do a lot of work for clients like professional sports
leagues and their television partners.

In the story you have some great nonsense.

*Michele Roberts, the NBA players’ union executive director, on
Wednesday questioned several of the principles that for decades have
governed owner-player relations in the league, objecting to the concept
of a salary cap while making clear she’d push for much more than a 50-50
split of basketball-related income.*

*“Why don’t we have the owners play half the games?” Roberts said,
speaking in her Harlem office to ESPN The Magazine. “There would be no
money if not for the players.”*

*“Let’s call it what it is. There. Would. Be. No. Money,” she added,
pausing for emphasis. “Thirty more owners can come in, and nothing will
change. These guys \[the players\] go? The game will change. So let’s
stop pretending.”*

*Roberts, hailed as one of the most brilliant trial lawyers in the
United States, made history in July by being elected the first female
union chief in major North American sports.*

*But given the context of a nine-year, $24 billion TV deal set to begin
in 2016, and the players’ ability to opt out of the league’s collective
bargaining agreement after the 2016-17 season, Roberts’ relatively
radical perspective could prove to be just as profound a change.*

*“I don’t know of any space other than the world of sports where there’s
this notion that we will artificially deflate what someone’s able to
make, just because,” she said, talking about a salary cap — a
collectively bargained policy that, in its current form, has constrained
team spending in the NBA since 1984-85. “It’s incredibly un-American. My
DNA is offended by it.”*

I may have to start going to church again if this woman does follow
through with this threat. I’m sure she is the most brilliant attorney on
earth and all that, but there’s a reason why she signs the back of pay
checks and not the front. It’s also why she is not sitting in the
owner’s box somewhere. Having her lead a revolt by the players against
the owners would probably be the funniest bit of TV imaginable. It would
be Cult on Cult violence.

Almost as good as [Fake Indian ascending to
leadership](http://www.politico.com/story/2014/11/elizabeth-warren-harry-reid-senate-leadership-112847.html)
of the Democrats in the Senate.
