---
title: "Reality Makes a Comeback"
date: "2014-05-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1778"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1778"
---

According to a new study, George Wallace was right when he said
“Segregation now, segregation forever!” Of course, everyone has known he
was right, regarding the benefits of peaceful separation, but he has so
far been wrong about the forever part of his statement. No one is
allowed to say it in public, but like so many of our current taboos, <a
href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_SCHOOL_SEGREGATION?SITE=AP&amp;SECTION=HOME&amp;TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&amp;CTIME=2014-05-15-03-35-17"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">people act on what cannot be
said</a>.

*Segregation is making a comeback in U.S. schools.*

*Progress toward integrated classrooms has largely been rolled back
since the Supreme Court issued its landmark Brown v. Topeka Board of
Education decision 60 years ago, according to a report released Thursday
by the Civil Rights Project at UCLA. Blacks are now seeing more school
segregation than they have in decades, and more than half of Latino
students are now attending schools that are majority Latino.*

*In New York, California and Texas, more than half of Latino students
are enrolled in schools that are 90 percent minority or more, the report
found. In New York, Illinois, Maryland and Michigan, more than half of
black students attend schools where 90 percent or more are minority.*

Normal people tend to notice things. For instance, if they push a button
and nothing happens, they quickly figure out the button does not work.
Crazy people stand there all day pushing the button, each time expecting
a different result. That’s what we keep seeing with the Left and social
policy. Even if we assume their motives are good, six decades of failure
should cause some rethinking of their goals.

*<span class="entry-content">Project co-director Gary Orfield, author of
the “Brown at 60” report, said the changes are troubling because they
show some minority students receive poorer educations than white
students and Asian students, who tend to be in middle-class schools. The
report urged, among other things, deeper research into housing
segregation, which is a “fundamental cause of separate-and-unequal
schooling.”</span>*

This is the next great cause of the Left. White people keep moving away
from blacks and Latinos. The result is the schools remain segregated.
Busing was a disaster so the only solution is to force blacks and whites
to live together. They tried this in Berkeley in the 70’s and 80’s.
Berkeley Citizens Action gained control of the housing authority and
zoning board. The first thing they did was go after the lace curtain
liberals on the hill. It was a disaster, but the Cult never learns from
the past.

They tried building housing projects out in the suburbs. That was a
hilarious disaster as people just moved away and you ended up with these
weird pocket ghettos in the middle of nowhere. This was a phenomenon in
the South mostly. Instead of urban reservation, they build “affordable
housing” in working class suburbs and the whites then fled to the next
suburb.

*Although segregation is more prevalent in central cities of the largest
metropolitan areas, it’s also in the suburbs. “Neighborhood schools,
when we go back to them, as we have, produce middle-class schools for
whites and Asians and segregated high-poverty schools for blacks and
Latinos,” Orfield said.*

*Housing discrimination – stopping or discouraging minorities from
moving to majority-white areas – also plays a role in school segregation
and “that’s been a harder nut to crack,” said Sherrilyn Ifill, president
of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, which argued the Brown case in front of
the Supreme Court.*

*School performance can be entwined with poverty, too.*

The reason it is a “harder nut to crack” is people are not insane. In
the Baltimore – Washington area parents play all sorts of games to keep
their kids out of ghetto schools. Parents will claim to live in a better
area, using the address of a friend or relative, so they can send their
kid to the better school. Of course, the massive suburbs and exurbs
around places like Detroit are the result of sane people fleeing the
metastasizing ghetto.

*“These are the schools that tend to have fewer resources, tend to have
teachers with less experience, tend to have people who are teaching
outside their area of specialty, and it also denies the opportunities,
the contacts and the networking that occur when you’re with people from
different socio-economic backgrounds,” said Dennis Parker, director of
the American Civil Liberties Union Racial Justice Program.*

*For students like Diamond McCullough, 17, a senior at Walter H. Dyett
High School on Chicago’s South Side, the disparities are real. Her
school is made up almost entirely of African-American students. She said
her school doesn’t offer physical education classes or art, and Advanced
Placement classes are only available online.*

*John Rury, an education professor at the University of Kansas, said the
work at UCLA has revealed how many of the advances in desegregating
schools made after the Brown ruling have stopped – or been reversed.*

*While racial discrimination has been a factor, other forces are in
play, Rury said. Educated parents with the means to move have flocked to
districts and schools with the best reputations for decades, said Rury,
who has studied the phenomenon in the Kansas City region.*

*In the South, many school districts encompass both a city and the
surrounding area, he said. That has led to better-integrated schools.*

*Still, around the country, only 23 percent of black students attended
white-majority schools in 2011. That’s the lowest number since 1968.*

<span class="entry-content">Kansas City is billion dollar experiment
that should have put an end to the madness of forced integration.
<a href="http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-298.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s a long report</a> from
Cato on the colossal failure of the reformers to fix the schools. Again,
failure never seems to teach these people any lessons. It only
encourages them. That’s because their dream of an integrated society is
now just vengeance. They hate white people.</span>
