---
title: "Limbaugh Sues The Cult"
date: "2014-11-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3195"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3195"
---

I’ve long thought that the tactics of pressure groups have exceeded the
bounds of legality. The law is clear about interfering with the business
dealings of others for the purpose of causing one of more parties harm.
It is one thing for me to claim my soap will make your clothes cleaner
than the other soap. It is quite another to disrupt the relationship
between the other soap and its vendors in order to harm the business of
the competitor. That’s what liberal pressure groups are doing when they
start harassing advertisers in order to get them to stop doing business
with a TV or radio show.

I made this point in
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2881" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">a post about Limbaugh</a> a while back. I was
immediately visited by a bunch of spam from lunatics claiming to be
concerned about my opinion on Limbaugh. These people are crazy and they
go beyond stating their opinions into the realm of tortious
interference, in my opinion. Anyway, it looks like Limbaugh is planning
to <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2014/11/10/rush-limbaugh-threatens-to-sue-democratic-congressional-campaign-committee/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">sue the Democrats for defamation</a>.

*Radio host Rush Limbaugh has threatened to sue the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) for defamation, The Daily Caller
has learned.*

*Limbaugh retained the services of lawyer Patty Glaser and demanded that
the DCCC “preserve all records in anticipation of a lawsuit for
defamation and interference” after the Democratic Party group led a
campaign against Limbaugh based on out-of-context statements the host
made about sexual assault. Limbaugh’s legal team delivered a letter to
DCCC representatives Monday informing them of the legal threat. Limbaugh
has also demanded a public retraction and apology.*

*The Limbaugh team is currently proceeding from the standpoint of
litigating and has not yet made a decision as to whether the DCCC could
make any concessions at this point to prevent the lawsuit.*

*The DCCC “has intentionally disseminated demonstrably false statements
concerning Rush Limbaugh in a concerted effort to harm Mr. Limbaugh, and
with reckless disregard for the resulting impact to small businesses
across America that choose to advertise on his radio program” according
to the GlaserWeil law firm’s letter to the DCCC, which was obtained by
TheDC. “Mr. Limbaugh clearly, unambiguously, and emphatically condemned
the notion that ‘no’ means ‘yes.’”*

*“Let’s be clear: Rush Limbaugh is advocating for the tolerance of rape”
the DCCC stated in a September fundraising email after Limbaugh mocked
Ohio State’s new mandatory sexual consent guidelines.*

*Limbaugh’s team said that the DCCC’s campaign against Limbaugh provides
grounds for a defamation case, based on legal precedent.*

*“The DCCC may believe it to be immune from liability by quoting words,
taken out of context. This is untrue,” Glaser said. “There is
significant on point precedent in the 9th Circuit for holding an
organization responsible for falsifying meaning through selective
quoting. In Price v. Stossel, the court held that, if a party accurately
quotes ‘a statement actually made by a public figure, but presents the
statement in a misleading context, thereby changing the viewer’s
understanding of the speaker’s words,’ that constitutes defamation.”*

This is long overdue. I think you give a lot of room for political
combatants to whack one another around, even if it veers into outright
lying. In politics, one man’s lie is another man’s holy truth.
Defamation is another matter. The Left often just attacks bogeymen
gratuitously. It is way to shift the focus from them onto some other.
When that bogeyman is a real person and they are saying untrue things
about him, then they have crossed a line.

Let’s hope the court awards Limbaugh a trillion dollars.
