---
title: "CSI Effect"
date: "2014-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2727"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2727"
---

The term used to explain why 12 sensible people would acquit, despite
witnesses and physical evidence, is the “CSI Effect.” That’s where
juries expect conclusive scientific evidence like they see on TV. If
they don’t get it, they assume the case is weak or the accused is
innocent. It seems ridiculous, but we tend not to select the bets people
for juries, as smart people duck their duties.

<a
href="https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20140908/04435128452/turns-out-cell-phone-location-data-is-not-even-close-to-accurate-everyone-falls-it.shtml"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> is another
example of how television is warping the public’s ability to understand
the world.

*We’ve frequently talked about law enforcement and the intelligence
community accessing and making use of cell site location data, which
looks to figure out where people are based on what cell towers they’re
connected to. Law enforcement likes to claim that it doesn’t need a
warrant for such data, while the NSA has tested a pilot program
recording all such data, and says it has the legal authority to collect
it, even if it’s not currently doing so.*

*However, as anyone with even a basic geometry education recognizes,
which cell tower you’re connected to does not give you a particularly
exact location. It can be useful in putting someone in a specific (wide)
area — or, much more useful in detailing where someone is traveling over
long distances as they repeatedly switch towers in a particular
direction. But a single reading does not give you particularly exact
location details. I had naturally assumed that most people understood
this — including law enforcement, lawyers, prosecutors and judges — but
it turns out they do not. A rather depressing story in The Economist
notes that, thanks to this kind of ignorance (combined with bogus cop
shows on TV that pretend cell site data is good for pinpointing
locations), cell site location data is frequently used to convict
innocent people.*

We should not expect the average person to understand how their gadgets
work. Probably 90% of people have no understanding of their car’s engine
and that technology has been with us for a long time. It is also much
easier than cell phone technology or network technology. Cops are no
brighter than the general public so they can’t be expected to know this
stuff either. Prosecutors and judges have the power to take a man’s
freedom away so that’s a problem.

*SOMEONE strangled a prostitute in Portland, Oregon in 2002. The police
arrested Lisa Roberts, the victim’s ex-lover, who spent more than two
years in custody awaiting trial. Shortly before the trial the prosecutor
told Ms Roberts, via her lawyer, that tower data collected by Verizon,
her mobile-telephone network, showed precisely where she was at the time
of the murder. As her lawyer recalled, the prosecutor said Ms Roberts
could be “pinpointed” in a park shortly before the victim’s naked and
sexually assaulted corpse was found there. She was told she faced 25
years to life in prison. She accepted a deal to plead guilty and serve
15 years.*

*But the high-tech evidence against her was bunk. Routinely collected
tower data can place a mobile phone in a broad area, but it cannot
“pinpoint” it. That would require a special three-tower “triangulation”,
which cannot reveal past locations. It took a decade for Ms Roberts’s
guilty plea to be thrown out. On May 28th she left prison, her criminal
record clean, after nearly 12 years in custody.*

The problem here is that even if the accused knew the DA was lying, she
could not be sure the jury would understand that the DA was lying. The
defense attorney probably lacked the knowledge and resources to fight
it. That opens the door for the many crooked prosecutors to make claims
about technology, like in this case, that are batshit crazy, but may fly
with a jury or a gullible defendant.

*This really points to a larger issue: people have this tendency to
believe that technology can answer all questions. The NSA’s fetishism of
surveillance via technology is an example of this. There’s data there,
so it becomes all too tempting to assume that the data must answer any
possible question (thus, the desire to collect so much of it). But the
data and the interpretations it can lead to are often misleading or
simply wrong. And that’s especially true when dealing with newer
technologies or forms of data collection. That the criminal justice
system could go decades without everyone recognizing the basic geometric
limits of cell site location data based on a single cell is… both
astounding and depressing. But it’s also a reminder that we shouldn’t
assume that just because some evidence comes from some new-fangled data
source it’s automatically legitimate and accurate.*

This is why the NSA spying stuff is mostly bullshit. The government buys
all of its technology from the private sector. There are things done for
the government by private contractors that are not for anyone else, but
the government does not have special magic. Further, the government is
not getting the best and brightest. There’s way too much money to be
made in the private sector for the government to get the best and
brightest.

More important, the volume of data involved is so large there’s simply
no way to sort through it in a meaningful way. There are 150 billion
e-mails sent every day. That’s 55 trillion e-mails a year. Searching
that volume of records for useful data is simply impractical. Throw in
the 100 trillion or so phone calls and probably the same number of texts
and the volume of data is well beyond what could be useful. That’s why
they don’t try, but they’re fine letting people think it. The Feds are
relying on the CSI effect to convince the world they can read your mind.
