---
title: "The Parasite Economy"
date: "2014-06-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2113"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2113"
---

I read a lot of econ stuff, mostly for entertainment purposes. That
habit started back in the go-go 90’s when the new economy was belching
forth one new dot-com firm after another. Most of these new companies
made nothing, fixed nothing and provided no service anyone would want.
The dot-com boom was, in many respects, a big waste of time and money.
But, I got a lot of laughs listening to lectures about how things were
different in the new economy.

After the crash and the dust settled, we were left with a parasite
economy. By that I mean the only people making money were doing so by
leeching off of someone doing real work. Google is a case in point. A
search engine is not much use without the infrastructure of the Internet
and the billions of content providers. Google provides nothing, other
than a convenient way to find *some* of the sites. Mostly what they do
is operate as a protection racket.

It used to be that if you built a better mouse trap, the world would
beat a path to your door. Today, building a better mouse trap means a
whole bunch of freeloaders and highwaymen litter that path to your door,
robbing all those folks trying get your better mousetrap. Television is
a good example of this. It used to come over the air free. Now, you pay
the cable guy and then you pay the tax man for the abatement the cable
company needs. You have to rent a special box and maybe sign up for
other services like telephone and Internet to get television.

Maybe it has always been thus and I’m just catching on now that I’m in
my old age, but that’s what came to mind with the news <a
href="http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/u-s-supreme-court-pulls-plug-aereos-streaming-tv-service-n140486"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the court was busting up
Aereo</a>. Conceptually, I love the idea of local channels over the
Internet. I’ve moved around a lot and getting the home town news, for
example, would be worth a  few bucks a month. Getting the local football
games or hockey games, even though you’re not local, would be great. The
technology to do it is in place and mature, but the local broadcasters
don’t do it. That’s where Aereo thought they could make some money.

That’s also where the problem starts. They don’t own the internet and
they don’t own the content. They were borrowing it and renting it out to
their customers without getting permission from the owner. That’s
generally called theft, but in the new new new economy, it is called
“disruptive.” The court called it illegal and our nine robbed masters
are the final say in the matter.

That may or may not be the right answer, but there’s no doubt that Aereo
is (was) a parasite company trying to make money from other parasite
companies. The local broadcasters get special rights not available to
everyone. They strike deals with the cable companies who have struck
special deals with state and local government. Between you and the guy
making your favorite show is a long line of rentiers. I spend more in a
month on telecom than my father spent in his lifetime.

Now, that’s not to say no one is doing real work. It’s just that the big
money seems to be in coming up with a way to transfer your cost of doing
business onto others and charging rents for access to the work of
others. Facebook is a great example. They don’t pay a dime to the ISP’s
and telcos. You pay for the mobile access and you pay for the Internet.
They harvest your personal data and sell it to others. Their big
contribution is to provide a crude interface for you to see pictures of
the grandkids.

It’s all perfectly legal and maybe even moral. I don’t know. I do know
you can’t have an economy based on it. Someone has to be making stuff
and fixing stuff. Someone has to actually be making better mousetraps.
Instead we have our best minds working on new ways to charge you for
television. At some point, the system has to be overloaded with
middle-men, rentiers and scammers.
