---
title: "The Jewish Question"
date: "2014-07-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2335"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2335"
---

I was in the market on Sunday morning, doing my weekly supply run and I
saw something striking. Behind the deli counter, I spied a Muslim woman
in a hijab. That’s not such a big deal, but the staff is required to
wear uniforms. She was in what looked like a
[khimar](http://www.the-best-islamic-clothing.com/image-files/khimar-rona-jingga.jpg).
Not being an expert on Muslim clothing styles, I’m relying on the
Interwebs to provide the specifics. The grocery chain, at this point
anyway, does not have uniforms that meet Muslim standards so they let
her wear her own.

What was striking is she was glaring at a group of customers. I mean
eyes blazing full-on furious stink-eye. It was so obvious, I stopped and
followed the invisible plane of her eye-lasers to their target. It was a
group of Jews. I knew they were Jews because of their outfits. They were
in the plain black kit of the Orthodox. We have a sizeable cluster of
[Lubavitchers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chabad) near where I live.
As best I could tell, they were just minding their own business looking
at the salmon.

I stood there watching this for a few minutes, thinking maybe there was
a clash of cultures about to happen at the deli counter. I was not
alone. A couple next to me was seeing the same thing and probably
thinking the same thing. The Jews finally went up to the deli counter
and the Muslim woman just stood there glaring at them. I could not tell
if they noticed here. There is an inscrutableness to the super-orthodox
that makes it hard for gentiles to read them.

They stood there for a few minutes and the Muslim woman just stood
there. Some other customer walked up and she waited on them, but still
stealing glares at the Jews. This went on until someone else waited on
the Jews and they moved on. The other employees certainly noticed the
Muslim glaring at the Jews and they surely are aware of the world enough
to figure out what was happening. Her supervisor certainly has noticed
this behavior if casual customers noticed it.

I’m old enough to remember when even the mild-anti-Semite would check
himself and say that the Jews deserves sympathy for what they have
experienced. You never hear that anymore. I suspect that the Holocaust
has finally moved into the mists of time or has been so overdone no one
cares about it. In fact, it seems to be fashionable to be anti-Semitic
in certain circles and I don’t just mean the comment section of Taki.
<a href="http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4549369,00.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Hostility toward Jews and
Israel seems to be rising</a>.

I think the indifference of the market employees to one of their
coworkers bigotry is understandable. They don’t need the hassle. If
there’s no brownie points in pointing out the Jew-hater, they are not
going to bother noticing. I certainly could have said something, but I
did not. The other customers did not say anything. We just shrugged and
went about our business. No harm, no foul, at least for now anyway.

[Stories like this from the
provinces](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2707421/Rising-tide-anti-semitism-Britain-Jewish-people-face-backlash-bloodshed-Gaza.html)
suggest the Jews are on the wrong side of the culture war roiling in the
western world. Europe has imported millions of Muslims who are bringing
back the old fashioned Jew hating of a century ago. Our own government
is trolling the Muslim countries, using what’s called the [diversity
lottery](https://www.dvlottery.state.gov/), to import Muslims into
America. As has been the case with Europe, importing millions of
Jew-hating Muslims will have consequences, at least for the Jews in
America.

What I find striking and what was on my mind at the market, is the fact
Jews don’t fight back against this. If a white guy with a mullet was
caught glaring at some black customers like that, the blacks would have
attacked him. His co-workers would have reported him and his superiors
would have fired him. Anthony Cumia was attacked and then fired for
complaining about it. He was not doing anything wrong other than walking
while white in Times Square.

In modern America, Jews are the most successful minority group by miles.
Jews make up 30% of the Forbes 400, despite being just 2% of the
population. Jews dominate academia, the media, entertainment and
government. You would think they would be pushing hard to limit
immigration from lands full of people dedicated to killing Jews, but,
Jews are the biggest supporters of unlimited open immigration.

It is the Jewish question I find most puzzling.
