---
title: "Stop Trying To Sell Me Stuff"
date: "2014-10-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3116"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3116"
---

Over Labor Day I was at the Boston College – UMass football game. The
crowd was small, maybe 30K, but it could have been less. It was a “home
game” for UMass so the Boston College fans were maybe half the crowd.
Labor Day in Boston is not a great time to hold a sporting event, but
for some reason they did it anyway.

The small crowd meant I could get the full marketing blast from the
people who run the sports facility. That means the blasting of music,
video ads everywhere and constant haranguing by the public address man
to pay attention to a sponsor. I think even toilet breaks were brought
to us by some corporate sponsor.

This is why live sporting events struggle to maintain attendance. Across
all sports attendance is flagging. Sports marketing people always think
more is better, so we get more and more marketing. More video boards.
More screaming PA guys. More rock music. More side crap to draw our
attention away from the game to pay attention to something or other
brought to us by MegaCorp. The argument in favor of this is that sitting
at home has become so good, they have to make going to the game like
home, but with more ads. Always more ads.

I had club seats for the game so we went inside to avoid being screamed
at by the PA guy and the deafening rock music. I asked someone about
this nonsense and they told me that young people like it. That’s the
catch all of all marketing campaigns. Young people like it. There’s
never any evidence of this, but marketing people always say it.

The fact that young people have no money is never mentioned. No one ever
points out that the blaring music is thirty years old and the young
people make sport of it when outside of earshot. But, it’s hardly the
point. The point is no area of daily life can be free of marketing.

No matter what it is, if people like it, the dreary dickheads from the
business schools will demand they ruin it with ads no one watches. [This
letter to the editor in the Roanoke
Times](http://www.roanoke.com/sports/sports-mailbag-poor-atmosphere-at-lane-stadium-leads-to-poor/article_c26916a4-e310-57cb-aa18-a37bd7261259.html)
gets to the heart of the matter. Being told by some dimwit when to cheer
and where to look is insulting. Adults can tolerate a little of it, but
there are limits.

The same is true of the barrage of ads. Everyone gets that marketing
dollars are a part of the business. The teams cannot live on the
billions in ticket and merchandise sales, so they have to “leverage”
their fan base in order to “monetize” the popularity of their sport and
maximize their market position.

It used to be that commercial TV had ads because the service was free.
You got the free service because they got to sell airtime to people
trying to sell you stuff. Pay cable was supposed to be commercial free.
Now it is not only packed with ads, they sell your personal data to
marketing firms who use it to sell you crap on your phone or your
browser. The whole racket now is to get you to pay them to send you ads.
Sports fans are rationally forgoing the attendance costs because they
can at least change the channel when the ads are jammed in their face
during the game if they on their couch.

This is how it goes when everything is based on the madness of growth.
It’s not enough to be a stable, profitable business. You can’t because
the people in charge are systematically eroding those profits with
currency manipulation. Your costs keep going up because your money keeps
losing value. In 1984, I could get into the Red Sox game and have a beer
for $10.00. The ticket was $6 for a bleacher seat and a beer was $3.50.
If I did not want a beer, I could get a couple of dogs and maybe a coke,
if I had some change. Adjust for inflation and that ten bucks gets half
a beer today, as long as it is domestic. At the football game over Labor
Day, I paid ten bucks for a slice of pizza.

That means everyone all the time has to be raising prices, lowering
value and finding new customers. Big operations like football teams have
to charge for everything. Breathing will soon be taxed. We’re not far
from the day when the toilets will have credit card readers. The other
option will be standing their watching ads while you wait for the
hopper. Before you can sit, you’ll have to fill out a marketing survey.

This has to end. By that I mean, it cannot go on like this forever. I’m
saturated. I can take no more. Even those with a higher threshold for
this stuff have a finite amount of time and money. The stone will run
out of blood eventually. Then what?

 
