---
title: "Watching the Diversity Party Up Close"
date: "2014-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1408"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1408"
---

When you live in a diverse neighborhood, you learn a lot of about race
and not the stuff the Left preaches about either. In fact, when you live
in a diverse place, you see how laughably wrong the Left is about race.
Race is not just a social construct and it is not just a white-black,
master and servant thing. This is a big world with a lot of tribes
living in isolation for very long periods of time. As a result, certain
group characteristics have been baked into the cake.

Most of what we are is the result of a relatively small number of people
inter-breeding for thousands of years. It is one of the things people
don’t get about human development, but it is important. Humans are the
results of thousands of years of cousins marrying cousins. It’s simple
mathematics. Eurasians stand apart as they stopped this practice once
they could figure out how to stop it. The rest of the world continued to
inter-marry right up into this age.

In my little slice of heaven, we have a lot of blacks, a growing number
of Amerindians, Koreans and South Asians. The folks from the
sub-Continent are mostly Hindus, but we have some Pakistanis and
Nepalese. Whites remain a majority in the state overall, but it’s a very
slim majority and it is shrinking. The whites keep moving away from the
diversity, so sprawl now goes from the city fifty miles in each
direction. At some point, they will run out of places to hide from the
glories of diversity.

Where I live there is a Darwinian struggle between the remaining whites
and the other groups. An odd sort of alliance has developed where the
remaining whites and Koreans are sort of aligning with the Amerindians
and South Asians to keep the blacks at bay as much as possible. It’s a
losing battle and the reason is in <a
href="http://detroit.cbslocal.com/2014/04/04/white-man-beaten-by-mob-in-detroit-after-hitting-boy-with-truck-was-it-a-hate-crime/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story from Detroit</a>.
While the Asians are fine with being aggressively anti-black, whites are
not. South Asians quickly pick up the anti-racist stuff, so they too are
unreliable.

In my travels, I’ve found that whites have largely abandoned crime as a
cultural ornament. White gangsters are a thing of the past, outside of
the Aryan Brotherhood and outlaw biker gangs. They operate on the
fringes, well away from the bulk of white Americans.This is why the
typical 20-something white boy is trying to look a like a homosexual.
Bad men and tough guys are as alien to him as buggy whips. Even the
movies they watch are devoid of white guys being tough.

East Asians have organized crime, but it is inward looking and often
tangled up in the legitimate governing institutions. <a
href="http://www.mercurynews.com/ci_25494141/federal-indictment-issued-against-yee-shrimp-boy-others"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Leland Yee</a> is a good
example. His accomplice has been tangled up in Chinatown politics for
decades. The Koreans who have come to America are following the Tiger
Mom route by sending their kids to college, financed by cash businesses
they can run with a minimum of English. Koreans are fearless when it
comes to business.

Then there are the Amerindians, who often speak Spanish, but not
necessarily, many speak Mayan tongues like
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mam_language"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Mam</a> and
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A1huatl_language"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Nahuatl</a>. We call them
Latinos as if they are all descendants of the Goths on the Iberian
peninsula. Mexico, like all of Central and South America is populated
with people who prefer authoritarian government. They bring those habits
here and the result is complex criminal gangs that function like a
government in their communities.

MS-13 is a good example of how this works. The Mexican Mafia is another
good example of how organized crime intersects with Latino culture.
These are complex gangs that impose order on the Latino community. They
also are well equipped to deal with the blacks with whom they battle for
drug turf in American cities. <a
href="http://www.africanglobe.net/headlines/mexican-gangs-drive-black-families-southern-california/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Mexicans seem to be
winning</a>. On the other hand, seventy years ago working class whites
seemed to be winning, but then they lost.

The natural flow of things is for the whites to vote with their feet. I
see for sale signs all around the cheaper areas just outside the city.
It seems that these small ranchers are being bought by blacks fleeing
the city, which only encourages more white flight. The late comers from
the sub-Continent are tough to read. They have no criminal history and
most are here because of professional reasons. They have advanced
degrees in STEM fields and work at the big engineering firms and
hospitals.

The younger ones live in apartments like barracks. They are H1B1 and
will be fleeing once it gets too rough. Maybe they will follow the
whites into insulated enclaves out in the county sprawl. The guy who
runs the wine store near me lives in a nice bedroom community twenty
miles away. I suspect he plans to sell out to a Korean who will install
bullet proof glass and lay in a stock of cheap beer. Koreans hate
blacks, but they will take their money, even from behind bullet proof
glass.

<a href="https://www.msu.edu/~zpneal/publications/neal-diversitysoc.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This report from Michigan
State</a> comports with my observations. People from different tribes
don’t get along very well. Even if it is not open warfare, it is a
simmering sort of hostility that prevents anything resembling a
community. I’ve lived here for ten years and I can name maybe five
people within walking distance of me. I bet 70% of the whites around
here were enthusiastic Obama supporters. Going by the for sale signs on
their lawns now, I’m betting 70% prefer their diversity at a great
distance.

Baltimore is a microcosm of what is going on in the nation at-large.
Both political parties are berserk about replacing Americans with
foreign imports, mostly from Central and South America. The new robber
barons like Mark Zuckerberg want as many Hindus as possible. Legitimate
gangsters like Sheldon Adleson want to flood the country with third
world peasants and they are willing to <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/dana-milbank-gop-candidates-kiss-up-to-billionaire-sheldon-adelson/2014/04/01/5ba335dc-b9dc-11e3-9a05-c739f29ccb08_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">buy all the politicians they
need</a> to do it. The rich people running America don’t like heritage
Americans very much.

That’s why that Detroit story is important. The rather surprising candor
about what is obviously a tribal assault is a bit stunning. It is our
future. You cannot throw a bunch of people from different tribes
together and not get violence. People will inevitably self-segregate. 
They will inevitably arm themselves and start jostling with one another
for supremacy. Charles Murray was right and everyone knows he was right.
Maybe the Cult figures everyone is now ready to accept our Bosnian
future.
