---
title: "Ramblings on the Unhinged"
date: "2014-07-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2164"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2164"
---

Bored yesterday I was trolling around looking for something interesting.
<a
href="http://www.salon.com/2014/07/03/jonah_goldbergs_sexual_tumult_the_right_doesnt_get_how_birth_control_works/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I saw this posted</a> on NRO
by Jonah Goldberg. He was taking the lunatic writer to task for her
foaming at the mouth rantings. It is a favorite of both Left and Right
to pick out a ranting from the other side and then rant about its
alleged shortcomings. Lunatics pretend that deviations from orthodox
liberalism are violations of the laws of physics. That allows them to be
excessively smug, in addition to condescending.

*The sheer volume of really terrible and inaccurate responses to the
Supreme Court decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. has been
kind of astonishing. Every few hours, a new piece of conservative
flotsam washes up and demands to be taken seriously. They all go
something like, “This is a victory for religious freedom. You can’t make
your boss foot the bill for your choices. Contraception is
‘recreational,’ not medical. Cave man mad grumble sexual intercourse
grumble procreation grumble.” It seems that nothing gets the right riled
up quite like a victory for corporate personhood and the tantalizing
prospect of punishing and humiliating women.*

Katie McDonough is listed as “<span class="st">Salon’s politics writer,
focusing on gender, sexuality and reproductive justice.</span>”
<a href="http://www.linkedin.com/pub/katie-mcdonough/68/2b6/2b1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">According to her resume</a>,
Katie is a 30-something woman from an upper middle-class family. Rather
than finding a husband, she has been living off her parents while
pretending to be a writer in NYC. She also appears to have developed an
unhealthy obsession with her lady parts.

I have nothing to say about her column. It is full of the abracadabra
words hive minded lunatics like Ms. McDonough find appealing. Hers is a
life full of signaling. Like all herd animals, she is obsessed with the
borders between her group and those outside her group, the folks we call
normal people. Scanning her writing, I see repetitive chanting, defining
the line between her gang and an array of bogeymen she imagines are
threatening to seal up her barren uterus.

Anyway, reading along for a bit, I noticed down at the bottom right a
little block suggesting other stories on the site I may like. <a
href="http://www.salon.com/2014/07/03/why_i_purged_my_facebook_friends_list/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">There was this one</a>,
written by another womyn, about how she has closed the doors and windows
of her life to avoid anything that contradicts the tenets of her
politics. Looking into her bio, I discovered she is just another type of
spoiled crazy person rich countries have elected to indulge. Her
ailments may be real, but her melodramatics are pure theater.

<a
href="http://www.salon.com/2014/07/04/we_the_people_are_violent_and_filled_with_rage_a_nation_spinning_apart_on_its_independence_day/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Then I see this story pop
up</a>. It is now featured on Drudge, who enjoys showcasing the hard
thumping crazies of the Left when it is a slow news cycle. The writer is
one of those old pseudo-radicals that grows increasingly deranged as
they hit their dotage. He sat out the fun stuff in college like storming
Dean Wormer’s office or banging the radical hippy girls. He tried to
make up for it by carrying the radical flag from the comfort of his
university office, but now is just a nuisance.

Having missed the last revolution, he is forever predicting the next one
is around the corner. I recall reading similar rants to this one in the
1980’s, during the Reagan years. Here we were in the midst of a great
economic boom and a period of cultural peace and these aging hippies
were talking about the brewing revolt. Given the current times, it is
just as funny to hear a lefty talk about the coming revolt, given that
the Left is full control of the nation. The lack of self-awareness with
these people is stunning.

Anyway, I realized I was reading Salon and recalled how it was one of
the first webzines. Slate was another, backed by Bill Gates. Salon was
emblematic of the late 90’s in that it was a business with no revenues,
but a sky high stock price. They were convinced that hits would
translate into dollars, which never happened. In the 90’s, it was
typical of the Left during the Clinton era. They published boutique
liberalism aimed at the sort of people who wrote max checks to the local
Democrat.
