---
title: "Transitive Mercerism"
date: "2014-10-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2925"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2925"
---

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lena_Dunham" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Lena Dunham</a> is or was the star of a TV show that 99%
of America never bothered to watch or even notice. The target audience
for her act is neurotic single young women, who obsess over their
vagina. Given the way the political class carries on about single young
women who obsess over their vagina, it must be a growing demographic,
but it could just another front in the war on white people.

The only reason to know anything about Ms. Dunham is <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/388945/five-reasons-why-youre-too-dumb-vote-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this hilarious column</a> by Kevin
Williamson. It appears Ms. Dunham has decided that the next phase of her
career will be as a public nuisance. That’s probably being unfair to Ms.
Dunham as it is assumes her transition is deliberate. Reading <a
href="http://womenarewatching.org/blog/lena-dunham-5-reasons-why-i-vote-and-you-should-too"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the piece</a> Kevin links to in his
column, it looks like Ms. Dunham is too stupid to plan something like
this. Consider <a
href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/10/02/lena-dunham-rape-story_n_5915328.html?cps=gravity"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a>.

*“Girls” creator Lena Dunham writes in her new memoir that she was raped
as a 19-year-old college student. Over the course of two chapters, she
explains that it took her years to come to terms with what happened and
to be able to talk about the complexities of her experience in a way
that felt truthful to her.*

*In the chapter “Girls & Jerks,” Dunham recalls an “ill-fated evening of
lovemaking” with an infamous on-campus Republican. Describing the
lead-up to the incident, she writes: “All I knew when I stumbled home
from a party behind him was that he was sullen, thuggish, and a poor
loser at poker. How that led to intercourse was a study in the way
revulsion can quickly become desire when mixed with the right muscle
relaxants.”*

*Dunham goes on to set the scene that unfolds between them in her
apartment, during which she thought the man was wearing a condom but
later realized he wasn’t. The condom, Dunham noticed, was actually
hanging from a nearby potted plant.*

Ms. Dunhm was never raped, of course. Ms. Dunham is a professional
fabulist and making stuff up is what she does well, relative to her
other talents. The give away is when she says, “come to terms with what
happened and to be able to talk about the complexities of her experience
in a way that felt truthful to her.” The reporter and Ms. Dunham may not
realize it, but this is just another way of saying it took her two years
to dream up this tale so that it sounded believable.

The current fad in the war on men is a recycling of an old favorite of
second wave feminism that says all sex is rape. The irony is that this
type of tantrum is the sort of thing June Cleaver would have done when
she was vexed with Ward. She would deny him her affection. Today, the
modern gals demand the boys get written permission before having sex. 
The gals over at womyn’s studies did everything they were told, but
biology will not yield to their demands. It’s just not fair!

Anyway, that’s one angle. The angle for Ms. Dunham is transitive
Mercerism. Dragging some sad sack on stage so everyone can feel bad for
him – and feel good about feeling bad for him in public – is nothing
new. Second tier entertainers have found an audience by going on stage
and pretending to empathize with the sad sack. That way the audience
gets to feel good about feeling joy over their hero relating to the sad
sack in a very personal way.

The self-absorbed like Ms. Dunham take it a step further and make claims
about being a victim. Rape fantasies are popular with the gals for some
reason. I suspect that’s because it’s hard to disprove and you sound
like a jerk if you call them a liar, like I’m doing here. It’s
solipsism, of course, but it is an effective way of becoming a public
irritant, which seems to be Ms. Dunham’s goal.

Her parents, according to her biography were attention whores who made a
nice living off modest talents. Ms. Dunham seems to have inherited those
gifts. I suppose if your desire is to be the sand in the nation’s
vagina, conjuring up PG-13 rape fantasies is oddly relevant.
