---
title: "Obama’s America"
date: "2014-04-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1388"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1388"
---

<a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/health/2014/03/26/justina-pelletier-to-remain-in-custody-massachusetts-judge-rules/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from
Massachusetts is a nice preview of what comes next with ObamCare.

*The family of Justina Pelletier, the 15-year-old girl at the center of
a battle spanning two states and two prestigious hospitals, is
devastated but defiant after a Massachusetts judge gave permanent
custody of the girl to the state’s Department of Children and Families.*

*Speaking a day after Massachusetts juvenile court Judge Joseph Johnston
issued a four-page ruling blasting Pelletier’s parents for being
verbally abusive and complicating efforts to bring the West Hartford,
Conn., family together, Lou Pelletier told Fox News Channel the Bay
State bureaucracy has been aligned against his family from the
beginning.*

What exactly happened that caused the state to take this child from her
parents?

*The Massachusetts Department of Children and Families took emergency
custody of Justina on Valentine’s Day 2013 after doctors at Tufts
Medical Center, which had been treating her for a rare condition, and
doctors as Boston Children’s Hospital, clashed over the cause of her
medical problems, which included difficulty eating and walking.*

*At Tufts, Justina had been treated for mitochondrial disease, a group
of rare genetic disorders affecting cellular energy production. When
Justina began experiencing some gastrointestinal problems, the Tufts
doctor treating her, Dr. Mark Korson, wanted the girl to visit Dr.
Alejandro Flores at Boston Children’s Hospital, according to the
family’s attorney, Phil Moran. Flores had treated Justina in the past,
Moran said, and Korson thought it beneficial for the teen to see a
gastroenterologist.*

*What happened next was a “tragic nightmare” for Justina and her family,
Moran told FoxNews.com.*

*Justina was taken by ambulance to Boston Children’s Hospital because
she was in a wheelchair at the time and a heavy snow storm was
blanketing the region. Because she arrived by ambulance, she was taken
directly into the hospital’s emergency room, where a “resident refused
to send her to Dr. Flores” and, “declared this was his case,” according
to Moran. He said the unnamed resident then called upon a psychologist
who diagnosed Justina with somatoform disorder — a mental condition in
which a patient experiences symptoms that are real but have no physical
or biological explanation. Justina was diagnosed with the disorder
“within 25 minutes,” Moran claims.*

*The Pelletier family rejected the new psychiatric diagnosis and wanted
to bring Justina back to Tufts, Moran said. He claims the hospital tried
to force the girl’s parents to sign papers preventing them from seeking
another opinion.*

*After tempers flared between the Pelletiers and staff at Boston
Children’s, the hospital notified the state that it suspected the
parents of medical child abuse.*

*The girl was kept at Boston Children’s psychiatric ward for nearly a
year, but was then slated to be transferred to another state facility.
Johnston said the family, which vented its anger in various media
interviews, hampered efforts to have her placed as near them as
possible. She is currently being held at the Wayside Youth and Family
Support Network facility in Framingham, Mass.*

This is how authoritarian regimes work. People always focus on the
violence, but the real tool of terror is the process. Innocent people
get tangled in a system that makes no sense and operates at the whim of
functionaries. Appeals to justice just anger the unaccountable
bureaucrats, who then use their knowledge of the system to torment the
person complaining about the system. The victims have no recourse.
There’s no one to whom they can appeal. The process is a punishment with
no appeal.
