---
title: "The Poor Door"
date: "2014-08-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2387"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2387"
---

Maybe landlords will label the doors “Gamma”, “Delta” or “Epsilon” and
give the tenants different keys based on their social standing. Perhaps
they will just make them scale a fence or navigate through obstacles to
get into the building. This story is not all that clear on the details,
<a
href="http://www.newsweek.com/new-york-city-approves-poor-door-luxury-apartment-building-260218"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">but the “poor door” is coming
to a reservation near you</a>.

*New York City has approved a developer’s Dickensian plan to include a
“poor door” in a luxury apartment complex in the Upper West Side.*

*The prospect of a separate entrance for lower-income residents has been
circulating for some time, but as the New York Post<a
href="http://nypost.com/2014/07/20/city-oks-uws-development-with-poor-door-for-residents/"
rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">reported</a> today,
plans by company Extell Development to put a separate entrance for
affordable housing tenants, who make 60 percent or less of median
income, in the 33-story condo have been given the green light. The
property will have 219 units, including 55 affordable units overlooking
the street. Those renting and buying the apartments at the market-rate
will have waterfront views.*

*The entrance is part of the Inclusionary Housing Program application,
under which developers can build larger projects if they also provide
low-income housing, either on- or off-site.*

The mock outrage by the snooty writer is tiresome. Liberals have been
self-segregating for years. They have driven most of the NAM population
out of San Francisco. They are doing the same in DC, where blacks are no
longer a majority. Similarly, gentrification in NYC is intended to drive
away the NAM population so young professionals like Lucy Westcott can
live in trendy urban neighborhoods.

Beyond that, it is just the natural evolution of the servant’s entrance.
Before we got all of these egalitarian ideas in our heads, it was simply
understood that the rich did not want to mix it up with the poor. Big
houses had a separate entrance for the cooks, nannies, gardeners and
other staff. For live-in staff, there were quarters on the edge of the
property or maybe above the carriage house or garage. No one thought it
strange or mean, especially not the servants. The poor have always known
their place.

*The approval of the entrance at 40 Riverside has prompted outrage, with
many on social media calling it nothing more than an updated version of
segregation. ThinkProgress’ report notes that issues affecting
low-income tenants in luxury buildings — which include not being allowed
to use perks like the gym or pools — usually fall on people of color.*

*Brooklyn Magazine points out that it’s “not an unusual scheme” to
include affordable housing units in fancy buildings that will remain,
for most people, mere real estate fantasies. But New York Magazine
reminds us that the entrance will serve the purpose of  “\[sparing\] all
the residents from the terrible awkwardness of regularly encountering
people whose lifestyles differ from theirs, or something.”*

The only people outraged are the credentialed urban lefties who think it
is grossly unfair that they don’t get to live like the over-class.
That’s the dirty little secret of the meritocracy. The truly poor now
live on welfare. The dwindling working class is supplemented by indirect
welfare payments like public schools, free health insurance and so
forth. The urban middle lass is now the servant class to the rich. Young
Lucy Westcott, is merely a servant for the rich people signing her
paychecks.

That’s why the people most outraged by inequality are the urban
credentialed lefties of the managerial class. They were told all along
they were special little snowflakes and destined to rule the world. Now
they find out that the rich are nothing like them and they will never be
in that class. Instead, they will be the modern equivalent of footmen,
chauffeurs and coat holders to the Mark Zuckerbergs of the world. They
don’t like it one bit, so we get these tantrums.
