---
title: "War With The States"
date: "2014-04-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1531"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1531"
---

Historians generally point to the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whiskey_Rebellion"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Whiskey Rebellion</a> as the
point at which the American public accepted the authority of the new
federal government. The aftermath established the limits to and avenues
for resisting the federal government. You could organize to get your
people in Congress, but you could not burn down the local offices and
hang the federal agents. In other words, the people had embraced the
authority of the new government as legitimate and therefor defensible.

The Civil War ushered in a new relationship between the citizen and the
national government. The states were no longer sovereign. If a state
cannot leave the union, it is no longer sovereign as a practical matter.
Put another way, the original republic was a government of consensus
among the states. After the Civil War, that consensus was no longer
required, as the states were now subordinate to the national government.

What is difficult to grasp is how it undermined the foundation of the
Republic. The government created by the Founders pitted the power of
sovereign states against the power of the federal government. Certain
rights were granted to each exclusively. The idea being that this
tension would put limits on both, thus providing the maximum amount of
liberty to the people.

Here were are 150 years on and this broken relationship staggers on. The
reason for this is that America is a big country with loads of
resources. Being rich and powerful cures a lot of ills. Even so, those
contradictions are there, slowing becoming fissures in the country.
There’s a limit to this papering over the problem and we may be reaching
that limit. <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/apr/18/harry-reid-blasts-bundy-ranch-supporters-domestic-/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Bundy Ranch imbroglio</a>
is possibly a hint of what’s to come.

Wealthy interests allied with powerful members of the national
government are stealing the property of citizens. All the technical
nonsense aside, that’s what is going on here and all over the country.
The federal government no longer represents the people, but rather it
represents the ruling class to the people. It’s job is to impose the
will of the ruling class, which is no longer connected to the people.

The trouble is the states are effectively bankrupt. That is, they are
not able to meet their cash requirements. They borrow to cover the gaps,
but that only delays the inevitable. As public pension liabilities come
home, the crisis will overcome the state’s ability to pay their bills.
<a
href="http://www.economicpolicyjournal.com/2010/05/32-states-have-borrowed-from-treasury.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">According to the numbers</a>,
32 states have been borrowing from the Fed to make ends meet.
Demographics tells us the problem is just starting. Simple mathematics
says it must get much worse.

In order to avoid collapse, states will be looking around for money.
They will be looking at the state resources that Harry Reid wants to
sell off to China. This means we are heading to a very serious problem. 
<a
href="http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/politics/57836973-90/utah-lands-lawmakers-federal.html.csp"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The states are already making
noises about regaining control of their lands</a>.

*It’s time for Western states to take control of federal lands within
their borders, lawmakers and county commissioners from Western states
said at Utah’s Capitol on Friday.*

*More than 50 political leaders from nine states convened for the first
time to talk about their joint goal: wresting control of oil-, timber
-and mineral-rich lands away from the feds.*

*“It’s simply time,” said Rep. Ken Ivory, R-West Jordan, who organized
the Legislative Summit on the Transfer for Public Lands along with
Montana state Sen. Jennifer Fielder. “The urgency is now.”*

*Utah House Speaker Becky Lockhart, R-Provo, was flanked by a dozen
participants, including her counterparts from Idaho and Montana, during
a press conference after the daylong closed-door summit. U.S. Sen. Mike
Lee addressed the group over lunch, Ivory said. New Mexico, Arizona,
Nevada, Wyoming, Oregon and Washington also were represented.*

*The summit was in the works before this month’s tense standoff between
<a href="http://bit.ly/RwnP2I" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy</a> and the Bureau of Land
Management over cattle grazing, Lockhart said.*

*“What’s happened in Nevada is really just a symptom of a much larger
problem,” Lockhart said.*

*Fielder, who described herself as “just a person who lives in the
woods,” said federal land management is hamstrung by bad policies,
politicized science and severe federal budget cuts.*

*“Those of us who live in the rural areas know how to take care of
lands,” Fielder said, who lives in the northwestern Montana town of
Thompson Falls.*

*“We have to start managing these lands. It’s the right thing to do for
our people, for our environment, for our economy and for our freedoms,”
Fielder said.*

*Idaho Speaker of the House Scott Bedke said Idaho forests and rangeland
managed by the state have suffered less damage and watershed degradation
from wildfire than have lands managed by federal agencies.*

*“It’s time the states in the West come of age,” Bedke said. “We’re
every bit as capable of managing the lands in our boundaries as the
states east of Colorado.”*

*Ivory said the issue is of interest to urban as well as rural
lawmakers, in part because they see oilfields and other resources that
could be developed to create jobs and fund education.*

*Moreover, the federal government’s debt threatens both its management
of vast tracts of the West as well as its ability to come through with
payments in lieu of taxes to the states, he said. Utah gets 32 percent
of its revenue from the federal government, much of it unrelated to
public lands.*

*“If we don’t stand up and act, seeing that trajectory of what’s coming
… those problems are going to get bigger,” Ivory said.*

*He was the sponsor two years of ago of <a
href="http://www.utah.gov/governor/news_media/article.html?article=6847"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">legislation, signed by Gov.
Gary Herbert, that demands</a> the federal government relinquish title
to federal lands in Utah. The lawmakers and governor said they were only
asking the federal government to make good on promises made in the 1894
Enabling Act for Utah to become a state.*

*The intent was never to take over national parks and wilderness created
by an act of Congress Lockhart said. “We are not interested in having
control of every acre,” she said. “There are lands that are off the
table that rightly have been designated by the federal government.”*

*A study is underway at the University of Utah to analyze how Utah could
manage the land now in federal control. That was called for in
<a href="http://bit.ly/1mkQ8vc" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">HB142, passed by the 2013 Utah Legislature</a>.*

*None of the other Western states has gone as far as Utah, demanding
Congress turn over federal lands. But five have task forces or other
analyses underway to get a handle on the costs and benefits, Fielder
said.*

*“Utah has been way ahead on this,” Fielder said.*

In fairness, there’s a bit of emotion and romanticism at work here. But,
money is at the root of the issue. The federal government owns a lot of
land. That land has value the states would like to exploit. The
resulting collision is inevitable. Bandits like Harry Reid versus the
states. Maybe this time we can address the errors of Lincoln.
