---
title: "Anarcho-Tyranny"
date: "2014-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1995"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1995"
---

The stoners over at Reason have themselves worked up into a lather over
<a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2014/05/30/us/georgia-toddler-injured-stun-grenade-drug-raid/index.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story</a> from Georgia.

*Members of a northeast Georgia SWAT team are “devastated” after a drug
raid in which a flash-bang grenade landed in a 1-year-old’s playpen,
seriously injuring the child, the Habersham County sheriff said Friday.*

*The police officers involved have been called baby killers and received
threats following the incident, Sheriff Joey Terrell said.*

*“All I can say is pray for the baby, his family and for us,” he told
CNN.*

*The SWAT team, made up of six or seven officers from the sheriff’s
department and the Cornelia Police Department, entered the Cornelia
residence Wednesday before 3 a.m.*

*A confidential informant hours earlier had purchased methamphetamine at
the house, the sheriff says. The informant told police that there were
men standing guard outside the home, and it was unclear whether they
were armed, <a
href="http://www.cbs46.com/story/25651317/toddler-severly-burned-by-flash-bang-in-habersham-co-drug-raid"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">according to CNN affiliate
WGCL</a>.*

*Because the suspected drug dealer, Wanis Thonetheva, had a previous
weapons charge, officers were issued a “no-knock warrant” for the
residence, Terrell said.*

*Wanis Thonetheva is being held without bond.*

*When the SWAT team hit the home’s front door with a battering ram, it
resisted as if something was up against it, the sheriff said, so one of
the officers threw the flash-bang grenade inside the residence.*

*Once inside the house, the SWAT team realized it was a portable playpen
blocking the door, and the flash-bang grenade had landed inside where
the 19-month-old was sleeping, the sheriff said.*

*A medic on the scene rushed the baby outside to administer first aid,
and a nearby ambulance was summoned. Authorities wanted to transport the
baby via Life Flight to Atlanta’s Grady Memorial Hospital, 75 miles
southwest of Cornelia, but weather conditions wouldn’t allow it. The
baby was driven to the hospital.*

Just in case you were wondering what someone named Wanis Thonetheva
looks like, cause you’re one of those lookists or noticers, here is his
mugshot.

<img
src="http://i2.cdn.turner.com/cnn/dam/assets/140530120910-wanis-thonetheva-story-body.jpeg"
class="box-image aligncenter" data-border="0" decoding="async"
width="300" height="169"
alt="Wanis Thonetheva is being held without bond. " />

Here’s his
<a href="https://www.facebook.com/wanist" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Facebook</a> page where you can see him flashing gang
signs.

<a
href="http://reason.com/blog/2014/05/30/sheriff-in-burned-baby-raid-wants-your-p"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The stoners at Reason</a> are
in a lather because the story involves drugs and that’s pretty much the
sole cause of libertarianism.

*Terrell has insisted his officers and those of the local police
department did nothing wrong and blamed the target of the warrant (not
found at the house that was invaded) on the attack on the toddler. A
chief assistant district attorney for the county, J. Edward Staples,
says the target of the warrant could in fact be charged for the injuries
the sheriff’s deputies caused the toddler. In an obvious attempt to
immunize himself and his office from liability, the sheriff has claimed
the situation was unavoidable even as he attempted to offer reassurances
that his SWAT team would be more diligent in the future. He told CNN
that his officers “obviously would have done things different” (IF they
knew there was a child in the home), like go in through a side door or
not use a flash bang. Until using violence to crack down on non-violent
“crimes” becomes politically untenable for “public servants,” it won’t
matter how much ass-covering law enforcement does after the fact, these
kinds of incidents will continue to happen.*

Of course, the elephant in the room is the fact we have a story about
Laotian drug dealers in Georgia. Was there ever a time that the people
of Georgia were longing for Laotian drug dealer to move into their
neighborhoods? I doubt it. Wanis may be a fine man and perfectly
innocent, but he has no business in America. He should be back in his
own lands where he will fit in with his people.

Then we have the paramilitary units we comically call law enforcement.
We refuse to enforce the basics of the law like keeping foreign invaders
out of the country. Instead, they blast down doors and play army man at
the expense of the citizenry. Whatever the circumstance that brought a
bunch of boat people to Georgia, it does not justify having armed gangs
terrorizing the people with authority of the state.

It is the epitome of anarcho-tyranny.
