---
title: "Charles Barkley Is Right"
date: "2014-11-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3185"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3185"
---

Thomas Sowell used to talk about the damage affirmative action in
college admissions did to black achievement. His argument was fairly
simple. Putting unqualified blacks into elite colleges like Stanford may
make white liberals feel good, but it just resulted in more blacks
flunking out of college. The black students that should be in Fresno
State, for example, were getting placed in UCLA. The blacks that should
be at UCLA were getting bumped up to Berkley. Affirmative action created
a cascading effect that damaged all blacks entering college.

Whether or not you agree with Sowell, putting people into a position for
which they are unqualified is a terrible idea, regardless of the
justification. It is one of the many ways the Left dehumanizes black
people. Affirmative action in college admissions has nothing to do with
helping black people. It is all about making the white people feel
noble. They get to retire to their all-white neighborhoods to boast
about how they are making the world a better place.

I’ve written here about the
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3093" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">corrosive effect of racial solidarity</a> amongst
blacks. When Charles Barkley said pretty much the same thing I’ve been
saying, I thought good things about Mr. Barkley. How could I not? He was
less elegant, but more to the point. <a
href="http://www.al.com/news/index.ssf/2014/10/unintelligent_blacks_brainwash.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Blacks are the people hold black people
back in America</a>.

*“We as black people are never going to be successful, not because of
you white people, but because of other black people. When you are black,
you have to deal with so much crap in your life from other black
people,” Barkley said.*

*Barkley, a native of Leeds, said African Americans are too concerned
with street cred than true success and that’s holding the community
back.*

*“For some reason we are brainwashed to think, if you’re not a thug or
an idiot, you’re not black enough. If you go to school, make good
grades, speak intelligent, and don’t break the law, you’re not a good
black person. It’s a dirty, dark secret in the black community.*

*“There are a lot of black people who are unintelligent, who don’t have
success. It’s best to knock a successful black person down because
they’re intelligent, they speak well, they do well in school, and
they’re successful. It’s just typical BS that goes on when you’re black,
man.”*

For some reason, I decided to check in on the Atlantic’s house, er,
black guy to see if he had picked up on it. Sure enough, <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2014/10/charles-barkley-and-the-plague-of-unintelligent-blacks/382022/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he had a post up</a>. Coates is a nice
fusion of what Sowell and Barkely are saying. The Atlantic is decorating
its site with Coates. They don’t really care what he has to say, how
could they? His arguments are juvenile and incoherent. I thought after
his embarrassing long essay on reparations that got so much attention,
he would have been ushered off and replaced. His sudden “sabbatical”
looked like a polite way of brooming the guy, but here he is.

Now, it very well may be that he is simply too dumb to realize he is an
ornament. He’s certainly too dumb to know he is who Barkley had in mind
when he talked about stupid blacks trying to tear down successful
blacks. Of course, this could not happen if the white people running the
Atlantic viewed blacks as something other than wrapping paper. Coates
may be a nice guy, but he should be covering high school sports for a
town paper, not writing essays for a major opinion journal. He is in way
over his head, but it is not his fault. The fault lies with the white’s
who hired him. The casacading effect of such decisions is their fault as
well.
