---
title: "Abdul Rahman Al Ghafiqi In Paris"
date: "2014-03-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1362"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1362"
---

A long time ago I encountered a story about Sikhs in Minnesota. I
thought it odd that Sikhs would emigrate to a place that was very white
and very cold. It turned out that America and Canada imported scads of
them for some reason. That spawned the image in my head of people
walking around Minneapolis saying, “You know what would make this place
better? Sikhs! We need a bunch of swarthy looking fellows who wear
filthy hats and rarely bath. That will make this place perfect.”

It is a ridiculous image and it is intended to be. The people who
decided to import roughly a million Sikhs never expected to live
anywhere near them. In Georgetown and Bethesda, you will find no Sikhs.
In Chris Mathews’ neighborhood, Chevy Chase Village, you will not find
any Sikhs (or blacks or Latinos for that matter). America’s ruling class
is insulated from the consequences of their decisions. It’s why they
decided to dump a bunch of Somalis into Lewiston Maine. Let the little
people deal with them.

Anyway, that came to mind when <a
href="http://www.jpost.com/Jewish-World/Jewish-News/Assailants-break-Jewish-teachers-nose-in-Paris-draw-swastika-on-chest-346218"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I saw this story on Drudge</a>.
Well, my first thought was “I see the French still hate the Jews.” The
French are not the worst Jew-haters on the planet, but they are not
immune to some tribal hatred. Jews have been in what is now France since
the Roman Empire and since then they have been at odds with the local
population. Of course, what defines local population has changed so much
thanks to immigration, the locals are no longer French.

*A Jewish teacher from Paris told police that three men had assaulted
and cursed him in Arabic before drawing a swastika on his chest.*

*The attack occurred on Thursday night, according to a report by the
Drancy-based Bureau for National Vigilance Against Anti-Semitism, a
watchdog group known as BNVCA.*

*“They pressed him to the wall and hit his face, around the eyes and on
his chest,” the report said. The blows broke his nose and deformed it,
according to the report.*

*“One of the perpetrators opened the victim’s shirt and with a black
marker drew a swastika on the man’s bare chest,” BNVCA president Sammy
Ghozlan wrote in the BNVCA report.*

*The victim, who was wearing a kippah at the time of the attack, was
identified as K. Richard. He was treated for a broken nose and
lacerations on his face on Thursday night.*

*He told police that the three men whoa attacked him appeared to be of
North African descent and were in their twenties. They cornered him as
he was exiting a kosher restaurant on Manin Street in Paris’ 19th
arrondissement, near the Gare du Nord train station.*

*The shouted “death to the Jews” and called him “dirty Jew” in French
and also shouted insults in Arabic which Richard did not understand, the
BNVCA report said.*

Of course. It was Arabs. France did not have enough problems, so they
decided to invite in a population of mostly useless people. That’s a
problem all by itself, but those useless important also have a real
hatred of Jews. Were Frenchmen wandering around Paris saying to one
another, “This city really needs some Muslims so that the Jews can have
an enemy again!”? Of course not. The French people never wanted this,
but it was forced on them and they have to live with it.

The French are the most chauvinistic people on the continent. They hate
pretty much everyone that is not French. There’s nothing wrong with it.
I wish my country was a bit more chauvinistic. Instead of inviting the
world and invading the world, maybe we would mind our own business a bit
more. That’s what makes the madness so stunning. The French are a
proudly chauvinistic. They’ve also had to deal with some hostile
neighbors a time or two. They also have Charles Martel in their history
books.

Somewhere, Abdul Rahman Al Ghafiqi is laughing.
