---
title: "Ta-Nehisi Coates : Bigot or Honest?"
date: "2014-02-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1132"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1132"
---

The word “bigot” like the word “racist” has become nothing more than a
synonym for “bad” as used by the Left.  It is a part of the Left’s war
on language. If you brought in ten left-wing intellectuals and asked
them to write down five principles of fascism, you would get a dozen
responses. Some would require years to finish the answer. The same is
true of racism. They would all agree that racism is bad, but what
actually constitutes racism is a mystery that must be provided to them
by others.

Professional lunatic Tim Wise has made a career, as it were, <a
href="http://www.timwise.org/2010/07/reading-racism-right-to-left-reflections-on-a-powerful-word-and-its-applications/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">trying to write a definition
of the word</a>. The word “bigot” has gone in for the same treatment,
except it basically means anyone who rustles the Left. You get called a
bigot, for example, if you don’t want homosexual males showering with
your kids at school. You are a bigot if your wife stays at home with the
kids. Even so, we are still allowed to keep dictionaries and we can look
up the definition of these words. Here’s the entry for bigot from
Webster’s

*a person who is obstinately or intolerantly devoted to his or her own
opinions and prejudices; especially**:**  one who regards or treats the
members of a group (as a racial or ethnic group) with hatred and
intolerance*

Note the modifier. A bigot is someone that has an *irrational*
intolerance or fear of something or someone. Refusing to have dealings
with Catholics because you think the Pope is trying to control the world
is bigotry. Refusing to have dealings with the Mafia because you think
they may try to kill you is not bigotry. The former is not based on any
known facts, while the later is based on mountains of evidence and
history.

On the other hand, refusing to have dealings with Catholics because you
you don’t like them and think Catholicism is an offense to God is
rational. If you are a devout Muslim, for example, you think Catholics
and all Christians are enemies of God. They are non-believers, which you
are commanded by Allah to oppose. If you are truly devout, you have
nothing to say to these people other than “submit or die.”

This brings us to the point of this post. The increasingly famous Mr.
Coates has been obsessing over the <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2014/02/16/justice/florida-loud-music-trial/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Michael Dunn</a> murder case.
For those unfamiliar, this is the case of white man shooting a black.  A
middle-aged white guy shot and killed a young black male at a gas
station. The black male was playing loud music, as is their custom, and
the old white guy took exception. An argument ensued and the white guy
pulled a gun and started shooting, killing 19-year old Jordan Davis.

To get on TV, the state prosecutor wildly over-charged the white guy
with first degree murder. The jury chose to convict on attempted murder,
which will put the white guy away for the rest of his life, given the
sentencing guidelines and his age. Given the notoriety, the white guy
will be murdered in prison within five years. That’s just a reality of
the modern prison system. Famous prisoners always have a target on them,
but famous racists have a special bounty on them from the blacks.

A rational person would look at the events and conclude the jury got it
as right as they were allowed. If the prosecutor was not a fool, he
would have properly charged the case and Dunn would have been found
guilty of murder. Instead, we have a result that black victimologist can
wave around as proof they are being hunted by evil white devils. One of
them is Mr. Coats, the subject of this post. <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/02/i-am-still-called-by-the-god-i-serve-to-walk-this-out/284064/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">His latest post</a> is an
interview of sorts with the victim’s mother.

*Last Thursday, I took my son to meet Lucia McBath, because he is 13,
about the age when a black boy begins to directly understand what his
country thinks of him. His parents cannot save him. His parents cannot
save both his person and his humanity. At 13, I learned that whole
streets were prohibited to me, that ways of speaking, walking, and
laughing made me a target. That is because within the relative peace of
America, great violence—institutional, interpersonal, existential—marks
the black experience. The progeny of the plundered were all around me in
West Baltimore—were, in fact, me.*

What the country thinks of his son is not rooted in superstition. When
adults confront a teenage male, they immediately begin to assess the
risk. Young males are by nature, the most dangerous members of any human
society. In America, young black males commit almost a third of the
homicides, despite being just 3% of the population. Unless you are from
another planet, you know this. Mr. Coates knows it too. That’s why he no
longer lives in West Baltimore and instead lives with white people.

That’s the important bit to know about West Baltimore. It is and has
been 100% black since Mr. Coates has been alive. It is a crime ridden
war zone because it is run by out of control black youth gangs. He knows
that. His father certainly knew it. His father claims to have been a
Black Panther, but was most likely just another looter in the riots of
1968. For anyone of any race to be a little cautious if not frightened
by young black males is simply acknowledging observable reality.

The question of the post is whether Mr. Coates is honest or a bigot. We
can dispense with honest as it is clear he is not being very honest.
Unless he has brain damage or has had a psychotic break, he certainly
knows the greatest threat to his son is not a white guy at a Florida gas
station. He also knows the real reason people are wary around young
black males. He could simply say he hates this reality and wishes it
were otherwise. That would be honest. Instead he conjures another
reason.

Mr. Coates keeps using the word “plundered” to describe blacks in
America. The idea, I surmise, is that blacks are in this degraded state
due to white racism. His coevals in West Baltimore were joining gangs
and shooting each other because long ago a white guy did bad things to
their ancestors. Alternatively, the rules of society make young black
males into homicidal maniacs, despite the fact most black males are not
homicidal maniacs. Whatever works to excuse the behavior is the rule
here.

The fact is, Coates, like all American blacks, is entirely defined by
his relationship with white Americans. He is incapable of being
grateful, because it would strip him of his sense of purpose, his reason
to exist. Therefore, the never ending blood feud must be continued
generation after generations. It’s a superstition now, where blacks are
trained to fear whites, even though whites are coddling blacks to a
degree never seen. His irrational fear of whites makes him a bigot,
according to Webster’s.
