---
title: "A Generation of Sociopaths"
date: "2014-07-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1526"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1526"
---

Humans are wired to distrust outsiders. In the very early days of man,
about 50,000 years ago, humans lived in very small bands of territorial
hunter-gathers. The reason for this is the species was hyper-violent and
hyper-aggressive. In a world where every ape that looks like you could
and would crush your skull with a rock at any minute, identifying friend
and foe was vital. The easy solution was to stick together in relatively
small kin groups. Trust your family and no one else.

The mechanisms for identifying friends evolved over time along with our
complex relationships with one another. The mechanism for identifying
foes was much simpler. If you are not a friend, it is assumed you are a
foe. Evolution does not pick the best solution. It picks the simplest
ones that work.

People who study these things tell us that altruism was one of the first
modern human character traits to evolve. Trusting strangers is a big
deal in human evolution. You cannot have much of a society without the
capacity for trusting unrelated people. Males in particular have to have
a way to trust unrelated males. Otherwise, you have to guard your women
all the time. Figuring out how unrelated males can coexist was a big
deal in human evolution. It made settlement possible. A bunch of dudes
who are unrelated, but agree not to bang each other’s women, working in
concert is a force multiplier.

Without getting too deep in the weeds on evolution stuff, the point is
that civilization is about trust. That encompasses a lot more than just
being able to leave your house without worrying about your old lady
getting it on with the mailman. It is about willingly taking on
obligations, even when the payoff is not obvious. It is about agreeing
to settle disputes within a set of rules, administered by the rest of
society. It is about preserving today for those who have yet to be born.

Anyway, what got me going on this is [this post from Jim
Geraghty](http://www.nationalreview.com/campaign-spot/382093/america-better-or-worse-if-conservatives-will-do-anything-win-jim-geraghty).
Most of it is nonsense, but there’s something of value lurking in it.
That would be my great comment.

*Well, the next generation is more transactional. This is something
business and the military are struggling with as they hire, train and
develop millenials. This generation puts lifestyle and personal goals
ahead of all else. They are not interested in work that is uninteresting
or routine. They need constant positive feedback either from superiors
or through participation in a team.*

*The result is this generation has little emotional investment in work.
They will walk away from a job if they don’t feel it is satisfying, even
if that means leaving co-workers and friends in a difficult position.
Anyone watching millenials take over a family business has seen them cut
ties with long term employees and vendors on a whim.*

*How this will play out in society is seldom discussed. The military is
spending a lot of time and money trying to get ahead of it. Retention of
young officers is an enormous concern right now. Politically, we may be
a facing a generation of sociopaths incapable of seeing past the
immediate value of policy. These are not the sort of folks likely to
carry a heavy burden to finance their parents retirement.*

I’m not the first person to pick up on this. In fact, the military has
been spending a lot of time and energy trying to figure how to adjust to
the new generation. <a
href="http://www.scribd.com/doc/213511197/Keep-a-Weather-Eye-on-the-Horizon-A-Navy-Officer-Retention-Study"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This paper</a> from the Navy
on the challenges they face in retaining young officers is very
interesting. If you scroll down to page seven you get this:

*Numerous studies have been conducted that evaluate the differences
between significant workplace demographics, most notably between Baby
Boomers (1946-1964), Generation X (1965-1980), and Millennials
(1981-1995). One of the most concise is a recently concluded study
jointly conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers, University of Southern
California, and London Business School. This 2011-2012 joint study
collected data from more than 40,000 respondents, including a set of
13,150 PricewaterhouseCoopers employees (9,120 Millennials and 4,030
non-Millennials) at the same point in their career. Some notable
differences between Millennials and their Non-Millennial counterparts
include:*

-   -   *Millennial employees are unconvinced that excessive work
        demands are worth the sacrifices to their personal life.*
    -   *Millennials say that creating a strong cohesive, team-oriented
        culture at work and providing opportunities for interesting
        work—including assignments around the world—are important to
        their workplace happiness, even more so than their non-
        Millennial counterparts.*
    -   *While the same basic drivers of retention exist for both
        Millennials and non-Millennials, their relative importance
        varies, with Millennials placing a greater emphasis on being
        supported and appreciated*

*Addressing retention, the report notes “Generational differences do
exist among Millennials and non-Millennials, and should be taken into
account by organizations that include employees from both groups. For
example, Millennials are more likely to leave if their needs for
support, appreciation and flexibility are not met, while non-Millennials
are more likely to leave if they feel they are not being paid
competitively, or due to a perceived lack of development opportunities.”
This has alarming implications for senior leadership, since the
traditional top-down approach and differences in generational
perspectives are likely to hinder cross-generational communication.*

*Another concern is the Millennial’s perspective on employment, which
takes a more “transactional approach” than that exhibited by Baby Boomer
or Generation X officers. In general, this younger generation is not
emotionally invested or tied down by 4-8 years of naval service.
Instead, Millennials are more willing to vote with their feet if they
feel their needs aren’t being met, forcing the service to adapt or
subsequently fall victim to a lack of talent as disenfranchised service
members leave – reducing the talent pool that will produce our future
senior leaders.*

Anyone who has seen a Millennial take over a family business has
probably seen the behavior described in the Navy paper. Long time
employees are jettisoned and vendor relationships are broken. It is not
a money grab. it’s just a weird need to personalize everything, even to
the point of self harm. The Millennial will cut loose the old trusted
option and replace it with something novel, because it makes them feel
special or empowered. Their emotions count for everything.

Employing this generation is a challenge to every business owner. I know
of a few companies that quietly avoid hiring this generation. They will
hire a college grad, but they avoid hiring the 25-35 year old. The
reason is they are, as one guy I know put it, “lazy clock punchers that
make more demands than they are worth. I’d rather hire a retired guy or
a single mom. They may need time off, but they work hard and are
grateful.” The guy I’m paraphrasing is not a geezer, but a guy in his
forties.

A generation that has no loyalties and no concept of loyalty is going to
be a problem in a welfare state with staggering debt obligations. Throw
in the fact that these folks are only interested in that which elevates
their self-esteem and you have a serious problem on the horizon. A
generation willing to say “fuck it” and walk away from a good job,
leaving friends and colleagues to struggle, is not going to be paying
high taxes for granny. They would very likely support turning granny
into dog chow if that’s more convenient.

That leads me back to where I started. This is a low-trust generation.
They have to be. If you’re willing to cut loose a long time employee
because you feel like it or send granny to the dog food plant because
you can’t be bothered, *no one is going to trust you*.

A generation of perpetual toddlers unwilling to commit to anything that
does not make them feel like special little snowflakes is hardly going
to bite the bullet for societal obligations. I don’t think we’re looking
at <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Late_Bronze_Age_collapse"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Late Bronze Age collapse,</a>
but American society is about to veer off into a low-trust direction.
History says that brings consequences not good for civilizational
progress.
