---
title: "Islam in Drag"
date: "2014-09-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2860"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2860"
---

Many of us out on the fringes have been pondering the series of weird
moral panics and cultural shifts that have been coming at us for a long
time now. The weird thing is the culture war seemed to be running out of
steam in the Clinton years. He was a degenerate, but not much of a
culture warrior. Polling showed the public had turned on the family
issues like abortion and divorce. Even Bill Clinton was talking about
abortion being “rare, legal and safe.”

Then things went bonkers again. Homosexual rights quickly sprung up with
groups like Act Out and then, of course, homosexual marriage was on us.
That was 15 years ago, maybe? That fight raged and then the ground
shifted again. The trannies were suddenly in the street demanding I’m
not sure what. Today brings news that the [Feds are
suing](http://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/newsroom/release/9-25-14e.cfm) a company
for discriminating against trannies. It won’t be long before they are
forced to make cakes for them.

It’s easy to let the freakishness of it all distract from what’s really
going on. Many on the right make that error, thinking the issue is the
issue. They never stop and wonder why *these* issues. Steve Sailer has
written about the bigger picture, but I suspect he just finds it all too
amusing to waste much time on it. Frankly, I fall into this trap as
well. The material is just too rich to leave untended. The jokes write
themselves.

In my more lucid moments I used to think it was all part of the suicidal
impulse of the Left. As I’ve written before, people join movements out
of self-loathing. They seek to replace their identity with that of the
group. It is a form of self-obliteration. Get enough of these people
together heading in the wrong direction and they are soon shopping for
[alien abduction insurance and
Phenobarbital](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heaven%27s_Gate_%28religious_group%29).
In a political cult like Liberalism, they try to tear down the
structures of civil society. In other words, all of these causes are a
means to an end and have little to do with helping the oppressed
minorities, real or imagined.

Sitting atop a mountain, cross-legged in quiet contemplation, it
occurred to me that the latest rounds of moral panics about the big bad
NFL are a piece with the current war on normal. We have male players
acting poorly towards women and children. Further, we have alpha male
owners not disciplining those players to the satisfaction of the Cult.
Worse yet, the big dog at the top of the NFL has not been groveling
sufficiently. Compounding it is the fact the NFL is a tough guy, manly
man league. It ain’t soccer.

Outside of football, the sporting press is forever ranting about
fighting in hockey. They want the beaning of hitters in baseball
eliminated. They hate the physical play in basketball, a sport no one
would confuse with a tough guy sport. Boxing, of course, has been pushed
to the fringes.of course, you have the berserk fanaticism on the Left
for
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2047" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">chav ball</a>. It is the one sport that boys and girls
can play together.

Outside of sports, you have the mania for doping up boys so they don’t
act like boys in school. As soon as a boy shows some spunk a bureaucrat
is racing to the scene with a handful of Ritalin to “fix” the boy and
make sure he stops acting like a boy. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/388767/university-forcing-its-fraternities-admit-women-ensure-equality-katherine-timpf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> the other day
on NRO is emblematic of the war of males congregating without women. The
insanity of forcing “fraternities” to admit women is no impediment to
the war on men.

It is the one thread you see running through all of this. I’d include
the war on women nonsense that was a part of the last campaign. All of
these things are a reaction to and a rejection of what has been a part
of western culture’s sense of masculinity. The new religion of America
is going to be a feminine religion, one where women and the traits of
women are dominant over men and the traits of men. That’s why the
hysterical response to the NFL. It’s attempts to attract women and
appeal beyond working class males is a threat to the new religion.

Interestingly, the other great religion of our day is Islam, an over the
top masculine faith. From the start it has been about the dominant males
dominating the other males. Women have no place in Islam. They have a
minimal role in Islamic life. If you look at old photos from Muslim
countries, you see women dressed like normal women of the day. That was
a time when Islam was on the wane. Once Islam revived, the women were
put  back in their bags and into the back rooms.

If you look at how Islam polices itself, it is hard not to see the
parallels to what is going on in America. The two religions are mirrors
of one another. In Islam, heretics and enemies are not just killed, they
become trophies. Throughout history, the victor has held up the severed
head of the vanquished. The loser has offered his neck to the winner.
The last act of an honorable man, who has been defeated, is to offer up
his neck to his better.

On the other side of the coin, we see heretics and enemies humiliated
and forced to grovel. They are not confronted or physically harmed, they
are shamed and forced to confront themselves through the public apology.
Shame has always been the way women were punished in western societies.
A man would get a beating, while a woman would be publicly humiliated
with the scarlet letter or a turn in the dunking chair. That’s what we
see with the Cult today. The accused is forced to recant in public and
grovel for mercy.

We’ve had a glimpse of the end game for Islam. In Iran, where Islam is
absolute, fertility rates have collapsed. David Goldman claims there are
more prostitutes in Tehren than mothers. That may be an exaggeration,
but the TFR is 1.8, well below replacement. When you net out the
non-Persian in the hinterland with their high fertility, the numbers are
worse. Across the Islamic world, the rise of Islam brings a fall in
fertility. That can only go on for so long before it all falls apart.

Similarly, the West has seen fertility rates collapse. The argument from
the Cult is rising education levels result in fewer children. That does
not change the fact that fewer children means fewer people. The logical
end is no people.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2495" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">I’ve written before</a> that we are living in a
different sort of Iran. Ours is a highly feminine version where women
seek to dominate men. The results appear to be similar. The difference
is the West has a store of value built up over 500 years of progress.
Otherwise, our mullahs wear pants suits.
