---
title: "We Finally Catch A Break"
date: "2014-10-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3060"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3060"
---

Since forever, the children of successful men have often taken up
positions in the ruling class once they reached adulthood. <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/The-Son-Also-Rises-Princeton/dp/0691162549"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Some would argue that it is genetic</a>.
The able male finds a high quality mate and the result is a child with
the genetic stuff to follow in the father’s footsteps. Others would
argue that it is
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slipstream_%28disambiguation%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">slipstreaming</a>. The successful male
blazes a path for his children. The unencumbered route to the ruling
class is easy to traverse, even for the average, compared to blazing
your own path. The dull-witted child of a billionaire is going to have a
better shot at attending Harvard than the smart kid from the projects.

Maybe it is a combination of things, as is always the case. I don’t
know, but I do know Americans have been cursed by a few dynastic
families. The Roosevelt’s did a lot to damage the country. The Kennedy
clan may be the biggest blight on a nation since Agrippina found a
husband. We’ve been lucky too. Some of our worst politicians like Jimmy
Carter and Richard Nixon did not have kids interested in politics. At
least they never made a go of it.

It looks like we dodged another bullet. Our semi-retarded vice
president’s oldest kid is probably going to be the next governor of
Delaware. Luckily, that’s a ticket to nowhere, but he’ll surely end up
inn the Senate one day, taking up the seat held by his father as the
dumbest man in the Senate. Biden’s other kid was hoping to run the same
game with joining the National Guard as a lawyer so he could put “war
hero” on his campaign website. Luckily, <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/articles/bidens-son-hunter-discharged-from-navy-reserve-after-failing-cocaine-test-1413499657"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he was thrown out for drug abuse</a>.

*Vice President Joe Biden ’s son Hunter was discharged from the Navy
Reserve this year after testing positive for cocaine, according to
people familiar with the matter.*

*Hunter Biden, a lawyer by training who is now a managing partner at an
investment company, had been commissioned as an ensign in the Navy
Reserve, a part-time position. But after failing a drug test last year,
his brief military career ended.*

*Mr. Biden, 44 years old, decided to pursue military service relatively
late, beginning the direct-commission process to become a public-affairs
officer in the Navy Reserve in 2012. Because of his age—43 when he was
to be commissioned—he needed a waiver to join the Navy. He received a
second Navy waiver because of a drug-related incident when he was a
young man, according to people familiar with the matter. Military
officials say such drug waivers aren’t uncommon.*

*Mr. Biden was commissioned as an ensign on May 7, 2013, and assigned to
Navy Public Affairs Support Element East in Norfolk, Va., a reserve
unit, according to the Navy. In June 2013, after reporting to his unit
in Norfolk, he was given a drug test, which turned up positive for
cocaine, according to people familiar with the situation. Mr. Biden was
discharged in February, the Navy said.*

*Mr. Biden said in a statement that it was “the honor of my life to
serve in the U.S. Navy, and I deeply regret and am embarrassed that my
actions led to my administrative discharge. I respect the Navy’s
decision. With the love and support of my family, I’m moving forward.”*

We still have one hapless nitwit from the Biden clan in the pipe, but at
least we avoided having a second putz from that deformed family tree.
