---
title: "Teacher Delusions"
date: "2014-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1988"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1988"
---

I don’t have a strong interest in education policy. I tend to agree with
John Derbyshire’s analysis of American public education. The very short
version is the schools are run by an unassailable cartel and no reform
is possible. Critiques from the conventional Right all miss this point,
which is why they go nowhere. Reform efforts from the Left are largely
based in Rousseauist nonsense and therefore doomed from the start. That
leaves it a pretty dry subject as far as I’m concerned.

That’s why I could not restrain myself from commenting on <a
href="http://handleshaus.wordpress.com/2014/06/01/seeking-educational-alpha/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post by Nick Steves</a>
at Handle’s Haus. Steves is a sharp guy with some interesting things to
say. There’s too much Moldbuggery for my taste, but that’s a topic for
another day. It’s a well reasoned technocratic reform plan that has no
chance of adoption. I tried to point that out, but Steves is a prickly
guy and there’s little point in engaging him. I bring it up only to
point out that education policy seems to make people crazy. I don’t get
it, but I don’t understand the fascination with a lot of things.

The people it makes most crazy seems to be teachers. It is the one thing
about education I find fascinating. Teachers are some of the most
deluded people you will find in modern America. Years back I had a
conversation with a gal who was fresh out of college and in her first
teaching job. She was complaining about the pay, the hours and the fact
that she was taking work home. It was one of those times when you feel
old, listening to a young person complain about reality.

I tried to explain to her that lots of people take work home and they
also work during the summer too. I also pointed out that most college
grads were not making $55,000 per year for eight months work. She tried
to argue back on these points, but there’s not much that can be said.
Most jobs in America are tougher than being a teacher and pay a lot
less, but I got no where with her. Of course, this was not the first of
the last time I had this conversation with a government worker.

I thought of that when reading
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/cops-v-teachers-in-the-2010s/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post at Sailer’s new
shop</a>. The post was actually a post from Education Realist, someone I
assumed was somewhat realistic about education. Again, we see the
delusions about the realities of teaching. It is a really good gig
compared to most jobs. The pay is good, the benefits are outstanding,
the hours are excellent and you get summers off. Yet, teachers think
they have it tough. Even when this is pointed out that still carry on
like Job.

I pointed out that the retention rate for teachers is pretty high
compared to all private sector fields. If you look at <a
href="http://nces.ed.gov/surveys/sass/tables/sass1112_2013314_t1s_003.asp"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this table from the DoE</a>,
teachers just about die in their jobs. The average age is 40 and the
average tenure is 14 years. That number is only going up based on
demographics. Over 40% of teachers have been on the job for more than 15
years. Generous pension plans means they are not walking away for late
life career changes. Reveal;ed preference says teachers have it quite
good.

What I find very weird about teachers is they seem to think they lack
respect. You never hear this from people in the dreaded private sector.
Lawyers take more abuse than almost any profession. You never hear them
bitch about it. Car sales has to be at the bottom of legitimate work and
they joke about that fact. Public sector employees always worry about
status and no group frets over it more than teachers. Any criticism is
treated like an assault upon their person.

All of this nuttiness is most likely due to an absolute avoidance of
several truths about human biology. One is that not all people are equal
in IQ. The goal of making everyone above average is madness. Then you
have issues of race that were not a lot to talk about in public. Sex
differences are another thing we are not supposed to notice. When you
exclude large chunks of reality from your view of the world, you are
bound to end up in a very weird place.
