---
title: "Bend Over"
date: "2014-12-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3332"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3332"
---

<a
href="http://bigstory.ap.org/article/29ecf0ea763742289410cccce743f3ce/house-leaders-move-plan-fund-government"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here it comes.</a> The great Republican
sellout of their voters is coming earlier than anyone expected.

*Trying to avoid a showdown over immigration, House Republican leaders
are moving to make a deal with Democrats to pass a spending bill that
would keep the government running past next week.*

*The emerging strategy follows legislation passed Thursday by the House
declaring President Barack Obama’s executive actions to curb
deportations of immigrants in the U.S. illegally to be “null and void.”
That legislation wasn’t enough for some conservatives, who complained
that the only way to stop Obama’s actions on immigration would be to
forbid them in legislation that must pass if the government is to stay
open.*

*Republican leaders are opposed to that course of action, fearing a
government shutdown that they don’t want, and they plan to rely on
Democratic votes to pass a bill to keep the government going.*

*House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said Friday that Democrats were
committed to keeping the government open, but she warned that
Republicans could lose their support if they include too many
contentious so-called policy riders in the spending bill, on issues like
school lunch nutrition standards and water quality.*

*“We haven’t seen the bill. But there are some very destructive riders
in it that would be unacceptable to us and, I think, unacceptable to the
American people,” Pelosi said.*

*“The responsibility to keep government open is theirs. If the bill is
anything that we can support, we will,” added Pelosi, who has more
leverage in the negotiations because of Boehner’s likely need to rely on
her to deliver Democratic votes.*

*The spending bill would pay for the operations of most government
agencies for a year while extending the Homeland Security Department
operations only for a few months. Homeland Security includes the
immigration agencies that would carry out Obama’s executive actions, so
the approach would allow Republicans to revisit them early next year,
once they have control of the Senate and a bigger majority in the
House.*

*“We think this is the most practical way to fight the president’s
action,” House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said.*

*Several conservative lawmakers sounded resigned Thursday to being
ignored by Boehner, who with a bigger majority next year will have more
room to maneuver around balky tea party lawmakers.*

My friends on the Right get cross with me when I say there’s little
difference between the parties. They pound their shoe on the table
shouting “There’s a world of difference between the parties!” The fact
that no one can ever point to anything where the parties differ all that
much is ignored. People want to believe.

Between now and the 2016 election, ObamaCare will become more entrenched
and Obama will incrementally amnesty 20 million illegals. Occasionally
we’ll hear shouts of protest from
<a href="http://images.huffingtonpost.com/2010-12-13-Boehner.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Weepy</a> and
<a href="http://grist.files.wordpress.com/2011/09/mitch-mcconnell.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Droopy</a>, but they will do nothing
about it. America faces the same problem the Brits are struggling with
now. In America, there’s no party for the majority, just two parties
trying to represent the elites. In Britain the void is being filled by
UKIP. No such possibility exists in America so we’re doomed to
state-party rule where the official parties are just the two faces of
the ruling oligarchy.
