---
title: "Empty Cradles"
date: "2014-04-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1510"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1510"
---

Humans are a product of their culture and their genetics, both of which
are thoroughly tangled up with one another. One of the more ridiculous
things about the Left is they are convinced evolution stopped at the
neck. They think all people are the same between the ears. It is why
they chant about ethnocentrism and diversity. Yet, as our elites make
war on the rest of the world’s cultures, they barely stop to listen to
the complaints from those cultures. The <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/ukraine-brink-civil-war-russian-pm-144443553.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">recent troubles in the
Ukraine</a> are one such case.

Another is the Middle East, particularly Islam. <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/apr/15/iran-ban-vasectomies-birthrate"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from Iran is a
good example. In the West, it has been a matter of faith that we have
too many humans. Therefore, setting up abortion mills in the schools,
putting girls on birth control and severely limiting our “carbon
footprint” are ways to thin the herd. It’s eugenics with a smiley face.
It’s also worked. If you look at the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_sovereign_states_and_dependent_territories_by_fertility_rate"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Total Fertility Rate</a> (TFR)
by country, you see that the West is well below replacement just about
everywhere.

The ruling class thinks this is just a good start. They would like to
see the population decimated, particularly the white portion. Iran,
particularly, and the rest of Islam is generally of a different mind.
Iran has a TFR of 1.67 and that may be overstated, given how they
collect this data. Persians are the majority population, but not the
only population. Their TFR is certainly much lower than the whole, as
the minority populations are in the countryside,w here fertility is
higher.

*Iran’s parliament is seeking a ban on vasectomies and a tightening of
abortion rules as the country moves away from its progressive laws on
family planning in an attempt to increase the birthrate.*

*Two decades after Iran initiated an effective birth control programme,
including subsidised male sterilisation surgeries and free condom
distribution, the country is to make a U-turn.*

*Last year the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, criticised
existing policy on contraception, describing it as an imitation of
western lifestyle.*

*The 74-year-old has urged the government to tackle what he believes to
be an ageing population and to double the number of people in Iran from
77 million to at least 150 million.*

*This week Tehran’s conservative-dominated parliament, the Majlis, voted
to discuss banning vasectomies and introducing punishments for those
involved in encouraging contraceptive services and abortions, local
agencies reported.*

*The semi-official Fars news agency
<a href="http://www.farsnews.com/newstext.php?nn=13930124000597"
data-link-name="in body link" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_self">reported</a> that an overwhelming majority of Iranian MPs
had consented to consider the bill. Given the influence of Khamenei
among MPs, the proposals are likely to pass.*

*“**If we move forward like this, we will be a country of elderly people
in a not too distant future**,” Khamenei said in October, according to
Fars. “Why do some \[couples\] prefer to have one … or two children? Why
do men or women avoid having children through different means?*

That’s what the numbers tell us. In fact, Islam in general is headed for
a demographic nightmare never seen on this planet. They have stopped
making babies. This comes after a couple of decades of astronomical
birth rates. The result is nations full of young middle-aged people
right now. Two decades from now it means nations full of people on the
cusp of old age. In the West, technology and stored wealth will permit
us to get past the Baby Boom retirement without societal collapse –
maybe.

In Iran, this is not a possibility. They need a steady birth rate in
order to maintain their economy and social cohesion. In America, Iran’s
obsession with babies seems strange and barbaric, but they are actually
ahead of the game a little. The Iranians understand the relationship
between culture and biology. They also understand the need to maintain
their culture. Western ruling elites think they have transcended these
biological truths, so they look at Iran as a land of barbarians.

That’s what Iran gets and what the Russians get. Putin is further ahead
in this game because he knows something the Iranians can’t quite grasp.
That is the old Greek saying. “A successful people have old men who
plant trees in whose shade they will never rest.” In other words, men
who think their decedents will remember them act differently than men
who can’t imagine having decedents. A whole lot of men in Russia see no
reason to have decedents and that’s what Putin is trying to change.
