---
title: "Pink Shirts"
date: "2014-10-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3046"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3046"
---

Cultural Marxism started with the appeal for tolerance. Normal people
had to drop all of their cultural habits in order to include the
“historically excluded.” Never mind that it was nonsense. Sensible
people fell for it. In the 1980’s and 1990’s people were sent off to
sensitivity training on a regular basis as a part of the employee
training. All of our ideas about life would no longer be
tolerated. There was always an “or else” lurking behind the words. <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2014/10/14/city-houston-demands-pastors-turn-over-sermons/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s the “or else”:</a>

*The city of Houston has issued subpoenas demanding a group of pastors
turn over any sermons dealing with homosexuality, gender identity or
Annise Parker, the city’s first openly lesbian mayor. And those
ministers who fail to comply could be held in contempt of court.*

*“The city’s subpoena of sermons and other pastoral communications is
both needless and unprecedented,” Alliance Defending Freedom attorney
Christina Holcomb said in a statement. “The city council and its
attorneys are engaging in an inquisition designed to stifle any critique
of its actions.”*

*ADF, a nationally-known law firm specializing in religious liberty
cases, is representing five Houston pastors. They filed a motion in
Harris County court to stop the subpoenas arguing they are “overbroad,
unduly burdensome, harassing, and vexatious.”*

*“Political and social commentary is not a crime,” Holcomb said. “It is
protected by the First Amendment.”*

*The subpoenas are just the latest twist in an ongoing saga over the
Houston’s new non-discrimination ordinance. The law, among other things,
would allow men to use the ladies room and vice versa.  The city council
approved the law in June.*

*The Houston Chronicle reported opponents of the ordinance launched a
petition drive that generated more than 50,000 signatures – far more
than the 17,269 needed to put a referendum on the ballot.*

*However, the city threw out the petition in August over alleged
irregularities.*

*After opponents of the bathroom bill filed a lawsuit the city’s
attorneys responded by issuing the subpoenas against the pastors.*

These thuggish tactics have always been the main part of Cultural
Marxism. Few would ever go along with this nonsense without the “or
else” in there. That’s what attracts the adherents. It is the
opportunity to push people around that gets them excited. The Nazis
built their movement on low-IQ street toughs looking for a reason to
dress up and crack skulls. It’s why every left-wing movement ends in a
bloodbath. They have no choice. That’s the only way “or else” can work.

I’ve commented before that you rarely, if ever, run into a jolly
lesbian. In part, they are not trying to compete with other women for
men. Males like women who are happy and flirtatious. Lesbians have no
desire, allegedly, to attract males so they have no need to be happy and
flirtatious. In fact, they have an incentive to be unappealing to men.
The nastiness may simply be a way to ward off interested males, but
heterosexual women also find lesbians to be unpleasant so who knows.

The other part is that the odds of meeting an available sex partner are
extremely low. Lesbians are probably 2% of the population of females.
Social science says the number is higher, but think about the number of
homosexual males versus females you see on a regular basis. Throw in the
fact lesbian relationships are highly volatile and it is easy to see why
they would be unhappy.

There’s that and the strong possibility that homosexuality is just the
most obvious item in a basket of pathologies. Every lesbian I know
self-mutilates. They have all sorts of metal crap in their faces and
visible tattoos. Non-lesbian girts do this too, but it was once called
lesbian chic for a reason. The butchered haircuts and the wearing of
rags all indicate a high degree of self-loathing. Then you have the
outlandishly high addiction rates. There could be many sensible reasons
for it, but one of those sensible reasons is mental illness.

So, we have a small population of bitter, often angry people who have
their sexual wiring confused. Putting them in charge of anything sounds
like a bad idea. Giving them an ideological sledgehammer to wield
against a society with which they feel they are at war is nothing short
of lunacy. The people of Houston put a Nazi drag queen in charge of
their city and the results naturally follow.
