---
title: "Exoteric Nonsense"
date: "2014-10-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2946"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2946"
---

Steve Sailer often says that people in the main stream press know what
they are saying is nonsense, but they say it anyway because that’s just
the way it is. The really smart ones use subtle language to lampoon the
prevailing pieties. It could be, but that is probably just a way for him
to not face reality. Media people certainly seem like they really
believe their claims. Maybe they are really good at pretending, but it
seems like a gratuitous assertion. <a
href="http://techcrunch.com/2014/10/04/why-we-should-treat-teachers-like-software-engineers/?ncid=rss&amp;utm_source=feedburner&amp;utm_medium=feed&amp;utm_campaign=Feed%3A+Techcrunch+%28TechCrunch%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Like for instance in this piece</a>.

*America is widely considered a global leader in economics, business,
and culture. But when it comes to education, the U.S. seems to be
falling behind. In the 2012 PISA results, we ranked 27th in math, 17th
in reading, and 20th in science. Our high school graduation rates are
ranked 18th internationally.*

*A month ago, I had the pleasure of spending two weeks in Korea and
Japan, meeting with leading education, technology, and
telecommunications companies, as well as a ministry of education
interested in Knewton adaptive learning technology.*

*I couldn’t help but compare the education systems in these countries to
that in the United States. Globally, Korea and Japan have some of the
highest rates of academic achievement. In the 2012 PISA survey, Korea
was ranked fifth in math and reading and seventh in science; Japan was
ranked seventh in math and fourth in reading and science. Japan has the
second highest high school graduation rate internationally, with Korea
in fifth place.*

*It’s obvious that Korea and Japan both value education enormously. But
so does the United States. We regard education as a basic human right.*

*So what’s driving this huge discrepancy?*

*Some say it’s cultural. In America, we prize exceptionalism; in Korea
and Japan, the focus is on raising the mean. Others point to
socioeconomic inequality; schools can’t fix poverty. American K-12
education is controlled at the local level, making it difficult to
implement programs widely. We’re paralyzed by politicized debates over
standards, testing, and budgets.*

*But I think there’s something more important at play here: the way we
treat teachers. In Korea and Japan, teachers are revered and paid
accordingly. Top students aspire to the profession.*

*We need to start treating teachers with the respect they deserve.
Imagine if Apple, Google, Facebook, and the country’s top tech companies
tried to recruit employees without offering them great pay, perks,
top-of-the-line technology, development opportunities, and smart
colleagues. It would be unthinkable.These companies have spent the time
and investment to figure out exactly what it takes to get top people to
want to work for them — and, once they’re there, to stay.*

Once you correct for race, America’s schools do just fine. Our Koreans
score the same as the Koreans in Korea. Our Mauritanians do as well as
Mauritanians wherever it is Mauritanians live. Replace 15% of Japan’s
population with Chechens and see what happens to their overall test
scores and crime rates. Does this guy know this? There is no evidence to
suggest he does know it..

Now, with a little research you can find that Mr. Liu seems to have
ripped off his claims from a group called the <a
href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/10/03/countries-respect-teacher_n_4032354.html?utm_hp_ref=impact"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Varkey Gems Foundation</a>. You can also
look up
<a href="https://varkeygemsfoundation.org/teacherindex" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">teacher pay from these guys</a> who do the hard work of
tabulating this stuff. Japan’s average pay, in US dollars, is $43,775
and South Korea is $43,874. The US is at $44,917. So much for his claims
about how we pay our teachers compared to the Orient. The US, by the
way, is the second highest pay rate, just behind Singapore. You’ll
notice in the HuffPo report that the US also does just as well on the
respect scale.

Further, the average pay for a software engineer is $69, 215 per year.
It is also an infinitely more difficult job requiring an IQ at least one
standard deviation higher than a school teacher. Education majors score
at the bottom of the SAT for incoming freshmen. <a
href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/georgeleef/2013/10/24/a-key-reason-why-american-students-do-poorly/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Many struggle with basic math</a>.

Many states were forced to <a
href="https://www.catalyst-chicago.org/notebook/2014/03/12/65790/boost-teacher-diversity-state-scraps-limits-basic-skills-test-taking"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">scrap their teacher exams</a> because the
teachers kept flunking. In some cities, teachers cannot be fired
resulting in <a
href="http://nypost.com/2013/01/27/one-year-on-the-job-13-years-in-rubber-room-earns-perv-teacher-1m/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">perverts and degenerates on the
payroll</a>. None of this is tolerated in fields like software
engineering. There are far fewer people with the IQ to do software than
teach gym at the elementary school. That’s why the software job pays
better.
