---
title: "Sending a Message"
date: "2014-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3319"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3319"
---

By now everyone with a pulse and an Internet connection knows the Staten
Island grand jury refused to indict a cop that may have choked a guy to
death. It is unclear if that is what happened. The dead guy was a big
fat slob with lots of health problems. It is not even clear the cop
choked the guy.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=En5linhM7Qo" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The video of it looks like the cops had an arm around
his neck</a>, but maybe not applying enough pressure to kill the guy.
It’s impossible to know from the video. It looks like any other day to
me. I’ve seen cops do that in my little slice of heaven dozens of times.

That does not mean the cops were right. There’s not enough here to think
they committed a crime. Presumably the grand jury had medical testimony,
witness testimony and legal testimony. Cops, unlike citizens, are
permitted to use force to arrest someone, but there are rules they must
follow and laws that govern their actions. The video is just one piece
of the puzzle, but it is hard for me to say a crime was committed. I
can’t even find a definite statement as to what killed the guy. There’s
video of him on the ground in cuffs still alive so I’m guessing he was
not strangled.

None of this matter much. The prosecutor took the evidence to a grand
jury. They don’t do that asking for a no-bill. The old line about
getting a  ham sandwich indicted is true, for the most part. Citizens
put a lot of trust in the prosecutors. They also trust that the innocent
will get a fair trial. That means there is a bias toward indicting the
accused. When a grand jury fails to indict it usually means the case is
laughably implausible. Of course, a prosecutor can take a terrible case
to a grand jury for PR purposes like we saw in Ferguson, but that does
not appear to be the case here. The city and the DA wanted this cop
swinging from a light post.

The question is why the grand jury did not indict. My view of the video
is not the same as the hysterics in the media. Reading the comments on
some of these news stories suggests a non-trivial number of people
watched that video and saw a combination of Bull Connor and Torquemada
torturing a black man to death on the city street. Even assuming they
are attention whores performing their public act of piety, the easy
choice for the grand jury was to indict, but they chose the hard path.

My suspicion is we’re seeing the backlash to the race baiting the last
few years. The Ferguson was so outlandish and offensive to decent people
they are pushing back. Just as the silent majority rallied to Nixon, not
because they loved Tricky Dick, but because they hated the forces of
chaos unleashed by the Left, middle Americans are rallying against the
latest push for chaos by the Left.

*Today, the main political line of division in the United States is not
between the regions of North and South (insofar as such regions can
still be said to exist) but between elite and nonelite. As I have tried
to make plain … for the last 15 years, the elite, based in Washington,
New York, and a few large metropolises, allies with the underclass
against Middle Americans, who pay the taxes, do the work, fight the
wars, suffer the crime, and endure their own political and cultural
dispossession at the hands of the elite and its underclass vanguard.*  
*— Sam Francis*

The men and women on that Staten Island grand jury live in the shadow of
the elites. That’s where the firemen, cops, construction workers live.
They are the people snotty New Yorkers call the “bridge and tunnel”
crowd or prols by
<a href="http://lionoftheblogosphere.wordpress.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this guy</a>. They are also the people called racists by
the mayor for not wanting to deal with guys like Eric Garner every day.
They are the folks who watch the rioting in Ferguson and wonder if
that’s coming their way. Asked to choose between flawed cops and the
kind of guys loitering in front of the bodega hassling the patrons, 
they voted for the cops. They voted for order.

They sent a message.
