---
title: "The Bear Makes Its Move"
date: "2014-06-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2132"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2132"
---

America’s ruling elite is divided into two camps when it comes to
foreign policy. One side, the neocons, sees the world as a collection of
American provinces. Maybe administrative districts is a better term.
They really thought they could turn Iraq into a fully functioning
representative democracy. Not only that, they thought it could be a
model for the rest of the Arab <s>world</s> district.

The other camp is composed of people who think the other camp is
dangerously wrong, but have no earthly idea why and they have no
sensible alternative to offer. It is why Obama pulled the plug on the
Bush deal in Iraq and went tromping off to Afghanistan. He and his
flunkies had no idea what they were trying to accomplish. They just knew
the old Bush hands hated it so that was enough.

The rest of the world is not willing to wait around for America’s elites
to figure out what their doing. Russia, in particular, is taking
advantage of the Obama administration’s petrified paralysis. Last year
they made Obama look foolish by outflanking him in Syria. Putin followed
that up with a stunning success in Ukraine. Now they are taking
advantage of Washington’s bungling to
<a href="http://rt.com/news/169144-iraq-russian-jets-arrive/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">return Iraq as an ally in the
Persian Gulf</a>.

*The first delivery of Russian Sukhoi fighter jets arrived in Iraq on
Saturday, the country’s Defense Ministry said. Iraqi Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki is hoping the jets will make a key difference in the
fight against ISIS.*

*The Iraqi Ministry of Defense on Sunday confirmed receiving five Su-25
fighter jets in accordance with the deal with Moscow. The jets were
delivered by a Russian An-124 transport plane in a dismantled state, and
are expected to be set up and become operational within 3-4 days.*

Until Bush the Lesser dethroned Saddam, Iraq was a Russian client state.
Their military was equipped by the Russians and trained in Russian
tactics. It is why they were good at running a secret police, but
clownishly awful at large set piece combat. The Russians were never good
at this type of warfare, which is why the Germans drove them to the
gates of Moscow. They are much better at operating a police state.

Now, the Russians have Syria, Iran and Iraq on board and that means they
can build their pipelines without too much interference from the West.
Running gas from the Persian Gulf through Iran to the Caspian Sea was
never ideal and would allow the GCC-Saudi deal to compete on economic
grounds. Running a pipeline over Iraq into Syria puts them in the
Mediterranean. The only thing they must now do is get rid of ISIL, which
is probably backed by Israel and the CIA.

The other bonus for Russia is they get to work on their modernization
efforts. The Russians have been revamping their military and their
tactics to face the threats of this century. They know they will not be
fighting a tank war in Europe. Instead they will be fighting insurgents
from their southeast. They saw how the Americans adapted and they are
doing the same. Iraq is good practice.

*“The Sukhoi Su-25 is an air-ground support and anti-terrorism mission
aircraft. In these difficult times, we are in great need of such
aircraft. With God’s help, we will be able to deploy them to support our
ground forces on a mission against the Islamic State in Iraq and the
Levant militants within the next 3-4 days,” Iraqi Army Lieutenant
General Anwar Hamad Amen Ahmed told RT’s Ruptly news agency at an
airport receiving the jets.*

The modern battlefield is four dimensional. Air assets attack ground
elements with the help of specialized ground forces. That means choppers
and jet aircraft that can be coordinated with those ground forces to
bring timely and potent firepower on small targets. It takes practice to
hone these skills and this provides the Russians with a chance to gets
some saddle time.

There’s also the fact the Russians will increasingly rely on
mercenaries. Demographics are reducing the number of Russian males
available for military service. <a
href="http://www.danielpipes.org/blog/2005/08/predicting-a-majority-muslim-russia"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Russian military is close
to being majority Muslim at this point</a>. The solution to this is to
create a military with a Russian elite and a Muslim militia. I doubt
that works, but Iraq provides a training ground for how they intend to
adjust to the demographic realities they face.
