---
title: "Self-Policing"
date: "2014-10-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3035"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3035"
---

I remember when Slate first started publishing. Michael Kinsley was
going to reinvent journalism, along with his super-rich patrons at
Microsoft. The early version was just a PDF that you could read on your
PC or print off at home. It was not a very interesting magazine at the
time. Kinsley was a professional apple polisher and toady. He knew how
to be interesting to rich people in private, but he had no skills of
interest to a broader audience. If you look at
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Kinsley" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">his career</a>, he is similar to Barak Obama in that he
has a gift for currying favor with super-rich white people willing to
give him stuff.

Today, Slate seems to be click bait. No one goes to Slate for incite or
analysis. You go there for hilarious examples of some weird Liberal
tick. The near total lack of self-awareness by the writers there makes
for some comedy gold. A favorite, it seems, is Jamelle Bouie. Liberal
whites love to decorate their website with a youngish black male writer
willing to flatter liberal white people about race. The Atlantic has TN
Coates and Slate has Baba Bouie.

<a
href="http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2014/10/diversity_won_t_solve_police_misconduct_black_cops_don_t_reduce_violence.2.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">His latest work</a> of nonsense has the
usual stuff, but it contains one useful bit of incite.

*The glib response to stats on blacks and police is to cite so-called
“black crime” or “black criminality.” But this depends on a major
analytical error. Yes, blacks are overrepresented in arrest and
conviction rates. At the same time, “criminal blacks” are a tiny,
unrepresentative fraction of all black Americans. If you walked into a
group of 1,000 randomly selected blacks, the vast majority—upward of
998—would never have had anything to do with violent crime. To
generalize from the two is to confuse the specific (how blacks are
represented among criminals) with the general (how criminals are
represented among blacks). Statisticians call this a “base rate error,”
and you should try to avoid it.*

*In fairness, you could apply this to police as well. The number of cops
who shoot—much less shoot black Americans—is a small percentage of all
cops. **Why judge the whole by the actions of a few?***

Why indeed. But, it is what we do as humans. We look for patterns. We
assess risk to ourselves, our children and our chances of biological
success. We then act on what we think are the patterns in a way that
reduces our risks. It’s why old Jewish ladies don’t go out for walks at
night in the ghetto. They know it is much riskier than sitting at home
watching TV. It is why young black males go the other way when they see
cops. Right or wrong, they believe cops are a threat to them so even
when they have nothing to hide, they avoid the cops. Asking people to do
otherwise is demanding them to commit violence against themselves.

There’s a social benefit here. Cops need cooperation from the people to
do their job. They have to self-police if they are to stay on friendly
terms with the public. In all cases where the police are hated by the
community, you find a lack of self-policing. The cops get defensive and
see the public as their enemy. It gets cleaned up when new pols hire new
police chiefs who clean up the rot and re-establish relationships with
the people they serve. The NYC PD under Giuliani is a perfect example of
how self-policing works.

Human populations have been self-policing since the beginning. Some
groups are better at it than others. Jews, for example, were
exceptionally good at “boiling off” their members who did not really fit
the tribe’s goal. The slow-witted and lazy would marry off into the
gentile population, leaving the smart and faithful in the tribe. Do that
for enough generations and you have a population of very smart and very
loyal people. The Amish may very be the result of the same process. All
people, in all times and places, have had to figure out how to deal with
their troublesome fraction.

In America, whites of all types have figured this out pretty well.
Instead of relying on old customs from Europe, they used geography.
America is a big country with lots of useful land. That means the
stupid, lazy and criminal can be set aside physically. That’s not to say
the old ways were abandoned. Class distinctions reinforce the physical
divide. Whites can identify their kind just by the look and location.
Even to out-groups like Asians and Hispanics, <a
href="http://img.pandawhale.com/post-6063-Sweet-Redneck-Hat-Tans-kr3H.jpeg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this guy</a> is a very different person
than <a
href="http://universitariosears.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/mens-hipster-1024x1024.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this guy</a>, even from a great distance.

Orientals have relied on the old ways for the most part. Shame is a
powerful tool to force cooperation and compliance, but it is also a
useful tool for segregating the troublesome. I’ve known a few Koreans
who basically abandoned their families because they could not or would
not abide by the cultural mores of their community. They either
conformed or walked away. The tremendous success of East Asians has
allowed them to follow the white pattern and use distance and culture to
weed out the troublesome from their ranks. <a
href="http://www.seducingwithstyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/2765733708_7d46d14245.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This guy</a> is not <a
href="http://i.istockimg.com/file_thumbview_approve/18644693/2/stock-photo-18644693-asian-nerd-boy-holding-usb-port.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this guy</a> even to this round eye.

The one group in America that has not figured this out is blacks.
Successful blacks are under extreme pressure to avoid being white. They
have to “keeps it reelz” in order to avoid being called an Oreo. This is
not just for highly successful blacks. Middle-class blacks are under
constant pressure to embrace black culture. Sports coaches tell me it is
nearly impossible to get black kids into soccer and lacrosse. They all
want to play basketball and football. You know see little black kids
playing instruments anymore either. That’s for white and Asian kids.
Hip-hop is black music.

This becomes a problems when it comes to distance. A black family moves
out to the burbs and their new neighbors are in tears having finally
acquired a black neighbor. Then one weekday night the new neighbors have
a party that starts at ten at night. All of their old neighbors from the
ghetto show up and party into the wee hours. That sounds nuts, but I
know of dozens of such examples. Suddenly, diversity is not so cool. The
for sale signs go up and the neighborhood changes. The black people are
left to think that white people just hate living near black people, when
it is really just middle-class people not wanting to live in the ghetto.

Bill Cosby used to rant about this before he was hissed off the stage.
<a
href="http://www.worldstarhiphop.com/videos/video.php?v=wshhO41cJeGsd2EPz5j7"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Chris Rock had a great bit on the same
theme</a>. He was pressured to stop doing it because “white people
misunderstood it.” That’s hilarious for a number of reasons. How long
racial solidarity can keep the black middle-class from jettisoning their
ghetto brothers is a mystery. A run through the television dial suggests
the elites are fighting it which means it will not happen. That means
the majority of blacks who commit no crimes and just want to live decent
lives will remain chained to the ghetto visually and geographically,
paying the tab for those who commit the bulk of the social trouble in
modern America.
