---
title: "Yes, It Is A Religion"
date: "2014-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1513"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1513"
---

Thinking of Progressivism as a religion is useful, but it gets a lot of
resistance from so-called conservatives. Talking about it as a cult gets
even more push-back. The truth is, few liberals know much about why they
believe what they believe. They just do and they don’t spend a lot of
time examining it. That’s how religion works. Few Catholics understand
why they take communion. They just do. The same applies to the Left,
even more so, in that examining the faith is treated as heresy.

If you look at the most liberal states in the country, you find the
lowest levels of church attendance. On the other hand, states with
highest church attendance tend to be the least inclined to vote Left.
For example, the last election featured six continental states where
Obama won more than 60% of the vote. That’s California, Massachusetts,
Maryland, Rhode Island, New York and Vermont. Everyone of those states,
except Maryland, is at the bottom of <a
href="http://www.religionfacts.com/religion_statistics/church_attendance_by_state.htm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">church attendance numbers
according to Pew</a>.

At the other end of the spectrum, the states that went for Romney in the
last election are Utah, Wyoming, Oklahoma, West Virginia, Arkansas and
Kentucky. These are states with high church attendance. You have to get
down to 20th on the church attendance list before you find an Obama
state. Even if you assume religion is simply falling out of favor,
traditional culture is also a good indication of voting habits. <a
href="http://www.vdare.com/articles/happy-white-married-people-vote-republican-so-why-doesnt-the-gop-work-on-making-white-peopl"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer tied together
marriage and voting</a>, which tracks close with church attendance.

If that’s not compelling, <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/16/us/bloomberg-plans-a-50-million-challenge-to-the-nra.html?hp&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">here’s a NYTimes profile</a>
of former Mayor Bloomberg.

*Michael R. Bloomberg, making his first major political investment since
leaving office, plans to spend $50 million this year building a
nationwide grass-roots network to motivate voters who feel strongly
about curbing gun violence, an organization he hopes can eventually
outmuscle the National Rifle Association.*

*Mr. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, said gun control advocates
need to learn from the N.R.A. and punish those politicians who fail to
support their agenda — even Democrats whose positions otherwise align
with his own.*

*“They say, ‘We don’t care. We’re going to go after you,’ ” he said of
the N.R.A. “ ‘If you don’t vote with us we’re going to go after your
kids and your grandkids and your great-grandkids. And we’re never going
to stop.’ ”*

*He added: “We’ve got to make them afraid of us.”*

That’s obviously insane. When you’re a billionaire, saying crazy things
maybe makes you eccentric. If he was still hustling a sales route and
was saying nutty things like this, they would lock him away. But, he is
rich and he is a member in good standing of the Progressive faith. His
fanaticism is therefore seen as a sign of his virtue.Again, that is how
religions work. it’s about belief, not facts and logic.

*Mr. Bloomberg was introspective as he spoke, and seemed both restless
and wistful. When he sat down for the interview, it was a few days
before his 50th college reunion. His mortality has started dawning on
him, at 72. And he admitted he was a bit taken aback by how many of his
former classmates had been appearing in the “in memoriam” pages of his
school newsletter.*

*But if he senses that he may not have as much time left as he would
like, he has little doubt about what would await him at a Judgment Day.
Pointing to his work on gun safety, obesity and smoking cessation, he
said with a grin: “I am telling you if there is a God, when I get to
heaven I’m not stopping to be interviewed. I am heading straight in. I
have earned my place in heaven. It’s not even close.”*

That sounds a lot like a religious crusade. The reason it sounds that
was is it is a religious crusade. In a difference age, Bloomberg would
be wearing a black hat and reading the Torah all day. In a different
place, he is a Zionist agitating for Israel. In a different America,
most Progressive are Congregationalists or our preaching the social
gospel as  part of their reform movement. Maybe they were heading out to
Utah as part of a Mormon sect. Progressivism is the religion of this
age.
