---
title: "Suicidal Maniacs"
date: "2014-07-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2252"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2252"
---

I’m fond of calling Progressives “lunatics” and “fanatics” whenever the
opportunity arises. In comment threads, I do it to irritate the lunatics
and fanatics. Here, it is about clarity. Someone who thinks we should
“do something” to help the poor or needy is often just soft hearted and
soft headed. The former is admirable and the latter is forgivable in
most cases. Usually, these are people who will accept limits and logic
when pressed. You can explain to them that shoving a bunch of tax
dollars into a program will make things worse, not better.

<a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/07/15/House-Dems-Push-Amnesty-on-Twitter-America-s-Doors-Are-Open"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Then there are people who
cannot be reasoned with or bargained with, not matter how strong the
argument</a>. These people are fanatics who believe what they believe
and will never stop believing those things. Their dedication to the
cause is so tangled up in their sense of self they can no longer
distinguish where the causes ends and they begin. Asking them to give up
the cause is akin to asking them to commit suicide. Lunacy is is when
the fanatic is ready to destroy everything in order to achieve their
aims.

*As thousands of illegal immigrant children are crossing the U.S.-Mexico
border, House Democrats pushed for more amnesty, guest-worker visas,
$3.7 billion in funding, and more lawyers for illegal immigrant children
during a Tuesday Twitter town hall on immigration.*

*Their message to illegal immigrants was, in the words of Rep. John
Lewis (D-GA), “our doors are open.”*

*“We are all connected. We can’t just build a wall or a fence and say no
more,” Lewis said. “This is America. Our doors are open.”*

*House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), who has said she would
rather pass amnesty legislation than become Speaker again, and Rep.
Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) urged House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) to bring
an amnesty bill to the floor so it can pass with support from Democrats.
Boehner told Obama after House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) was
ousted for his embrace of amnesty that Congress would not vote on an
immigration bill this year. Boehner did suggest, though, that Congress
could pass amnesty legislation next year.*

*House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) claimed America already has
“extensive border security” while Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), a member
of the Congressional Black Caucus, said the well-being of the illegal
immigrant children “must be our first priority.”*

Theses lunatics don’t care about the migrants. How can they? Many of
them are gangsters and criminals. Others are just dead beats looking for
welfare checks. Still others are being thrown out of their native lands
as they are a burden. What these lunatic politicians do care about is
breaking the back of traditional America. They hate you and they want
you dead, even if it means blowing the whole country up.

*Reps. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and Steve Horsford (D-NV) pushed for more
guest-worker visas, which are coveted by big-business and high-tech
interests, that would lower the wages of American workers. Numerous <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/05/16/Scholars-Debunk-Claims-of-High-Tech-Workers-Shortage-Question-Industry-s-Free-Pass"
style="-webkit-tap-highlight-color: #ff5500;">scholars</a> and
[studies](http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/05/20/Report-U-S-Has-Surplus-Not-Shortage-of-High-Tech-Workers)
have concluded that America has a surplus – not a shortage – of
high-tech workers.*

There’s a great example of the fanatic. The facts say we don’t need to
import foreign workers, yet they persist in demanding more cheap labor
for the robber barons of Silicon Valley. The fact that they also rant
about evil corporations makes the whole thing nuttier than it should be
possible.

*Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) said taxpayers should pay for more lawyers for
illegal immigrant children, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) went further,
saying “every” illegal immigrant child should get legal representation.*

*Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-NY) insisted that amnesty legislation would
“raise wages” even though the Congressional Budget Office determined
that the influx of more foreign workers would lower the wages of
American workers. For that reason, U.S. Civil Rights Commissioner Peter
Kirsanow
[wrote](http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/05/20/U-S-Civil-Rights-Commissioner-to-CBC-Oppose-Amnesty-Because-It-Hurts-Black-Workers)
a letter to the Congressional Black Caucus urging them to vote against
amnesty bills that would detrimentally impact black Americans at the
lower rungs of the economic ladder the most.*

The contempt these people have for you is breathtaking. Rangel hates you
so much he is willing to put his House seat at risk in order to fill up
your community with Latin American peasants. Think about that for a
second. How can anyone bargain with a madman willing to die for his
cause? Maybe this is the inflection point and we are headed for a crack
up. I don’t know. Maybe normals will wake up and begin treating
Progressives like the Chinese treat Falun Gong. <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/Breitbart-Texas/2014/07/16/Federal-Agents-Arrest-Gun-Carrying-Immigrant"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Maybe the illegals will get to
the lunatics first and do the job Americans refuse to do</a>.
