---
title: "The End of College"
date: "2014-04-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1559"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1559"
---

A popular camp fire story among the managerial types is the looming
collapse of the college system in America. On the one hand, it seems
like a manufactured crisis, as collapse is unlikely. The boom times may
end, but boom times always end. On the other hand, the problems get
worse every year and no one has any idea how to arrest the decline and
reform the system. That’s probably why the death of college is such a
popular story these days. <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-04-14/small-u-s-colleges-battle-death-spiral-as-enrollment-drops.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This one</a> made the rounds
yesterday.

*At a Dowling College campus on Long Island’s south shore, a fleet of
unused shuttle buses sits in an otherwise empty parking lot. A dormitory
is shuttered, as are a cafeteria, bookstore and some classrooms in the
main academic building.*

*“There’s a lot of fear here,” said Steven Fournier, a senior who lived
in the now-closed dorm for his first three years. “It’s not the same
college I arrived at.”*

*Dowling, which got a failing grade for its financial resources from
accreditors last month, epitomizes the growing plight of many small
private colleges that depend almost entirely on tuition for revenue.
It’s been five years since the recession ended and yet their finances
are worsening. Soaring student debt, competition from online programs
and poor job prospects for graduates are shrinking their applicant
pools.*

*“What we’re concerned about is the death spiral — this continuing
downward momentum for some institutions,” said Susan Fitzgerald, an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in New York. “We will see more
closures than in the past.”*

I admit to having never heard of Dowling College. An applicant would
probably be better off not mentioning it to me if they were applying for
a job. If the resume did not list a college, I’d probably never notice.
Seeing an unfamiliar one I’d look it up. Looking at the
<a href="http://www.dowling.edu/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">college website</a> does not fill me with confidence.
“Literacy Education Department” sounds bad for some reason. I’m sure it
is fine college, but who knows what that even means anymore?

<a href="http://www.payscale.com/college-roi/full-list"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">These people claim to know</a>,
but their methodology is dubious. The graduates of Harvard are most
likely smart and motivated. Comparing their earnings to those of other
smart and motivated people who lack a diploma would be useful, but
that’s impossible to construct. Every decade someone does the math and
announces that a college degree nets a higher salary, but not
necessarily a higher net worth.

The reason for this, and the flaw in the college model, is simple.
Wealth is not the same as income. The small plumber with one truck and
an assistant may not have a high salary. He’s constantly buying tools
and paying off that truck. Once he gets the truck paid off, he buys
another truck and hires another plumber. His salary is not going up, but
the value of his business is going up. By the time he retires, he had
four or five trucks, a paid off house, some real estate where he runs
his business and so on. His brother the manager has none of that,
despite making considerably more in salary.

Strangely, college is all about preparing a young person for life as an
employee. The son of the plumber may go to state college to make dad
proud or he may just go into the business. The manager’s son is taking
out debt to finance college so he can work for someone just like his
father did. If you want of nation of renters, debtors and employees, our
university system is great, until it collapses. If you want a nation of
plumbers building up their asset base, then you need something
different.

*Harvard Business School professor Clayton Christensen has predicted
that as many as half of the more than 4,000 universities and colleges in
the U.S. may fail in the next 15 years. The growing acceptance of online
learning means higher education is ripe for technological upheaval, he
has said.*

He is most certainly wrong, but, if he is right it will not change much
of anything. Half of college students at state universities have no
business in college. The world has all the communication majors it
needs. Sending kids to major in criminal justice or physical education
is a waste of everyone’s time. The kids sit in class learning nothing
useful, while the instructors get to extend childhood indefinitely.

In some respects, it is amazing how things evolved in the West. No one
imagined taking out tens of thousands in debt in order to attend
college. Someone majoring in gym would have seemed hilariously
implausible a generation ago. Arithmetic says this arrangement has a
short shelf life, but our rulers have managed to keep the plates
spinning for three decades now.

<a href="http://www.parapundit.com/archives/009452.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The comments in this post at
ParaPundit</a> suggest the probable future. Taking an IQ test is a
simple thing.  It will not be long before some company pops up offering
a packaging of services to people so they can bypass the system in some
way. A DNA test to show you have no genetic markers for expensive
diseases could lower your insurance premium. An IQ test score from a
credible company can help the truly gifted bypass college entirely. It
may even be possible one day to use DNA to indicate raw IQ, language
skills, math skills and so forth.
