---
title: "Travelogue: New England"
date: "2014-09-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2636"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2636"
---

I was traveling over the long weekend. It is always good to see old
friends, even when it is not so good to see old friends. As you get
older, some of your friends get weird for periods and some get really
boring for a while. Kids tend to make people boring, but when the kids
grow up it makes some people get weird. Women often go bonkers when
their kids outgrow them. Men get weird when the gray hair begins to
arrive. Still, it is always good to catch up with old friends.

Travel, of course, has its own rewards. America has not been completely
homogenized so there’s plenty of weirdness still left in her. New
England, for example, retains its quirky Yankee flavor. Even within New
England, there is a lot of diversity still. Boston is not Connecticut.
Rhode Island is different from New Hampshire and Maine. Mass media has
driven a lot of old weird America into extinction, but a lot of it is
still around.

Anyway, when you travel to see friends you have not seen in a while it
can bring some odd surprises. I’ve let my beard grow over the last
month. I just felt like it. If extreme beard growing is the new trend,
then I figure I can let my beard grow if I want. Over the weekend, I had
at least four people ask me what I use to dye my beard. I don’t dye
anything and I have a little grey so that should be obvious. Come to
find out, men are now dying their beards and even their whole head. One
of my friends is now getting his head dyed on a regular basis.

I asked him about it and he said it bugged him so he figured he would
give it a shot. I’m guessing his wife talked him into it. Women have
been getting dye jobs forever. The guys getting the beards done are
doing it for the same reason and they were casual about it. Maybe it is
a Boston thing or just a trend I am just learning about now. Out of
curiosity I walked through the hair care section of the local market
today and they had a lot of various treatments for gray hair. That
suggests I’m the last guy to hear about it.

Now that I have, I can’t imagine ever dying anything. It seems like a
lot of work. On the other hand, if it really bugs you I guess it is
worth the effort. I’m very conscious of my weight so I torture myself
daily to keep the scale happy. Vanity works on all of us differently. I
see a lot of old guys huffing and puffing just like me so maybe there
are lots of guys at the hair salon getting their beard dyed. It does
mean I can no longer mock the young for getting beard transplants and
shaving their chests…

Also on the travel agenda was the Tom Petty show at Fenway Park. I have
been to Fenway Park for Sox games more times than I can count. I never
saw Petty in concert and I did not know what I was missing. He does a
great show and Fenway is a great venue for a concert, if you have field
seats. I’m not a huge Tom Petty fan, but I highly recommend his show.
These old touring pros really know how to do these things.

I wonder if the rock concert is going to be a thing of the past once
these old guys finally die off. Starting in the 80’s and 90’s, bands
that can play instruments in public have given way to dance shows with
lip-syncing and piped in music. A few years ago I saw Madonna on TV
doing a show for something and she looked ridiculous. Tom Petty can
still play and sing and not look foolish. A fifty year old woman in a
cat suit dancing around to her old club tunes is not something you want
to see.

One of the things I never get over about New England is the
provincialism. Everywhere has some of it, but New England is unique in
this regard. I was talking to a woman at the show who wondered where in
the south I lived. I was a puzzled and she said she could detect a
southern accent. As far as I know, I have no accent, but to the locals,
that is an accent. She has a brother living in Tennessee or Kentucky and
wanted to talk about the south for what she thought was an authentic
southerner.

That’s something you don’t run into elsewhere. Outside of New England,
people have a decent understanding of New England. Most of it is gleaned
from pop culture. Boston is a trendy place. On the other hand, the
typical Yankee still thinks the south is dotted with plantations and
fighting the civil rights movement. They think California is a version
of <a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CCAQFjAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.imdb.com%2Ftitle%2Ftt0058953%2F&amp;ei=dWgEVKGLFNDzgwS4oYFo&amp;usg=AFQjCNF3hlbBfrwtpEnDjtm6leXWqnzUdw&amp;sig2=_pG9aepnhtLoO0ml8IFxYw&amp;bvm=bv.74115972,d.eXY"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Beach Blanket Bingo</a> and
the Midwest is just a vase unpopulated zone. The woman I was speaking
with was incredulous when I told her life is better for [black people in
the Old Confederacy than in the
north](http://www.theroot.com/articles/culture/2011/08/why_blacks_are_moving_back_south_the_reverse_migration.html)…

On the way home, I passed a group of bikers, members of the Wheels of
Soul MC. I’ve always had an interest in gangs and motorcycle gangs in
particular. There’s a lot to learn about the human animal from studying
criminals. WOSMC is a unique group in the 1%’er world because they are
multi-racial. I thought the Feds had put most of them in jail so [I
looked them up](http://wheelsofsoul.wordpress.com/) when I got home. The
fact that they have a website is pretty funny, when you think about it.

The show Sons of Anarchy has popularized the motorcycle gang again.
Hollywood glamorizes crime and criminals, but that’s to be expected. The
reality of life in one of these groups is not good TV. The typical biker
is an low-IQ, randomly violent and completely unpredictable. They live
hand to mouth because they usually can’t hold regular jobs. That means
they make money in drugs, hookers, strippers, stolen goods and so on.
Selling crank retail in the parking lot of a strip club is not going to
result in a lot of income. It also makes bad TV.

The message on the membership page of the WOS site reads:

*If you are 18 years of age or older, male and own a motorcycle with a
minimum displacement of 750cc, you may have what it takes to begin the
journey to becoming a Wheels Of Soul Nation, MC member. We have chapters
in every region of the United States and representatives who will be
happy to discuss your options with you. The Wheels Of Soul Nation, MC is
not structured to facilitate all applicant’s success in becoming a
member. Our lifestyle is not recommended for everyone. Though it has
it’s rewards, The Wheels Of Soul Nation, MC is not about being
rewarded….it’s about brotherhood.*

That’s the weird thing about bikers. They are the rare criminal
organization that is honest with itself. Mobsters think they were doing
good for the community. Heroin dealers in the 70’s carried on like they
were local chieftains. Modern street gangs have no sense of self. Bikers
know they are bad people and criminals. They put a lot of effort into
making sure new members get this fact and they work hard to screen out
people who can’t cope with being outside society.

Bikers are the people who put the lie to much of libertarianism.
Organized barbarians are always a threat to civilization. A group of 500
bikers can hold a city hostage unless the cops get to do things the
libertarians hate. RICO has been the main weapon to bring down biker
gangs and the Mafia. Surveillance and deal making has been most
effective with bikers. Getting them on video doing crimes is then used
to get them to roll on their associates, often using the information to
extort confessions from other members.

Sometimes civilized people have to do bad things to protect
civilization. Too bad we have never figured out how to do the same
against <a
href="http://www.policestateusa.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/Barack-Obama-1.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">fanatics</a>…
