---
title: "Neo-Taylorism"
date: "2014-03-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1294"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1294"
---

<a
href="http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2014/03/tesla-versus-the-rent-seekers.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> over at Marginal
Revolution by <a href="http://mercatus.org/alexander-tabarrok"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Alex Tabarrok</a> is a good
example of the neo-Taylorism growing like a fungus over the ruling
class. A century ago, the new technocrats that were born of the
Industrial Revolution, were sure you could use engineering principles to
fix human society. Just as you could organize people inside a factory or
even in an army, you should be able to use the same strategies to
organize society a a whole. It was technocratic utopianism.

Now, guys like Tabarrok are not trying to use engineering or even
corporate management techniques to reorder society. Instead, they come
at the problem from articles of faith within modern economics. They
believe they can reform society by using the right combination of
incentives. In fact, they reject the very notion of society and instead
see nothing bu collections of moist economic units. Adjust the market
conditions the right way and those economic units will respond
accordingly.

Now, Tabarrok  is a fanatic. For instance, his enthusiasm for open
borders is slightly deranged at times. <a
href="http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2014/03/open-borders-day.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> is a good
example. One can reasonably debate immigration. There’s no debating a
fanatic celebrating Open Borders Day. Santayana said, “Fanaticism
consists in redoubling your efforts when you have forgotten your aim.”
That seems to be the point of the open borders crowd. They no longer
know why they worship at that alter. They are certain they must do so
every day.

Anyway, this is what stands out in his post:

*Politics, however, began to intrude into this Coasean world in the
1940s and 1950s. Auto sales accounts for some 20% of sales taxes and
auto dealers employ a lot of people so when it came to a battle in the
state legislatures the auto dealers trumped the manufacturers. The
result was franchise laws that were increasingly biased towards dealers.
In essence, exclusive franchises became locked into place, manufactures
lost the right to add dealers even with population expansion, quantity
forcing became illegal and dealer termination became all but
impossible.*

A common feature in this crowd is the excessive use of the word
“Coasean” whebever they are pushing a policy.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronald_Coase"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ronald Coase</a> was a
brilliant economist.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Nature_of_the_Firm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Nature of the Firm</a> is
a wonderful piece of work that has stood the test of time. He was not,
however, a prophet. The priests of this cult have turned him into
exactly that. They compulsively yammer about Coasean markets and Coasean
outcomes. If Jesus was the son of God, Coase was the son of Efficiency,
the top of their chain of being.

*The result of dealer rent seeking has been higher auto prices for
consumers, about 6% higher according to one (older)
[study](http://www.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/reports/effect-state-entry-regulation-retail-automobile-markets/231955.pdf)
by the FTC. Consumers have been stiffed in other ways as well. In some
states, for example, manufacturers were required to reimburse dealers
for a repair under warranty whatever amount the dealers would have
charged consumers for the same repair not under warranty. As a result,
dealers had an incentive to increase their price to consumers because
that increased what they would be reimbursed for repairs under warranty.
The franchise laws have also resulted in a highly inefficient
distribution of dealers as populations have moved but dealers have been
frozen into place. The inability to close, move or consolidate dealers
has impacted the big-3 American firms especially because they have older
networks. As a result, a typical GM dealer sells 377 cars a year while a
typical Honda dealer sells 1,062 and a Toyota dealer 1,488.*

*Tesla wants to sell directly to the public but more generally what we
need is to restore the Coasean balance, put dealers and manufacturers
back on a equal footing and let the market decide the most efficient
means of retailing and distributing automobiles.*

That’s the thing with neo-Taylorism. The adherents talk a lot about
freedom, liberty, choice and free markets, but when it gets down to it,
they just want to impose their morality on everyone else. New Jersey has
free and open elections. The people are as sovereign there as they are
in any other state. Their representatives are just as crooked and
dishonest as any other politicians, but that’s a constant in human
societies. Any economic theory, religion or ideology that fails to
recognize that is lunacy.

For the new utopians, God is a frictionless, efficient market. Just as
Christians measure human action against the ideals of Christ, these guys
measure public policy against the ideals of their faith. Like all
iterations of the materialist creed, it willingly tramples on any human
that gets int he way. In the case of New Jersey, Alex would love nothing
more than to throw the men and women working in the car dealerships into
the streets and see them starve if it pleases Efficiency.

Libertarian economists always bring to mind <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/222482/big-sister-watching-you/flashback/page/0/1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Whittaker Chambers take down
of Ayn Rand</a>. Like Libertarianism, this sub-cult is a sterile and
pitiless dogma. If the choice is between crushing the citizenry in the
gears of commerce and paying a little extra for a sedan, these people
will feed your kids into the machinery without a moments hesitation. It
also has the sort of foolishness to it that <a
href="http://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Considerations/kipling.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Kipling had in mind.</a> It is
is why neo-Taylorism is a good label for them, even if a little clunky.

The misappropriation of math and science to areas of life outside of
pure math and science has its risks. Using statistics to judge baseball
players is harmless entertainment and a reasonable way to determine the
market for light hitting shortstops. Using arithmetic to dispose of the
unfit is monstrously self-destructive. Economists will claim that the
gas chambers are outside the bounds of their morality because of the
harm it caused specific people. That’s fine, but they open it up for
debate. Any moral code that leave open the possibility of murder being
moral is inherently defective.

That’s what you see with Tabarrok. He is all for letting one group of
people murder another group of people if it leads to cheaper cameras or
cheaper lawn care. He does not put it in those terms because even
Randian fanatics understand marketing. You’re not getting far advocating
murder, but it is murder none the less. If one group of people invade
the lands of another, replacing the native culture with their own, it is
murder. It’s ethnic cleansing. Instead of being directed by an easily
identified villain it set in motion by economists hiding behind the
walls of their university.
