---
title: "More TED Talks"
date: "2014-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2614"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2614"
---

As I wrote in another post, I think the Ted Talks site will keep me
supplied with material for years to come. The attraction is the
shallowness that is weirdly masquerading as high brow intellectualism.
It’s a post-modern version of the old Three Stooges bit
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVWODdciZ88"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Swingin’ the Alphabet</a>.
Well, if it were on purpose. Lampooning high culture can be quite
clever, when it is done on purpose. The TED Talk crowd is doing it by
accident. <a
href="http://ideas.ted.com/2014/06/03/the-4-biggest-reasons-why-inequality-is-bad-for-society/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This one</a> on inequality is
funny to me for some reason.

*The great inequality of income and wealth in the world, and within the
United States, is deeply troubling. It seems, even to many of us who
benefit from this inequality, that something should be done to reduce or
eliminate it. But why should we think this? What are the strongest
reasons for trying to bring about greater equality of income and
wealth?*

*One obvious reason for redistributing resources from the rich to the
poor is simply that this is a way of making the poor better off. In his
TED Talk on “effective altruism,” Peter Singer advances powerful reasons
of this kind for voluntary redistribution: Many people in the world are
poor, and the improvement in their lives that richer people can bring
about by giving money is enormous by comparison with the small sacrifice
that this would involve.*

How much you want to bet that T. M. Scanlon, the guy responsible for
those lines, gives next to nothing to charity? The people most troubled
about the poor tend to do the least for the poor. That’s unfair of me, I
know, but I’m not a nice person. As to his query, that answer has been
supplied a million times in a million places. Lefty gets comfortably set
in the upper middle-class and then starts to feel guilty. Lacking any
sense of self-awareness, they declare it a “deeply troubling” social
problem, which means more laws and more taxes on the rest of us.

Amazingly, the idea that there may be a reason why some people have
nothing and others have extra is never mentioned in these disquisitions
on inequality. I see poor people every day. I can give a lot of reasons
for it. I’ve been to some dirt poor countries. In five minutes I can
point out a dozen reasons why they are poor. Giving these people money
is not solving anything. Once again, the people who are most concerned
about poverty know the least about poor people.

Further along, the reasons he gives for wanting to force you to do
something about inequality (as long as it does not cost him time or
money) are interesting.

*1. Economic inequality can give wealthier people an unacceptable degree
of control over the lives of others.*

*If wealth is very unevenly distributed in a society, wealthy people
often end up in control of many aspects of the lives of poorer citizens:
over where and how they can work, what they can buy, and in general what
their lives will be like. As an example, ownership of a public media
outlet, such as a newspaper or a television channel, can give control
over how others in the society view themselves and their lives, and how
they understand their society.*

Where has this ever been otherwise? Name a newspaper of any size owned
by poor people. Name a poor person owned TV station. How about a
government staffed with hobos? Under every imagined form of government
in human history, the rulers have been in charge of the ruled. That’s
why they are called rulers. They also have more stuff, more food and
power over the lives of the ruled.

*2. Economic inequality can undermine the fairness of political
institutions.*

*If those who hold political offices must depend on large contributions
for their campaigns, they will be more responsive to the interests and
demands of wealthy contributors, and those who are not rich will not be
fairly represented.*

Steve Sailer likes to point out that liberals forget they have been in
charge for close to a century. For forty years in America we have had
laws against rich people making big contributions to office holders. In
that time the influence of the rich has grown so much that government
pretty much caters to them exclusively. Europe has seen a similar
results. Maybe that’s a clue?

*3. Economic inequality undermines the fairness of the economic system
itself.*

*Economic inequality makes it difficult, if not impossible, to create
equality of opportunity. Income inequality means that some children will
enter the workforce much better prepared than others. And people with
few assets find it harder to access the first small steps to larger
opportunities, such as a loan to start a business or pay for an advanced
degree.*

Again, when has this ever been otherwise? The various Marxist schemes
that professor Scanlon prefers have produced exactly this result. In
fact, they were exaggerated under communism.

*4. Workers, as participants in a scheme of cooperation that produces
national income, have a claim to a fair share of what they have helped
to produce.*

*What constitutes a fair share is of course controversial. One answer is
provided by John Rawls’ [Difference
Principle](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/justice-distributive/#Difference),
according to which inequalities in wealth and income are permissible if
and only if these inequalities could not be reduced without worsening
the position of those who are worst-off. You don’t have to accept this
exact principle, though, in order to believe that if an economy is
producing an increasing level of goods and services, then all those who
participate in producing these benefits — workers as well as
others — should share in the result.*

But what did they produce? In my neighborhood, there are households that
have not produced anything but mayhem for generations. In some of our
more vibrant neighborhoods, there are three generations of some
households in the same state prison. How about the guy who sells meth
for a living? He may not be a burden on the state, as far welfare and
prison costs, but he is burden on society. What’s his share?

The trouble with these disquisitions on inequality is not that they are
mere sentimentality. The trouble is the sentiment is imaginary. No one
really believes inequality is a problem, save for maybe a few bitter
Marxists in your local state college faculty lounge. These are those old
rancid hippies who have posters of Che Guevara on their office wall. No,
the people who prattle on about inequality simply wish to replace the
current inequalities that don’t favor them with a new set that do favor
them.

You’ll note that the people convulsed by Piketty’s book are the
managerial classes. These are the maidservants and coat holders for the
ruling elite. A guy like T. M. Scanlon looks at a Mitt Romney and
wonders how this boob got to be a billionaire. An Elizabeth Warren,
making calls to beg for campaign cash wonders why she, a Harvard
professor, should be begging these rich bastards for money. The
credentialed members of the managerial class want more power and thus
they complain about inequality.
