---
title: "The Imperial Capital"
date: "2014-04-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1478"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1478"
---

<a href="http://freebeacon.com/columns/divorce-beltway-style/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s a fascinating look</a>
at how the imperial ruling class lives. We like to think we vote for our
representatives and they toil away in Washington. In reality, a
semi-permanent ruling class runs the country. It is why a neocon like
Victoria Nuland can work for a left-wing Democrat administration.
Whatever Obama thinks about foreign affairs, no one important gives a
crap. His opinion does not matter as he is not in charge of foreign
policy. The same is true across the board.

*“I see lobbying,” Tony Podesta has said, “as getting information in the
hands of people who are making decisions so they can make more informed
decisions.” Last week the information Tony Podesta was giving was the
divorce complaint he had filed in D.C. Court against his wife Heather.
The hands receiving that information belonged to a gossip columnist for
the Washington Post, who made the “informed decision” to report on it.
Later in the day Heather, who is also a lobbyist, informed the Post
the text of her counter-suit. It published a follow-up.*

*The documents, which you can read below, did not become available to
the rest of us until yesterday. They tell stories not only of a
May-December romance gone sour, but of how obscene wealth can be amassed
through rent-seeking and influence-peddling in Washington D.C., and of
the hoary means by which the princelings of the capital and their
consorts maintain and grow that wealth. They tell stories not only of an
ugly divorce, but of the power of lobbying, of how one family maneuvered
to the center of the nation’s dominant political party, of the
transactional relationships, gargantuan self-regard, and empty posturing
that insulates, asbestos-like, the D.C. bubble.*

*That the broken couple now uses the tools of their trade—the phone-call
to a friend, the selective leaking of documents, the hiring of
attorneys, the launch of a public-relations campaign—against one another
is more than ironic. It is fitting. Tony and Heather Podesta reached the
pinnacle of wealth and influence in Barack Obama’s Washington. Now they,
like he, are in eclipse.*

The Founders had a pretty good understanding of the bandits, highwaymen,
con-men, the clever fraction and the parasites present in every human
population. They also understood how easily the smart and successful
could tip into corruption. Their project was designed to make it tough
for these elements to gain power. They may have imagined a tribe of
Podestas, but they never imagined a class of coat holders and fixers,
who existed outside the power of the king. The next Constitution, if
there is one, will have to address this type of vermin that runs the
Imperial Capital.

Term limits sounds good, but it addresses a very small part of the
problem. The Podesta clan does not make it’s money from the elected
officials. No, they make their money by knowing all of the staffers, the
lobbyists and most important, the permanent bureaucracy that implements
and enforces Federal law. The way to address this is to term limit
government employment. You get ten years to collect a government check.
After that, you rejoin the dreaded private sector. T

The way the parasite class will attempt to get around this is
outsourcing. Instead of having HUD staffed with thousands of people, a
contractor like Blackwater will spring up that does all of the
functions, but avoids the limit on government service. The term limit,
therefore, would have to be extended to government contractors. If
Delloite, for example, cannot get along without government work, maybe
they need to go away. This would require registering government
contractors and publicizing employee lists.
