---
title: "The Swiss"
date: "2014-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=937"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=937"
---

<a
href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2014/02/the-swiss-vote-for-immigration-curbs-how-much-immigration-is-possible-without-a-backlash.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This Tyler Cowen post</a>
captures what’s wrong with our ruling elites.

*In my view immigration has gone well for Switzerland, both economically
and culturally, and I am sorry to see this happen, even apart from the
fact that it may cause a crisis in their relations with the European
Union.  That said, you can take 27% as a kind of benchmark for the
limits of immigration in most or all of today’s wealthy countries.  I
believe that as you approach a number in that range, you get a
backlash.*

Countries have an absolute right to decide who is and who is not a
citizen. They also get to decide who can and who cannot enter their
country. They also control who can settle in their lands. The only
people qualified to know how much immigration is good for the Swiss are
the Swiss. An outsider can have no idea what will work for the Swiss, so
they should not pretend they know the right answer. The best someone
like Cowen can do is talk about what the Swiss think is best for them.

It is tempting to write this off as arrogant and obtuse, but that’s not
it. What we seeing is an almost religious fervor by our rulers for a
borderless world. They don’t state it that way, as they have gas-lit
themselves on the matter of religion. They think they are pure logic
machines, but that’s just self-delusion. Open borders is part of this
utopia they imagine is right around the corner. If we just get rid of
borders, human differences and sexual differences, humanity enters the
Promised Land.
