---
title: "The Pension Bomb"
date: "2014-07-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2215"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2215"
---

Some smart guy supposedly said that democracy works great until the
people learn how to give themselves a raise from the public treasury. It
is one of those quotes attributed to famous people, even though it is
clear they never said it. Reagan used to use the line a lot, but he is
certainly not the
source. <a href="http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Alexander_Fraser_Tytler"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Wiki blames urban legend</a>
and maybe some obscure guy from the 1940’s.

The source is not important as the sentiment is obvious. Once you start
taking money from one person or group and give it to another citizen or
group, you open the door to institutional robbery. Or, as some other
unknown smart guys said, “A government that promises to rob Peter to pay
Paul will always get Paul’s vote.” Another formulation of this is the
tragedy of the commons.

That’s been the dynamic of America’s experiment with social democracy
since the end of World War II. One party promises to rob one group of
Americans and give *some* of the proceeds to another group of Americans.
The game is to either fashion a majority of Peters on the promise of
defending them from the Pauls, or, fashion a majority of Pauls promising
to rob the Peters. When in the 1970’s it became clear that Thatcher was
right and you do eventually run out of Peters to rob, we started robbing
the unborn Peters through debt and money creation.

Now, it looks like we are running out of unborn Peters. The public
pension time bomb is about to blow apart the present arrangements, but
no one has any idea what to do about it. It is a straight forward math
problem. The possible outcomes are known and few are good. Maybe if
there is a miraculous change in demographics and asset values,
everything will work out just fine. More likely, Detroit is the rosy
scenario. As this story in City Journal explains,
<a href="http://www.city-journal.org/2014/eon0710sm.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">restructuring pensions plans
is just about impossible</a>.

*When unions agreed to a deal last month with Detroit city government to
freeze the city’s underfunded pension system and create a new, less
expensive one, some experts hailed it as a model that other troubled
cities might adopt. News reports prominently mentioned governments with
deep retirement debt, including Chicago and Philadelphia, as candidates
for similar reforms. But the agreement came about under a Michigan
emergency law that applies to struggling cities like Detroit, which is
in bankruptcy. **In many states, by contrast, local laws and state court
rulings have made it virtually impossible to cut back retirement
benefits for current government employees, even for work that they have
yet to perform.** These state protections, which go far beyond any
safeguards that federal law provides to private-sector workers, are one
reason why so many states and localities are struggling to dig
themselves out of pension-system debt, amid sharp increases in costs. It
will take significant reforms to state laws—or bigger and more painful
bankruptcy cases—to make a real dent in the pension crisis.*

This may be a good thing. The problems created by the people of
Philadelphia should be shouldered by the people of Philadelphia. The
state or federal government riding to the rescue just encourages more of
this stuff. Plus, the people of these localities will feel the effects
of their political choices. Maybe they make better choices going
forward.

*The Detroit plan, negotiated by unions with the city’s emergency
manager, Kevyn Orr, freezes the city’s current underfunded retirement
plan so that workers will receive benefits for new work at a reduced
rate. Under the old plan, an employee who worked for the city for 35
years and retired at 62 with a final salary of $60,000 could qualify for
a pension of nearly $40,000. By contrast, if that same employee works
the final ten years of his career under the new plan, his annual pension
would be about $35,000. In addition, if the new plan becomes
underfunded, the employee will have to contribute more of his own money
to help cover the costs.*

*Detroit’s reforms aren’t unusual by the standards of the private
sector, where a federal law, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
(ERISA), governs pensions. That legislation protects the benefits that a
worker has already earned but allows employers to amend a pension plan
for work that’s not yet been done, a move that can immediately reduce
costs. Workers have the option of seeking employment elsewhere, of
course, if they don’t like the new terms.*

*But federal law doesn’t apply to municipal retirement systems created
by state legislation. In about two dozen states, courts have declared
that laws creating pensions represent a contract between an employee and
government whose benefits can never be reduced once a worker enters the
retirement system. **Many state courts—including those in Pennsylvania,
Arizona, and Colorado—have been influenced by a series of California
legal decisions (often referred to, collectively, as the “California
Rule” on pensions) which hold that the pension contract begins
immediately upon employment, and that the terms of a government worker’s
pension can only change if the alterations are “accompanied by
comparable new advantages,” or benefits.** The California Rule,
University of Chicago legal scholar Richard Epstein has written,
“Neuters the power of local governments to alter and amend, by wiping
out all government flexibility to correct prior errors in pension
program design or funding.” One result, he observes, “is a financial
death spiral” in many municipalities.*

The proper term for this is “suicide pact.” That’s what these states
have created. A city that cannot raise taxes to pay its bills has to cut
spending. If they are prohibited from cutting these pension deals, then
they must cut other stuff. Fewer cops and fewer bureaucrats probably
sounds good to libertarians, but they have never been to places like
Philly or Baltimore. Fewer cops and fewer locals on the city payroll
means <a
href="http://m1.behance.net/rendition/modules/14087881/disp/588440a67219e56d079acbed9ce9d780.png"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">my neighbors are coming to
your neighborhood.</a>

<a href="http://www.city-journal.org/2010/20_2_california-unions.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="new"><em>We see that spiral in
California</em></a>*, where a number of municipalities entered
bankruptcy in recent years, thanks in part to their inability to alter
their unaffordable pensions. Courts, meanwhile, have short-circuited
reform attempts. Voters in the city of San Jose, where pension costs
have risen to $245 million, from $73 million in 2002, passed a ballot
initiative in 2012 installing a new, less expensive pension system. But
in December, a California judge invalidated the key changes, based on
her interpretation of state court precedents.*

*The decision leaves California municipalities facing a bleak future.
From 2006 through 2013, local governments that participate in the giant
California Public Employees’ Retirement System saw their annual pension
costs double, on average. Last year, the CalPERS board voted to require
an additional contribution increase of 50 percent, phased in over five
years. “While there is time to plan for the increase, the most fiscally
stressed municipalities could find the increases unmanageable,” Moody’s
wrote. Meanwhile, California governor Jerry Brown has signed off on
another plan to rescue the state’s struggling teachers’ pension fund by
requiring school districts to increase their annual contributions from
$2 billion this year to $6 billion over the next seven years.*

At some point, the money runs out and there’s no way to hide it. The
outflow of tax payers from California is going to accelerate.
Eventually, the pols will have no choice but to turn on the rich of San
Francisco and Los Angeles. That will be fun to watch, but rich people
only respond to force, so they will not pay up no matter how much the
politicians complain. It will have to get very ugly first.

*Legislators in Illinois have taken a different approach. Their state
constitution bans changes to pensions, and costs have soared for both
the state and its municipalities. Last year, legislators passed changes
in defiance of constitutional protections, arguing in court that the
state faces a “severe financial crisis” that makes reform “a valid
exercise of the state’s reserved sovereign powers.” Unions are now
challenging the reform law, and if they succeed, Illinois faces a $187
billion pension tab—equal to more than four times its revenues—with no
plan to reduce the debt.*

*Illinois has lots of company. Without some way to amend the terms of
retirement plans, states and municipalities groaning under the so-called
California Rule face years of increasing costs and pressure on budgets
that inevitably mean higher taxes and fewer services—in other words, the
worst of both worlds.*

Illinois will never pay those debts. In fact, none of these states with
swollen pension obligations will pay those debts. Then we will learn
that economists were wrong about public debt. For decades they have been
arguing that debt has no negative impact of economic growth. In fact,
they have consistently argued that debt boosts growth. That’s true until
the point when the debtor cannot pay his debts. Then the whole thing
collapses into an Argentine crisis.

That’s always been the big lie within modern economics. Debt and money
creation are nothing more than the pulling forward of revenue. If you
imagine a nation’s economy as a balance sheet, raising debt to fund
current consumption is a zero sum game. It is just an accrual. You
artificially increase revenues today, but that entry is reversed out
down the line, when the debt is repaid. Our decreasingly robust
recoveries from recessions are due to the metastasizing debt.

What happens when the retirees learn they will not be getting paid is
not entirely unknown. They will default on their debts. The people
holding those debts will follow suit. If a state like California does
default on its debts, things will get very ugly in America. There are
simply too many people depending on those debt payments for there to be
no serious consequences to the economy at large.

I’ve often thought that the next constitution will have a few provisions
in response to the inevitable debt crisis that is coming our way. One is
there will be serious limits on government borrowing. Frankly, outside
of war, the Federal government should never be borrowing. At the state
level, debt should be limited to asset backed lending. The state pledges
a bridge or road as collateral. Otherwise, government is prohibited from
issuing debt.

The other change is that citizens vote where they are born. The people
of California who voted for lunatics are the real problem. They should
not be allowed to move to a neighboring state and begin ruining their
new home by voting for lunatics. Look at the states ruined by
Californians moving away from their mess. Oregon, Washington, Colorado,
New Mexico used to be sensibly run states. New Hampshire was ruined by
lunatics from Massachusetts. Vermont was ruined by New York lunatics.
