---
title: "Happy New Year"
date: "2014-01-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=745"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=745"
---

It seems the thing to do with blogs at this time of year is to make some
predictions about the coming year. I’ve been reading up on and studying
the prediction business for a while now, so let’s see if I can put some
of it to work. My interest in the prediction business is mostly for
amusement. Go back and read old predictions and they are not only wrong,
but hilariously wrong. My bet is people in the futurism racket are
mostly interested in attention, so they tend to be willing to make bold
claims about the future.

Of course, most predictions about the future are wrong because people
tend to predict things they wish come true. Since most of what we wish
for never happens, it follows that such predictions will tend not to
happen. Then there is the fact no one ever remembers the failed
predictions. The finance guys love promoting people who got some even
right in the past, but they never mention that the same guy got fifty
other things wrong. No one in the prediction business reminds us of how
many things they got wrong.

The bigger issue is the the appearance of randomness. A problem with
several constants and one variable is easy to solve. Human affairs have
many more variables and few constants. Human affairs have millions of
variables. The example of the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_pendulum"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">double pendulum</a> is a good
one. We can predict the movement of a pendulum easily using basic math.
Put a hinge in the middle and the movement appears to become
unpredictable. There are videos on YouTube you can look up if you are
unfamiliar with this example.

Then there is the issue of time. I know, as a matter of mathematical
certainty, that the Fed policy of dumping a trillion new dollars into
the system will have to end. The bears think hyper-inflation is right
around the corner and the program will crash. They may eventually be
right, but it could be next year or five years from now. Right now, the
world economy is soaking up these new dollars and stuffing them into
assets like stocks. Eventually, that ends, but knowing when is the
mystery. A good prediction is mostly about timing.

That said, years ago I got interested in betting sports games. American
football betting is really just a game of  figuring out how the crowd is
going. If you can find example where the conventional wisdom is out of
phase with reality, you can make some
money. <span style="line-height: 1.625;">I came up with a model that
allowed me to beat the spread 59% of the time. That sounds good, but 57%
is the break even point. Bookmakers charge
</span><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vigorish"
rel="noopener noreferrer" style="line-height: 1.625;"
target="_blank">vigorish</a><span style="line-height: 1.625;">. The book
maker strives to set the line so that he gets equal money on each team.
The losers pay the winners and the bookie takes his cut. If he does his
job, he makes 5% of the total money bet on the game.</span>

With that in mind, here are some predictions for 2014 about things I
care about a little:

1\) Florida State will beat Auburn and it will not be that close.

2\) Denver will not make the Super Bowl. Peyton Manning will not join
Earl Morrall and Jeff Rutledge as quarterbacks to make it to the Super
Bowl on two different teams. The NFL playoffs comes down to defense.
Great QB’s running great offense can win a game or two, but eventually,
it comes down to defense. If the Patriots had a decent defense, Tom
Brady has two more rings and an undefeated season. The Denver defense is
one of the worst in the playoffs this year.

3\) The US economy will remain in neutral, growing at about 2.5% after
all the adjustments and revisions. The great slow down from health care
will not appear as predicted. There’s some evidence that the economy was
picking up in the last half of 2013, but certainly not booming.
Unemployment, however, remains the primary drag and there nothing in the
latest numbers to suggest things are changing on that front. ObamaCare
will put downward pressure on the labor market. Continued exploitation
of existing technology will offset much of this as companies get better
at doing more with less, but you still need people with money buying
stuff to make an economy grow. We remain at the edge of personal debt
limits. That all adds up to more of the same in 2014.

4\) Obama will fall below 40% in Gallup and remain there until the
summer, but bubble back up into the low to mid 40’s in the summer.
Americans want to like him, even if they hate his policies right now.
There’s not a huge difference between 44% and 38% but it will be
encouraging to the administration and his party. As noted above, people
see what they want to see. The liberal media will break into an early
version of Obama nostalgia this summer as a last gasp to salvage his
second term, but the limits of reality mean he remains in the 40’s for
the rest of the year.

5\) The stock market will finish ahead of where it is today.
Specifically, the DOW will be above 17,000 by year end, but not by much.
There’s no question that the market has had a great run, but it has no
basis in reality. Facebook, for example, has a P/E of 140. Twitter is
worth $40 Billion, despite having no profits and no chance to make a
profit in 2014. The P/E of the Russell 2000 is 87. The major indexes are
better, the DOW is 19 and the NASDAQ is 21, but those remain high
historically. The average P/E is 15 going back 100 years. Still, a
trillion in Fed money will counter any pull back in 2014.

6\) There will be no legislative changes to the health care law in 2014.
Nothing will be passed out of the Senate. Right now, this thing is a
gift to both parties. The Democrats scare the Left about how the Right
wants to repeal it. The Republicans promise the Right they will repeal
it. At some point, repeal becomes the stuff of the fringe and both
parties take turns promising to repair it. For 2014, we have the
repeal/defend dynamic so nothing changes.

7\) The Red Sox will not make the playoffs. They caught lightning in a
bottle and will fall back to being an 85-win team. The lost a key player
in Ellsbury and the rest of the division got better. Repeating is always
hard and the margin for error is small. Losing ten more games knocks
them out of the playoffs and that’s certainly seems reasonable.

8\) The Republicans will pick a net of nine Senate seats in 2014 and
have a working majority. The House will see the GOP gained a dozen
seats. The GOP establishment is revved up to prove a point to the right.
That point is safe candidates can beat democrats in toss-up states. Put
another way, they want to show the Right that wackos are not welcome in
their club. I think the result will be a strong effort to field
competent alternatives to at-risk Democrats and a solid election for the
GOP. The Democrats have a dozen highly vulnerable incumbents and the GOP
has none this time.

9\) The sale of eBooks will continue to stagnate and people will begin
to ask if they will displace hard books after all. Sales have been flat
for a year. The novelty of tablet computers is cresting and that will
put more pressure on sales. The fact is the reading universe is static.
People consume a predictable number of books. Weird innovations in the
free money era caused a spike (Mega book stores, Amazon, tablets), but
there are no more novelties coming to boost sales. The mega book stores
are closing. Amazon is flat. Tablets have been driving novelty interest
in eBooks, but that’s coming to an end as the tablet market matures. The
eBook may be a solution looking for a problem.

10\) Tablet prices will fall significantly. They are on the cusp of
becoming a commodity. As penetration peaks, the race to the bottom of
the price curve will begin. Korean and Chinese makers will begin to
flood the market with cheap Android based tablets. The fact is, these
things should be cheap media consumption devises. The first HD TV’s cost
$3K and now are a tenth of that in some sizes. Tablet prices will drop
as the market for what they do best solidifies. Microsoft’s attempt to
make them mini-desktops will fail. There’s no need for an $800
mini-laptop when you can get a real one for the same price.

11\) Cheap tablets will begin to erode the smart phone market. The
reason the smart phone exists is it give you a portable media
consumption devise. A 7″ tablet is just as portable as most phones.
Wi-fi is nearly ubiquitous now. A lot of people, particularly business
people will begin to opt for a cheap mobile phone on a cheap plan and a
cheap tablet for surfing the ‘Net.

12\) 2014 will see the beginning of the end to the old mobile phone
model. The market is maxed out now. The way for the carriers to compete
will be with the plans, instead of the devices. The fact is, most people
rarely leave their local area. That means small carriers can begin to
chip away at the lower end of the market. That will lead to more lower
end choices from the major carriers. It will also mean less bundling.

13\) The first glimpses of a la carte pricing in cable and satellite
will appear this year. The cost of cable is way out of hand and the
alternatives are getting better. I can subscribe to Hulu for $8 a month
and get more content than I could ever watch. I can get shows from
Netflix and Amazon. Apple is ramping up their video content and
Microsoft is unleashing hell with XBox One. Cable will begin to
experiment with offer customers the ability to opt out of some channels
to save a few bucks.
