---
title: "Send In The Trannies!"
date: "2014-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1260"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1260"
---

It used to be that the counter to the homosexual marriage was it would
lead to every pervert and nutjob demanding special treatment too. After
all, the point of defining anything is about setting limits. The
difference between an apple and an orange is not open for debate. The
difference between two guys playing house and your aunt and uncle
raising a family is obvious. The former is a fruitless transaction that
serves no social purpose, while the latter is about creating children.

Removing the biology renders the term and the institution meaningless
unless you can come up with some new limiting definition. Since the
whole point of the effort is to destroy the institution, there will be
no new definition of marriage. The goal is to destroy the white
middle-class by destroying white middle-class institution. The whole
point of homosexual marriage is open the flood gates to all of the other
freaks and weirdos, demanding the right to occupy the space of the white
middle-class.

Right on cue, <a
href="http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2014/03/13/commission-finds-no-compelling-medical-reason-to-exclude-transgender-americans-from-military/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the parade of degenerates is
on it s way</a>.

*An independent commission led by a former U.S. surgeon general has
concluded there “is no compelling medical reason” for the U.S. armed
forces to prohibit transgender Americans from serving and that President
Barack Obama could lift the decades-old ban without approval from
Congress, according to a report being released Thursday.*

*The report said Department of Defense regulations designed to keep
transgender people from joining or remaining in the military on the
grounds of psychological and physical unfitness are based on outdated
beliefs that require thousands of current service members either to
leave the service or to forego the medical procedures and other changes
that could align their bodies and gender identities.*

*“We determined not only that there is no compelling medical reason for
the ban, but also that the ban itself is an expensive, damaging and
unfair barrier to health care access for the approximately 15,450
transgender personnel who serve currently in the active, Guard and
reserve components,” said the commission led by Dr. Joycelyn Elders, who
served as surgeon general during Bill Clinton’s first term as president,
and Rear Adm. Alan Steinman, a former chief health and safety director
for the Coast Guard.*

Now, Joycelyn Elders has been pushing perversity for a long
time. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joycelyn_Elders"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">According to Wiki</a>, she has
a masters in biochemistry, but one should assume that was the result of
other factors than intelligence. Regardless, even if her credentials are
legitimate, she is still unqualified to discuss this issue. It’s not
about science. it is about public morality and the fitness of the
military. The absurd claim that there are 15,000 trannies in the service
is going to get passed around as fact, even though the source is a nut.

*The panel, convened by a think tank at San Francisco State University,
said the ban has existed for several decades and apparently was derived
in part from the psychiatric establishment’s consensus, since revised,
that gender identity issues amounted to a mental disorder.*

People come in two sexes. Yes, there are extremely rare cases of people
with peculiar genetic defects that lead to them having both male and
female sex organs or an extra X chromosome. That’s not what were’
talking about here. These are men, it’s always men, who think they are
something they are not. if they though they were invisible or giant
bunny rabbits, no one would question their mental fitness. Yet, in this
newly created exception, we’re supposed to believe it is normal?

*The ban also appears based on the assumption that providing hormone
treatment and sex reassignment surgeries would be too difficult,
disruptive and expensive. But the commission rejected those notions as
inconsistent with modern medical practice and the scope of health care
services routinely provided to non-transgender military personnel.*

I’ll just note that the press swallows this nonsense down whole. If
Liberty University had a commission that issued a report calling
trannies perverts in need of psychiatric help, the media would be
leading a boycott and protest rally in Lynchburg. Fruitcake University
drags in an old black hustler to promote liberal agit-prop and they
treat it like the Sermon on the Mount. Regardless, the parade of
perverts will be in your town soon, leering at your kids, daring you to
say something. Welcome to the new normal.
