---
title: "National Bigot Association"
date: "2014-04-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1594"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1594"
---

In post-reality America, <a
href="http://www.tmz.com/2014/04/26/donald-sterling-clippers-owner-black-people-racist-audio-magic-johnson/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this will be the dominant
story</a> of 2014. Even the coming election will not get the same level
of coverage. In fairness to the press, it probably should be the
dominant story. After all, this will be the first time a <a
href="http://ftw.usatoday.com/2014/04/donald-sterling-los-angeles-clippers-naacp-award"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">billionaire member of The
Tribe</a> will be stripped bare in public. All of our rich and tall
black people are upset with him. <a
href="http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/magic-johnson-i-will-never-699140"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Magic Johnson</a>, a very rich
and tall black person, is angry. <a
href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BKN_CLIPPERS_OWNER_LEBRON_JAMES?SITE=AP&amp;SECTION=HOME&amp;TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&amp;CTIME=2014-04-26-18-55-37"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">LeeBong James</a>, currently
the most famous tall black guy in America, wants Sterling banished. <a
href="http://www.tmz.com/2014/04/26/stephen-a-smith-clippers-players-considered-not-playing-protest/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The comically illiterate
Stephen A. Smith</a> wants the tall wealthy black employees of Sterling
to boycott their next game. It’s a Mandingo revolt!

All joking aside, it says something about the state of the nation when
the ramblings of a cuckolded old weirdo, apparently in some sort of spat
with his paramour, makes national news. As I’m fond of saying, race is
all about piety with the Left. It is how they get to tell one another
how much they hate America and how much they really hate white people.
Hotbeds of racial piety like New England practically glow in the dark
they are so white, while allegedly backward places like Georgia have
large and growing black populations. On the Left, they talk like MLK and
live like the KKK.

There’s another piece to this. How in the world did TMZ get this?
Obviously, Sterling did not send this to TMZ. California is an all-party
consent state. In order to record a telephone conversation all parties
must agree. Without consent, the recording is illegally retained and TMZ
is aiding and abetting a criminal act. In a sane and rational society,
the authorities will have arrested the reporter and his editor at this
point. They have confessed to taking possession of an illegally obtained
recording.

It seems to me that one of the reforms that will come downstream is
tougher laws regarding communications and privacy. Sterling may be an
old bigot, but he has a right to privacy. He made these statements with
an expectation that they would remain between him and this woman. In a
nation of laws, she and the TMZ people would be cooling their heels in
the can right now. They would also be liable for all damages resulting
from the public revelations.

The other very strange thing is why in the world would someone with such
disdain for blacks buy a basketball team? Basketball has been the game
of black people for fifty years now. When Sterling bought the team, he
had to know he was going to spend a lot of time around black people. His
team president was black for many years. I get the sense that Sterling
is a very weird man. Being a billionaire lets him get away with being
weird to a point and we may reached that point.

Another entertaining aspect of this is how <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/376641/racist-clippers-owner-donald-sterling-democrat-tim-cavanaugh"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Left immediately moved to
show he must be a “Republican” and a “Conservative.”</a> It’s like how
so-called conservatives claim Democrats ruined cities like Detroit. Just
as no one is allowed to notice that blacks commit a lot of crime, no one
is allowed to notice that all the NBA owners are Jewish, while all of
the players are black. The NBA is the future our masters imagine is
plausible on planet earth.
