---
title: "Those Happy Filipinos"
date: "2014-01-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=776"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=776"
---

The term “hot-blooded” has fallen out of favor, as observations about
anything outside the gray zone of multiculturalism are forbidden. It
used to be a common way to describe people from the parts of the world
near the equator. An Italian or Mexican could be described as
hot-blooded, to mean emotional or passionate. It was not an insult, as
people who were “hot-blooded” were also well meaning, just more
emotional than the northern European type. Of course, this is strictly
forbidden now, so no one says it.

Maybe there is something else about being hot-blooded. [According to
Gallup](http://www.gallup.com/poll/158882/singapore-ranks-least-emotional-country-world.aspx#1),
the Filipinos are the happiest people on earth. Without studying it too
closely, it really does look like being excitable tracks with general
happiness. On the other end, the people from colder climates are the
least happy. Singapore tops the list, but the usual suspects from the
cold, Caucasian outposts fill out the top ten. The method for building
the list probably falls far short of what most people would call
empirical, but it is interesting.

Gallup went out and asked people a series of questions like “Did you
feel well rested yesterday?” and “Did you smile and laugh a lot
yesterday?” and tabulated the results into this least of most and least
happiest nations. Presumably, the more you laugh and sleep, the more
emotional you are according to Gallup. That makes sense. You never hear
about great Russian comics or Swedish funny men. Of course, laughing is
something contented people would do, so getting plenty of sleep makes
sense, as well.

That said, the results do conform to what we tend to think about people.
Filipinos do seem like happy little people. In fact, most people think
of the southern latitudes as relaxed and happy places. It’s not just the
weather that attracts whites from the north to places like the
Caribbean. They go there to relax, because the culture is relaxed and
the people seem happy. That said, Gallup was not going to headline their
study “Swarthy People of the South Most Hot Blooded” as that would get
them sent to the camps.

The question, of course, is what’s on the flip-side of this coin. People
who are emotional are less rational. A great chess player or poker
player is one who controls his passions and is clinical in his approach
to the game. You really see this in poker these days. The winners are
almost always men from STEM fields. They maintain a dispassionate
engagement with the game and rely on their opponents to let their
emotions get the better of them. In other words, the dispassionate are
better at controlling their environment.

Then there is the link between emotion and time preference. A child has
a high time preference and throws a fit when they don’t get what they
want. To survive in the north means putting off today so you can food in
the winter. People are happy and getting planet of sleep don’t have to
worry if they put up enough supplies to last the winter or weather their
hut is weather proofed. Perhaps the trade-off is you get happiness or
you get a lot of civilization stuff done. That really does not sound
like a great trade.
