---
title: "The Madness of President Ebola"
date: "2014-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3062"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3062"
---

The suicidal impulse of the Left is unmistakable. At the core, these
people want to die and take the rest of us with them. Judicial Watch,
which has a really good record of unearthing embarrassing stuff on our
rulers, <a
href="http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/watchdog-obama-to-bring-non-american-ebola-victims-to-u.s.-for-treatment/article/2554956"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">has this</a>:

*While the bipartisan voice grows to ban Ebola victims from entering the
United States, a new report claims that President Obama is considering a
plan to bring the world’s Ebola patients to the United States to be
treated.*

*<a
href="http://www.judicialwatch.org/blog/2014/10/obama-plans-let-ebola-infected-foreigners-u-s-treatment/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Judicial Watch</a>, the conservative
public watchdog group, says in a shocking report that the president is
“actively formulating plans” to admit Ebola-infected non-citizens just
to be treated.*

*“Specifically, the goal of the administration is to bring Ebola
patients into the United States for treatment within the first days of
diagnosis,” said the group.*

*Such a plan would likely cause a political outcry throughout the
nation, on edge over the spread of the virus.*

*Judicial Watch, which probes federal spending and uses federal and
administration sources to root out corruption, said it is unclear who
would pay for transporting and treating non-Americans.*

*But they have details nobody else has. “The plans include special
waivers of laws and regulations that ban the admission of non-citizens
with a communicable disease as dangerous as Ebola.”*

*The organization added, “the Obama administration is keeping this plan
secret from Congress. The source is concerned that the proposal is
illegal; endangers the public health and welfare; and should require the
approval of Congress.”*

This is madness for a number of reasons. The least obvious is how this
policy further erodes the trust between the citizens and their
government. Trust in the political class is at record lows, but <a
href="http://www.people-press.org/2013/10/18/trust-in-government-nears-record-low-but-most-federal-agencies-are-viewed-favorably/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">most people still think the bureaucrats
in the various agencies are at least trying to their jobs</a>. They view
them as lazy, but generally honest civil servants run by a collection of
political hacks connected to a politician.

Getting new politicians is a simple thing, in the mind of the public,
even though that is not our current reality. Getting a new new
managerial class, on the other hand, means blood in the streets. Putting
the CDC in a position to fail is a dangerous game. When even <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/opinion/joe-nocera-failures-of-competence.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the aging lefties at the NYTimes</a>
think the CDC is incompetent, you already have a serious trust problem.

There’s another layer to the trust issue. When the Bush people allegedly
failed to help the looters in New Orleans after Katrina, it was not
because they did not know what to do. That was never the claim. The
claim was they failed to do what was required for some reason. This,
however, looks like the opening scenes of every disaster movie. The
people in charge are either too arrogant to admit they are facing a
disaster or too stupid to know they don’t know what they are facing. <a
href="http://westhunt.wordpress.com/2014/10/17/the-advent-of-cholera/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">As Greg Cochran points out</a>, arrogant
ignorance has a long history in the epidemic game.

In a few weeks, there will be political consequences. When <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/18/us/amid-assurances-on-ebola-obama-is-said-to-seethe.html?hp&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;version=LedeSum&amp;module=first-column-region&amp;region=top-news&amp;WT.nav=top-news"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Obama feels the need to quit the golf
course and show up for work</a>, you know the politics are more lethal
to his cult than Ebola is to Africans. That may be comforting to Red
Team partisans, but it is still very bad for the health of the Empire.
The near total lack of trust in the political class has made it
impossible for them to tackle any of the systemic problems facing the
country. Making Red Team less odious than Blue Team is not going to
usher in a reform movement.

That’s really not the main concern. As Greg Cochran pointed out in that
post, the people in charge of the science of Ebola may be ideologically
wedded to ideas that are completely wrong. That’s not without precedent.
The Obama administration appears to be acting on the belief, and it is
nothing more than belief, that Ebola is mostly a poor African savage
problem. In clever, white America we don’t have to worry about witch
doctors and strange burial rituals. The two infections in Dallas suggest
otherwise.

<a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/six-reasons-panic_816387.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The column</a> in the Daily News makes a
good case for concern, if not panic. We don’t know a lot about Ebola.

*As a rule, one should not panic at whatever crisis has momentarily
fixed the attention of cable news producers. But the Ebola outbreak in
West Africa, which has migrated to both Europe and America, may be the
exception that proves the rule. There are at least six reasons that a
controlled, informed panic might be in order.*

*(1) Start with what we know, and don’t know, about the virus. Officials
from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and other government agencies
claim that contracting Ebola is relatively difficult because the virus
is only transmittable by direct contact with bodily fluids from an
infected person who has become symptomatic. Which means that, in theory,
you can’t get Ebola by riding in the elevator with someone who is
carrying the virus, because Ebola is not airborne.*

*This sounds reassuring. Except that it might not be true. There are
four strains of the Ebola virus that have caused outbreaks in human
populations. According to the New England Journal of Medicine, the
current outbreak (known as Guinean EBOV, because it originated in
Meliandou, Guinea, in late November 2013) is a separate clade “in a
sister relationship with other known EBOV strains.” Meaning that this
Ebola is related to, but genetically distinct from, previous known
strains, and thus may have distinct mechanisms of transmission.*

*Not everyone is convinced that this Ebola isn’t airborne. Last month,
the University of Minnesota’s Center for Infectious Disease Research and
Policy published an article arguing that the current Ebola has “unclear
modes of transmission” and that “there is scientific and epidemiologic
evidence that Ebola virus has the potential to be transmitted via
infectious aerosol particles both near and at a distance from infected
patients, which means that healthcare workers should be wearing
respirators, not facemasks.”*

The rest of that column is worth reading. Even if the President Ebola
thinks the science is settled and Ebola is not that contagious, he
clearly knows his apparatus for dealing with public concern is not
working. He also knows the people running the CDC are struggling to deal
with two, that’s TWO, cases of Ebola. Inviting a plague into the country
just to prove some weird political point or spite his political
opponents is madness. Given his views on Christianity, it is may be
Domitian-level madness.

 
