---
title: "Scare Words"
date: "2014-05-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1730"
---

The modern mass media is just the marketing department for the
managerial elite and the billionaires who control the country. The
notion that they speak truth to power is ridiculous. They speak power to
the rest of us. That’s their job. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/10/us/politics/republicans-tighten-grip-on-debates-in-2016-race.html?hp&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> in the New York
Times is a great example/ In a different age, it would be described as
Stalin-esque pamphleteering. Today it is an example of their style
guide.

*The Republican National Committee moved Friday to seize control of the
presidential primary debates in 2016, another step in a coordinated
effort by the party establishment to reshape the nominating process.*

*Committee members overwhelmingly passed a measure that would penalize
any presidential candidate who participated in a debate not sanctioned
by the national party, by limiting their participation in subsequent
committee-sanctioned forums.*

*The move represents the party’s effort to reduce the number of debates
and assert control over how they are staged.*

*In making the case for adopting the new rule, party officials
repeatedly criticized the moderators and format of the 2012 primary
debates, appealing to the suspicions that many Republican activists have
about the mainstream news media. “The liberal media doesn’t deserve to
be in the driver’s seat,” said the committee’s chairman, Reince Priebus,
addressing committee members here at their spring meeting.*

*Such rhetoric makes taking over the debates easier to sell to the
committee’s more conservative members. But what party leaders are
principally concerned about is reducing the number of debates to avoid a
repeat of the 2012 campaign when a series of insurgent candidates used
the forums — 20 in all — to draw attention to their candidacies. Some
party leaders say they believe that the number of debates pushed Mitt
Romney to the right in a way that contributed to his loss to President
Obama.*

Look at all the scary words. They are claiming what is a minor change in
the debate schedule as some dark, is malign conspiracy to blot out all
that is holy and good. What makes it even more hilarious is the GOP
establishment is clearly taking the advice of the Left and trying to
shed their conservative supporters. Yet, the Left still finds it a
foreboding sign of a new dark ages. The so-called conservatives never
learned that there is never any pleasing their Progressive masters.

The last line about “Some party leaders” saying Romney was too far right
is entirely made up, of course. This is what is called in the business
“an imaginary source.” They believe they exist, but like elves and wood
nymphs, there’s no evidence. They are pushing the crazy narrative that
the GOP has gone too far Right, so they make up evidence to support the
claim. Mitt Romney works for the same donors as Barak Obama. They are
competing for the same favors.
