---
title: "Whole Foods"
date: "2014-02-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1094"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1094"
---

The hallmark of Baby Boomer culture in the late empire America is
turning consumer products into religions. Steve Jobs, the quintessential
Boomer guru in many ways, made owning an Apple product a social
statement. His revival shows were nothing more than his confirmation
that the assembled were chosen from eternity to be with the oneness of
Apple. There’s a reason why their mobile products sold well, while their
back office stuff was a dud. They were statements, not actual products.

The same thing is true with Whole Foods, a temple of post-modern
consumerism for those who pretend they oppose consumerism. That makes <a
href="https://www.thedailybeast.com/whole-foods-americas-temple-of-pseudoscience"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post</a> a bit of a
surprise, given that the Daily Beast is for the sorts of people who shop
at Whole Foods. The typical reader is the type buying organic bananas or
free range chicken. All of which costs twice what it would at a normal
market. Maybe that’s why the author largely misses the religious angle
and instead stumbles around the science-y stuff.

*If you want to write about spiritually-motivated pseudoscience in
America, you head to the Creation Museum in Kentucky. It’s like a Law of
Journalism. The museum has inspired hundreds of book chapters and
articles (some of them, admittedly, mine) since it opened up in 2007.
The place is like media magnet. And our nation’s liberal, coastal
journalists are so many piles of iron fillings.*

*But you don’t have to schlep all the way to Kentucky in order to visit
America’s greatest shrine to pseudoscience. In fact, that shrine is a
15-minute trip away from most American urbanites.*

*I’m talking, of course, about Whole Foods Market. From the probiotics
aisle to the vaguely ridiculous Organic Integrity outreach effort (more
on that later), Whole Foods has all the ingredients necessary to give
Richard Dawkins nightmares. And if you want a sense of how weird, and
how fraught, the relationship between science, politics, and commerce is
in our modern world, then there’s really no better place to go. Because
anti-science isn’t just a religious, conservative phenomenon—and the way
in which it crosses cultural lines can tell us a lot about why places
like the Creation Museum inspire so much rage, while places like Whole
Foods don’t.*

*My own local Whole Foods is just a block away from the campus of Duke
University. Like almost everything else near downtown Durham, N.C., it’s
visited by a predominantly liberal clientele that skews academic, with
more science PhDs per capita than a Mensa convention.*

*Still, there’s a lot in your average Whole Foods that’s resolutely
pseudoscientific. The homeopathy section has plenty of Latin words and
mathematical terms, but many of its remedies are so diluted that,
statistically speaking, they may not contain a single molecule of the
substance they purport to deliver. The book section—yep, Whole Foods
sells books—boasts many M.D.’s among its authors, along with titles like
The Coconut Oil Miracleand Herbal Medicine, Healing, and Cancer, which
was written by a theologian and based on what the author calls the
Eclectic Triphasic Medical System.*

*You can buy chocolate with “a meld of rich goji berries and ashwagandha
root to strengthen your immune system,” and bottles of ChlorOxygen
chlorophyll concentrate, which “builds better blood.” There’s cereal
with the kind of ingredients that are “made in a kitchen—not in a lab,”
and tea designed to heal the human heart.*

*Nearby are eight full shelves of probiotics—live bacteria intended to
improve general health. I invited a biologist friend who studies human
gut bacteria to come take a look with me. She read the healing claims
printed on a handful of bottles and frowned. “This is bullshit,” she
said, and went off to buy some vegetables. Later, while purchasing a bag
of chickpeas, I browsed among the magazine racks. There was Paleo
Living, and, not far away, the latest issue of What Doctors Don’t Tell
You. Pseudoscience bubbles over into anti-science. A sample headline:
“Stay sharp till the end: the secret cause of Alzheimer’s.” A sample
opening sentence: “We like to think that medicine works.”*

Organic food is a boondoggle, of course. There are no standards for
labeling something organic and there is a lot of fraud. Is using an
“organic” fertilizer better than using a chemical created in a lab? How
does one define better? Then there is the fact that the produce gets
mixed up on the way to the store. The retailers just put the good
looking stuff in the organic bin and the beat up stuff in the regular
bin.

Customers are not there to get food. They are there for salvation. The
food is just a part of the ritual. Whole Foods is not selling produce,
they are selling grace. Everything about the operation is pure
capitalism, but it is aimed at bourgeois people, who need to feel like
they have purpose beyond making money. In the 60’s, New Age gurus made
money off of these people selling made up eastern religions. Today,
corporations like Apple and Whole Foods are doing the same thing on an
industrial scale.

Food cults are not new. The Jews are well known for their dietary laws.
Catholics used to have dietary laws too. Muslims have dietary rules,
similar to Jews. There’s something in the human psyche to make a
religious fetish out of food. What’s happening today, in the great
bust-out that is modern America, is this quest for grace, whether
through food or consumerism, is turned into a big business.
