---
title: "Sight Seeing"
date: "2014-02-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=870"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=870"
---

I have been traveling the last few days so no blogging and no internet.
I brought a number of laptops so I could have if I wanted, but I wanted
to take a break. Like everyone else, being on-line is such a big part of
my daily life, it is a strange experience to unplug for a few days. For
me at least, the strangeness comes mostly from the realization that I
could easily unplug for good and never miss it. What we regard as the
civic life of the republic is mostly nonsense. There really is no reason
to pay attention to any of it.

When I was a kid, I worked for a congressman as a part-time job. An
article of faith among the political class was that the typical American
was not paying attention. That was regarded as a good thing by old
timers. They saw it as a sign that American was psychologically healthy.
The new breed of political animal saw it as a defect that needed to be
remedied. I suspect the old hands had it right. The quality of the state
is inversely proportional to its desires to gain the attention of the
citizens…

I used to think libertarians were just nutty ideologues, but I’ve come
around to the idea that most are just cowardly conservatives. Politics
in America has always been about morality, not ideology. That cold civil
war, as John Derbyshire calls it, is just a fight over what is going to
be the prevailing morality. Moral arguments are messy and not about
right answers, but about what people want. The morality of a people is
simply what they people want to be true about themselves and the world
around them.

As a practical matter, it means telling the Left you don’t want gay Boy
Scout masters because you don’t like homosexuality. Defending normalcy
is hard because it requires saying tough things and using tough
language. Instead, you can avoid it all and claim to be a libertarian.
You’re not for or against gay marriage or against abortion. You’re not
for or against religious liberty. The libertarian avoids the culture war
entirely and instead does battle with straw men on issues like
legalizing weed and tax policy…

Even if you take libertarians seriously, it’s clear they suffer from the
same problem you see on the Left. They assume things about people that
are not true. For example, walk through an airport. Government does a
terrible job running airports. It is as if they are trying to make air
travel as inefficient as possible. The TSA people I encountered were
universally surly and unpleasant. Airport staff acts like they are doing
you a favor if they recognize you. The main reason for this is they deal
with the public.

Some fraction of the traveling public is simply ignorant of the rules,
written and unwritten, and need firm direction. Another fraction thinks
they are special little snowflakes and try to prove it by bucking the
rules. On one of the plane rides, I watched a women tell people the
middle seat was taken. She just wanted extra room. Eventually, the staff
had to threaten the old women so that the seat could be used. It’s a
good reminder that order has to be imposed on some portion of the
public. Libertarians can’t grasp this…

My first year at college, they had some sort of carnival, so all the
campus freaks could perform in public. The student groups got to setup
tables and recruit to their organization, sell food to raise money and
so forth. One of the weirder tables was one by a group extolling the
glories of Albania. I knew nothing of Albania, so I took their
literature. The national symbol was a fascist looking black eagle on a
red background. The women pitching me on Albania seemed so earnest about
the place.

This was before the internet so I had to go to the library to learn
about Albania. I learned that the leader, [Enver
Hoxha](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enver_Hoxha) was a brutal dictator
and the intellectual father of anti-revisionist Marxism–Leninism, which
basically meant he rejected the deviationists that followed Stalin.
Hoxha was not very influential in left-wing circles, but there was a
sub-culture that was deeply loyal to his ideas. His ideology was
Stalinism with an extreme form isolationism. Albania was a hermit
kingdom during the Cold War.

Anyway, I was reminded of that when talking with some liberal friends.
The gluten thing is the food fad of the Left. They all have it. One
person believes this stuff so deeply she is starving herself. She
beliefs she has suddenly developed an allergy to all food. I’ve known
this person for thirty years. I have cooked for her dozens of times and
I know she ate all sorts of things. Yet she suddenly thinks she has had
this malady that makes her allergic to food. She reminded me of that
woman handing out Albanian literature…

The New England Yankee has many ways to signal their righteousness. That
is an inheritance from colonial times. In a world of communal salvation,
showing you are on the side of the righteous is very important. Today
that means signally good whiteness versus bad whiteness. They will mock
Larry the Cable Guy, but claim to love Louis CK. They love Whole Foods,
but think Walmart is evil. Males think it important to follow the
English Premiere League, despite never having been to England.

This is not all them. NASCAR has a big track in New Hampshire. It’s not
there because no one in New England follows car racing. It falls along a
spectrum, where some people, the hard Left, make a big deal of signaling
their good whiteness. At the other end are townies and regular people
who just like the same stuff as everyone else. Most people fall in
between, but it is the Left that sets the tone. It is a good reminder
that the left in America grew out of a spiritual movement and retains
that quality today…
