---
title: "Ramblings on Hyphen Conservatism"
date: "2014-06-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1998"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1998"
---

Great nouns need no adjectives and good philosophies need no hyphens. In
the former case, the word itself conjures all the imagery needed to
convey meaning. That’s not to say adjectives are useless. Quite the
contrary. The point here is that nouns like lion or lunatic easily stand
on their own. Lesser nouns need helpers to get their meaning across to
the recipient. If a noun needs help packing a punch or getting the point
across, then maybe that speaks to the concept behind the noun.

In the case hyphenated ideas, the hyphen tells you that the old cause is
no longer working and this new thing is an attempt to replace it.
Neo-Conservatism, for example, was a cosmopolitan revolt against the
traditional bourgeois conservatism of the previous era. More precisely
and practically, it was an attempt to fuse the worldly liberalism the
urbanite with the traditional social conservatism of the ruralite.

It was a complete failure.

I’ve thought for a long time now that the Left will have a free hand
until the Right comes to terms with the Bush years. A similar dynamic
was in place in the 1970’s after Nixon, but the emerging conservative
movement was ready to take the stage, even before Nixon imploded. The
overthrow of Nixon was the Old Left’s last gasp, aided by the young
Turks from the New Left. In a way, they did Conservatives a favor by
discrediting the northern conservatism for a generation.

I think there are a lot of parallels between Bush the Lesser and Nixon.
I’m not talking about character or their conduct in office. I strictly
mean as far as their impact on the political landscape. Nixon was an
inflexion point for the political class. Both parties were different
after Watergate and the nation was different. In the Bush years the Left
radicalized and seized control of the Democratic party, making it an
ideological party, so now it is the GOP’s turn to change itself.

That’s the problem. After Nixon, it was easy for the Conservative
movement to sweep in and take over the GOP. Nixon resigned in disgrace
and that wing of the GOP was in no position to challenge the highly
popular Reagan and his sizable coalition. Bush served out both terms and
many on the Right still defend the guy. What’s going on now is a battle
over whether this makes any sense, given that most conservative white
voters think Bush was a complete failure as president.

Libertarians have been let out of their box and represent one strain of
the reformist/reconciliation effort. They have been allowed to mix with
the main stream Right lately, only because they keep it interesting. Of
course, Rand Paul is carrying the banner of that branch of libertarians
that supported his old man. How much influence they have is debatable.
It still looks like a fringe groups of weirdos to most people, but they
are making inroads into the establishment.

The newest entrants are from within the Establishment Right. [Ramesh
Ponnuru](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/379845/right-reforms-ramesh-ponnuru)
is pushing something called [Reform
Conservatism](http://ygnetwork.org/about-yg/). His old lady is drawing a
paycheck from it so you can guess where that is heading. [They have a
book
out](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/10/opinion/brooks-the-new-right.html?hp&rref=opinion&_r=1)
which is mostly a bunch of policy proposals that have been kicking
around for years. These guys are the folks who learned nothing from the
Bush years, but think they can form a new coalition to challenge the
Left.

Then we have [Post-Modern
Conservatism](http://www.nationalreview.com/postmodern-conservative/379815/postmodern-conservatism-between-absolutism-and-skepticism-ralph-c),
which seems a bit muddle to me. I get the sense the adherents spent some
time reading Mencius Moldbug. It has that vibe.

*Postmodern conservatism appeals neither to the foundations of modern
rationalism (a technological view of nature) nor to those of classical
rationalism (the autonomy and superiority of the pure philosophic
life). So in this sense it is skeptical of foundationalisms, which
justifies the somewhat playful and retro name “postmodern.” At the same
time, it recognizes the responsibility of reason and so cannot concede
the adequacy of appeals to History, including Tradition. In this sense
postmodern conservatism is neither Absolutist (dogmatic) nor
relativist-historicist (skeptical); let us say it has a certain
confidence in reason, or, in particular, in politics as reasoning
together, but it does not claim to appeal beyond such reasoning to some
finished system of reason, either modern or classical.*

Starting fresh always sounds good, but you cannot escape the past. In
this case, anyone not on the Left needs to reconcile themselves with
that version of neo-con rule, particularly in the Bush years. The period
from 1994 to 2008, with a heavy emphasis on the Bush years was,
allegedly, the time when the people in charge subscribed to all the main
themes of the modern Right. The result was a disaster.

If you think that sounds harsh, take a look around at the post-Bush
world. Foreign policy is a train wreck. Relations with the world are at
a nadir. The Right’s claim to fiscal prudence was forfeited with the
Bush spending spree. Any claims to good stewardship were also forfeited
when the Bush clan sold out to Wall Street. Before Bush, no one wanted
to be called a liberal. After Bush, no one wants to be called a
conservative, so there is no way to defend Bush and the neocons.

The old ideologies are spent, but there’s nothing ready to replace them.
American Progressivism is a collection of nonsense fads, bolted onto
tribalism. It is the faith of one group of whites forever at war with
the other group of whites. Despite its Utopian posing, it has no end and
no purpose. In that regard, it is purely reactionary. It has been
bankrupt intellectually for so long no one even remembers the
intellectual history of the American Left. They exist because they have
always existed.

For an alternative to form from the wreckage of the American Right, they
first must come to terms with the Bush years. I think we’re seeing that
in fist and starts. The pending disintegration of Iraq and the general
failure of the War on Terror has forced some tough discussion on members
of the Right. The growth of the police state is giving libertarians room
to land some punches on the Bush legacy.

As far as practical politics, the the party will resist any change, as
every comma ion the party platform represents a snout at the trough.
That rules out internal options for reform, so it will require an
external force. Populism and a rowdy disregard for convention is
probably what is needed. Perhaps some one runs for president on a Pat
Buchanan type of platform, but with enough money to make it work.
Something will happen, as the current state is unsustainable.
