---
title: "Spies Like Us"
date: "2014-09-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2348"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2348"
---

I once knew a girl who worked for the NSA. She was an “escort” which
meant she escorted people around the facility. She stood at one door.
When someone came through that door, she would check their ID and then
walk with them to their assigned area of the facility. Apparently, this
was a common way of handling internal security back then. I have no idea
if it remains in place, but it sounds like a bureaucratic solution to
security at classified facilities

More recently, I knew a guy whose daughter worked for the CIA. She
started as an intern in college. She was a theater major. She was also
as dumb as a goldfish and about 150 pounds overweight. After college,
she got a full time job at the CIA and they sent her all over the world.
She worked in Baghdad and Kuwait. Once she started having kids she was
sent back home. What a fat stupid women could possibly do for the CIA is
a mystery, but she got to pretend she was Mata Hari.

Back in the 80’s, it was revealed that the number of paper pushers to
field agents in the CIA was something like 150-to-1. They had an army of
people who spent all day reading foreign newspapers and categorizing the
stories. If you spoke Russian, you would sit there all day listening to
Russian TV and radio, cataloging the details. All of those people need
coffee and they need managers. They all got to tell people at dinner
parties that they worked for the CIA.

The point being is we have thousands of people working in the CIA, NSA
and other intelligence agencies who are just cubicle jockeys. Most of
what they do is pointless busy work. Some of it is useful and some of it
harmful. The fat girl in the CIA most likely spent her days filling out
forms and reading e-mail. Like the “escort” I met in my youth, she was
as much of a spy as the janitors or <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/at-cia-starbucks-even-the-baristas-are-covert/2014/09/27/5a04cd28-43f5-11e4-9a15-137aa0153527_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">coffee jerks working at the
CIA Stabucks</a>.

*The new supervisor thought his idea was innocent enough. He wanted the
baristas to write the names of customers on their cups to speed up lines
and ease confusion, just like other Starbucks do around the world.*

*But these aren’t just any customers. They are regulars at the CIA
Starbucks.*

*“They could use the alias ‘Polly-O string cheese’ for all I care,” said
a food services supervisor at the Central Intelligence Agency, asking
that his identity remain unpublished for security reasons. “But giving
any name at all was making people — you know, the undercover agents —
feel very uncomfortable. It just didn’t work for this location.”*

*This purveyor of skinny lattes and double cappuccinos is deep inside
the agency’s forested Langley, Va., compound.*

*Welcome to the “Stealthy Starbucks,” as a few officers affectionately
call it.*

Buck Sexton likes to brag about working for the CIA. His act on Glenn
Beck’s network is to be the national security guy. Obviously, he was
never a field agent. Unless we go to war with the Scouts, a guy like
Sexton is not needed in an undercover role. Fox has another fake spy on
named Mike Baker. He actually did field work, but it was drug cases and
that’s more like police work than espionage. He pretends to have been a
government hit man on TV.

The comical part of the Starbucks story is that no one buying coffee
there is a ever going to be a field agent. Maybe they get out into an
embassy job, but they will never go under cover. Driving into Langley
with your CIA badge and CIA parking sticker on your car is a terrible
way to maintain your cover. Yet, everyone in the place, including the
guys emptying the trash barrels, carries on like they are Maxwell Smart.
I bet you could make a money selling them shoe phones and cones of
silence.
