---
title: "The End of Social Science"
date: "2014-05-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1692"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1692"
---

I’m re-reading Nicholas Wade’s *Before the Dawn*. If I recall, Wade was
criticized for being a bit direct and dry in his presentation. These
things are a matter of taste, of course, but I find the directness
refreshing. If he larded his narrative up with colorful imaginings about
early man, I don’t think I would enjoy it very much. There’s a place for
everything and population genetics is not the place for imaginative
narrative.

Anyway, the point of re-reading the book is in preparation for his new
book, *A Troublesome Inheritance: Genes, Race and Human History*. The
race realist crowd has been talking about it for a while now and many of
the usual suspects got early copies to review. HBD Chick has a useful
collection of links to reviews from the sort of people who can be
trusted to understand the material.

<a
href="http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424052702303380004579521482247869874?mg=reno64-wsj"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Charles Murray did a very long
write-up</a> in the Wall Street Journal, touching on something that has
been lurking at the edges of genetics for a while. That’s the challenge
it poses to social science. The modern social sciences are based on the
belief in the blank slate and egalitarianism. They may place some limits
on both, but fundamentally the belief is that people can be made into
anything. Genetics is overthrowing that belief and the fields based on
it.

*The problem facing us down the road is the increasing rate at which the
technical literature reports new links between specific genes and
specific traits. Soon there will be dozens, then hundreds, of such links
being reported each year. The findings will be tentative and often
disputed—a case in point is the so-called warrior gene that encodes
monoamine oxidase A and may encourage aggression. But so far it has been
the norm, not the exception, that variations in these genes show large
differences across races. We don’t yet know what the genetically
significant racial differences will turn out to be, but we have to
expect that they will be many. It is unhelpful for social scientists and
the media to continue to proclaim that “race is a social construct” in
the face of this looming rendezvous with reality.*

*After laying out the technical aspects of race and genetics, Mr. Wade
devotes the second half of his book to a larger set of topics: “The
thesis presented here assumes . . . that there is a genetic component to
human social behavior; that this component, so critical to human
survival, is subject to evolutionary change and has indeed evolved over
time; that the evolution in social behavior has necessarily proceeded
independently in the five major races and others; and that slight
evolutionary differences in social behavior underlie the differences in
social institutions prevalent among the major human populations.”*

It is the central debate in human science. Are we what we are because of
a vastly complex number of environmental variables that shape out
characters? Is it just an accident of birth that makes a Nigerian a
Nigerian and a Brit a Brit? Or, is there something else? Have these
populations evolved long enough in isolation to be different in ways
that run much deeper than skin color and hair type? Real science is
pointing at the latter answer, while the soft sciences insist it is the
former.

*All of which will make the academic reception of “A Troublesome
Inheritance” a matter of historic interest. Discoveries have overturned
scientific orthodoxies before—the Ptolemaic solar system, Aristotelian
physics and the steady-state universe, among many others—and the new
received wisdom has usually triumphed quickly among scientists for the
simplest of reasons: They hate to look stupid to their peers. When the
data become undeniable, continuing to deny them makes the deniers look
stupid. The high priests of the orthodoxy such as Richard Lewontin are
unlikely to recant, but I imagine that the publication of “A Troublesome
Inheritance” will be welcomed by geneticists with their careers ahead of
them—it gives them cover to write more openly about the emerging new
knowledge. It will be unequivocally welcome to medical researchers, who
often find it difficult to get grants if they openly say they will
explore the genetic sources of racial health differences.*

*The reaction of social scientists is less predictable. The genetic
findings that Mr. Wade reports should, in a reasonable world, affect the
way social scientists approach the most important topics about human
societies. Social scientists can still treat culture and institutions as
important independent causal forces, but they also need to start
considering the ways in which variations among population groups are
causal forces shaping those cultures and institutions.*

I’m a fan of population genetics and that means I have read more about
the topic than most people. I have strong bias toward empiricism. I
place fields like economics and psychology in the same bucket as
philosophy and religion. They may use the tools of mathematics to build
their arguments, but ultimately they rely on faith. Therefore, in the
great battle between science and the blank slate crowd, I’m on the side
of science.

That said, I would not bet on science. People are not moist robots. At
least we don’t see it that way. We very well may be moist robots, but
our complexity is beyond our ability to comprehend. That gives social
science the edge. Peddling hope in the form of self-help and the
quackery of Malcolm Gladwell is always going to trump the appeal of
sterile materialism. Magical thinking is the rule. Then there are the
vested interests.

*How long will it take them? In 1998, the biologist E.O. Wilson wrote a
book, “Consilience,” predicting that the 21st century would see the
integration of the social and biological sciences. He is surely right
about the long run, but the signs for early progress are not good. “The
Bell Curve,” which the late Richard J. Herrnstein and I published 20
years ago, should have made it easy for social scientists to acknowledge
the role of cognitive ability in shaping class structure. It hasn’t.
David Geary’s “Male/Female,” published 16 years ago, should have made it
easy for them to acknowledge the different psychological and cognitive
profiles of males and females. It hasn’t. Steven Pinker’s “The Blank
Slate,” published 12 years ago, should have made it easy for them to
acknowledge the role of human nature in explaining behavior. It hasn’t.
Social scientists who associate themselves with any of those viewpoints
must still expect professional isolation and stigma.*

That’s the lesson of Galileo. The real lesson, least ways. The
contemporaries of Galileo knew he was right. His inquisitors knew he was
right. That was not the point of contention. The fear of the Church and
the defenders of the established order was simple. Pulling the legs out
from under current understanding of the world was a threat to that
order. The vested interests had, therefore, a natural advantage. Without
something readily at hand to replace the current order, the bias was
against any knowledge that threatened the order.

If you’re looking for a bright side it is that Galileo foreshadowed the
collapse of the Catholic Church as the organizing entity of Western
civilization. Soon after Galileo, Europe was devastated in the Thirty
Years War. That was the end of *Christianity* as the organizing
philosophy of Western elites. Maybe something similar is happening to
the Progressive world order.
