---
title: "The Food Quack"
date: "2014-02-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1142"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1142"
---

The food grifter, Vani Hari, has a new grift working. According to her
website <a
href="http://foodbabe.com/2014/02/12/chick-fil-agrees-go-antibiotic-free/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">she targeted Chick -fil-A for
her latest shake down</a>. Chick-fil-A is a private company so we’ll
never know how much money changed hands. The company may have been
willing to give her a press release she can post on her website. This is
the sort of thing that gets the suckers buying her crap and reading her
website.

Vani is mostly an attention whore hoping to parlay her quackery and
exotic looks into TV gigs. She certainly knows nothing about food
science, based on the nonsense she posts on her site. But, almost
everything to do with diet is nonsense, so she is unremarkable in that
regard. The Standard America Diet, as promoted by the government, is
quackery. This from her
<a href="http://foodbabe.com/2014/02/24/healthiest-bread-on-the-market/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">latest post on bread</a>:

*Bread is a really hot topic and is targeted as the root of many health
problems. Overall, bread gets a bad reputation because grains are not
easy for your body to digest, can overwork your pancreatic enzymes,
contain the anti-nutrient phytic acid and an abundance of dreaded
gluten. Also, our wheat crops in this country have been through some
serious genetic manipulation to make them profitable for the food
industry and less healthy for us.*

First off, grains are no more or less easy to digest than anything else.
There are things in food our body does not break down. These are passed
our system. Second, there is no such thing as “overwork your pancreatic
enzymes.” She just made that up or thought it sounded scary and decided
to borrow it. The real knee slapper is “contain the anti-nutrient phytic
acid and an abundance of dreaded gluten.”

Every food huckster latches onto scare words and throws them around to
sound sincere. Anti-nutrients are in all of our food. Cooking breaks
them down, making it easier for us to absorb nutrients from food. I bet
she thinks “anti-nutrient” means it actually takes away nutrients from
our system. More precisely, she probably thinks the gullible fools she
targets will fall for it.

Taking advantage of people’s fears is a staple of the snake oil
salesman, whether it involves, snakes, oil or a combination of the two.
The person peddling compliments or some magic health formula is subtly
playing on the natural fears people have for disease or aging. Most of
it is hamless, but a pest like Vani, however, can cause real damage. <a
href="http://foodbabe.com/2014/02/12/chick-fil-agrees-go-antibiotic-free/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Her shakedown of
Chik-fil-A</a> is a good example.

*During my meeting with them back in October 2012, we discussed a
laundry list of concerns I had with their menu items – everything from
MSG in their famous sandwich, to artificial food dyes, to TBHQ, and
GMOs. During our discussion in their boardroom, they asked me to
prioritize the list of requests. I told them eliminating artificial food
dyes would be a quick change to implement, but my number one request on
the list was to provide safer and more sustainable chicken that is
raised without antibiotics and GMO feed.*

*Even though they are not going fully organic or non-GMO, this
commitment is significant. This will help to reduce the common practice
of using antibiotics to quickly fatten chickens and keep them “healthy”
in unsafe conditions. This is important because the more we use
antibiotics in our environment, the less impact they will have on us
when it comes to treating certain superbugs. **The widespread use of
antibiotics in animal feed is responsible for creating new strains of
antibiotic-resistant bacteria, that could, frankly, wipe out the human
race if we don’t start doing something about it now.***

It’s rather obvious that the Chick-fil-A executives have learned a
lesson from dealing with the Gay Liberation Army.  The simple answer is
to just buy off these people, which is how people like Jesse Jackson got
rich. That’s what Chick-fil-A is doing here. They are buying her off
with some cheap publicity, that they can then use to promote themselves
as the good guys. It’s just another scam in this low-trust society.
