---
title: "Paul Krugman: A Bigot"
date: "2014-03-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1282"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1282"
---

The Progressives insist that the only people capable of bigotry are
white and those that can be lumped in with them when convenient. The
bigotry of white people can only be directed at non-white people. The
pale face is the forever villain, in the morality play that is
multiculturalism. Words like “diversity” and “pluralism” don’t really
mean what they appear to mean. Instead, they are code for anti-white.
It’s why the Left find it perfectly reasonable to <a
href="http://www.seattlepi.com/news/article/Whites-unwelcome-at-college-diversity-happy-hour-5309996.php"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">exclude the white people from
a diversity event</a>.

*South [Puget Sound Community
College](http://www.seattlepi.com/?controllerName=search&action=search&channel=news&search=1&inlineLink=1&query=%22Puget+Sound+Community+College%22)
says it was a mistake for an employee group to invite only people of
color to a diversity “happy hour.”*

*The group that sent out the email last week apologized the next day and
canceled the event, said [Kellie Purce
Braseth](http://www.seattlepi.com/?controllerName=search&action=search&channel=news&search=1&inlineLink=1&query=%22Kellie+Purce+Braseth%22),
dean of college relations.*

*The college believes the best way to celebrate and discuss diversity is
to include everyone, Braseth told KING (<http://bit.ly/1qvHzjW> ).*

*“If you want to come you should be able to come; that just makes a
richer conversation,” she said.*

*The invitation to all 300 staffers said the “Staff, Faculty and
Administrators of Color” encouraged employees to reply to the invitation
to find out the confidential date and time of what was being called a
“happy hour” to “build support and community” for people of color.*

*The invite made it clear white people were not welcome.*

*“If you want to create space for white folks to meet and work on
racism, white supremacy, and white privilege to better our campus
community and yourselves, please feel free to do just that,” the
email read.*

*Karama Blackhorn, program coordinator for the school’s [Diversity and
Equity
Center](http://www.seattlepi.com/?controllerName=search&action=search&channel=news&search=1&inlineLink=1&query=%22Diversity+and+Equity+Center%22),
helped write the invitation.*

*It could have been worded differently, but she maintains the staff
members of color would have a more honest discussion about race without
white employees.*

*Explicitly talking about race “can be a really difficult conversation
for a lot of people,” Blackhorn said.*

Now, diversity meetings are about as fun as spending a week in an
asylum, so most people would not be offended by this sort of thing. As
long as this stuff is voluntary, these people can be whatever type of
bigot floats their boat. That’s the thing though, they are bigots. They
hold negative opinions about specific people based on what they see as
differences of opinion. They naturally root for and support their side
against the side they see holding an opinion or belief that most
threatens their authority.

For example, Paul Krugman is a bigot and a flamboyant one. He seems to
have some mental health issues, but he could simply be a fanatic. The
bug-eyed look and drooling sneer are very creepy. Maybe he thinks that
serial killer stare is handsome or maybe what you see is what you get.
Either way, he has the look of someone who is struggling to keep it all
together. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/17/opinion/krugman-that-old-time-whistle.html?pagewanted=all&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">His latest screed</a> offers a
good example of the left-wing bigotry.

*So it’s comical, in a way, to see Mr. Ryan trying to explain away some
recent remarks in which he [attributed persistent
poverty](http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2014/03/12/3394871/ryan-poverty-inner-city/)
to a “culture, in our inner cities in particular, of men not working and
just generations of men not even thinking about working.” He was, he
says, simply being
“[inarticulate](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/373289/ryan-comments-about-inner-city-poverty-inarticulate-patrick-brennan "National Review").”
How could anyone suggest that it was a racial dog-whistle? Why, he even
cited the work of serious scholars — people like Charles Murray, most
famous for
[arguing](http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223556.The_Bell_Curve ""The Bell Curve" ")
that blacks are genetically inferior to whites. Oh, wait.*

*Just to be clear, there’s no evidence that Mr. Ryan is personally a
racist, and his dog-whistle may not even have been deliberate. **But it
doesn’t matter. He said what he said because that’s the kind of thing
conservatives say to each other all the time. And why do they say such
things? Because American conservatism is still, after all these years,
largely driven by claims that liberals are taking away your hard-earned
money and giving it to Those People**.*

There you have it. The bigot just assumes “those people” all think as he
imagines because, you know, it is how *those people* are. Again, there
is nothing intrinsically immoral about bigotry. It can be immoral, but
not necessarily so. In a modern state like America, having a ruling
class that hates the people over whom they rule, because the subjects
hold the wrong opinions, is a problem. At some point, one side or both
decide they cannot live with the morality of the other and hell quickly
follows.
