---
title: "Pinstriped Nazis"
date: "2014-12-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3380"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3380"
---

In America, “Pinstriped Nazis” play baseball in the Bronx or play with
money in Manhattan. In Germany, its the name for people that dissent
from the prevailing religion of the ruling class of Europe. <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/dec/15/dresden-police-pegida-germany-far-right"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story from The Tired Old Commie
Times</a> should be getting more attention.

*Its members have been dubbed the “pinstriped Nazis” and they refer to
their demonstrations as “evening strolls” through German cities. But on
Monday night, an estimated 15,000 people joined Pegida, or Patriotic
Europeans Against Islamisation of the West, in a march through Dresden
carrying banners bearing slogans such as “Zero tolerance towards
criminal asylum seekers”, “Protect our homeland” and “Stop the
Islamisation”.*

*Lutz Bachmann, the head of Pegida, a nascent anti-foreigner campaign
group, led the crowds, either waving or draped in German flags, in
barking chants of “Wir sind das Volk”, or “We are the people”, the
slogan adopted by protesters in the historic “Monday demonstrations”
against the East German government in the runup to the fall of the
Berlin Wall.*

*Associating themselves with the freedom demonstrations has given Pegida
protests an air of moral respectability even though there are hundreds
of rightwing extremists in their midst, as well as established groups of
hooligans who are known to the police, according to Germany’s federal
office for the protection of the constitution.*

What’s hilarious about hearing old lefties talk about “hooligans”
disrupting the peace with their protests is it was not that long ago
when these same lefties were the ones in the streets being called
hooligans. They will tell you it was different because their enemies
were right wing extremists and these protesters are right-wing
extremists. The near total lack of self-awareness by the old fools at
The Guardian is always good for some laughs.

*While avoiding blatantly racist slogans, some told the Guardian of
their angst over the “demise of the West” due to the rise of Islam or
voiced their distaste of salafists and homosexuals in the same breath,
or decried the recent decision by local politicians to increase the
number of homes for asylum seekers. One group, knocking back bottles of
the local beer, talked openly of their fears of what they call “fecal
jihad”.*

*Mario Lupo, a 40-year-old tourist from Milan, was among the onlookers
sipping glühwein at Germany’s oldest Christmas market, the
Striezelmarkt.*

*“We came here for the romance and joviality of the Christmas markets,”
he said. “We expected some light-hearted carousing appropriate to this
time of year, but didn’t expect to stumble upon these rabble-rousers and
police in riot gear.”*

*Among the groups taking part, according to the police, were two soccer
hooligan organisations already known to the police called “Faust des
Ostens” (Fist of the East) and Hooligans Elbflorenz (Florence of the
Elbe Hooligans), as well as members of the National Democratic Party
(NPD). Alongside them were old and young men and women, including
families with children in pushchairs, many of whom said they had no
political affiliation.*

The reason it is useful to view the Left as a religious cult is they
display all the same tendencies. The extreme paranoia is one of the more
obvious features. The fact that the overwhelming majority of the people
protesting are garden variety Germans is seen as proof that they are
really “extreme right-wing extremists.” They’re just carefully avoiding
use the racist slogans, but the good people at The Guardian see right
through it!

*Pegida’s growing presence has presented politicians with a dilemma over
how to uncouple the strong neo-Nazi element believed to form the core of
the protests from ordinary Germans with grievances against the
government, who make up the bulk of the protesters.*

*Almost two-thirds of Germans, according to a poll for news magazine
Spiegel by the TNS institute, believe that Angela Merkel’s government is
not doing enough to address concerns about immigration and asylum
seekers, and 34% think Germany is enduring a process of “Islamisation”.*

*The chancellor had earlier warned that a right to demonstrate did not
extend to “rabble-rousing and defamation” against foreigners.*

*Merkel said that those participating in the protests should “take care
not to be exploited” by radical elements trying to tap into fears of a
foreigner takeover in Germany.*

If you only read American media, you would never know that most of
Europe is boiling with anti-immigration sentiment. Just as in the United
States, Europe and Britain have had enough with wholesale immigration.
In that regard I’ll give The Guardian credit for actually reporting it.
I’d be curious to know if the mainstream German press has bothered to
report on any of this, other than to decry it as fascism.

Still, the fact that the fascists in charge are calling these protesters
“Pinstriped Nazis” says a lot about the ruling class of Germany. The
Nazis may have been vanquished, but their ideas about government,
economics and culture carried the day in the West, All of us now live in
a world run by the intellectual sons and daughters of
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Schmitt" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Carl Schmitt</a>. They are the real pinstriped Nazis and
they even wear pinstripes!

I suspect a lot of patriotic Americans will look at what’s going on in
Europe and think the tide is turning. I’m not so sure. The flow of
history seems to be away from small organizational groups and towards
larger and larger political entities. The foundation stone of Europe is
the end of nations. Without nations, there can be no citizens. Without
citizens, why should the rulers care if Dresden is populated with Turks,
Celts or Martians? Dresden is not a place with an identity. It is an
area where natural resources are stored for use by the ruling class.

Maybe there’s a biological limit that we are reaching and a great
contraction is upon us. Human biology does seem to preclude one world
government. People rebel against rulers that do not look like they are
from their gene pool. Colonialism failed, despite being the best thing
to happen to the colonized. Humans simple don’t trust people that are
not their blood or at least resemble their blood. 50,000 years of
evolution is tough to beat, even if you spent a summer at college in a
philosophy seminar.

Still, The way to bet seems to be with the people currently in charge.
