---
title: "The Left and RGIII"
date: "2014-11-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3289"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3289"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, the assumption was that blacks were too
dumb to play quarterback. Amazingly, people said this while Terry
Bradshaw was leading the Steelers to championships. Before Super Bowl
XIII, Cowboys linebacker Thomas “Hollywood” Henderson famously ridiculed
Bradshaw by saying, “He is so dumb he couldn’t spell ‘Cat’ if you
spotted him the ‘c’ and the ‘a’.” Whether or not Bradshaw was really
that dumb has always been in question, given is long run of success
after his playing career.

Still, it says something about the view of the position that people
thought blacks could not play quarterback. It was not just racist white
people either. Blacks generally thought this too. In the movie North
Dallas Forty, there’s a line about it and no one was picketing the movie
theaters over it. This idea has become so dangerous today that sports
people have created a meta-language to describe it without ever actually
saying it. Chattering skulls will just nod at one another whenever the
subject is broached.

For a long time now the goal of football at all levels is to prove that
blacks are better quarterbacks than whites. It is an obsession going on
at least a twenty years, starting with Donovan McNabb. He was the first
black QB to come along who allegedly had the intellect to do all the
things white guys could do, but also possessed the special black magic
that is so highly prized in the cult. McNabb’s inability to win the big
game and become the great chocolate savior was frustrating for the Left.
It is why <a href="http://espn.go.com/gen/news/2003/1001/1628537.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">they attacked Rush Limbaugh</a> for
noticing it.

In the last decade we have had Michael Vick held up as the new model
quarterback, even after he was found to be a sadistic sociopath with a
taste for torturing animals. The latest crop includes Cam Newton, Colin
Kapernick, Russell Wilson and Robert Griffin III. None of these guys is
very good at being an NFL quarterback. Wilson is the best of the bunch,
but he acts white and votes Republican so the Left has trouble lauding
him as their chocolate savior.

Newton and Kapernick are obvious dumbbells who will never be great at
their position. Both were just big fast guys who can run like the wind,
but that’s not a great skill for quarterback. The NFL has loads of big
fast guys. The shortage is with smart guys who can run a modern NFL
offense. Dummies that move their lips when they read can play other
positions, but not quarterback. That’s why both of them are fading from
the spotlight.

Robert Griffin III was going to be different. He is smart, charismatic,
has the special black magic the Left values and he was not acting white
like Wilson. The Left could look past Griffin’s politics because he had
dreadlocks, which the Left associates with black culture. RG3 was the
poster child for the “new” NFL and the “new” quarterback. I put “new” in
quotes because this is about the tenth time we have gone through this.
Now, <a
href="http://www.foxsports.com/nfl/story/robert-griffin-iii-speaks-benching-was-coach-decision-washington-redskins-112714"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Griffin’s career may be over</a>.

Griffin has made close to $20 million and has millions in sponsorship
money coming his way so no one needs to feel sorry for him. NFL careers
are short and most guys find themselves as salary men before they hit
their 25th birthday. Griffin is doing just fine and will probably have a
long career in sportscasting after his football career. Even after his
troubles in Washington, some team will give him another shot next year
and maybe he can extend his career.

In many ways Griffin is emblematic of how the Left treats blacks as
ornaments, not people. Griffin is a special athlete, but he was not
trained to be an NFL quarterback in college. His college ran a system
that allowed him to run around as a tailback, rather than as a NFL-style
quarterback. Griffin should have sat and learned for a few years before
getting on the field. Instead, the pressure to have the next great black
quarterback put him on the field when he was not ready and he got his
legs broken up trying to be a runner in a league unkind to runners.

Griffin is emblematic of the Left ‘s view of blacks. The Left does not
see them as real people and instead treats them like ornaments to
decorate their halls. When a black person is useful they get to sit at
the big table, but as soon as they’re no longer useful, they are
dispatched. You can see it happening with Obama as <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/nov/27/joe-biden-hillary-clinton-split-from-obama-as-pres/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Left distances themselves</a> from a
black guy they no longer find useful. Griffin will get the same
treatment now as he is balled up and thrown away by the Left of Modern
Liberalism.
