---
title: "Why You Can’t Trust Libertarians"
date: "2014-06-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2020"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2020"
---

In fairness to libertarians, they get most things around with regards to
their critique of socialism and central planning. That’s not bad for an
ideology, but, that’s the problem with libertarianism. It’s an ideology.
Libertarians are ideologues and you can never rely on an ideologue. If
the choice is between a child holding a puppy and their precious
ideology, the boy and his puppy go to the death chamber.

The ideologue trades his self and therefore his sense of humanity for
membership in the ideology. They will sacrifice everything for it,
including themselves. They will even throw away their political careers
for it. <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/jun/11/exclusive-rand-paul-throws-weight-behind-immigrati/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Enter Rand Paul who has picked
now to throw in with the open borders fanatics</a>.

*Sen. Rand Paul on Wednesday waded deeper into an issue that has proved
perilous to some of his GOP colleagues, throwing his political weight
behind an establishment lobby effort to get Congress to reform the
country’s immigration system this year.*

*Mr. Paul, a libertarian-leaning Republican from Kentucky and possible
2016 presidential hopeful, participated in a telephone conference call
to conservative and business leaders in favor of immigration reform in
an effort brokered by anti-tax activist Grover Norquist, The Washington
Times has learned.*

Politically, there is no sane reason for any pol to touch the land mine
that is immigration, unless they are against it. Jumping to the aide of
the execrable Grover Norquist and his campaign to flood the nation with
peasants is suicidal. Yet, there’s Rand Paul, ideologically consistent
right into the grave.

*The business group, the Partnership for a New American Economy,
immediately blasted an email Wednesday evening to supporters crowing
that Mr. Paul had formally joined its pro-reform effort.*

*The timing of the call only heightened the potential stakes for Mr.
Paul just one day after House Majority Leader Eric Cantor was shockingly
ousted from office in the Virginia Republican primary in favor of a
little-known college professor.*

*Tea party activists who whipped up a get-out-the-vote effort for Mr.
Cantor’s opponent said they were motivated by the incumbent’s advocacy
for immigration reform, actions on Obamacare and vote to raise the
nation’s debt ceiling.*

*Mr. Cantor was the second high-profile Republican to suffer political
damage by stepping forward on the immigration issue. Sen. Marco Rubio of
Florida, another potential presidential contender, lost the support of
his tea party base when he advocated a plan for immigration that some
argued created a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants.*

*Mr. Paul, a longtime favorite of the tea party movement, has made it
clear that he believes Congress needs the courage to enact immigration
reform. But his latest effort pushed him further into the middle of a
strident battle between establishment Republicans like Mr. Norquist who
see immigration reform as essential to economic growth, and tea party
activists who fear the current efforts in Congress will only lead to de
facto amnesty for illegal immigrants.*

In fairness to Paul, he is in the blob now which means he has lost touch
with the English language. Outside the bubble everyone understands that
“immigration reform” means amnesty and open borders. We’re not idiots.
The same is true of the “path to citizenship” slogan. The phrase
“temporary guest worker” means giant loophole for business to hire
Hindus to take your job.

Inside the bubble, clones like Paul wrestle with the nuances of these
terms as if they have real distinctions. He could also be suffering from
Washingtonitis, where the otherwise sensible politicians begins to think
the people trust and value his opinion. That’s when they stop
representing their constituents to Washington and begin representing
Washington to their constituents.

Another reminder that libertarians can never be trusted.
