---
title: "ID’ers Are Kooks"
date: "2014-01-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Religion
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=825"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=825"
---

The other day, the Spectator gave a platform to Stephen Meyer, the
intelligent Design guru, so he could make his case. They gave John
Derbyshire the chance to reply. Most people shrug off the intelligent
design people, assuming they are just the creationists with a different
line of attack. Therefore only believers bother to read the arguments
put forth by people like Meyer. If you read what <a
href="https://www.discovery.org/a/does-intelligent-design-offer-a-plausible-account-of-lifes-origins/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this guy has to say</a>, it is
not hard to come away thinking these people are worse than creationists.

*When writing in scientific journals, **leading biologists candidly
discuss the many scientific difficulties facing contemporary versions of
Darwin’s theory. Yet when scientists take up the public defense of
Darwinism—in educational policy statements, textbooks, or public
television documentaries—that candor often disappears behind a
rhetorical curtain.** “There’s a feeling in biology that scientists
should keep their dirty laundry hidden,” says theoretical biologist
Danny Hillis, adding that “there’s a strong school of thought in biology
that one should never question Darwin in public.”*

*The reticence that Darwin’s present day defenders feel about
criticizing evolutionary theory would have likely made Charles Darwin
uncomfortable. **In the Origin of Species, Darwin openly acknowledged
important weaknesses in his theory and professed his own doubts about
key aspects of it.***

*In the Origin, Darwin expressed a key doubt about the ability of his
theory to explain one particular event in the history of life, an event
known as the Cambrian explosion. I’ve recently written a book, Darwin’s
Doubt, about this in which I argue that the problem Darwin identified
not only remains to this day, but that it has grown up to illustrate a
more fundamental conceptual difficulty than he could have understood—**a
problem for all of evolutionary biology that points to the need for an
entirely different understanding of the origin of animal life on
Earth.***

An interesting thing about the intelligent design people is they have an
authoritarian mindset that is revealed in their habit of relying on
appeals to authority. On the one hand, they rely on the Bible as their
ultimate source of authority. That makes sense, as they are believers.
They assume, however, that evolutionary biologists also rely on an
authority as their god. The ID’er turn Darwin into a shaman or prophet,
who they seek to discredit, assuming that will discredit the theory for
which is best known.

The trouble is evolutionary biologists do not worship Darwin and are
more than willing to point out his shortcomings. It is how science
works. It is what makes Darwin a scientist and not a philosopher. He
readily acknowledged his own shortcomings and gaps in knowledge.
Attacking Darwin to discredit evolution is like attacking Blaise Pascal
to disprove probability theory. A whole lot of work and a whole lot of
people have built on and modified what Darwin started. Darwin’s
shortcomings, real or imagined, are irrelevant.

The real problem with the ID’er is this. Let’s say they are correct and
evolutionary biology is a dead end and self-refuting at that dead end.
Let’s say the math of genetic mutation is so improbable that it cannot
possibly explain the diversity of life. How does that validate
Intelligent Design? One has nothing to do with the other. Intelligent
design is built on a collection of logical fallacies. To argue that
natural selection is invalid proves intelligent design is correct is a
version of the fallacy of the undistributed middle.

Of course, the motivation is the argument from adverse consequences.
Their particular brand of Christianity requires a more literal
interpretation of creation. God created the heavens and earth just as we
see it today. Natural selection says the current natural world is the
result of random selection, along with other things like sexual
selection. Therefore, if natural selection is true that invalidates
their religious beliefs. Since they are not abandoning those beliefs,
they can never accept evolution.

That’s really the irritating thing about these people. They are not
honest. John is correct to call them liars. On the one hand, they swear
they are not starting from a religious angle and are scientists like
everyone else. Unlike real scientists, however, they make no attempt to
prove their claims or even offer up a shred of data in support of their
claim. Instead it is a non-stop assault on “Darwinism” as they imagine
it. It really is the opposite of science when you think of it. It’s also
fundamentally dishonest.
