---
title: "Cow Farts"
date: "2014-04-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1449"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1449"
---

America call liberalism is really just a secular religion. For many of
the adherents, it is a cult  that defines them as people. The difference
between it and other cults is the Führerprinzip is not always obvious.
What we typically think of as a cult has some charismatic leader around
whom the cult is organized. Liberalism is more like the Catholic Church
in this regard. The cult leader is temporary.

This cult-like quality is most obvious in the sub-groups like the
environmental movement or the climate change stuff. There’s a primitive
aspect to it that hearkens back to nature cults in the pre-Christian
age. They are not sacrificing animals to the gods, hoping for a good
harvest or good fortune, but they worship nature nonetheless.  <a
href="http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/70637ed6-bece-11e3-a1bf-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2yLdphQKJ"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> about the
search for a green cow is a great example.

*A White House climate initiative has boosted a quixotic search for the
“cow of the future”, a next-generation creature whose greenhouse gas
emissions would be cut by anti-methane pills, burp scanners and gas
backpacks.*

*Carbon dioxide from fossil fuels is the primary man-made gas [warming
the
planet](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/4fb95100-9882-11e3-8503-00144feab7de.html "A high price for ignoring the risks of catastrophe - FT.com"),
but methane is far more potent and the US’s biggest source of it is its
88m cattle, which produce more than landfill sites, natural gas leaks or
hydraulic fracturing.*

*The Obama administration’s [launch last
month](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/358e754e-b69b-11e3-905b-00144feabdc0.html?siteedition=intl "White House seeks to curb methane from US shale energy boom - FT.com")
of a plan to curb methane emissions has given fresh relevance to
climate-friendly technologies for cattle that range from dietary
supplements and DNA gut tests to strap-on gas tanks.*

Now, imagine driving through the countryside and coming upon a dairy
farm. You look out at the pasture and you see cows with tanks on their
backs and a hose in their ass to collect their farts. The words, “You
gotta be kidding me?” come to mind.

*Juan Tricarico, director of the Cow of the Future project at the
Innovation Center for US Dairy, an Illinois research institute, said the
initiative had boosted his quest to create the “star athlete” of the
bovine world.*

*“For us it is very encouraging because it basically demonstrates that
important players out there are thinking in similar ways to us,” he told
the Financial Times.*

*But he said there were common misconceptions about where cattle methane
comes from. “Ninety-seven per cent of all the methane gas is released by
the front end through burps, not from the back end,” he said.*

They will also be wearing gas masks in addition to the, eh, ass masks.

*Based on his research priorities, the dairy cow of the future will be
the unstressed inhabitant of spacious accommodation, munching on
anti-methane gourmet grains that are processed by an efficient,
best-in-species digestive system.*

And a billion or so humans will starve to death if he and his
coreligionists ever get their way on any of this stuff. We hope there
will always be a enough people with good sense to step in and throttle
these idiots before they starve a billion people,
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Chinese_Famine"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">but you never really can be
sure</a>.

*“We want it to be more productive, we want it to be healthier, we want
it to be a problem-free cow,” said Mr Tricarico.*

*Methane accounts for 9 per cent of US greenhouse gas emissions and does
not linger in the air as long as CO2, but it has a global warming effect
more than 20 times greater than CO2, the White House says.*

*However, financial barriers are hampering the adoption of tools to
limit methane from cattle, as was the case with early technology to curb
pollution from power stations and motor vehicles.*

***The costs are prohibitive for dairy and beef farmers and the kind of
research that could make the tools more cost-effective would require
public funding.***

Ah, there we are. If we ever cut off the flow of public funds to these
people, they are gone in a week. But, state sponsored religion is like
that.

*C-Lock, a South Dakota company, sells a feeding station that gives
animals dietary supplements such as basil to cut methane production and
measures the content of their breath by pulling it towards trace gas
sensors with a vacuum.*

*Patrick Zimmerman, C-Lock’s founder, says prices start at $45,000 but
stresses the economic benefits of improved efficiency. “Of the energy
the animals eat, 3 to 15 per cent is lost as methane and that’s a
waste,” he says.*

*At Argentina’s National Institute of Agricultural Technology,
scientists have created [backpacks that collect
gas](http://intainforma.inta.gov.ar/?p=19084 "INTA - Gas from cows could fuel a car (Spanish)")
via tubes plugged into cows’ stomachs. A typical animal emits 250-300
litres of methane a day and researchers say this could be used to power
a car or a refrigerator for a day, but Jorge Antonio Hilbert of the
institute says the tanks’ use on a large scale is “totally improbable”.*

*Jonathan Gelbard of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an
environmental group, says: “Anyone who can come up with a cost-effective
way to harness that methane is going to make a lot of money.”*

*Ilmi Granoff of the Overseas Development Institute said an alternative
to controlling cattle emissions would be to cut the number of cows.*

*“Forget coal, Forget cars. The fastest way to address climate change
would be to dramatically reduce the amount of meat people eat,” he said.
“But that involves cultural preferences and they are difficult to
touch.”*

And it would also kill a billion people or more. That’s the dirty little
secret of the environmental movement. It is anti-human. They would
gladly gas a billion people to “address climate change” or whatever
nonsense they are into this week. People join mass movements out of
self-loathing. They hate themselves so they seek to trade their
individual identity for that of the group. The resulting dynamic is a
loathing of all things outside the cult and a willingness to die for the
ideas of the cult. It’s why the body count for liberalism world-wide is
staggering.
