---
title: "The Robot Future?"
date: "2014-02-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=982"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=982"
---

To the skeptic, futurism is more annoying than instructive. The reason
is the futurist is very rarely right about what comes next. Every once
in a while, one of them gets something right, but it is always chance.
Nassim Taleb is a good example. He became famous for “predicting” the
financial collapse at the end of the last decade. Since then he has been
on radio, TV and the internet making predictions. None of them have
panned out. He’s a smart guy, but he is not a fortune teller, despite
acting like one.

What futurists tend to get right is the stuff everyone gets right. For
example, mortality rates are 100% over time. Predicting that someone or
something will eventually end is not a worthwhile prediction. On the
other hand, if you can accurately predict the day someone will die or
some trend will reverse, that has value. To date, no one has been able
to do that. Similarly, no one has been able to predict the future with a
degree of accuracy that is useful. Nothing ages quicker the predictions
about the future.

These days, futurists are all in on the robot future. Jobs will go away,
except for the smart fraction who will run the robots. The rest of
humanity will be on reservations guarded by and tended to by robots.
It’s a version of Brave New World, except the robots lower classes will
be replaced with robots. The custodial state will resemble a giant day
care center with Mary Poppins being made of titanium alloy.

Some go further and think the smart fraction will be replaced by
artificial intelligence that will quickly outstrip its human masters.
The future then truly becomes a robot future as the robots, presumably,
will snuff out the human population or enslave it. After all, if we
think we suck as a species, the super-smart robots will surely know it
and respond accordingly. Why would the robots perpetuate mankind, when
they agree that people are the worst? These futurists, it seems, have a
suicide wish.

It is easy to be skeptical about these things. The reason is all past
predictions of the future have been hilariously wrong. A standard gag is
to dredge up one of these predictions from some prior age and post it
on-line. In the 1950’s computers were going to take over the world. OK,
that’s right. The trouble is they imagined them to be the size of
houses, looking more like space ships than what we have today. The
futurists at the dawn of the microprocessor revolution were completely
blind to miniaturization.

That’s the thing with the robot future. It skips past the giant obstacle
in the way of reaching anything close to it. That is, humans hate fixed
rules. We will never tolerate, for example, robot classroom instruction.
We could turn over large swaths of college admissions, for example, to
robots right now. Kids take a test and are placed according to their IQ
and preparation. Instead we do the opposite and deliberately undermine
efforts to do so. After all, we can’t have racist robots running
admissions.

A better example is the law. We know with an exacting degree of
certainty what the writers of the American Constitution intended when
they wrote the document. We know the arguments for and against each
section. We know what the men who adopted it thought of the provisions.
For instance, we know exactly what they intended with the takings
clause. Yet, that’s not how the learned men in robes decided a decade
ago in the Kelo versus New London Connecticut.

The law, which is how we organize ourselves, will never be robot driven.
The reason is we will never permit it. We like changing the rules when
it suits our purposes. The Second Amendment is a case in point. The
Founders were abundantly clear on the gun issue. They wanted a society
where the citizens possessed the weapons of war, in order to be the
ultimate check on state power. That means citizens have an unassailable
right to own and carry the weapons one expects a solider to carry.

Despite this indisputable fact, we continue to wrestle with accepting
this. States refuse to abide by the rules and courts, on occasion,
[enforce the
rules](http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/02/13/BREAKING-Ninth-Circuit-Strikes-Down-CA-Law-Restricting-Concealed-Carry).
A robot built by lawyers would kill itself due to the infinite
contradictions in its code. Or, it would be forced to kill all of the
lawyers trying to get around black letter law. That would be a glorious
result, for sure, but that’s why the lawyers will never allow it. The
robot future can only happen if it includes a human future better than
one without robots.

Instead of a robot future we will get something else. Laws will be
passed to limit the use of automation in many areas of life. New ways to
tax those that use automation to reduce costs will “level” the playing
field. This will give their human intense competitors the emotional
lever to use on customers. “Buy from us! We’re 100% Robot Free!” Just as
genetically modified foods have come under assault, robots will face the
same challenges. Until the robots can wipe us out, they have no future.
