---
title: "Gaia is a Fascist"
date: "2014-10-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2934"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2934"
---

The climate change cult is very weird. <a
href="https://mashable.com/2014/10/03/climate-change-males-japan/?utm_cid=mash-com-Tw-main-link"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This</a> is a good example.

*Climate change could affect the ratio of human males to human females
that are born in some countries, a new study from Japan suggests. The
researchers found that male fetuses may be particularly vulnerable to
the effects of climate change.*

*Since the 1970s, temperature fluctuations from the norm have become
more common in Japan, and at the same time there has been an increase in
the deaths of male fetuses relative to the number of deaths of female
fetuses in that country, according to the study.*

*Over this period, the ratio of male to female babies born in the
country has been decreasing, meaning there have been fewer and fewer
male babies born relative to the number of female babies born.*

Got that. Your lawn mower will result in a race of Amazons enslaving
men!

There’s one of these “studies” every day it seems. All are intended to
add another log to the scare fire these strange sub-cults use to fuel
their movement. Smoking used to be like this. Twenty years ago there
were scare stories about how smoking was making everyone’s penis small.
It is amusing how Mashable puts a pic of a retarded looking kid at the
top of the story. Nice touch.

<a
href="http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2014/09/how-to-convince-conservatives-on-climate-change.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Then this</a> in Maggies Farm last week.

*Last week’s People’s Climate March drew 400,000 people onto the streets
of Manhattan and a great deal of international attention to a subject of
dire urgency. But some were skeptical about the event’s overall
significance. “The march slogan was, ‘to change everything, we need
everyone,’ which is telling, because it won’t change everything, because
it didn’t include everyone,” wrote David Roberts of Grist.
“Specifically, it won’t change American politics because it didn’t
include conservatives.” True enough.*

First off, the picture is classic. Imagine instead of sunflower
standards they had eagles clutching a bundle of wooden rods and their
shirts were black instead of orange. Same crowd, different uniforms.
Second, overstating the crowd size is common with these neo-fascist
groups. It’s <span class="st">argumentum ad populum with a lusty “or
else” tacked onto it. Notice also the use of the word “conservative” to
mean those outside their movement. </span>

*If there weren’t such a stark divide between American conservatives and
almost everyone else on the question of the existence and importance of
climate change — a divide that can approach 40 points on some polling
questions — the political situation would be very different. So if any
progress on climate change is going to be made through the American
political system — apart from executive orders by Democratic presidents
— it is going to have to somehow involve convincing a lot of
conservatives that yes, climate change is a threat to civilization.*

The stark divide between “conservatives and almost everyone else” is
another way claiming they are an ascendant movement about to sweep aside
the deniers, accept for the recalcitrant conservatives. Hitler used the
same phraseology with the Jews. It is a tactic that dates to the dawn of
written history. The fact that the deniers are a sizable majority
suggests these people are following the path of
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Seekers</a>.

*How do you do that? The answer has more to do with psychology than
politics.*

*The practice of tailoring a political message to a particular group is
commonplace, of course. But the climate activist community has broadly
failed to understand just how differently conservatives and liberals see
the world on certain issues, and, as a result, just how radically
different messages targeting conservatives should look.*

The first step would be to recognize “conservative” is a world like
capitalism. It is used by the hive minded as a label for those outside
the hive. In this case, it simply means non-liberals.

*“Although climate scientists update, appropriately, their models after
ten years of evidence, climate-science communicators haven’t,” said Dan
Kahan, a professor of law and psychology at Yale who studies how people
respond to information challenging their beliefs. Luckily, social and
political psychologists are on the case. “I think there’s an emerging
science of how we should talk about this if we’re going to be effective
at getting any sort of movement,” said Robb Willer, a sociologist at
Stanford.*

They should probably start by talking about the fact <a
href="http://wattsupwiththat.com/2014/10/02/its-official-no-global-warming-for-18-years-1-month/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">global warming has been on a two decade
pause</a>. They should also think about why all of their predictions
have been wrong.

*It’s worth pointing out, of course, that for many conservatives (and
liberals), the current debate about climate change isn’t really about
competing piles of evidence or about facts at all — it’s about identity.
Climate change has come to serve as shorthand for which side you’re on,
and conservatives tend to be deeply averse to what climate crusaders
represent (or what they think they represent). “The thing most likely to
make it hard to sway somebody is that you’re trying to sway them,” said
Kahan.*

This reminds me of how liberals, when exposed to Eric Hoffer’s True
Believer, think he is talking about right-wingers. It is certainly true
that most think the warmists are more than a bit nuts. They latched onto
to something that is a mix of Old Testament prophesy, new age paganism
and political fascism. Facts and evidence are not important to these
people. It is about identity. That’s why they are the ones in the
uniforms in that picture.
