---
title: "The War on Druidism"
date: "2014-03-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1161"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1161"
---

We don’t know a whole lot about the Druids. What we know about them
comes from the Roman conquerors, who hated the druids. The Romans
invested a great deal of men and material to stamp out the druidism.
They associated druidism with a sense of self they thought was
antithetical to the Roman way. This was largely true, but what motivated
the Romans was the resistance. They hated it because it refused to
yield.

The Welsh, for example, clung to druidism into the fourth century,
despite regularly being slaughtered by Roman legions. All they had to do
was humor the Romans and they could have avoided slaughter, but they
could betray themselves. That sense of self, that identity was tough and
the Romans were never able to stamp it out. Druidism, however, did die
out. Christianity eventually became the religion of the island,
overwhelming all of the pagan faiths, but it was not easy.

There’s an important lesson there if you are a Christian in 21st century
America. Church attendance has plummeted in the Progressive controlled
areas of the country.  <a
href="http://www.gallup.com/poll/125999/mississippians-go-church-most-vermonters-least.aspx"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This Gallup poll</a> shows
that church attendance in the Old North is down near European levels.
This is a five year old study so the numbers are probably now below 20%
in most of these states. Massachusetts, after the homosexual priest
scandal, has seen church attendance plummet.

The Old South, on the other hand, has church attendance well above 50%.
The Cold Civil War is and always has been a religious war in addition to
a culture war. The new religion of the Old North is post-national
Progressivism and it is a very aggressive. It is an intolerant religion.
<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/02/opinion/sunday/the-terms-of-our-surrender.html?ref=rossdouthat&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This column</a> by Ross
Douthat makes clear that the homosexual marriage fad is more about the
war on Christianity than a celebration of homosexuality.

*IT now seems certain that before too many years elapse, the Supreme
Court will be forced to acknowledge the logic of its own jurisprudence
on same-sex marriage and redefine marriage to include gay couples in all
50 states.*

*Once this happens, the national debate essentially will be finished,
but the country will remain divided, with a substantial minority of
Americans, most of them religious, still committed to the older view of
marriage.*

*So what then? One possibility is that this division will recede into
the cultural background, with marriage joining the long list of topics
on which Americans disagree without making a political issue out of it.*

*In this scenario, religious conservatives would essentially be left to
promote their view of wedlock within their own institutions, as a kind
of dissenting subculture emphasizing gender differences and procreation,
while the wider culture declares that love and commitment are enough to
make a marriage. And where conflicts arise — in a case where, say, a
Mormon caterer or a Catholic photographer objected to working at a
same-sex wedding — gay rights supporters would heed the advice of gay
marriage’s intellectual progenitor, Andrew Sullivan, and let the
dissenters opt out “in the name of their freedom — and ours.”*

*But there’s another possibility, in which the oft-invoked analogy
between opposition to gay marriage and support for segregation in the
1960s South is pushed to its logical public-policy conclusion. In this
scenario, the unwilling photographer or caterer would be treated like
the proprietor of a segregated lunch counter, and face fines or lose his
business — which is the intent of recent legal actions against a wedding
photographer in New Mexico, a florist in Washington State, and a baker
in Colorado.*

This is why the Left always wins. They don’t play politics by a set of
rules that prevent them from winning the fight. They begin with the end
in mind. Then they construct the term of engagement in such a way that
they have the advantage. They know the Right will assiduously abide by
those rules, which the Left will violate as necessary. The Left has one
principle, which is winning, while the Right has a long list of
principles that are more often than not imposed on them by the Left.

*Meanwhile, pressure would be brought to bear wherever the religious
subculture brushed up against state power. Religious-affiliated adoption
agencies would be closed if they declined to place children with
same-sex couples. (This has happened in Massachusetts and Illinois.)
Organizations and businesses that promoted the older definition of
marriage would face constant procedural harassment, along the lines
suggested by the mayors who battled with Chick-fil-A. And, eventually,
religious schools and colleges would receive the same treatment as
racist holdouts like Bob Jones University, losing access to public funds
and seeing their tax-exempt status revoked.*

*In the past, this constant-pressure scenario has seemed the less-likely
one, since Americans are better at agreeing to disagree than the culture
war would suggest. But it feels a little bit more likely after last
week’s “debate” in Arizona, over a bill that was designed to clarify
whether existing religious freedom protections can be invoked by
defendants like the florist or the photographer.*

*If you don’t recognize my description of the bill, then you probably
followed the press coverage, which was mendacious and hysterical —
evincing no familiarity with the legal issues, and endlessly parroting
the line that the bill would institute “Jim Crow” for gays. (Never mind
that in Arizona it’s currently legal to discriminate based on sexual
orientation — and mass discrimination isn’t exactly breaking out.)
Allegedly sensible centrists compared the bill’s supporters to
segregationist politicians, liberals invoked the Bob Jones precedent to
dismiss religious-liberty concerns, and Republican politicians behaved
as though the law had been written by David Duke.*

*What makes this response particularly instructive is that such bills
have been seen, in the past, as a way for religious conservatives to
negotiate surrender — to accept same-sex marriage’s inevitability while
carving out protections for dissent. But now, apparently, the official
line is that **you bigots don’t get to negotiate anymore.***

This is rather obviously the goal. Progressivism is a covetous faith. It
does not play well with other religions. It is why their body count in
so high. Catholics, over 1500 years, probably killed a million people
for heresy. The radicals of the Enlightenment have murdered 100 million
in a century and half. History tells us Genghis Khan was the most
murderous invaded to ever enter Europe. In reality, history’s greatest
monster was Jean-Jacques Rousseau.

*Which has a certain bracing logic. If your only goal is ensuring that
support for traditional marriage diminishes as rapidly as possible,
applying constant pressure to religious individuals and institutions
will probably do the job. Already, my fellow Christians are divided over
these issues, and we’ll be more divided the more pressure we face. The
conjugal, male-female view of marriage is too theologically rooted to
disappear, but its remaining adherents can be marginalized, set against
one other, and encouraged to conform.*

*I am being descriptive here, rather than self-pitying. **Christians had
plenty of opportunities — thousands of years’ worth — to treat gay
people with real charity, and far too often chose intolerance.** (And
still do, in many instances and places.) So being marginalized, being
sued, losing tax-exempt status — this will be uncomfortable, but we
should keep perspective and remember our sins, and nobody should call it
persecution.*

Finally, we see why the American Right is entirely worthless against the
Left. They have never come to terms with what we face. They keep
thinking that if only they can purify their souls, the Left will forgive
them. Alternatively, they think they can reason with what amounts to
religious fanaticism. Neither is tethered to reality or much good when
your culture is being looted by well organized fanatics. The Right is
built to lose, so it must be destroyed if there is ever to be an
opposition to the Left.
