---
title: "The New Russia"
date: "2014-04-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1534"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1534"
---

<a
href="http://20committee.com/2014/04/07/putinism-and-the-anti-weird-coalition/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is a very interesting
post</a> on Russia and what’s going on in Eurasia. It is one of the rare
times an intellectual makes mention of the peculiar American habit of
assuming everyone is just like America. Despite the yapping about
diversity and vibrancy, American elites see the world as a reflection of
their idealized selves. When they look out at the world they think,
“They want what we want, they hate what we hate and they will be just
like us if give the chance.”

*I’ll elaborate what Putinism actually is, but before I do, it’s
important to understand why President Obama and countless other
Westerners cannot see what is right before them. Putin and the Kremlin
actively parrot their propaganda, they are doing anything but hide it,
yet we still cannot make it out.*

***This is simply because we are WEIRD. That’s social science shorthand
for **<span class="Apple-style-span">**Western, Educated,
Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic** – and nobody is WEIRDer than
Americans. In the last several decades many Americans, and essentially
all our elites, have internalized a worldview based on affluence,
individualism, and secularism that makes us unique, globally speaking.
So much so that we seem unable to comprehend that there actually are
opposing viewpoints out there.</span>*

*Barack Obama, by virtue of his diverse ethnic and religious background
and elite education, is almost an ideal stand-in for the WEIRD
demographic, as he embodies so many things WEIRDos admire: education,
affluence, diversity, progressive social views, etc. He comes close to
being almost the perfect post-modern American, which perhaps is why so
many Americans of that bent adore him deeply. Thus when President Obama
says he detects no ideological rivalry with Putin’s Russia, he
undoubtedly speaks the truth as he sees it.*

*Americans of all stripes have a well-honed ability to ignore
inconvenient facts, and our better educated citizens seem particularly
prone to this (as I noted with our “expert” inability to see what North
Korea believes, even though they aren’t shy about it). At root, I
suspect Obama and many Americans refuse to accept the in-our-face
reality of Putin and his regime because they represent a past version of
ourselves, caught up in retrograde views that are entirely unacceptable
to our elites, therefore they pretend they do not exist, because they
don’t actually exist in their world.*

*Simply put, Vladimir Putin is the stuff of Western progressive
nightmares because he’s what they thought they’d gotten past. He’s a
traditional male with “outmoded” views on, well, everything: gender
relations, race, sexual identity, faith, the use of violence, the whole
retrograde package. Putin at some level is the Old White Guy that
post-moderns fear and loathe, except this one happens to control the
largest country on earth plus several thousand nuclear weapons – and he
hates us.*

Steve Sailer has pointed out quite a few times that American elites seem
to have the biggest problem with Putin over homosexuals. Over the last
two decades, having a homosexual on your piety bracelet has been the
hallmark of Progressive fashion. It is so well established now that it
is inconceivable to them that any civilized person would have a contrary
opinion on homosexual marriage, homosexual rights and so forth.

*Of course, this also happens to explain why some Westerners who loathe
post-modernism positively love Putin, at least from a safe distance.
Some far-right Westerners – the accurate term is paleoconservatives –
have been saying for years that the West, led very much by America, has
become hopelessly decadent and they’ve been looking for a leader to
counter all this, and – lo and behold – here he is, the new “leader of
global conservatism.” Some paleocons have stated that, with the end of
the Cold War, America has become the global revolutionary power, seeking
to foist its post-modern views on the whole planet, by force if
necessary, and now Putin’s Russia has emerged as the
counterrevolutionary element. Cold War 2.0, in this telling, has the
sides reversed.*

*I’m skeptical of all that, but it is important to note that the
post-modernism about cultural and social matters that has become the
default setting in the West in the last couple decades has had a hard
time putting down roots in Eastern Europe. It’s an odd fact that living
under the Old Left (i.e. Marxism-Leninism) inoculated Eastern Europeans
from much of the New Left of the 1960s and after, with its emphasis on
gender, sexuality, and race. “Critical Studies” didn’t get far with
people who had to live under the KGB; indeed, East Bloc secret police in
the 1980s viewed all this – the feminism and the gay rights stuff
especially – as bourgeois deviance and a subversive Western import.
Since 1990, Western countries have made actual efforts to import that,
but it’s met a lot of resistance, and doesn’t make much of an impression
outside educated circles; which is why when educated Westerners meet,
say, educated Poles, “they seem just like us” – because they have
accepted, verbatim, what we’ve told them is normative in a “developed”
society.*

Since as far back as we have records, “religion” and “culture” have been
tangled up together. The Vikings, for example, lacked a word for
religion. They had two words that roughly meant “cult” but did not carry
the connotation they do today. The word “custom” is more accurate.
People had private customs for how they appeased the gods. These were
limited the family, the clan and the village.

Public customs were how everyone participated in worship of the gods.
These customs were intimately tangled up in the identity of the people.
It is how they defined themselves and gave meaning and purpose to their
lives. It was why they got up in the morning, so to speak. It is also
what bound them together, despite their private rituals and customs. It
was a reflection of their blood ties as people.

The Russians had a perfectly good set of customs that defined who they
were as people. Bolshevism came along and obliterated much of it, but
replaced it with a new religion, Marxist-Leninism. Here we are two
decades after the fall of communism and the Russians seem to be settling
on a set of replacements.

They tried liberal democracy in the 1990’s and into the 2000’s. That
resulted in falling birth rates, drug abuse, Americans adopting what few
children they had and humiliation on the world stage. Whatever you want
to call this new organizing faith, it clearly is a rejection of American
Progressivism.

*Resisting Western post-modernism on a cultural level is but one
component of Putinism, albeit an important one. What comes first,
however, is an emphasis on national sovereignty, meaning a more
traditional, indeed Westphalian, view of state power and
non-interference in others’ affairs. That Putin has stolen Crimea
indicates that Moscow’s views on this are highly conditional.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that Putin’s regular incantations of
the need for respect for sovereignty, which are of course aimed directly
at the United States, which Russia views as a hypocrite of the highest
order in international affairs, are popular among other regional powers
who fear U.S. military might, especially China and India. Moreover,
Putin would no doubt argue that his seizing Crimea is in no way a
violation of sovereignty since Ukraine is not a legitimate country in
the first place (an interview last year where Putin referred to Ukraine
as a mere “territory” did not get the attention abroad that it merited).
For most Russians, all this falls under the need to restore national
honor after the disasters of the 1990s, and is to be applauded heartily.
Additionally, there are plenty of people in the world who don’t like
Putin or Russia, yet who are happy that someone, somewhere is standing
up to American hegemony.*

*Nationalism matters too. This is a tricky issue in Russia, which
possesses some 185 recognized ethnic groups and many religions, with
ethnic Russians making up but four-fifths of the population, and that
figure is declining. Until recently, Putin had done a good job of
promoting state patriotism and a Muscovite sort of multiculturalism that
celebrates citizens of the Russian Federation, of any ethnicity or
religion, as long as they accept Kremlin rule; that this bears little
resemblance to post-modern Western notions of “tolerance” and
“diversity” should be obvious. All the same, hardline Russian
ethno-nationalists, local equivalents of David Duke, have regularly
faced arrest in Putin’s Russia, which has feared setting off ethnic
disputes that could turn explosive quickly.*

*Yet the reconquest of Crimea has caused a clear change of tone in
Moscow, with celebration of old fashioned Russian nationalism coming
into fashion. In his speech to the Duma announcing the triumphant
annexation of Crimea, when speaking of Russians, Putin specifically used
the ethnic term – russkiy –  not the more inclusive rossiyskiy, which
applies to all citizens of the Russian Federation. This came among
incantations to the full Great Russian program, with a Moscow-centric
view of Eastern Europe seemingly endorsed by mentions of great Orthodox
saints. Unstated yet clearly, this was all of a piece with “Third Rome”
ideology, a powerful admixture of Orthodoxy, ethnic mysticism, and
Slavophile tendencies that has deep resonance in Russian history.*

*Westerners seemed shocked by this “Holy Russia” stuff, but Putin has
been dropping unsubtle hints for years that his state ideology includes
a good amount of this back-to-the-future thinking, cloaked in piety and
nationalism. Western “experts”  continue to state that a major influence
here is Aleksandr Dugin, an eccentric philosopher who espouses
“Eurasianism,” an odd blend of geopolitical theory and neo-fascism.
While Dugin is not irrelevant, his star at the Kremlin actually faded a
decade ago, though he gets some Kremlin attention because his father was
a GRU general. Far more important to divining Putin’s worldview,
however, is Ivan Ilyin, a Russian political and religious thinker who
fled the Bolsheviks and died an emigre in Switzerland in 1953. In exile,
Ilyin espoused ethnic-religious neo-traditionalism, amidst much talk
about a unique “Russian soul.” Germanely, he believed that Russia would
recover from the Bolshevik nightmare and rediscover itself, first
spiritually then politically, thereby saving the world. Putin’s
admiration for Ilyin is unconcealed: he has mentioned him in several
major speeches and he had his body repatriated and buried at the famous
Donskoy monastery with fanfare in 2005; Putin personally paid for a new
headstone. Yet despite the fact that even Kremlin outlets note the
importance of Ilyin to Putin’s worldview, not many Westerners have
noticed.*

This is fundamentally why Obama has been repeatedly humiliated by Putin.
It is not simply that Obama is a klutz. While it is true that American
foreign policy is run by rather foolish people with little going for
them other than useless credentials, the real reason is Putin needs to
do it. His NYTimes piece after outfoxing Obama over Syria was more than
a victory lap. It was a signal to his people that he is not just smarter
than the American leader. it’s that he is leading a special people, the
Russian people.
