---
title: "More Libertarian Madness"
date: "2014-08-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2560"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2560"
---

My chief complaint against libertarianism is that it is a convenient
hiding place for people unwilling to take on the Left. If you reject
central planning of the national economy, but are afraid to be called
bad things by the local lunatics, calling yourself a libertarian is a
nice safe haven. It’s most obvious in the homosexual marriage debate.
Libertarians choose a third option with no basis in reality, one that
makes them sound like anarchists, rather than face off against the Left.

In war, you have to know the guy next to you will do his job, have your
back and fire his weapon at the enemy. In the culture war, libertarians
will never go over the top and will, once in a while, turn their weapons
on their comrades. You just can’t trust them to fight with you. I
recognize that’s not a critique of the ideology, but of the ideologues,
but I’ve never figured out how to separate one from the other.

And maybe that’s it. Libertarianism is fine. It’s libertarians that are
the problem. A good example that comes to mind is the uncommonly dim
[Alex
Tabarrok](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2014/08/ferguson-and-the-debtors-prison.html).

*How does a stop for jaywalking turn into a homicide and how does that
turn into an American town essentially coming under military control
with snipers, tear gas, and a no-fly zone? We don’t yet know exactly
what happened between the two individuals on the day in question but
events like this don’t happen without a deeper context.*

First off, we know it was not a stop for jaywalking. The giant was
walking in the middle of the street. That’s not jaywalking. Second, the
giant slugged the cop. As far as the deeper context nonsense, most of
life has no “deeper context.” Shit does, in fact, just happen – a lot.
In this case, the giant punched the cop because he felt like it. Poor
people lack self-control and often do crazy shit for no reason. This is
the sort stuff a fully formed adult needs to know.

He then quotes himself:

*Debtor’s prisons are supposed to be illegal in the United States but
today poor people who fail to pay even small criminal justice fees are
routinely being imprisoned. The problem has gotten worse recently
because strapped states have dramatically increased the number of
criminal justice fees….Failure to pay criminal justice fees can result
in revocation of an individual’s drivers license, arrest and
imprisonment. Individuals with revoked licenses who drive (say to work
to earn money to pay their fees) and are apprehended can be further
fined and imprisoned.*

This guy tends to get the vapors over stuff that most of us just shrug
at. That’s not uncommon with hot house flowers. Regardless, if you don’t
pay your fine, the fines get bigger and the risk of prison increases.
That’s the point. If it did not work that way, no one would bother
paying the fine. How can he not know this?

This is the line that makes my eyes bleed.

*You don’t get $321 in fines and fees and 3 warrants per household from
an about-average crime rate. You get numbers like this from bullshit
arrests for jaywalking and constant “low level harassment involving
traffic stops, court appearances, high fines, and the threat of jail for
failure to pay.”*

What an idiot. The people with the warrants don’t have an average crime
rate. They commit a lot of crimes, which is why they have all of those
fines and warrants. You can be sure that the black crime rate in
Ferguson is something like the black crime rate nationally. That’s seven
times the white crime rate. The reason the cops spend all of their time
in the ghetto areas is *that’s where the crime happens*.

But, throwing a fit and stomping of in a huff is the libertarian way out
of addressing the elephant in the room. That elephant is the massive
disparity in crime rates between whites, blacks, Hispanics and Asians.
As soon as you notice that well known bit of reality, you risk being
called bad things by the screeching harpies on the Left. That defeats
the purpose of being a Libertarian.
