---
title: "Ta-Nehisi Coates is a Faker"
date: "2014-04-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1497"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1497"
---

Ta-Nehisi Coates is one of those guy people like talking about, but
seldom ever engage with his arguments. Beautiful people will name drop
him in conversation, for example, without mentioning what it is they
like about him. Progressive writers will reference him in their writing,
but never actually talk about his writing. In a way, he is like the
Atlantic Magazine, his current employer. Like the magazine, his value is
symbolic.

Eve n accounting for the magical black guy stuff, Coates is a rather
callow person.  His style is mostly conventional black whining about
whitey with a heavy dose of references intended to imply erudition. He
likes to mention how he can order food in French (and how the always
white waiter is shocked to see a black speak such great French!), but
there’s never a reason for  mentioning in his posts.

Similarly, he drops references to writers the reader is expected to
think he has read, but he never actually writes anything that says he
learned anything but the book title. It is the type of name dropping you
get from college sophomores. He’s a weird combination of magical black
guy and ridiculous dilettante. His magical status means he does not have
to work to hard at being a convincing phony. <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/04/barack-obamas-challenge-to-american-morality/360643/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> is a good
example.

*If you haven’t yet, it’s work checking out Barack Obama’s address
before the National Action Network, last week. I think it’s one of the
most significant and morally grounded speeches of his presidency. I
think we will eventually regard this current effort to suppress the vote
through voter-ID laws, ending early voting, restricting voting hours,
etc., in the same way we regard literacy tests and poll taxes. (It’s
worth recalling this piece for the magazine by Mariah Blake which helps
historicize voter suppression.)*

There are two assertions here. One is that this speech, that has been
ignored by everyone, is his most significant as president. That’s not a
very high bar for a president who has exactly zero memorable speeches
*according to his fans*. Ask yourself, when was the last time you heard
anyone quote an Obama speech? When have you heard anyone talk about one
of his speeches a month after it was given?

As far as “morally grounded” is concerned, that’s simply emotive
gibberish the Left uses to signal. The signal in this issue is not
debatable. The people pushing voting reform are evil and those opposed
are good. There can be no compromise. The fact that Coates misses this
entirely suggests he is not the thinking man he would like us to
believe, but instead is just decorating his word salad with emotive
language.

The second claim is that cleaning up voter fraud, a well documented
problem in every state, is voter suppression. He is correct in so far as
requiring positive identification suppresses the dead vote and other
methods for stuffing the ballot box. Otherwise, comparing these measures
to Democratic efforts to keep blacks from voting is the sort of thing
very stupid people repeat because they heard a flak on TV say it.

*I believe in judging Barack Obama’s rhetoric and policies not as though
he were the president of black America, but of the United States of
America. On that count his speech soared. There aren’t many topics more
important than the security of our democracy. The president did not
attack that topic gingerly, but forcefully, directly and without hedge.*

This is an obvious lie. No white person has ever used the phrase
“president of black America.” This is, as they say, a black thing. It is
not unreasonable or evil. Given our history, blacks would be reasonable
to think *their guy* was in the White House and he would focus on *their
specific issues*. Eric Holder has <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424052748703559604576176381487078812"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">made that point</a> on many
occasions. Coates is simply making up stuff his audience is ready to
accept.

What is puzzling about Coates is a bitterness. Coates has a really good
thing going on that could not happen anywhere but a white country.
Instead of being grateful, he is angry and resentful. Even crazier is
this ungratefulness is exactly what his white audience wants from their
house negro. Maybe that is why he is bitter, but most likely it is just
an act that pays well for doing very little.
