---
title: "Those Vegans are Crazy"
date: "2014-04-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1401"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1401"
---

<a
href="http://atlanta.cbslocal.com/2014/04/01/study-vegetarians-less-healthy-lower-quality-of-life-than-meat-eaters/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s something</a> almost
everyone knows, to some extent. All of us have been trained for the last
five decades or more to think self-denial leads to good health. That’s
really what most diet fads boil down to. We are told if we give up these
tasty things we will live forever. In another age, food took on more
magical properties and ever-lasting life was in the after-life for those
who followed the rules in this life. The magical properties of food are
still popular among the organic crowd. They will harangue you all night
over the benefits of organic or all-natural food, even though there is
no science to it.

*Vegetarians may have a lower BMI and drink alcohol sparingly, but
vegetarian diets are tied to generally poorer health, poorer quality of
life and a higher need for health care than their meat-eating
counterparts.*

*A new study from the Medical University of Graz in Austria finds that
vegetarians are more physically active, drink less alcohol and smoke
less tobacco than those who consume meat in their diets. Vegetarians
also have a higher socioeconomic status and a lower body mass index. But
the vegetarian diet — characterized by a low consumption of saturated
fats and cholesterol that includes increased intake of fruits,
vegetables and whole-grain products — carries elevated risks of cancer,
allergies and mental health disorders.*

*Vegetarians were twice as likely to have allergies, a 50 percent
increase in heart attacks and a 50 percent increase in incidences of
cancer.*

*The cross-sectional study from Austrian Health Interview Survey data
and published in PLos One examined participants dietary habits,
demographic characteristics and general lifestyle differences.*

*The most significant dietary habit difference between meat-eaters and
vegetarians concerned their BMI and alcohol consumption – with both
being higher for those who consume meat.*

*Many past studies have instead put an emphasis on the health risks
associated with red meat and carnivorous diets, but this study points
the other dietary direction. However, the researchers do caution that
continuing studies will be needed to substantiate some of the rather
broad dietary distinctions, associations presented in this current
research.*

*Overall, vegetarians were found to be in a poorer state of health
compared to other dietary groups. Vegetarians reported higher levels of
impairment from disorders, chronic diseases, and “suffer significantly
more often from anxiety/depression.”*

*Subjects who consumed lower amounts of animal fat were also linked to
poor health care practices, such as avoidance of vaccinations and a lack
of preventive care.*

Most likely, people drawn to food cults are a bit crazy. Their diet is a
form of self-medication. The discipline of maintaining one of these
diets provides structure in their life, which carries over to other
areas. That’s what these guys may be picking up in the study. It is not
that plant eating makes you crazy. It’s that crazy people are more
likely to go for plant eating as a way to self-medicate. That’s the
theory behind the various “cleanse” scams running through the health
food world.

Regardless, as a matter of science we know humans have evolved eating a
range of foods. Meat, fish, dairy and wild greens were the primary foods
for most of human history. Early man was living almost entirely on meat
and fish. About 12,000 years ago humans started to figure out how to
grow plant food and raise food animals. Man domesticated sheep, goats,
cows, and pigs about 15,000 years ago. The opportunity to feed large
numbers of people year round with plant food only goes back a few
thousand years. That means humans evolved for almost all of its time as
meat eaters.
