---
title: "Ezra Klein is an Idiot"
date: "2014-11-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3277"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3277"
---

Way back when Jonah Goldberg was a regular at NRO, he would promote the
blogger Ezra Klein. He would go back and forth with Klein in blog posts
and he did some podcasts with him. Jonah Goldberg is often fairly
sensible, but he is not a guy without a certain agenda.. For example, he
regularly reads Steve Sailer and Peter Brimelow, but he says otherwise.
Being a government approved chattering skull means punching Right, but
that does not make it right.

That explains his affinity for Klein. Klein is a person with a mediocre
IQ. Like most bourgeois millennials, he is good at dressing himself up
as an intellectual, but like most bourgeois millennials he lacks
self-awareness and lacks any curiosity about the limits of his
knowledge. Instead he does what all these guys did in college and that’s
suck up to the teacher by repeating the lecture with enthusiasm. <a
href="http://www.vox.com/2014/11/25/7281165/darren-wilsons-story-side"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This latest letter from Ezra</a> is
getting lots of run.

*We’ve finally heard from Officer Darren Wilson.*

*Wilson had been publicly silent since the events of August 9, when he
shot and killed 18-year-old Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri. And,
even as the grand jury announced its decision not to indict him, he
remained silent. He had his attorneys release a statement on his
behalf.*

*But on Monday night, St. Louis County prosecutor Robert McCulloch
released the evidence given to the grand jury, including the interview
police did with Wilson in the immediate aftermath of the shooting. And
so we got to read, for the first time, Wilson’s full, immediate account
of his altercation with Brown.*

*And it is unbelievable.*

*I mean that in the literal sense of the term: “difficult or impossible
to believe.” But I want to be clear here. I’m not saying Wilson is
lying. I’m not saying his testimony is false. I am saying that the
events, as he describes them, are simply bizarre. His story is difficult
to believe.*

The unintentional comedy here is great. The always earnest Ezra is
saying he was so committed to the narrative peddled by his people that
he is now sitting in stunned amazement to learn it was all nonsense. Of
course, what he really means is he is devastated that he can no longer
virtue signal on the issue. He’s not interested in the truth or that
good people were harmed by the Big Lie. Those are bad people and they
got what they deserved.

*What happens next is the most unbelievable moment in the narrative. And
so it’s probably best that I just quote Wilson’s account at length on
it.*

*I was doing the, just scrambling, trying to get his arms out of my face
and him from grabbing me and everything else. He turned to his…if he’s
at my vehicle, he turned to his left and handed the first subject. He
said, “here, take these.” He was holding a pack of — several packs of
cigarillos which was just, what was stolen from the Market Store was
several packs of cigarillos. He said, “here, hold these” and when he did
that I grabbed his right arm trying just to control something at that
point. Um, as I was holding it, and he came around, he came around with
his arm extended, fist made, and went like that straight at my face with
his…a full swing from his left hand.*

*So Brown is punching inside the car. Wilson is scrambling to deflect
the blows, to protect his face, to regain control of the situation. And
then Brown stops, turns to his left, says to his friend, “Here, hold
these,” and hands him the cigarillos stolen from Ferguson Market. Then
he turns back to Wilson and, with his left hand now freed from holding
the contraband goods, throws a haymaker at Wilson.*

*Every bullshit detector in me went off when I read that passage. Which
doesn’t mean that it didn’t happen exactly the way Wilson describes. But
it is, again, hard to imagine. Brown, an 18-year-old kid holding stolen
goods, decides to attack a cop and, while attacking him, stops, hands
his stolen goods to his friend, and then returns to the beatdown. It
reads less like something a human would do and more like a moment meant
to connect Brown to the robbery.*

Ezra Klein went to one of the safest <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_High_School_%28Irvine,_California%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">public high schools</a> on the planet. It
may have the lowest NAM population outside of Reykjavik High. He grew up
in the sort of neighborhood that has such a public school. He went to a
safe white college and then into the media, which is run by his people.
In other words, Ezra has no experience with the diverse.

*Why did Michael Brown, an 18-year-old kid headed to college, refuse to
move from the middle of the street to the sidewalk? Why would he curse
out a police officer? Why would he attack a police officer? Why would he
dare a police officer to shoot him? Why would he charge a police officer
holding a gun? Why would he put his hand in his waistband while
charging, even though he was unarmed?*

***None of this fits with what we know of Michael Brown.** Brown wasn’t
a hardened felon. He didn’t have a death wish. And while he might have
been stoned, this isn’t how stoned people act. The toxicology report did
not indicate he was on PCP or something that would’ve led to suicidal
aggression.*

By “we” he means the people who are paid to lie to us from their posts
in the mainstream media. The rest of us knew the truth right away.
Around blacks, you can never relax, which is why everyone tries to avoid
being around blacks. It’s why Ezra’s parents made sure he was never
around blacks, especially underclass blacks. It is a simply reality of
life that everyone knows, except the dainty flowers in the media,
apparently. Even there, they may simply be lying, because they are paid
to lie.
