---
title: "Redlining"
date: "2014-09-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2657"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2657"
---

One of the great benefits of old age is accepting the fact we never
learn from our mistakes. Those of us who do learn are not important
enough to matter. All the important people have the memory of a kitten.
Thus we see <a
href="http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/09/02/new-york-set-to-accuse-evans-bank-of-redlining/?_php=true&amp;_type=blogs&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">stories like this</a> over and
over, despite allegedly having learned our lesson.

*Drawn in thick marker along the map of upstate New York, the line
snaked down the Niagara River and zigzagged east to outline a swath of
Buffalo and its surrounding neighborhoods.*

*But one area of the city — neighborhoods in east Buffalo, where more
than 75 percent of the city’s African-American population lives — was
explicitly excluded, cut off from access to mortgage credit.*

*That map, ringed by a line, is at the center of a sweeping
investigation by the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman,
into whether banks are “redlining” — deliberately choking off mortgage
lending to predominantly minority communities — people briefed on the
matter said.*

*The investigation was expected to reach its first target as early as
Tuesday, the people said, with Mr. Schneiderman’s office taking aim at
Evans Bank, a regional lender whose business in the Buffalo area dates
to 1920, accusing it of denying mortgages to African-Americans
regardless of their credit.*

*The case, expected to accuse Evans Bank of violating the Fair Housing
Act — a federal law intended to ensure equal access to credit — is a
harbinger of other lawsuits that could be brought against some of the
nation’s largest banks, several people briefed on the investigations
said.*

We nearly blew up civilization with insane lending rules in the last
decade. That stampede to the cliff’s edge began with lawsuits claiming
the banks were not lending to black people. Here we are again, doing the
same thing expecting a different result.

*In the suit, expected to be filed in state court, prosecutors were to
outline how, since 2009, Evans Bancorp has created a map that defined
the “trade area,” places in the Buffalo metropolitan region where the
bank would make mortgages and other loans. The bank, prosecutors
contend, deliberately excised much of Buffalo’s East Side.*

*Rival banks, the authorities said, lent to neighborhoods on the East
Side at a far higher rate than Evans Bank, suggesting that the lending
patterns did not stem from a dearth of willing minority borrowers.*

If the bank actually had a map with a red line around the black
neighborhoods, then they deserve what they get. That’s just stupid. If
they simply refused to market to poor neighborhoods based on credit
bureau reports, then that’s their business. The fact that the other
banks were charging “far higher rates” says this bank is not interested
in high risk lending. That’s why banks charge high rates. The risk is
high. That’s news to the NY Times, but not to people with an IQ above
room temperature.

*That unequal access to credit, the authorities say, threatens to
exacerbate the country’s yawning wealth gap. Part of the problem is that
the foreclosure crisis disproportionately affected black and Hispanic
communities, wiping out billions of dollars of housing wealth, federal
mortgage data shows.*

*Mortgage lending is critical, the authorities say, to bolster
homeownership — a cornerstone of upward mobility — in minority
communities still trying to dig out from the recession. Denied access to
credit, state and federal authorities warn, minority communities are
helpless to address problems like boarded-up homes, foreclosures and
blight that have long ravaged neighborhoods.*

You cannot help but wonder if the writer is mildly retarded. People with
high default rates should not be getting loans. The reason is they have
no money. That’s why they defaulted on the loans.

As far as those boarded up homes, that’s the fault of the same
“authorities” whining about inequality. Those homes should be condemned
and bulldozed. But, the rich guys who own them give generously to those
authorities complaining about the wealth gap. Alternatively, the homes
can be condemned and taken by eminent domain and then sold off to
developers. But then the prices would go up and the poor would be moved
out so the children of rich white liberals can live in crime free
hipster-villes.
