---
title: "Documented Nonsense"
date: "2014-08-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2411"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2411"
---

Every once in a while you see something that you think has to be a
spoof, but turns out to be serious. In the process it confirms a lot of
what you suspect of the people waving the thing around. [Here’s
one](http://cir.ca/news/social-services-bolstered-by-immigrants) of
those examples.

*Some government programs have gained hundreds of billions of dollars
paid by undocumented immigrants, who have been shown to draw a smaller
amount from the same services.*

*Stephen Goss, chief actuary of the Social Security Administration, told
Vice News that undocumented immigrants pay about $12 billion a year into
the Social Security Trust Fund. Over the last decade, the agency
estimates undocumented immigrants have contributed $100 billion to the
program.*

*An estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants live in the U.S. and
the agency guesses 7 million are actively working. Of these, 3.1 million
use fake or expired social security numbers and still pay automatic
payroll taxes.*

Let’s just peel back this onion a little bit. For starters, we have been
repeatedly told for decades that figuring out who is using fake Social
Security numbers is impossibly expensive. To notify employers that the
number they are using to submit taxes for their employee would be
impossible and the cost to employers would be onerous. Yet, the actuary
of the Social Security Administration seems to have this data at his
fingertips.

Now, let’s take a look at the math. $13 Billion sounds like a lot of
money until your divide it by the 3.1 million. The result of that bit of
math is $4193.55. Let’s call it $4195 just to keep it simple. That does
not sound like a lot of money all of a sudden. Of course, Abdul from
Yemen and Kwame from Ghana are not bringing this cash with them from the
old country. Their employer, the guy taking the bogus social security
number and fake ID, is taking the money from the wages he is paying
them. Currently the employee pays 6.2% and the employer pays the same.

That bit of math means the illegals are theoretically making over
$33,800 per year. Keep that number in mind. Meanwhile, let’s take a look
at the rest of this piece.

*Goss said undocumented workers contribute about $13 billion a year in
total and collect about $1 billion, leaving a net contribution of $12
billion a year. Considering their questionable legal status, it’s
unlikely undocumented immigrants will benefit from their Social Security
contributions.*

*A study published in the journal Health Affairs in May 2013 found that,
in 2009 alone, immigrants paid $13.8 billion more to Medicare’s hospital
account balance than they used. The U.S.-born population left the fund
with a $30.9 billion deficit that same year.*

*Whether immigrants contribute to or use up federal services is a key
issue in the immigration reform debate. The May 2013 study did not
differentiate between documented and undocumented immigrants.*

*Experts say Medicare’s $115 billion surplus by immigrants from
2002-2009 was largely because their average age — 34 — is lower than the
U.S.-born population, so most cannot benefit from the retirement service
for many years. At the same time, however, many baby boomers have gone
into retirement.*

First of, why are illegal immigrants collecting anything from Social
Security? How would anyone know, given that they say it is impossible to
police the use of fake identification.

Anyway, let’s get back to the math. The second study that coincidentally
claims illegals pay over $13 Billion in Medicare taxes is even more
interesting. If we do the same math as we did before, we take $13.8
Billion divided by the magical 3.1 illegals paying the taxes Americans
won’t pay. That gives us $4451.61 so let’s say $4450.00 just to keep it
simple. Pretty much the same math as with the Social Security claim.

The difference is the tax rate for Medicare is 1.45% for employer and
employee. That means either there are many more illegals paying Medicare
taxes or the Health Affairs Journal thinks these illegals are making
over $150K per year. That’s a lot of tomatoes to pick.

To make their numbers match those of the actuary, you have to assume
over 14 million illegals are working and paying taxes. You also have to
assume they are making $16/hour. How likely is that?

Sarcasm aside, the math simply does not add up. The math and simple
observations says there are a lot more than 3.1 million working with
fake papers. Ask anyone who is familiar with payroll software or payroll
services and they will tell you there are a lot of bogus numbers in the
system.

There’s also loads of these guys working for cash. I know of a dozen
places around the Imperial Capital where you can get day labor for cash.
Painters, landscapers, drywall guys, roofers. If you need guys to do
low-skilled work and you don’t need the hassle of doing it legal,
there’s a solution.

None of this really matters, of course. Immigration, legal or otherwise,
is not about propping up collapsing welfare systems. If that were the
case, then we should bring back slavery. After all, if bulldozing the
laws and customs of a country is justified in an effort to pay welfare
debts, then what is the objection to bringing back chattel labor?

The fact is these people paying the alleged taxes are doing so in lieu
of Americans doing the same jobs. Open borders fanatics carry on like
these people coming over the border are creating jobs that don’t exist. 
The reality is something else. Employers want cheap, dependable labor.
If the government says it is OK to hire foreign guys for cash or with
fake papers, then they will do it if it makes sense.

Gutting the wage base with illegal labor, however, has costs. No one
ever bothers to examine those costs when celebrating diversity. The
millions of unemployed men collecting relief checks has a cost to
society. It’s not just the taxes and welfare payments. It is the cost to
the culture. Then you have the direct costs to state and local
infrastructure of adding tens of millions to the system. Go into any
emergency room and you see what I mean.
