---
title: "The Madness of Diversity"
date: "2014-11-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3261"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3261"
---

I’m very skeptical of the great Hebrew Conspiracy to break white America
on the wheel of Cultural Marxism. Sure, they are the most ethnocentric
people on the planet and they are very smart and clever. They do favor
their own and do so without noticing it. These are true things, but
that’s a long way from Jews being at the heart of a conspiracy to
undermine white society that dats back to the time of Christ. That’s a
long time to hole a grudge, even for the Jews, who are world’s greatest
grudge keepers.

Still, I’m skeptical.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=649" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I’m inclined to think Norman Podhoretz is right</a>. For
over 100 generations <span class="st">Ashkenazi Jews</span> “boiled off”
the non-believers, skeptics and those with a high capacity for affective
empathy. The resulting population has a high degree of belief and group
identity. As belief in an invisible man in the sky becomes less
plausible, these impulses found a home in the various Rousseau-ist cults
that have ravaged Western Civilization. To say Jews are over represented
in Left-wing politics is to say blacks are over represented in the NBA.

When I see <a
href="http://www.bostonherald.com/sports/red_sox_mlb/boston_red_sox/2014/11/key_target_for_mlb_diversity"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">stuff like this</a>, I can see why the
Hebrew Conspiracy guys think the things they think.

*Just because this is baseball’s golden era doesn’t mean the sport can’t
glisten even brighter.*

*Don’t worry, this isn’t another dissertation about speeding up the game
of baseball.*

*It is about speeding up a different kind of change.*

*Perhaps a recent panel discussion about baseball’s racial and gender
gap — held on the same day **Rob Manfred** received unanimous approval
from the owners to become the next commissioner and just a day after the
best slugger in the game, a 25-year-old named **Giancarlo Stanton** with
Irish, African-American and Puerto Rican roots signed off on his
historic $325 million contract with the mid-market Marlins — sparked the
beginning of real progress on an issue that has vexed baseball for far
too long.*

*With African-Americans representing at least 14 percent of major league
rosters for two decades between 1967 and 1998, their representation has
been on a steady decline that has flattened out the past few years at
around 8 percent but has shown no signs of ascent.*

*Major League Baseball has tried to reverse the decline. The RBI Program
and Urban Youth Academies are two attempts to revive African-American
participation and then there’s the sport’s 17-member On-Field Diversity
Task Force, assembled in August.*

***Theo Epstein** and his brother **Paul** started the Foundation To Be
Named Later, which has been focused on building and expanding urban
baseball. Their panel, held last week at TD Garden, focused on
baseball’s demographic problems and the topic of declining African
American participation at the major league level hit several nerves.*

*Clearly, baseball hasn’t figured it out.*

Baseball is an international sport. It is very popular in the Caribbean,
Mexico, Central America and East Asia. Every team  has a large
compliment of foreign players. The fact that 14% of baseball players are
black Americans means they are over-represented in baseball. Blacks are
currently 13% of the US population. But, guys with last names Silverman,
Manfred and Epstein think that’s not enough. If you’re making the case
that the Tribe is at war with Occidentals, looking at the surnames on
each side of the divide is a good place to start.

As I wrote above, I’m disinclined to think there’s a conspiracy, but the
war on sanity is very real. Fanatics of all stripes are hell bent on
pulling the roof down on all of us.

*Any gathering of general managers is devoid of African-Americans, and
any census of front offices of baseball teams, especially in the
baseball operations departments, will reveal fewer than a handful of
women.*

***Tyler Tumminia**, senior vice president of the Goldklang Group, which
owns five minor league baseball teams, including the Pittsfield Suns, is
looking to buy more. She believes the days of the “old boy network” are
coming to an end. How quickly is up for debate.*

*“I don’t think it’s a problem in minor leagues, females, I think the
problem is mostly rooted in major league baseball, we talk about it all
the time,” said Tumminia, who is married to Red Sox general manager
**Ben Cherington**. “Society in general, we have no apprehension having
female captains flying us all over the place nor do we have apprehension
to open us up in our hearts or minds as medical surgeons or doctors but
we have a hard time generally in society seeing those people putting a
roster together, that’s some funny (expletive) to me. No disrespect to
general managers.”*

We don’t have apprehensions about female surgeons or female pilots.
That’s because there are so few female pilots and heart surgeons. About
<a
href="http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2014/07/arent-many-female-commercial-pilots/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">3% of commercial pilots</a> are female
and about <a
href="http://www.acshpri.org/documents/ACSHPRI_Surgical_Workforce_in_US_apr2010.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">10% of surgeons are female</a>. No one
complains about the lack of diversity in the cockpit or operating room
because diversity is a luxury good. When failure is an acceptable
outcome, diversity is king. When failure can kill people, no one gives a
crap about diversity. In other words, most of us not so crazy that we
would rather die on the operating table than look up at a bunch of pale
faces before the procedure.
