---
title: "James Logan: Patent Troll"
date: "2014-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1674"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1674"
---

Way back in the olden thymes I had one of those conversations familiar
to anyone in the tech world back then. The web was just getting going
and everyone was putting up websites hoping to get rich. Someone I knew
was involved in one such venture. He was giving me the elevator speech
about how it was positioned to take advantage of synergies and vectors
and so on.

After he was done I asked him how they planned to make money. I was not
being cheeky, I just assumed he left that part out for some reason.
Instead of telling me, he went into another spiel about unique visitors
per month and page visits. My reply was something about the bank not
taking page visits as payment on his mortgage. He thought I was daft,
but not long after, the venture collapsed.

The great challenge of the tech boom was figuring out how to make money
from things people did not need, but they could possibly want. Some
services like porn figured it out for a while. Others like eBay and
PayPal came up with real businesses to replace existing businesses.
Others figured out how to transfers big chunks of their costs onto some
unsuspecting sucker like the ISP.

Others figured out how to tax you through your phone bill or tax the
person with who you were doing e-commerce. These parasites were not
looking to add value to the system, but rather extract value. This is
where patent trolls come into play. They shake down companies for rents,
abusing the patent laws. They are just gaming the legal system to
control an artificial bottleneck. <a
href="http://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/talkingtech/2014/05/04/podcast-trial-personalaudio-carolla/8057329/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">That’s the racket of dirtbags
like James Logan</a>.

*James Logan freely admits that he’s never made a podcast.*

*But he also insists he helped create the medium of podcasting. Logan
says that it happened in 1996 — and that he has the patents to prove
it.*

*In a controversial legal battle, PersonalAudio, the company founded by
Logan, is suing comedian Adam Carolla’s ACE Broadcasting, two other
podcasters and networks Fox, CBS and NBC, saying they are infringing on
his copyright and owe him money.*

*The trial begins in September. Carolla has taken to the Web to raise
money for legal fees against what he called “patent trolls.”*

*Carolla says he needs $1.5 million to face PersonalAudio in an East
Texas courtroom that historically has been favored by patent litigants.
So far, Carolla has pulled in just over $370,000 on the
[Fundanything.com](http://fundanything.com/en "http://fundanything.com/en")
crowdfunding website, including a $20,000 donation from e-commerce giant
Amazon.*

*“The first thing they (PersonalAudio) said was ‘Give us $3 million,'”
says Carolla, whose show is listed in the Guiness Book of World Records
as the most downloaded podcast ever. When faced with the suit, Carolla
said he chose to fight.*

*“Obviously, $3 million is out of the question,” he says. “But even if
they said tomorrow, ‘Give us $100,000, and this will all go away’ —
$100,000 for what?”*

*Should he lose, Carolla says he might shut down his show, a sentiment
seconded online by others.*

*Podcasting has been around since at least 2004, initially as a vehicle
to supply non-music programming for the Apple iPod, which launched in
2001. Apple began offering podcasts, through subscriptions and
downloads, via its iTunes app in 2005.*

*As the popularity of smartphones and tablets has eliminated the need
for subscriptions and downloads, sites such as TuneIn Radio, SoundCloud,
Stitcher and Swell offer instant listening, both on the Web and via
increasingly popular smartphone apps.*

*Nerdist’sChris Hardwick built a huge online following with his podcast,
which he parlayed into a high-profile hosting gig with cable network
AMC. Comedian Aisha Tyler, a co-host of TV’s The Talk, parlayed her
popular podcast Girl on Guy into a best-selling book, Self-Inflicting
Wounds. National Public Radio has found huge audiences for shows such as
This American Life, Snap Judgement and Fresh Air, which regularly top
the iTunes podcast charts.*

*The trials — six separate suits between PersonalAudio and Carolla,
Discovery Networks, podcaster Togi Entertainment and the broadcast
networks — will take place in a small Texan town with 24,000 residents.
Marshall, three hours east of Dallas and near the Arkansas border, has
become known as the “patent trial capital”, a popular place to get a
trial in a city whose docket isn’t filled with other cases waiting to
get a hearing.*

*Many patent cases take place there, and historically, litigants win 60%
of the time, according to a recent study by PriceWaterhouseCoopers.*

*Carolla’s team fought the locale, seeking a bigger city and fearing the
history.*

*PersonalAudio, based in Beaumont, Texas, has a handful of employees
working on creating new technologies, says Logan, who himself is based
in New Hampshire.*

*PersonalAudio has no products but instead owns patents and investments
in several companies, including consumer tech company Bringerr.*

*Logan’s 1996 idea predates podcasting as we know it. His concept was
downloadable entertainment via the Internet to a new kind of MP3 player
he was trying to market. The product fizzled, so he switched gears to
subscription of cassette tapes. He filed for and was granted several
patents, which included the notion of having downloaded playlists.*

*In 2009, PersonalAudio amended the patent to include podcasting.*

It is patently obvious this guy is adding nothing to any of these
companies. They are not using his technology. He has not created
anything unique or original that they are relying upon to do their work.
He is good at fooling stupid government clerks in the patent office into
giving him rights to things he never created. His entire business is
built around the idea of finding someone he can sue in a courtroom full
of rubes.

That’s the main problem with these patent suits. Their claims have no
relationship with the real value of their product. Carolla would never
pay $3 million to this idiot in order to record a podcast. He probably
would not pay anything. Instead he would find some other way to do his
show without using whatever it is this guy claims he owns. James Logan
is simply a highwayman, one that robs you on the internet.
