---
title: "Libertarian Marriage Nuttery"
date: "2014-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=836"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=836"
---

Marriage is all about reproduction. Without it, you’re left with the
equivalent of an intimate handshake agreement on how to divide up the
property when one or both parties gets bored. It is what makes
homosexual marriage irrational. Two men cannot create a child together,
so by definition they can never be married to one another. Marriage is a
biological act, as much as a social construct. To divorce one from the
other is to disconnect the institution from reality.

There are crazier modern fads, but it does tell us a lot about the
people debating it. Arguments for changing public policy, the good ones
least ways, contain knowledge of the current policy, its origins, its
trade-offs and then the reasons why the new policy is superior. That
allows everyone to agree to the facts in advance. The “good” arguments
are basically an appeal to generosity to people afflicted with a
terrible condition.

On the other hand, homosexual marriage advocates dispense with that and
instead throw a tantrum, demanding you justify your opposition to their
tantrum. It is a standard practice of the Left to use rhetoric to flip
the argument on its head. Instead of the burden being on them to make
the affirmative argument in favor of their cause, they force everyone
else to defend the status quo to their satisfaction. They start with
some form of “why shouldn’t homosexuals have the same rights as everyone
else?”

In this regard, libertarians suffer from many of the same defects. They
are not as egregious, owing to their fringe status, but they tend to do
the same thing with rhetoric. This is most obvious with cultural items.
They always retreated into the critic role, demanding conservative
justify their position, rather than making the libertarian case for the
issue. That way they can avoid having to defend their own position,
which almost always compatible with the Progressive position.
<a href="http://market-ticker.org/akcs-www?post=227937"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This Denninger post</a>, for
example.

*Marriage is none of the government’s damn business.  It’s sad that it
took the gay screamers to wake people up to this, but if it results in
Oklahoma actually doing the right thing **it will be about damn time.***

*Tell me this — why is it that you want the **State** in your bedroom? I
don’t give a \*\*\*\* if you’re straight or gay, just give me one good
reason why you’d invite **the \*\*\*\*ing government** behind your
bedroom door.  Ever.  For any purpose.*

*But you do, and what’s worse is that if you actually honor a religious,
that is, a **sacramental** marriage irrespective of what faith you
follow **you have sworn falsely before your God by having the pastor
sign a state marriage license.***

As with the Left, libertarians tend to violate the Chesterton’s fence
principle. They have no idea why the rules and institutions were
created. They seem to think they were either forced on us by some
supernatural entity or sprung from random nothingness. The assumption is
there is no reason for these things to exist, so they see no reason to
not tear them down. Denninger just assumes that society, through the
state, has no interest in marriage and that marriage licenses are
immoral. He does not ask why they exist.

The libertarian argument on this issue is nonsense. <a
href="http://hbdchick.wordpress.com/2014/01/11/mating-patterns-of-the-medieval-franks/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This excellent post</a> on
matting patterns of medieval Franks illustrates that policing marriage
predates Christianity and the nation state. Human populations have been
keeping an eye on mating habits for a very long time, perhaps from the
earliest times of human settlement. It turns out that humans have always
known how babies are made and they noticed problems when babies are made
between siblings or first cousins.

Other species have ways of dealing with inbreeding like the <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imprinting_%28psychology%29#Westermarck_effect"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Westermarck Effect</a>. The
best way Mother Nature has to handle inbreeding is the defective progeny
dies off quickly. Humans, having the ability to reason through these
results, soon figured out that mothers and sons should not be mating.
Whether a natural repulsion developed, followed by the taboo or the
other way around, human societies have been policing the mating choices
of its members since the beginning. *Again, marriage is about
reproduction, not sex.*

In the Christian world, the church was enlisted in the war on cousin
marriage long after authorities took an interest in it. It is not hard
to see what human populations would worry about this problem. Every
defect is a burden. If you get too many burdens, you end up using more
extreme measures to remedy the problem. We know, for example, that human
society has practiced infanticide to cull the defective from the
population.

If you want to argue that this is no longer necessary in modern times,
keep in mind that we are taking in tens of millions of people from
places where <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2355277/Warning-cousin-marriages-Unions-blood-relatives-Pakistani-community-account-birth-defects-children.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">inbreeding is still common</a>.
Then there is the urban and rural underclass where inbreeding is always
a concern. If you don’t have someone policing the lower ranks, you will
get a large low-IQ population in a few generations. Unfettered liberty
works great for smart rich people, but it becomes increasingly
problematic as you move left on the IQ curve. People have always known
this.

Mating habits are a central concern of all human populations. Try this
thought experiment. The world is wiped out by some plague and the
remaining 100 people are all of child bearing ages, equally divided
between boys and girls. What are the first priorities of the group?
Obviously, the group has survival needs. Food, fresh water, fire,
shelter and defense against nature are the first concerns. Organizing to
solve these primary issues must happen if the population is to survive
the first winter.

The next thing they will do is figure out how to handle the inevitable
paring off, mating a child birth. Again, if they are to survive,
figuring this out is at the top of the list. There is the issue of
conflict over sex, but also the need to have a next generation. This is
a A-level concern for the tribe, so it will require all of their
attention, just the acquisition of food and water is a primary concern.

That’s why libertarians properly belong on the fringe. They are every
bit as kooky as people lining their clothes with aluminum foil to keep
the aliens from tracking them. What they believe and what they advocate
are at odds with obvious reality. We general define insanity as a gap
between perception and reality that cannot be remedied. That seems to be
the case for libertarians.

 
