---
title: "The Mark of Gideon"
date: "2014-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2980"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2980"
---

It used to be that you needed permission to record someone. Most states
required both parties of a telephone call, for instance, to consent to
it being recorded. You could not film someone and use it without their
permission. The general principal being that you own your body and your
words. You could, therefore, ban people from bringing cameras into your
business or into your show if you were a performer. In the olden times,
I recall seeing people dragged out of concerts because they smuggled in
a camera.

But, things have become complicated. Everyone has a mobile phone and
they almost always have cameras. They also have audio recorders. Every
election a dozen or so pols get caught in a controversy over someone
surreptitiously recording them saying bad things. Mitt Romney’s “47%”
bit maybe cost him the election. Obama’s “Bibles and boomsticks” line
still haunts him. Donald Sterling was tossed from the NBA because his
whore recorded him saying bad things. In many cases this is illegal, but
no one ever gets charged.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2014/10/03/travel/marriott-fcc-wi-fi-fine/index.html?hpt=hp_t2"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story about the Marriot</a> getting
fined for blocking cell phones got me thinking about some of the looming
puzzles resulting from the spread of cheap radios. People don’t think of
their cell phone as a radio, but that’s what it is. Those drones
available on Amazon are possible because of cheap and effective radios.
The amount of data we can send and receive through the air is what’s
changing the physical space of human existence. The whole mobile
computing revolution is the consequence of cheap radios.

If a business cannot prevent you from transmitting radio signals from
their property, they can’t stop you from recording them or transmitting
images of their business via radio. In a weird way, eavesdropping and
wiretapping have become legal. Eventually, they become ubiquitous.
Because of the explosion of false rape charges, males are now recording
their sexual adventures just in case <a
href="http://www.slate.com/blogs/xx_factor/2014/09/29/good2go_a_new_app_for_consenting_to_sex.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this app</a> does not prove convincing.
Citizens are routinely recording cops, so much so that cops are being
equipped with full time body cameras.

We’re at the point where no one owns their voice or image. You can’t
have an expectation of privacy because everywhere cameras and recorders
are rolling or at least assumed to be rolling. The only place that is
yours and yours alone is the pace between your ears and that’s not going
to be for long. <a
href="http://singularityhub.com/2014/09/02/have-digital-devices-ruined-your-ability-to-read-emotions-no-worries-an-app-for-that-is-on-the-way/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Facial recognition apps</a> will soon be
cheap and everywhere.There’s a reason sci-fi writers imagined a future
where the sentient beings no longer had facial expressions, I guess. The
only defense of that private space will be studied lying and deception.
Humans trust will fall to zero as a consequence.

Maybe Ebola is our Vegan choriomeningitis.
