---
title: "Denmark is full of Danes"
date: "2014-07-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - HBD
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2272"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2272"
---

Imagine a group of people that deeply believe in the Great Pumpkin. So
much so, they have not only developed a religion and culture around it,
everything that defines them is based in the existence of the Great
Pumpkin. Their culture and social structures would collapse if they
discovered the Great Pumpkin was myth. The news is full of people who
would die for their religion so this should not be a terribly difficult
thought experiment.

Now, flip around the other way. Imagine a group of people that have
based everything about their existence on the belief that the Great
Pumpkin *does not exist*. Unlike atheists, these people have actually
managed to build a viable culture and institutions around the absolute
faith in the Great Pumpkin being a myth. Everything they are is based on
it. Tolerance for any Great Pumpkin-ism is impossible because it is
essentially a denial of their essence.

Now, let’s assume these people know of one another and are within travel
distance of one another. The former group, let’s call them the
Positives, are going to be hell bent on converting the latter group,
that we’ll call the Negatives. On the other hand, the Negatives are not
interested in converting the Positives. The mere fact that these people
are able to tolerate Great Pumpkin belief means they are capable of
denying everything that makes up the very being of a Negative.
Therefore, part of the Negative belief set is they want to destroy the
Positives.

Now, replace the Great Pumpkin with race.

That’s where things stand in America when it comes to race. Most people
accept that race is a real thing and different people come from
different parts of the world. For most people, it is a casual awareness
that does not animate their life. They think about it when they see a
sign for Martin Luther King Boulevard or a bunch of a Spanish guys
hanging out on the corner. Others take it more seriously as an academic
or intellectual pursuit, while others take it too far and become bigots.

The other side of the fence we find the race deniers. Everything they
believe, their sense of self and their world view, is based on race
being a myth. The trouble is they are facing a mountain of scientific
evidence that contradicts their belief. The mountain is not only
growing, it is growing rapidly. [Studies like this
one](http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/newsandevents/pressreleases/danish_dna_could/)
seem benign to normal people, but they are a stake through the heart of
a race denier.

*Economists at the University’s Centre for Competitive Advantage in the
Global Economy (CAGE) have looked at why certain countries top the world
happiness rankings. In particular they have found the closer a nation is
to the genetic makeup of Denmark, the happier that country is. The
research could help to solve the puzzle of why a country like Denmark so
regularly tops the world happiness rankings.*

*Dr Eugenio Proto and Professor Andrew Oswald, based in the Department
of Economics, found three forms of evidence for a link between genetic
makeup and a nation’s happiness.*

*Firstly they used data on 131 countries from a number of international
surveys including the Gallup World Poll, World Value Survey and the
European Quality of Life Surveys. The researchers linked cross-national
data on genetic distance and well-being.*

*Dr Proto said: “The results were surprising, we found that the greater
a nation’s genetic distance from Denmark, the lower the reported
wellbeing of that nation. Our research adjusts for many other influences
including Gross Domestic Product, culture, religion and the strength of
the welfare state and geography.*

*The second form of evidence looked at existing research suggesting an
association between mental wellbeing and a mutation of the gene that
influences the reuptake of serotonin, which is believed to be linked to
human mood.*

*Dr Proto added: “We looked at existing research which suggested that
the long and short variants of this gene are correlated with different
probabilities of clinical depression, although this link is still highly
debated. The short version has been associated with higher scores on
neuroticism and lower life satisfaction. Intriguingly, among the 30
nations included in the study, it is Denmark and the Netherlands that
appear to have the lowest percentage of people with this short
version.”*

*The final form of evidence looked at whether the link between genetics
and happiness also held true across generations, continents and the
Atlantic Ocean.*

*Professor Oswald said: “We used data on the reported wellbeing of
Americans and then looked at which part of the world their ancestors had
come from. The evidence revealed that there is an unexplained positive
correlation between the happiness today of some nations and the observed
happiness of Americans whose ancestors came from these nations, even
after controlling for personal income and religion.”*

For the race deniers, this is like seeing the Great Pumpkin walking down
the strete in full view of everyone. This study is not abstract
correlations. This is hard genetic science. More important, if a small
localized population of humans in the heart of Europe can have some
weird genetics that manifest in personality and culture, groups walled
off from Europe by oceans and mountains are going to have even more
unusual mutations that distinguish them from the rest.

The race deniers will be undone by the fact Denmark is full of Danes.
