---
title: "Small Oil"
date: "2014-12-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3405"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3405"
---

Over at National Review, where I occasionally post in the comment
sections, I’ve taken some flak for pointing out that falling oil prices
are not due to market forces and they are not necessarily a good thing.
The people who post there tend to be running dog Republicans,
worshipping at the alter of capitalism. They think suddenly cheap oil is
vindication of their “drill baby, drill” chants from a decade ago.
 <a href="http://www.bbc.com/news/business-30525539" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">This post from the Beeb</a> explains one of the
down-side effects of an oil glut.

*Oil companies and service providers are cutting staff and investment to
save money.*

*Robin Allan, chairman of the independent explorers’ association
Brindex, told the BBC that the industry was “close to collapse”.*

*Almost no new projects in the North Sea are profitable with [oil below
$60 a
barrel,](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business/market_data/commodities/143908/intraday.stm)
he claims.*

*“It’s almost impossible to make money at these oil prices”, Mr Allan,
who is a director of [Premier
Oil](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business/market_data/shares/3/87550/one_month.stm)
in addition to chairing Brindex, told the BBC. “It’s a huge crisis.”*

*“This has happened before, and the industry adapts, but the adaptation
is one of slashing people, slashing projects and reducing costs wherever
possible, and that’s painful for our staff, painful for companies and
painful for the country.*

*“It’s close to collapse. In terms of new investments – there will be
none, everyone is retreating, people are being laid off at most
companies this week and in the coming weeks. Budgets for 2015 are being
cut by everyone.”*

The thing that people don’t understand about the business of digging
stuff up and selling it is there are costs. It cost money to set-up an
oil well – lots of money. If you can get a million barrels from a well
and the cost of extraction is fifty million dollars over the life of the
well, you need to sell that oil for $50 a barrel to break even. If you
started your project assuming $100 prices and now the prices are $40,
your business collapses and the well closes.

Almost all of the new oil sources coming on-line were planned and
executed in a world of $60-$70 oil. That was the assumption of the
investors. That’s an important piece of the puzzle that no one
considers. Every BTU of energy is backed by a debt instrument these
days. In fact, those debt instruments are backed by debt instruments.

The debt pyramid in the energy business probably looks like every other
asset market. That means bankruptcies in the energy markets ripple
through the financial world in the same way that foreclosures in Nevada
brought down the housing market.

There’s that and there is the fact the oil glut is about things other
than supply and demand. Demand is slightly down of late as the world
economy has slowed. That has driven up relative supply. There’s also
more supply due to speculators jumping into a hot market the last
decade. But, there’s also the financial war with Russia lead by the US
and Saudi Arabia.

The Saudis, of course, see this as manna from heaven. They can knock out
the Russians who have been a source of mischief to them in the Middle
East. A collapsing Russia would take Syria and Iran down, plus open the
door for the Saudi pipeline projects.

An oil glut also knocks out North American producers who suddenly face
margin calls. No one pumps at a loss so the high cost producers will
have to shut down. An extended price slump means they go bankrupt. It
also means credit flees the market, making even profitable operations
less profitable. The Saudis can weather even $30 oil so this is good for
them in the long run.

Cheap energy is always a good thing, but it is not without trade-offs.
It’s why our next currency arrangement will probably be pegged to
energy. If everything is priced in joules, price stability in the energy
markets becomes the default state. Until then, energy is a tool of war
and even cheap gas has negative consequences.
