---
title: "Boobies"
date: "2014-08-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2378"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2378"
---

<a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/fashion/fashion-blog/2014/jul/28/real-reason-french-women-have-stopped-sunbathing-topless"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">According to this story</a> in
the Guardian, French women are not going topless at the beach anymore.
How one measures this is unsaid, but the young researchers sent off to
the beach to count bare boobies probably enjoyed their work.

*Is topless sunbathing over? It certainly is in France, according to
French Elle, if the coverline on its new summer issue is to be believed:
“La Fin Du Topless Sur La Plage?” – which translates, verbatim, to “Is
this the end of toplessness on the beach?”*

*According to the magazine the answer is “yes”, and the reasons are
threefold. First, an increased concern over health and the dangers of
skin cancer; second, the “pornified” perception of topless women (indeed
Elle suggests the death of the monokini – ie swimming briefs – was
linked to the idea that topless women are seen as “loose”); and third,
the rise of breast-affiliated activism – chiefly
[Femen](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/oct/20/femen-activists-uk-branch-feminism),
who use their naked breasts as a means of attracting attention to
various causes, and [Free the
Nipple](http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/may/31/scout-willis-topless-instagram-protest),
a recent campaign that encourages women to go topless to end the stigma
surrounding female bodies. “Topless sunbathing was seen by women as a
new freedom in St Tropez in the 1960s,” says Elle. And now that they’re
covering up? It’s a “worrying sign of a regression in the place of
women”.*

The skin cancer excuse makes some sense. Maybe people are doing less
sunbathing than in the past. Too much time in the sun, especially just
lying around, tends to make the skin look old. In our youth obsessed
culture, that’s not good.  Alternatively, the women may be lying. In the
age of feminism, not offending the homely girls is the most important
thing, so maybe the homely girls are now opposed to this.

The “pornified” angle is interesting. The West is becoming more uptight
regarding fun stuff like sex and looking at naked ladies. Drugs,
boozing, sex, eating, smoking and jokes about minorities have been ruled
off-limits to some degree. The sort of women going to St Tropez probably
think it is horrible to look like a girl now. Of course, in a world with
unlimited porn at your fingertips, women showing their lady parts off in
public is no longer much of a statement.

The last one is the puzzler. What in the world is “femen”? It turns out
to be
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FEMEN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">naked protesting</a>. This line from the Wikipedia entry
is amusing:

*The organisation describes itself as “fighting patriarchy in its three
manifestations – sexual exploitation of women, dictatorship and
religion”<sup>\[12\]</sup> and has stated that its goal is “sextremism
serving to protect women’s rights”*

This is what passes for feminism these days. They call it
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third-wave_feminism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Third Wave Feminism</a>.
Again, from Wikipedia:

*Third-wave feminism seeks to challenge or avoid what it deems the
second wave’s
[essentialist](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essentialism "Essentialism")
definitions of
[femininity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Femininity "Femininity"),
which often assumed a universal female identity that over-emphasized the
experiences of upper-middle-class white women. The shift from second
wave feminism came about with many of the legal and institutional rights
that were extended to women. In addition to these institutional gains,
third-wave feminists believed there needed to be further changes in
stereotypes, media portrayals, and language to define women. Third-wave
ideology focuses on a more
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-structuralist"
class="mw-redirect" title="Post-structuralist">post-structuralist</a>
interpretation of gender and
sexuality.<sup>[\[3\]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third-wave_feminism#cite_note-3)</sup>
In “Deconstructing Equality-versus-Difference: Or, the Uses of
Poststructuralist Theory for Feminism,”
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joan_W._Scott" class="mw-redirect"
title="Joan W. Scott">Joan W. Scott</a> describes how language has been
used as a way to understand the world, however, “post-structuralists
insist that words and texts have no fixed or intrinsic meanings, that
there is no transparent or self-evident relationship between them and
either ideas or things, no basic or ultimate correspondence between
language and the
world”<sup>[\[4\]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third-wave_feminism#cite_note-4)</sup>
Thus, while language has been used to create binaries (such as
male/female), post-structuralists see these binaries as artificial
constructs created to maintain the power of dominant groups.*

Got that?

The simpler definition is we have upper-middle class white women at
universities with way too much time on their hands. No one takes their
courses or cares about what they have to say, so they make a nuisance of
themselves chasing the white eunuchs around the faculty lounge, calling
them racists.

One last bit from the story:

*Alice Pfeiffer, a 29-year-old Anglo-French journalist (who,
incidentally does sunbathe topless in Biarritz, Guéthary, Monaco and
surfing resort Hossegor), thinks the decline is inextricably linked to
social media: “Young women in their 20s do it less because they are
aware that … you can end up topless on your own Facebook wall.”*

*Pfeiffer blames “pop-porn culture – Miley Cyrus to American Apparel, ie
aggressive naked imagery of young girls” – for the shift in perception
of going topless.*

It is one of the great ironies of the technological revolution. The old
line about having 57 channels, yet nothing good is on TV. All of this
technology that was supposed to free us from our chains is doing the
opposite. Whip off your top on vacation and you end up getting fired
because your boss saw your boobies on Facebook. With cameras everywhere,
ready to publicize your moment of indiscretion, everyone has to stop
having fun and no one gets to see boobies on the beach.
