---
title: "Post-Christian Madness"
date: "2014-12-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-12-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3454"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3454"
---

I’ve written a lot about the religious aspects of modern liberalism. The
idea is not my creation. Rousseau wrote about Civil Religion in the
<a href="http://www.constitution.org/jjr/socon_04.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Social Contract</a>. His was a compromise between a
religion of the state, the Catholic religion, with which he was most
familiar, and Christianity in general. Later writers picked up on this
theme. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/1986/09/21/books/hgwells-socialist-feminist-polymath-educator-and-hero.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">HG Wells</a> pitched socialism as a
universal religion. American Progressives in the early 20th century
argued for a social gospel that was a fusion of Continental socialism
and American Protestantism.

This concept was fairly well known and understood amongst leftist
writers and thinkers into the 20th century, then it sort of disappeared.
Talk to a modern liberal today and they will think you’re nuts if you
compare *their* thing with religion. This is especially true of
economists and fake nerds. They have it in their heads that *their*
thing is a model of dispassionate logic, the very opposite of religion.
That post the other day where I called Neil deGrasse Tyson a circus
clown is a good example. To the people worshiping Tyson, religion is the
opposite of science. In their binary world, the former is evil and the
latter is good, Satan versus God.

Back in 2000 when Al Gore wandered off to Mt. Sinai to get the good word
on climate change, I pointed out to the amazing number of new converts
in my peer group that Al Gore was falling back on his religious
training. He was playing the role of Old Testament prophet. It was
pretty obvious that he was having a breakdown during the campaign. His
bizarre behavior in the debates was later explained by his wife as him
cracking under the pressure. She went onto to say that losing the
election to Bush sent Gore into a tailspin and she thought he was having
a breakdown. Instead, he came back as a convert to a new religion that
looked a lot like the Old Testament.

Anyway, there’s a <a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/spiritual-shape-political-ideas_819707.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">long piece in The Weekly Standard</a>
from a month back that comes at modern liberalism from the religious
angle. I’m behind on my magazine reading so I’m just getting around to
it. The fact that no one on the Right in the chattering classes has
mentioned it says a lot, I think, about the general dimness of modern
conservative movement. It’s well worth reading. The writer comes at it
from a slightly different angle than I do, but it is a good take.
Bottom, despite being a Catholic, really gets the messianic quality of
19th century American Protestantism.

I would quarrel with him on the apocalyptic section of his piece. I’m
not so sure the Zero Hedge crowd is preaching doom because they think
the gods are angry. They simply think they are right about the current
economic arrangements.  Similarly, the preppers and doomsday types
building bunkers in the woods have always been with us. They think the
fragile nature of society will inevitably lead to collapse. That and
many of them are just nuts. They are not motivated by religiosity. The
various end of times fads on the left, however, are a part of their over
all religious impulse.

The lack of interest by the professional Right in this way of looking at
the American Left has always puzzled me. Reagan, having gone head to
head with commies in Hollywood, knew they operated with a religious
zeal. He was a big fan of Eric Hoffer, from whom I got my understanding
of the Left. Reagan is practically worshiped by the professional Right,
yet this part of Reagan’s thinking is never mentioned. That Bottom
article should be the sort of thing to get the chattering skulls on the
Right going as it is easily quotable. But, they skip past it.

There’s a reason for it, but I don’t know it.

 
