---
title: "Where the Center Is"
date: "2014-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1811"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1811"
---

Yesterday, the Boston talk radio host Howie Carr was reading <a
href="http://www.jameswebb.com/articles/economic-fairness-social-justice/in-defense-of-joe-six-pack"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this old column</a>. It is
from 1995, the year after the GOP swept the midterms. Jim Webb was
considered a star for the new Democratic party in the 1990’s and 2000’s.
Even though he worked for Reagan, he was a Democrat and allegedly one of
the new breed of Democrat, the post-liberal Democrat. He supported Bob
Kerry in 1992 and opposed both Bush and Kerry in the 2004 election.
Anyway, it is interesting to read what Democrats were saying two decades
ago.

*Those who debate the impact of affirmative action and other social
programs are fond of making distinctions among white Americans along
professional and geographic lines while avoiding the tinderbox of ethnic
distinctions among whites. But differences among white ethnic groups are
huge, fed by cultural tradition, the time and geography of migrations to
the country, and not insignificantly the tendency of white Americans to
discriminate against other whites in favor of their own class and
culture. In 1974, when affirmative action was in its infancy, the
University of Chicago’s National Opinion Research Center published a
landmark study, dividing American whites into 17 ethnic and religious
backgrounds and scoring them by educational attainment and family
income. Contrary to prevailing mythology, the vaunted White Anglo-Saxon
Protestants were even then not at the top.*

*A Greater Variation*

*The highest WASP group – the Episcopalians – ranked only sixth, behind
American Jews, then Irish, Italian, German and Polish Catholics. WASPS –
principally the descendants of those who had settled the Midwest and the
South – constituted the bottom eight groups, and 10 of the bottom
twelve. Educational attainment and income levels did not vary
geographically, as for instance among white Baptists (who scored the
lowest overall) living in Arkansas or California, a further indication
that these differences are culturally rather than geographically based.*

Imagine any Democrat using these words in a sentence.

*Family income among white cultures in the NORC study varied by almost
$5,000 dollars, from the Jewish high of $13,340 to the Baptist low of
$8,693. By comparison, in the 1970 census the variance in family income
between whites taken as a whole and blacks was only $3,600. In addition,
white Baptists averaged only 10.7 years of education, which was almost
four years less than American Jews and at the same level of black
Americans in 1970. This means that, even prior to the major affirmative
action programs, there was a greater variation within “white America”
than there was between “white America” and black America, and the whites
at the bottom were in approximately the same situation as blacks.*

Anyone, regardless of party, who says anything like the above will be
forced to leave the country.

*These same less-advantaged white cultures by and large did the most to
lay out the infrastructure of this country, quite often suffering
educational and professional regression as they tamed the wilderness,
built the towns, roads and schools, and initiated a democratic way of
life that later white cultures were able to take advantage of without
paying the price of pioneering. Today they have the least,
socio-economically, to show for these contributions. And if one would
care to check a map, they are from the areas now evincing the greatest
resistance to government practices.*

*It would be folly to assume that affirmative action has done anything
but exacerbate these disparities. The increased stratification and
economic polarization in American life since 1974 is well-documented. In
the technological age, with the shrinking of the industrial base, the
decrease in quality of public education, and the tendency of those who
“have” to protect their own and to utilize greater assets to prepare
them for the future, the divergence in both expectation and reward among
our citizens has grown rather than disappeared. The middle class has
shrunk from 65% of the population in 1970 to less than 50% today. Its
share of aggregate household income declined by 5% from 1968 to 1993,
while the top five million households increased their incomes by up to
10% a year. A similar rift has occurred in the black culture, with
dramatic declines at the bottom and significant gains among the top 5%.*

*Because America’s current elites are somewhat heterogeneous and in part
the product of an academically based meritocracy, they have increasingly
deluded themselves regarding both the depth of this schism and the
validity of their own advantages. The prevailing attitude has been to
ridicule whites who have the audacity to complain about their reduced
status, and to sneer at every aspect of the “redneck” way of life. In
addition to rationalizing policies that hold the working class male back
from advancement in the name of an amorphous past wrong from which he
himself did not benefit, the elites take great sport in debasing the man
they love to call “Joe Six-Pack.”*

This sounds like a speech from a different country. No public person
talks or writes like this, even the so-called extreme right-wing
conservatives.

*And what does “Joe Six Pack” make of this?*

*He sees a president and a slew of other key luminaries who excused
themselves from the dirty work of society when they were younger,
feeling not remorse but “vindication” for having left him or perhaps his
father to fight a war while they went on to graduate school and
solidifies careers.*

*He sees a governmental system that seems bent on belittling the basis
of his existence, and has established a set of laws and regulations that
often keep him from competing. His ever-more-isolated leaders have
mandated an “equal opportunity” bureaucracy in the military, government
and even industry that closely resembles the Soviet “political cadre”
structure, whose sole function is to report “political incorrectness”
and to encourage the promotion of literally everyone but him and his
kind.*

*He sees the meaning of words like “fairness” cynically inverted in the
name of “diversity,” while groups who claim to have been disadvantaged
by old practices, and even those who have only recently arrived in the
country, are immediately moved ahead of him for no reason other than his
race. In one of the bitterest ironies, he is required to pay tax dollars
to finance the special training for recent immigrants even as he himself
is held back from fair competition and the “equal opportunity”
bureaucracies keep him from receiving similar training, gaining
employment or securing a promotion.*

*He sees cultural rites buttressed by centuries of tradition –
particularly the right to use firearms and pass that skill to future
generations – attacked because many who make the laws do not understand
the difference between his way of life and that of criminals who are
blowing people away on the streets of urban America.*

*He watched the Democratic Party, once a champion of the
worker-producer, abandon him in favor of special interests who define
their advancement mostly through the extent of his own demise. To him
“diversity” is a code word used to exclude him – but seldom
better-situated whites no matter the extent of his qualifications and no
matter the obstacles he has had to overcome, The Republican Party, to
which he swung in the last election, has embraced him on certain social
issues, but has yet to support policies that would override the tendency
of elites to simply protect their own rather than reverse the travails
of affirmative action and the collapse of public education.*

*Out of the Casualty Radius*

*Finally, he sees the people who erected and continue to enforce such
injustices blatantly wheedling and maneuvering themselves and their
children out of the casualty radius of their own policies. A smaller
percentage of whites in academia and the professions is acceptable, so
long as their children make it. The public school system is
self-destructing, but their children go to private schools and receive
special preparatory classes to elevate college board scores.
International peacekeeping is a lofty goal, so long as their children
are not on the firing line. Continuous scrutiny is given to minority
percentages in employment, but little or none is applied to how or why
one white applicant was chosen over another.*

The Left likes to say the Right has gone way right while they have tried
to move to the center. Putting aside the lunacy of a linear political
landscape, this is 180 degrees out of phase with reality. In just two
decades the political class has gone from where Jim Webb was roughly
between both parties to a point where Jim Webb is a wacko. Imagine where
we will be in two more decades. Nancy Pelosi will be a right winger and
people will fondly recall the conservatism of Ted Kennedy.

 
