---
title: "The War on Reality"
date: "2014-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2750"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2750"
---

The near total control of American life by the Left is so thorough it
goes unnoticed. We just accept it, like background noise. Every once in
a while their slip shows like in <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/387736/islamic-state-really-not-islamic-jonah-goldberg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this column by Jonah
Goldberg</a>.

*About the second point reasonable people can quibble. The terrorist
army that calls itself the Islamic State is certainly trying to build a
state — and not just a state but a super state, or caliphate. They’re
not there yet; their delivery of social services seems spotty at best,
though they do collect taxes and uphold the law (in a fashion).*

*More relevant, it doesn’t really matter if it’s a state. Morally, this
weed stinks just as much whether you call it a state or a soccer league
that rapes, tortures, and murders people on the side. And legally,
statehood would matter — and not very much — only if the U.N. and other
bodies agreed to recognize the fledgling caliphate’s legitimacy. That’s
not going to happen even if the Islamic State opens up post offices and
DMVs on every corner.*

*Advertisement*  
*The president’s first assertion is trickier. Is the Islamic State “not
Islamic”? Moreover, is it really “clear” that it’s not Islamic?*

*Not even a little? Is it Islamic-ish?*

*If we’re talking clarity, I’d say the Islamic State is clearly not
Mormon. Or Lutheran. Or Buddhist. It most certainly is not the most
extreme example of Quakers gone bad ever recorded.*

*As for its not being Islamic, that’s at best unclear, if not just
clearly wrong. And the fact that the majority of its victims are Muslim
is irrelevant. Lenin and Stalin killed thousands of Communists and
socialists; that doesn’t mean Lenin and Stalin weren’t Communists and
socialists. If such terrorists who kill Muslims aren’t Muslims, why do
we give them Korans when we imprison them?*

*The president faces the same dilemma that bedeviled George W. Bush, and
I sympathize with him. It is not in our interest for the Muslim world to
think we are at war with Islam, not just because it is untrue but more
specifically because we desperately need the cooperation of Muslim
nations. That’s why Bush constantly proclaimed “Islam means peace.”*

That last paragraph is a strange bit of self-delusion or perhaps a
necessary lie. Jonah makes his money as a TV pundit. His role is to be
the nerdish conservative, like a part time character on <a
href="http://www.wired.com/2014/01/bazinga-the-problem-with-big-bang-theory/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Big Bang Theory</a>. His
character is allowed to say bad things about politicians and some of the
fads popular with the Left, but he must always be careful to bite the
hand that feeds him. Fumble a line about a touchy subject and his <a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CCAQFjAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FStruggle_session&amp;ei=pwATVInsDNCayASE1IDQCA&amp;usg=AFQjCNGzdp6pCasw76tMV_3r9SYD8AfXgg&amp;sig2=Jcb-jHn7Cjz4gGyoKgemMw&amp;bvm=bv.75097201,d.aWw"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">struggle session</a> is his
next TV appearance.

There’s also some chance he believes it. Take someone off the street,
drop them into Utah and there’s a good chance they eventually become a
Mormon. Jonah Goldberg is more than a toady for the Left. He is a
creation of the Left. He could very well believe we should not be at war
with Islam and that it is important Muslims not think we are waging war
on them, notwithstanding the 100,000 tons of ordinance we have dropped
on the Muslim world.

Reality, the thing that does not go away when you stop believing in it,
is nothing like Jonah imagines. Muslims have thought we were at war with
them for decades now, maybe even centuries. That’s why they’re pissed,
by the way. They are not fooled by the religion of peace nonsense.
Further, the only people who fear this truth are Americans, particularly
members of the Cult. Just as they cannot face their war on black people,
they cannot face this war on Islam. So, they pretend to care about and
respect a religion they personally detest.

Reality be damned.
