---
title: "Conservatarian Cooke-ness"
date: "2014-11-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3183"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3183"
---

When I was a young man, I used to hear old people say something along
the lines that young people would listen to each other, but never to
those older than them. The sign a young man was maturing was when he
sought out the advice of older people. This always seemed strange to me.
I knew young people were idiots, including myself. Taking advice from
any of them seemed like idiocy to me. I was young and dumb, but not
*that dumb*. If I needed help, I went and found an old guy.

As I’ve grown older, I’ve learned that I was way dumber than I realized
in my youth. While I was right to seek out information from older
people, I was not very good at figuring out which old people were worth
consulting. That comes with age and experience. As you get older, you
acquire your own knowledge, but you also get better at figuring out who
is worth listening to or reading. Number one on the list of people you
ignore is young people. God bless ‘em, but they don’t know anything and
they don’t know anyone who knows anything.

That all came to mind while reading [this post by Charles Alphabet
Cooke](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/392297/conservatarian-manifesto-charles-c-w-cooke)
on National Review. He is out with a book called the *Conservatarian
Manifesto*. From the post:

*The book is in part a look at the growing number of self-identified
“conservatarians” — those people whose worldview is broadly
right-leaning, but who are dissatisfied with the Republican party and
with much of libertarianism. I also make some suggestions as to how
conservatives can update their offering, propose a framework within
which their various constituents can once again co-exist, and take on
the notion that there is such a thing as a “social issue” per se. At the
book’s heart is a sustained defense of federalism and of a thriving and
diverse civil society.*

My first thought, was that Mr. Cooke is a little young to be offering up
a new political philosophy. Last week he was riding his Big Wheel around
the driveway. His writing has the feel of the college sophomore coming
home for Winter Solstice, lecturing the family about the real world.
Even when you agree with him you cringe a little.

Putting my mean spirited bigotry towards the young to the side, I was
reminded of when Rod Dreher went bonkers a decade ago and tried to build
a cult around breakfast cereal. His shtick was “granola conservatism”
otherwise known as “crunchy cons.” He defined these individuals as
traditionalist conservatives who believed in environmental conservation,
frugal living, and the preservation of traditional family values. They
also express skepticism about aspects of free market capitalism and they
are usually religious (typically traditionalist Roman Catholics or
conservative Protestants).

Of course, those of us who remembered when guys like Joe Sobran and Sam
Francis were writing for respectable publications knew that
conservatives were never capitalists nor prone to worship at the altar
of free markets. Dreher’s “new” flavor of conservatism was just the
original product with some of his own eccentric foibles sprinkled on
top. It’s why no one remembers “granola conservatism” or Rod Dreher. It
was the rantings of a young man in the sophomore stage of his life.

Cooke’s new brand of conservatism sounds just like libertarianism circa
1984. Thirty years ago libertarians were the guys who did not want to
fight the Left over issues like abortion and they thought guys like
Jerry Falwell were icky and gross. Libertarians famously broke with
Reagan over, wait for it, the war on drugs. I know, it sounds crazy, but
that was one of the main reasons Ron Paul gave for bolting the
Republican Party in the Reagan years.

Cooke’s proposed new cult is basically 1980’s libertarianism with less
of an emphasis on free weed. The obvious irrationality is the same we
see with libertarianism. If people are to be free to organize themselves
as they see fit, that means people will want their government to do a
lot of things libertarians find unpleasant. The only sort of human that
could live in a libertarian paradise is a person who detests his fellow
humans so much he refuses to have anything to do with them. Otherwise,
social creatures put rules on one another in order to facilitate
mutually beneficial relations. That scales up to what we know as
culture.

But, culture is tough intellectual ground to cover and most libertarians
are simply not bright enough to master the material. Young people like
Mr. Cooke have been marinated in Cultural Marxism since birth and that
means they have a Pavlovian response to anything that bumps into
culture. That response is to run and hide under the bed or, if they are
a true believer, scream at the heretic until he runs and hides under the
bed.

The only debates worth having in a civil society are cultural debates.
What kind of people we choose to be is the only thing we can leave to
the next generation. It is what they will stand upon as they decide how
they will order themselves and how they will choose to be remembered.
The reason these debates get so ugly and nasty is because they are so
important. No one gives a crap about tax policy enough to lose a friend
over it. People care about the culture and they are willing to fight
over it, unless they are a conservatarian, I guess.
