---
title: "Out Amongst The Exiles"
date: "2014-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2005"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2005"
---

Mark Steyn has a post on his site about <a
href="https://www.steynonline.com/6403/im-gonna-quash-that-mann-right-out-of-my-hair"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">his fight</a> with the
litigious climate fabulist Michael Mann. Most people in the commentariat
would never risk their position in such a fight, but that appears to be
what Steyn is doing. He had a prominent spot at National Review and a
syndicated column. He has a contract with Rush Limbaugh. He was doing
TV, but maybe that is no so anymore. The point being that he had a bunch
of good revenue streams going until he took a stand against Michael
Mann.

It appears that Steyn has tossed a lot away in order to fight this
lawsuit. No matter how you feel about the guy, you have to admire the
guy for his guts. There’s a long list of guys who have refused to go
along and found themselves in exiled. Steyn is an international
character with a lot of revenue sources so he is doing fine, but, it is
not easy to face the wife and tell her to stretch the budget until
things blow over. It’s even harder when you have kids.

Steyn is the most famous case and probably the least harmed. Steve
Sailer paid a heavy price for sticking to his guns. Sailer years used to
turn up in top-line publications like National Review. That was a long
time ago. He also wrote for the Associated Press at one point and other
prestigious journals. For the crime of not going along with the latest
fads, he lost all of those gigs. As with Steyn, you have to admire a guy
who would rather be right than a well aid liar.

Of course, all of the people writing for VDare and Taki are forever
off-limits now for mainstream publications. That means the money will
always be scarce. For guys like John Derbyshire, sent into exile last
year, it probably does not matter much. He’s made his money and lived
his life. In his dotage, he can afford to not care what the beautiful
people think. The others have wives and families and that means bills to
pay, appearances to keep up and all that comes with it.

Exile is a real fear among the chattering classes. Mention a proscribed
person or publication around someone from Conservative Inc. and they
will break out in hives and race from the room. A guy like Jonah
Goldberg can pretend to be an edgy guy, but in reality he studies the
rules every morning to make sure he is no where near the edge of what is
acceptable. In fact, he has his snout in the air to make sure he knows
what will be against the rules a year from now. He’s nowhere near that
edge.

The fear is well founded. No one ever makes it back from exile. Joe
Sobran and Sam Francis were great polemicists, yet they were never
rehabilitated. They were the sort of gifted writers who made dangerous
arguments fun to read. Maybe that’s what made them so dangerous. If
great writers never make it back from the gulag, the lesser talents have
no chance. That’s why the people in charge make examples of famous and
talented people. These example frighten the mediocre.

Another side to this is what happens to former snitches who then find
themselves in trouble with the rulers. Dinesh D’Souza was the guy who
put the shiv in the back of Sam Francis two decades ago. It was his
report of Francis at American Renaissance that got Francis fired from
the Washington Times. Now, D’Souza is facing jail time and reaching out
to his friends on the right to save him. With any luck, the Obama
administration will find a way to send him to the electric chair.

Some people think the ground is about to shift. There are so many people
on the fringe now, it is getting crowded. The internet makes it easier
for these people to work together and build a new audience. We live in
interesting times. No one seems to think the current arrangements hold
much longer and no one can agree on what comes next, other than it won’t
be more of the same. Maybe what comes next is the exiles come home from
exile. Maybe they find a way to kick people off the internet.

That’s probably what comes next. The Left is ruthless and devoid of
compassion. They will not be satisfied with people making a go of it
on-line. They will find a way to punish those who permit them to operate
on their platforms. They just need an example that is so egregious that
they can justify the extraordinary measures. A decade from now, the same
policing we see on mainstream platforms will be common on-line. Being
exile will mean being silenced in every way imaginable.
