---
title: "I Thought That Was Racist"
date: "2014-10-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2923"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2923"
---

Chris Mathews, like many on the Left, went insane during the Bush years
and never recovered. Instead of getting proper medical care, he was
given a TV show. Despite living in the only whites-only town in the
Baltimore – Washington area, he has spent the last six years lecturing
us about race. His central claim is that all mention of Obama outside
the Left is motivated by race. Now, <a
href="http://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2014/10/01/chris_matthews_obama_getting_intellectually_lazy_atrophied_by_people_like_valerie_jarrett_michelle_obama.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mathews is calling Obama</a> a shuffling,
well, he’s calling him lazy. I’ll leave it at that.

*CHRIS MATTHEWS: Let’s get tough here. Is this the problem of a second
term that presidents get lazy, intellectually lazy, and cut off from the
country and they start picking deputies for jobs instead of looking for
the best people? The lazy thing to do is somebody leaves, you promote
their deputy. This is, I think, part of the endemic problem of second
terms. They don’t go out and mix with people, find new people, new
hotshots to fill these jobs. They just keep promoting the person whose
turn it is and they’re not as good as the person they picked the first
time…*

*MATTHEWS: And before you get me accusing this president of being
physically lazy. I think there is a social kind of laziness. Refusing to
reach out and meet a lot new people and check a lot of possibilities.
Don’t just go with the next person in line. And I really think this
second term cabinet is not up to the first term cabinet because they
never are. And you know that, Roger. They just never are.*

*Kennedy went out and met people like \[Robert\] McNamara and \[Dean\]
Rusk and he went looking for them and he put them into the best slots he
could. And he talked them into it, he recruited people he didn’t even
know \[and\] he recruited them. Presidents should go out and look for
people. They should be practicing affirmative action all the time in
leading or else they get atrophied into that little world of people like
Valerie \[Jarrett\] and Mrs. Obama and you’re just listening to the same
voices all the time.*

*I know it is a rigorous demand but it’s a real one. Or else you’re
going to get smaller as your presidency goes on and therefore more
vulnerable to surprises.*

The hilarious thing about the Left’s elevation of Obama to the top spot
is how little they know about the man. In his two autobiographies, he
went on at length about being lazy. He has said this in interviews. He
has gone into detail about how he gets bored with all sorts of things
like showing up for work and listening to advisors. Yet, the Left is
always surprised that Obama is what he says he is. it’s almost as if
they really don’t care about Obama the man and just see the black guy.
Like they can’t get past his skin color…
