---
title: "Bush Versus Clinton II, The Final Reckoning"
date: "2014-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1645"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1645"
---

Just as the Clinton Crime Family plots its course for 2016, the Bush
clan is plotting to install another member on the thrown. Jeb Bush is
the next in line. He was groomed to be the 2000 candidate, but he was
too much of a pussy to do it so his retarded brother ran and the rest
was history. Jeb has been making sure he stays in the news while his
people plant stories like <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/02/us/politics/jeb-bushs-2016-flirtations-test-loyalty-of-christie-backers.html?hp&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this one</a> in the media.

*Jeb Bush’s increasingly serious and public examination of a run for
president has shaken the ranks of establishment Republican donors and
fund-raisers who had planned to back Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey
in 2016, forcing many of them to rethink their allegiance to [the
embattled
governor](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/11/nyregion/hundreds-of-pages-on-bridge-scandal-released.html "Times article").*

*In private conversations that are now seeping into public view, some of
them are signaling to Mr. Christie’s camp that, should Mr. Bush enter
the race, their first loyalty would be to him, not to Mr. Christie,
according to interviews with more than two dozen of them.*

*Many of those who, because of geography and personal ties, were
expected to line up behind Mr. Christie say they now feel torn. And it
is clear that Mr. Christie’s recent troubles, especially the George
Washington Bridge scandal, are adding to the allure of Mr. Bush, a
former Florida governor.*

*Lawrence E. Bathgate II, a former finance chairman of the Republican
National Committee and a major donor in New Jersey, said he dreaded the
prospect of having to choose between the two men, calling it “a fraught
decision.”*

*David V. Hedley, a former Wall Street executive and Republican
fund-raiser in New Jersey, said he also felt tugged in two directions,
conceding that “it’s tough right now for me.”*

*And Christine Todd Whitman, [a former Republican governor of New
Jersey](http://www.nytimes.com/1997/11/05/nyregion/woman-in-the-news-christine-todd-whitman-just-in-time-a-listener.html "Times article"),
put it this way: “It would be awkward. It would be very awkward.”*

*Nowhere is the consternation greater than among the hundreds of top
donors and so-called bundlers who cut their teeth on Bush family
political campaigns. If Mr. Bush runs, they must choose between bucking
their ties to the first family of Republican politics or turning their
back on Mr. Christie, who does not take well to disloyalty.*

*“Those of us that have been dedicated to the Bush family for years
would obviously have to take a Jeb candidacy into extremely serious
consideration,” said Fred S. Zeidman, a Texas businessman and top
fund-raiser for George W. Bush’s two presidential campaigns who has
helped introduce Mr. Christie to potential supporters in his state.*

*Mr. Christie and Mr. Bush have not officially declared their intentions
for 2016. Mr. Christie’s advisers say his political focus this year
remains on leading the [Republican Governors
Association](http://www.rga.org/homepage/ "The association’s website"),
which has broken fund-raising records during Mr. Christie’s tenure as
chairman, which began in November.*

*The presidential chatter is “irrelevant to us,” said William J.
Palatucci, Mr. Christie’s top adviser and a former law partner. “You
know it’s out there, but it’s just not part of our conversation.”*

*Mr. Bush’s public flirtation with a White House bid, however, has
interrupted Mr. Christie’s carefully honed plan to rebuild the faith of
donors shaken by a series of high-profile controversies and resignations
within his administration.*

The language used there is interesting The Left always describes
Republicans as if they are a Bond villain. They all but described him as
being in a secret lair. In reality, the typical Republican is a house
trained toady. Then you have their bizarre obsession with traffic, which
no one outside of the Left thinks is important. The NYTimes has spent
more time on a traffic jam than Obama’s abuse of the IRS or Obama’s
decision to let Americans die in a terror attack. That’s the nature of
cults.

For decades now, the GOP has been trying to turn itself into the
Democratic party circa 1985. They are convinced that will win back the
areas around coastal cities. So far, it has only angered the Left, which
sees that as a threat. It turns off normal Americans who increasing see
both parties as a collection of snobs. But, the rich people run both
parties and they like being seen as elitist snobs so here we are with
potentially two old re-runs from a bygone era running for President.

Clinton will be the nominee, but no one will be thrilled. She angered
the hard core fanatics back in the 1990’s and never went through the
proper self-criticism sessions as part of their rehabilitation ritual.
It’s what gave Obama the opening. The Democrats have nominated some
hilarious losers, but a maladroit clodhopper like Obama normally would
have been just a sideshow. Hatred of Hillary gave Obama a stage. It is
hard to see the Left warming to crooked Hillary.

That said, the GOP is a party without a purpose. The institutions that
are supposed to provide the ideas for the party are husks of their
former selves. They have not produced a single new policy in decades.
Instead it is a broken record of tax schemes and bellicose
pronouncements about the fringes of the empire. The only reason they
remain in business is the Democrats look like the day room at the local
asylum. Buch versus Clinton would show both sides are worthless.
