---
title: "You Don’t Matter"
date: "2014-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2466"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2466"
---

So, you think your vote counts. You’ve been one of those guys lecturing
us for years about voting for the most rightward leaning viable
candidate. Anyone voting for a third party was just voting for the bad
guys, by taking a vote away from the viable alternative, always a
Republican, of course. Maybe you write checks to the GOP or volunteer to
work for a local candidate. You really think it matters. If you just
keep trying, things will turn and the pols will pass the right measures.

<a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2014/08/12/Study-You-Have-Near-Zero-Impact-on-U-S-Policy"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Well, you’re an idiot.</a>

*A startling new political science study concludes that corporate
interests and mega wealthy individuals control U.S. policy to such a
degree that “the preferences of the average American appear to have only
a minuscule, near-zero, statistically non-significant impact upon public
policy.”*

*The startling study, titled “Testing Theories of American Politics:
Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens,” is slated to appear in
an upcoming issue of Perspectives on Politics and was authored by
Princeton University Professor Martin Gilens and Northwestern University
Professor Benjamin Page. An early draft can be found here.*

*Noted American University Historian Allan J. Lichtman, who highlighted
the piece in a Tuesday article published in The Hill, calls Gilens and
Page’s research “shattering” and says their scholarship “should be a
loud wake-up call to the vast majority of Americans who are bypassed by
their government.”*

*The statistical research looked at public attitudes on nearly 1,800
policy issues and determined that government almost always ignores the
opinions of average citizens and adopts the policy preferences of monied
business interests when shaping the contours of U.S. laws.*

*The study’s findings align with recent trends, where corporate elites
have aggressively pursued pro-amnesty policies despite the fact that,
according to the most recent Reuters poll, 70% of Americans believe
illegal immigrants “threaten traditional U.S. beliefs and customs,” and
63% believe “immigrants place a burden on the economy.”*

*The solution, say the scholars, is a reinvigorated and engaged
electorate.*

*“If policymaking is dominated by powerful business organizations and a
small number of affluent Americans, then America’s claims to being a
democratic society are seriously threatened,” conclude Gilens and Page.*

The word ‘democracy” does not mean what people think it means. Instead,
it is used to mean the people picking between the options the rulers
offered them. When Muslims vote for Sharia, no one celebrates democracy
in action. When the extremist right wing extremists of the most extreme
kind win an election, we hear that democracy is under assault. These
days, democracy is about the result and not the process.

But, that’s just another example of the idiocy of our age. Democracy is
a process and a shabby one. One reason our government has grown
increasingly corrupt over the last century is we have *more* democracy,
not less. In 1914, Senators were still selected by their state’s
legislatures. Blacks and women were wisely barred from voting in many
states. The poor and the stupid were discouraged from voting. Like or
not, you had a better class of voter 100 years ago.

That’s why the average voter counted for much more than it does today.
The typical Congressman knew he was being judged by a reasonably
intelligent electorate. There were plenty of dopes, but the ratios made
it hard to fool the majority most of the time, so they had to be more
clever at foolling the people. Today, cobbling together a majority of
mental midgets is too easy.

Even if the people were geniuses, democracy is no way to run a country.
It works fine in the town and village. It may even work fine in a city
or county. Once you get to the state level it starts to fall apart,
which is why state’s have legislatures, constitutions and governors. At
the national level it becomes a beauty contest. Obama beat Clinton
because young and charming beats old and cranky. Obama beat McCain
because young and charming beats old and cranky. Plus, it was his team’s
turn.

Even a nitwit can figure out if his local school is running properly. He
can see if the roads are paved and the sidewalks are in good condition.
He can figure this stuff out and place the praise or blame on the person
responsible, when there is a person responsible for it, like dictator or
prince. At the small scale, the mayor or county executive can be blamed.
If the mayor or town council ignores the people, the people can go to
their house and beat the hell out of them.

It is not perfect. Nothing is, but the irony of democracy is the
government becomes less responsive to the people in the areas most
important. Instead, the state becomes obsessed by obscure things like
equality or dignity. You keep voting for different people and they keep
doing the same things, because that’s just how it works. The people
really in charge are beyond the reach of democracy.
