---
title: "War on White People"
date: "2014-08-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2405"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2405"
---

<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/white-voters-still-allowed-to-vote/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer</a> often makes
the point that the Democrat coalition is held together by a transcendent
hatred of white males. Women, blacks, Hispanics and the six gay guys who
bother to vote have one thing in common and that is they think the pale
penis people need to be taught a lesson. Specifically:

*Another aspect to consider is the inherent fractiousness of the
Democrats’ Coalition of the Fringes: the lesbian-feminists are mad at
the suddenly all-important she-males, the Muslims are mad at the Jews
over the Middle East, the Asians are mad at the Hispanics over U. of
California quotas, the NAMs are mad at the SWPLs for gentrifying them
out to the sticks, Hollywood is worried that soon they’ll have to
release statistics about their lack of diversity just like Silicon
Valley has had too, and so forth and so on.*

*How can this coalition be kept together? Simple. By getting all the
Fringes to unite in hating straight cis-gendered Christian old white
uncool men (add as many qualifying adjectives as needed).*

The question is whether it can hold together. Charles Murray thinks it
will blow apart and the result will be a tribal culture of some sort.
What that is, exactly, is debatable. <a
href="http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/214245-republican-accuses-dems-of-launching-war-on-whites-in-border"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from The Hill
tells me it is coming at us quickly.

*Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) on Monday accused Democrats of engaging in a
“war on whites” in the current immigration debate.*

*On conservative radio host Laura Ingraham’s show, Brooks dismissed the
idea that the more conservative GOP bloc’s position on immigration is
hurting his own party.*

*“This is a part of the war on whites that’s being launched by the
Democratic Party. And the way in which they’re launching this war is by
claiming that whites hate everybody else,” he said during the
[interview](http://www.lauraingraham.com/pg/jsp/charts/streamingAudioMaster.jsp?dispid=302&headerDest=L3BnL2pzcC9tZWRpYS9mbGFzaHdlbGNvbWUuanNwP3BpZD0xOTA0Nw==).
“It’s a part of the strategy that Barack Obama implemented in 2008,
continued in 2012, where he divides us all on race, on sex, greed, envy,
class warfare, all those kinds of things. Well that’s not true.”*

A sitting Congressman talking like this is a big deal. It has been
decades since anyone in the political class has been willing to say
anything about race outside of the old chestnuts approved by our
cultural masters.

*On “Fox News Sunday,” National Journal’s editorial director, Ron
Fournier, suggested the Hispanic community is becoming increasingly
disenchanted with Republicans.*

*“This party, your party, cannot be the party of the future beyond
November if you’re seen as the party of white people,” said Fournier,
whom Ingraham described as being part of the “lame-stream media.”*

I keep wondering if these experts are crazy, stupid or just
pathological. Hispanics are not a big part of the vote. They tend not to
vote in general and they have never voted in big numbers for
Republicans. As a practical matter, the GOP is wise to limit the influx
of Hispanics. That’s good politics and smart politics. Yet, experts keep
yapping about the need for Republicans to chase Hispanic votes.

*Brooks said recent polls indicate every demographic group agrees that
the rule of law should be enforced and border security must be
improved.*

*“It doesn’t make any difference if you’re a white American, a black
American, a Hispanic-American, an Asian-American or if you’re a woman or
a man. Every single demographic group is hurt by falling wages and lost
jobs,” Brooks said.*

All of the polling also shows that Hispanics are not fond of illegal
immigration and favor cutting back on legal immigration. They suffer
from none of the madness that has gripped the political class. They know
what mass immigration means for them and they are not enthusiastic about
recreating Tijuana in their new homeland.

*“Democrats, they have to demagogue on this and try and turn it into a
racial issue, which is an emotional issue, rather than a thoughtful
issue,” he added. “If it becomes a thoughtful issue, then we win and we
win big. And they lose and they lose big. ”*

*Brooks accused Democrats of playing a “political game” and Ingraham
said they’re “playing the race card.”*

This is the first time I think I’ve heard a GOP official take this
approach. I have never understood why the GOP tries to do battle with
the Left on their terms. Immigration should be as exciting as zoning
issues. How many do we want and how do we process them? That’s it. But,
it strikes me as being way too late in the day for any of it to matter.
The future is going to be very unpleasant.
