---
title: "Old Books"
date: "2014-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=845"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=845"
---

I’m reading an 80 year old copy of [J.B.S.
Haldane’s](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._B._S._Haldane) *The
Inequality of Man*, which is one of those books that still has some
relevance to this age. Every so often, Haldane gets some mention, as in
the case of Richard Dawkins in the 1970’s. Like a lot of smart white
guys from the past, his ideas are now heretical, so few dare mention him
or his ideas. HBD’ers will reference him from time to time, but
otherwise he is slowly being forgotten.

My copy is a worn old copy that is a few years from falling to pieces. I
don’t know where I got it, but I figured I should read it before it
falls to dust. As I’m reading bits of the page’s edge falls away,
creating a natural bookmark. Even though it is 80 years old and written
by an upper class Brit, the book reads easier than most modern stuff.
The old British academics really knew how to use the language to reach a
broad audience.

There’s a great value, I think, to reading old books in science and
social commentary. One of the things that jumps off the page right from
the start is just how fresh much of his discussion of population
differences seems today. I recently re-read *The Money Game* by [Adam
Smith](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Goodman). You would think a
book about Wall Street written in the 1960’s would seem ridiculous
today. Instead, it was as fresh as anything written today.

His treatment of computers and markets (keep in mind that computers were
rarities in the 1960’s) was strikingly prescient. The lesson you take
away is the money game, the world of finance, has not changed much at
all in fifty years. The point of the book, is it had not changed much in
the previous fifty years. Reading stories about scams run by big banks
on the 1920’s, that are just like those run today, is a bit jarring in a
good way.

That’s one reason why I think it is wise to read old books from time to
time. It is a good reminder that the world has not changed very much. By
old books, I don’t just mean classics. A well-read man should have read
the [Western Canon](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_canon). I mean
old books that were popular in their day, but are not included as
classics of Western thought. It’s like going back in time and learning
about common sense all over again.

Of course, this why the Left locks up history into a trunk and buries it
in the backyard. Constant reminders that human relations have not
changed very much makes the idea of Marxist Man ridiculous even to the
most gullible. If the nature of man is transcendent and rooted in his
biology, Marxist Man is an impossibility. Then you have the fact that
the ideas current with modern radicals are just recycled from past
radicals.

Reading about people 100 years ago making the same claims people are
making today is satisfying until you learn they failed disastrously.
That is going to take the wind out of the sails of even the most
dedicated. “This time things will be different” can only take you so
far. Those promised benefits of some form of socialism sound less
compelling when you read the same claims made fifty years ago.

That said, there’s a service to the stable minded too. Haldane was one
of the first population geneticists. He was also a Marxist. On the one
hand, he offers up respectable and rational ideas about population
genetics. On the other hand, he claims Soviet communism is a great
success and will work in the long run. Incredibly, he claims the Soviets
had, at the time of his writing, made no attempt to socialize
agriculture.

At the time, the Soviets were brutally collectivizing the peasants,
killing millions in the process. It is also during the
[*Holodomer*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holodomor), which a British
intellectual of his stature surely heard some rumors. He may not have
known the details, but the rumors were everywhere. The point here is
that brilliant people are capable of believing outrageously insane
things. Reading old books on social commentary is a great reminder of
that.

What I’m enjoying about Haldane is something HBD chick touches on in
[this blog
post](http://hbdchick.wordpress.com/2014/01/26/you-and-me-and-hbd/).
Population genetics and eugenics are separate things. The modern critics
of HBD immediately throw out the eugenics card. Of course, they quickly
jump to Hitler the holocaust, tying population genetics to mass murder.
It’s a tactic aimed at shutting down any discussion of the subject by
making it immoral on its face.

Haldane goes to great lengths explaining why the eugenicists are wildly
mistaken on the science of genetics. What we know now and what he could
not know then, is what the Left would do with these ideas. The modern
Left’s assault on HBD has little to do with science and everything to do
with history. The heroes of the American Left were eugenics promoters.
[Margaret Sanger](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margaret_Sanger), the
founder of Planned Parenthood, was a eugenicist, who wanted to sterilize
the unfit.

That’s an obvious example, but the Progressive Era is full of them.
Sterilization campaigns were a regular feature of the American Left from
the beginning. The language changed, but the underlying justification
remained. Programs launched by liberals in the 60’s and 70’s aimed at
reducing birth rates in black ghettos were just thinly veiled eugenics
programs. Of course, it is hard to be the friend of the black man if you
have been systematically trying to snuff them out.

In contrast, the HBD folks, for the most part, don’t try to tease
morality or public policy from the science of population genetics. There
are exceptions and abuse, but the folks dedicated to the science don’t
care about the politics. The reason is an example Haldane uses. Atoms do
not act in predictable ways. Instead, they act in a number of ways with
differing degrees of probability. Rolled up into a bar of steel,
however, the mathematics presents an object to us that acts predictably
and seemingly consistently.

One last thing on reading old books. There’s a valuable lesson in the
wrongness of their certainty. One of my few criticism of John Derbyshire
is his blind spot to the error rates of science. The history of science
is the history of error. Reading Haldane’s ideas on cancer and what
comes next for the treatment of the disease is cringe inducing. His
description of blacks in America and their likely future is hilariously
anachronistic.

The point is Haldane was brilliant and empirically minded, but he and
his contemporaries were wrong about a great many things. Those who came
after them made their careers proving them wrong. Those who come after
us will do us the same favor. Therefore, it is wise to keep open the
possibility that what we think we know now is all wrong. That does not
mean there is no truth, just that humans are prone to error.
