---
title: "One Reader Writes"
date: "2014-01-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-01-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=806"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=806"
---

I got the following from a reader and I thought it would make a good
post. There’s a lot here, so it should probably be two post topics.

*This comment would probably be better suited for an email, but alas, I
can not find any good way to contact you. I find your views intriguing,
brilliant, and sometimes insane.*

*What is curious to me is that you seem to have all the foundations of a
free and empirically minded thinker but also possess some egregiously
incorrect views. Further, in much of your writing you tout a freedom
from group-think and the cultish mentality which most of humanity takes
up over some particular dogma or another. For this reason, I rather
enjoy and respect much of your work here.*

*I fancy myself a similar sort of thinker, and often blast people of all
different sorts of ideologies in a manner not unlike your work in this
blog. I find it strange that you and I can disagree on so much when we
appear to be coming from the same sort of epistemological framework. I’d
wager that you have a good deal more raw knowledge than me, both of the
historic and political types, so I’m willing to be charitable to your
views and try to learn from them.*

*With that concession, it’s hard to imagine how you have come to some of
your beliefs. You appear to have a great faith in evolutionary
psychology, especially as it pertains to gender roles. But I am highly
skeptical of this very new field of science; very little of what I’ve
read has been grounded in good empirical work.*

*Further, you are against Gay-marriage. Being charitable, I suspect you
mean to say something like: marriage is state-recognized for the sole
purpose of promoting fertility, which gay people necessarily cannot
participate in, therefore, it does not make sense for gay marriage to be
state recognized. Would I be correct in saying this? Or do you think gay
couples should be deprived other rights which heterosexual couples
enjoy, such as hospital visitation rights and adoption?*

*In general, I’d like you to expound on your view on evolutionary
psychology, gender roles, and homosexuality. You are of course free to
tell me to fuck off. But I’ve read 25 pages of this blog and feel
unsatisfied with your exposition on these topics, so it’d be great if
you could indulge me a bit.*

As far as my views, I would never claim to have an organized and well
thought out philosophy on anything. Frankly, I’m suspicious of anyone
who does. The world, at least from the perspective of any one man, is a
tiny clearing in the wood. Human intellectual history is the expansion
and contraction of that bit of clearing. It is impossible for any one
man to know all that is known. The sum of human knowledge is a tiny
subset of what can be known. Therefore, any one man can only know a tiny
bit of what can be known and, worse yet, is wholly ignorant about what
he does not know.

Now, presented with the facts as described above, spending time building
a grand unifying theory to explain what I know seems like a waste of
time. If someone were to come forward and offer me a big fat sack of
money to come up with a grand unifying theory of everything, then I’ll
be glad to do it. That’s not happening so I don’t waste my time on
inventing a new philosophy. I take in as much new knowledge as my
genetic code permits and wedge it in with the other stuff. I’m like a
hoarder or junk collector.

Now, to the evolutionary sciences. John Derbyshire said it best.
Evolution is the best explanation for the fossil record. It is flexible
enough to absorb new data. It can be adapted to include the new data
without invalidating other data we know to be true. It allows science to
further explore and catalog the fossil record and now the genetic
record, as well as hunt for new information. Understanding our nature is
the first step toward creating a new way of looking at human
organization and Western politics.

Unlike John, I’d leave open the possibility that some new, better theory
could come along and make evolution sound like witchcraft. The history
of science, is the history of mistakes, but natural selection, genetic
drift, sexual selection and gene mutation are unlikely to be replaced
with a new idea. Still, you always have to leave open the possibility
that what we think is certain is not more certain than the superstitions
popular with our ancestors. We may be closer to the caveman than we like
to think.

As to “gay marriage,” I’m neither for nor against it in the same way I’m
neither for nor against Santa Claus or flying carpets. One cannot be
opposed to something that does not exist and by definition, homosexual
marriage is impossible. This is not just biological pedantry, but a fact
of our cultural and moral history. To pretend that two men sharing rent
and a bed is the same as your mother and father having and raising
children is the nullification of human civilization. It is the claim
that there is no truth, just argument.

Reality is that which does not go away when you stop believing in it.
Biology and physics are two good examples. These nuts can believe they
are sexless
<a href="http://www.paoweb.com/starseed.htm" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">starseeds</a> but biology does not bend to wishful
thinking. Humans come in two sexes. This is a matter of genetics. New
humans come from a human of each sex mating thus creating a new human
that is the result of their *marriage*. Long before the legal and
religious meanings, the biological meaning was plainly obvious to
humans. It’s why gay marriage never existed.

This is something humans knew since the dawn of time. Marriage without
reproduction is impossible. Two guys or three gals can certainly have
sex. They can contract with one another over property ownership. They
can play house. They cannot reproduce with one another to create new
humans.  It is as irrational as insisting dogs and horses are the same
species. They may have many things in common, but they cannot mate and
produce off-spring, which by definition makes them of different
species.  Yet, we have lunatics in our midst who rail against
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speciesism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">speciesism</a>.

Now, every society has useful lies it tells itself to lubricate daily
life. Americans tell themselves that all men are created equal. This is
most certainly not true, but it helps grease the wheels. Pretending Bob
and Bill are married is not going to unravel civilization, but, that’s
not what this is about and the numbers make it clear. Homosexuals are
not that interested in marriage. As the
<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/29/us/29sfmetro.html?_r=1&amp;"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">New York Times admits</a>,
“monogamy is not a central feature of gay couples.” No, the real goal
here is the progressive assault on normalcy.

As far as homosexuals, biology and the role of the sexes, I don’t think
you need stray too far from biology. Men and women are different in our
primary, secondary and tertiary characteristics. Men have different
reproductive strategies than women for obvious biological reasons. This
naturally leads to a a whole list of secondary and tertiary traits that
would evolve differently in support of reproductive and survival
strategies. As the old paleocon saying goes, men will trade safety for
sex and women will trade sex for safety.

How do homosexuals fit into this? That’s a mystery. No one really knows
what causes homosexuality, but it does appear to be natural. Genetics
has failed to find the “gay gene” and logic says such a gene would not
exist. Homosexuals would reproduce at far lower rates and the trait
would soon die out. There are some theories about conditions in the womb
or perhaps a combination of genes that when exposed to certain
conditions in the womb result in a gay child. No one knows, but gay
exist and there is a cause.

The bottom line with homosexuals is that they have been a feature of
human society since the dawn of time. In the West, homosexuality was
politely ignored with fits of persecution from time to time. In America,
homosexuals were expected to keep their sex lives private and the rest
of us were expected to leave them alone. Despite claims to the contrary,
there’s no evidence of wholesale, systematic persecution of homosexuals.
The natural order her is benign neglect and agreeing to not talk about
it.
