---
title: "The Stupids"
date: "2014-11-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3181"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3181"
---

I read Jim Geraghty every day mostly for laughs. He is a middle-brow
Republican toady and C-List talking head. National Review gives him a
space to talk campaign gossip, because they think people care about it.
Predictably, he had <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/campaign-spot/392235/gops-limited-ability-win-over-those-who-vote-libertarian-jim-geraghty#comments"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a post yesterday</a> denying the obvious
in Virginia. That is the presence of a Libertarian straw probably cost
The Stupid Party a seat.

*The “Libertarians, without a candidate of their own, would otherwise
vote for Republicans” theory is not so sound, and it’s not a factor
Republicans should base a strategy on.*

*Those willing to vote Libertarian — as opposed to those who describe
themselves as libertarian or having some libertarian views — are usually
deeply attached to policy positions that are still pretty unpopular to
Republicans as a whole — oftentimes (though not always) a
quasi-isolationist or outright isolationist foreign policy, drug
legalization (often well beyond marijuana), and gay marriage. Many (but
not all) Libertarians oppose restrictions on abortion, habitually offer
long diatribes about the Federal Reserve and the Gold Standard, and in
some quarters, an inability to discuss U.S. foreign policy regarding
Israel without lapsing into conspiracy theories and uglier sentiments.*

Ah yes. Those people voting for third parties are “ugly” and we don’t
want anything to do with them anyway. While it is true that most
Libertarians are bat-shit crazy, most who vote for these guys just find
the main party options too odious to support. The GOP had a chance to
win in Virginia, but demanded that the candidate be a long time bagman
with a long history of helping Democrats win policy debates. Asking
conservative-leaning voters to support that flaming bag of poop is
asking a lot.

*What’s more, a lot of self-identified Libertarians see their policy
differences with Republicans as key to their political identity;
otherwise, they would be Republicans. To many Libertarians, the
difference with Republicans is the point.*

*Nor is there much evidence that Libertarians fear that their vote will
elect a Democrat. For all of of the alleged or potential flaws of voters
who choose Libertarian-party candidates, they’re usually not stupid.
They know their guy is in the single digits in the polls. They’re not
voting in order to vote for a winner, and hearing Republicans complain
that the Libertarian cost them the victory doesn’t make them feel guilty
or a sense of regret. They may feel a bit of vindication in that
result.*

Why would anyone think Gillespie is different from Warner? Hod carriers
like Geraghty imagine a world where placement of the 75th comma on page
1,822 of the 3,500 omnibus spending measure that grows the state by 10%
a year in perpetuity is a battle worth waging. To people who would like
to see one year in their lifetime where government actually shrinks in
real dollars tend to think those fights are just a giant circle-jerk for
the benefit of the hack-a-rama.

I take a back seat to no man in my condemnation of Libertarians. I think
they are as nutty as Progressives. But, they vote their interests and
that’s not something most conservatives can say these days. If you vote
and you’re not a Liberal, you are either voting for a guy who honestly
wants to murder you or the guy who wants to help him, but would like to
be on good terms with you until the right moment.
