---
title: "Nixon In Black Face"
date: "2014-06-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-06-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2069"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2069"
---

<a
href="http://www.politico.com/story/2014/06/irs-lois-lerner-emails-108044.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is the flashing red
headline</a> on Drudge this morning. First we were told there was a
mysterious glitch in the IRS network that resulted in the loss of only
the e-mails under subpoena. Now we are being told that the IRS is the
only organization on the planet that does not backup its e-mail system.
Instead, they rely on users to take care of that on their own, along
with securing their own government issued laptops.

It was a very long time ago, so no one is supposed to think about it
anymore, but Richard Nixon was run out of office for exactly this sort
of thing. In fact, Nixon was chased off for talking about it. He did not
actually have the IRS out harassing political opponents. it is not even
clear if he talked about or simply allowed his people to discuss it in
his presence. The mere hint of it was enough. Now, Magic Black Man can
actually have the IRS harassing people and it is no problem.

This is from the
<a href="http://watergate.info/impeachment/articles-of-impeachment"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">articles of impeachment</a>
for Mr. Nixon, way back in the disco era.

*Article \#2 Section \#1:*

*He has, acting personally and through his subordinates and agents,
endeavoured to obtain from the Internal Revenue Service, in violation of
the constitutional rights of citizens, confidential information
contained in income tax returns for purposed not authorized by law, and
to cause, in violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, income
tax audits or other income tax investigations to be intitiated or
conducted in a discriminatory manner.*

*He misused the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Secret Service, and
other executive personnel, in violation or disregard of the
constitutional rights of citizens, by directing or authorizing such
agencies or personnel to conduct or continue electronic surveillance or
other investigations for purposes unrelated to national security, the
enforcement of laws, or any other lawful function of his office; he did
direct, authorize, or permit the use of information obtained thereby for
purposes unrelated to national security, the enforcement of laws, or any
other lawful function of his office; and he did direct the concealment
of certain records made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of
electronic surveillance.*

The whole sorry episode has been washed down the drain of history, but
the IRS stuff was probably the most outrageous at the time. The
Watergate break-in was a big deal, but it was clear Nixon did not know
about it before it happened. It was not all that clear he knew about it
before it became a big deal in he press. It is where we get the
expression, “It is not the crime, it is the cover-up.”

At the time, the stuff that truly offended the people as well as the
political class was the *potential* misuse of the IRS and FBI. It is not
all that clear Nixon ever ordered anything of the sort. It is less clear
that anyone else seriously tried to use the IRS as a political weapon.
We now know that the FBI was corrupt in ways independent of Nixon so
that’s a different story. Hoover created a monster that has never truly
been tamed.

The FBI had been out of control for decades, but the IRS appears to have
been fairly clean. You’re always going to have some level of corruption.
When you’re dealing with sensitive data like taxes, petty abuse is
inevitable. What led to including the IRS in the articles of impeachment
was the mere suggestion of using the IRS for political purposes. The
worst you can say about Nixon and the IRS is he *would* have abused it
if it were a different organization.

That’s what makes this story so outrageous. This administration appears
to have turned the IRS into an organization that can and was used as a
political weapon. In other words, Team Obama went well past anything
Nixon imagined. They have corrupted a government agency that was
resistant to the Nixon people. Nixon’s corruption meter may have been
pegged at ten, but Obama’s goes to eleven.

What this should do, but most likely won’t, is throw cold water on
Conservative Inc and their fantasies about the Left. For decades the
Left held Nixon up as the poster child for bad government. Today, they
are defending a guy who makes Nixon look like a Boy Scout. These are not
people who are merely mistaken. They are not people with whom you can
have honest dealings. These are not men of principle. The best you can
say about them is they are mendacious, cynical opportunist. In reality,
they are religious fanatics. Pretending otherwise is suicide.
