---
title: "Why Central Planning Fails"
date: "2014-07-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2313"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2313"
---

Central planners, whether <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/lifestyle/the-age-of-obama/img/obama-v2/obama11.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Blue Team</a> or <a
href="http://cdn.breitbart.com/mediaserver/Breitbart/Big-Government/2013/Congress/House%20Republicans/paul-ryan-not-impressed-ap.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Red Team</a>, start from the
assumption they can know everything. That means they can create a system
that accounts for all possible variables and anticipates all possible
combinations. When their preferred solution fails, they redouble their
efforts believing the failure is simply due to not accounting for some
variables. Once they factor those in and recompile their solution,
everything will be perfect.

Alternatively, some other central planners will look at the failure and
claim theirs is the correct formula and insist on it over the other
team’s solution. For a century now, this has been the dynamic of
American public policy. One side comes up with some new solution to a
problem, a problem they most likely created, while the other side cooks
up a solution, waiting for their turn. Both sides of the political class
are sure they know everything or at least they can know everything.

The fact is, no person can know everything. No matter how smart or
clever, they cannot possibly know or even contemplate the storehouse of
knowledge generated over centuries of trial and error. This is the core
argument in favor of conservatism and the primary rebuke of radicalism.
When you set out to replace the traditional responses to the challenges
of human society, you inevitably fall short because those institutions
are the accumulated knowledge of generations of people.

<a
href="http://miami.cbslocal.com/2014/07/22/man-arrives-to-find-family-living-in-his-home/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">An example of why this is so
is this story from Florida</a>.

*A South Florida renter came home to find people living inside his house
but the family illegally squatting inside said they are not leaving.*

*The owner of the property on SW 5th street and 49th Avenue said his
friend William Ruiz has been renting the house for the past two years
and recently started to move out while the house was listed for short
sale.*

*Ruiz went on vacation for two days and said when he came back, he found
the locks on the house changed and strangers living inside using his
belongings.*

*“They’re using his bed, his dining room table…all his ornaments,” said
homeowner Luis Camayd over the phone.*

*The man who moved in with his pregnant wife and toddler didn’t want to
be identified but said he was scammed by a phony realtor.*

*He said a lease agreement proves he paid $3,600 to live at the home.*

*The man, he said, he gave the cash to is no longer returning phone
calls.*

*“I’m really stunned because the house was set to be sold already. I
can’t sell the house until we get them out of there,” said Camayd.*

Normal people cannot anticipate such deviousness. It takes a special
mind to think up a scam like this one. The people who sit around
thinking about ways to manage their fellow humans may be sociopaths, but
they are pikers compared to the guy running this scam. Confidence men
have always been with us. The most famous is <a
href="http://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/the-smoothest-con-man-that-ever-lived-29861908/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Victor Lustig</a> who sold the
Eiffel Tower for scrap.

Trimmers, corner cutters and confidence men are part of what
evolutionary biologists refer to as the free rider problem. Religion, it
is thought, evolved to help deal with this problem. Social customs are
also aimed at mitigating these sorts of problems. Even with a 15,000
year head start, religion and culture struggle to keep up with the free
loaders. A handful of school boys fresh from university have no chance
to engineer a solution to these sorts of challenges.
