---
title: "Takeaways From The Election"
date: "2014-11-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3172"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3172"
---

The first takeaway for me is the spine of Scott Walker. For the Left,
having an extreme right-wing extremist in the governor’s mansion is a
click worse for them than a Jewish lesbian as mayor of Mecca would be
for Muslims. Wisconsin is the [spiritual home of the
Left](http://www.wisconsinhistory.org/turningpoints/tp-036/). For
instance, as soon as Obama became the leader of the Cult, his first act
was to go to Madison and give a speech to the faithful. Walker’s success
is a sin against nature in the minds of the faithful.

The lesson to be drawn from Walker’s success is two-fold. One is that no
state is majority Liberal. Liberal states have a lot of fanatics, but
they are not a majority. They are just better organized and perhaps more
fanatical. The majority in any state will be sensible people. Walker’s
appeal is based on responsible government. That’s why he has succeeded
in a place thought terminally hostile to common sense.

The second part of this is that Walker never just made the economic
argument. He connected his policies with people’s sense of decency and
fairness. Public sector unions are expensive and unnecessary. Walker
made the connection between bad product and the unions. You can sell
better and you can sell cheaper. Better and cheaper sells itself. That’s
why a mundane guy like Walker can withstand the best the Left can throw
at a man and still win.

Another takeaway is at the other end of the scale. Scott Brown managed
to lose to a wretched old bag in a state generally amenable to moderate
Republicans. He suffered from one unfixable problem and that is the fact
he is an outsider. New Hampshire is a funny state. A lot of voters there
would have a tough time voting for a Masshole, regardless of his
opponent. Granite Staters are an ornery bunch. There was simply no way
Brown could explain away the fact he just moved to New Hampshire.

His bigger problem was self-inflicted. Brown had nothing to sell.
Conservative Inc is always prattling on about electability, but one part
of electability is having a reason to run. The Karl Rove approach of
never uttering a discouraging word or taking a difficult stand, results
in bowls full of mush like Brown. Brown should have picked a couple if
issues and pounded those relentlessly. The voters who saw him as a
carpetbagger would at least have had second thoughts about voting
against the Masshole. Instead Brown played it safe and is now looking
for work.

The other thing interesting thing is what went on in Maryland. In fifty
years the state has had a Republican in the governor’s mansion for six
years. The Democrat running this time is the Lt. Governor and backed by
the full party and had Obama in to stump for him. He’s also black,
running in a state that is the fourth blackest in the nation. His
opponent was a guy no one knew until yesterday. Larry Hogan is still an
unknown to most voters. His victory is due entirely to the fact he is
not crazy.

The other unique thing about Maryland is it has a large black
middle-class that is suburban. The collapse of Baltimore and Washington
first led to white flight and then to black flight. Those black people
living in the burbs enjoying middle-class life are finding it hard to
keep it real when it means tax hikes and a tough economy. All around the
country black turnout was down. More frightening if you are a Democrat
is 10% of those who did vote voted Republican. In Maryland, the share
was most certainly higher.

Finally, and this is for the optimists, this may signal the end of the
Left as we know it. In the 60’s and 70’s, Liberalism ate itself. In 1980
Reagan ran against Liberalism. He turned it into an epithet. The Left
did not fold up; they simply hid out in the Democratic Party, which
still had loads of normals and even a fair chunk of conservatives. Mass
media was dominated by Liberals willing to run interference for their
coreligionists in office. Liberal pols could talk one way at home, but
be pure moonbat in DC and no one was the wiser.

That’s not what we see today. For the first time in our history we have
a purely ideological party. If you run as a Democrat, you are a Liberal.
There’s no party to give the Cult cover because the party is the Cult
and the Cult is the party. If the people are turning on Liberals, it
will bring down the Democratic Party, unless they shed the Cult, which
is unlikely.
<a href="https://redvoter.files.wordpress.com/2013/10/housemap4.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Maps like this one</a> and the fact that
the Democrats control very few state houses now, suggest the Democrats
are about to become a fringe party, based in a few coastal cities.
