---
title: "The War On Brown People"
date: "2014-03-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-03-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1183"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1183"
---

It is always fun telling liberal white hipsters that gentrification is
just a nice word for ethnic cleansing. In reality, it is nothing more
than old rich white people throwing out poor brown people, so young
white people can live in the city. This is very upsetting to white
liberals, as they have no defense against it. It points to the fact that
Progressives talk like MLK, but they live like the KKK.

It’s a nice gag and it gets the desired reaction, because it has the
advantage of being the truth.
<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/15/nyregion/15nycensus.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This old NYTimes article</a>
tried to paint a pretty picture, but the fact is rich white people are
flooding into cities like New York, pushing out the brown people. These
sincere, wholesome bourgeois bohemians will chew your ear off about how
diversity is our strength, except where they live of course.

It is not just NYC, <a
href="http://dcist.com/2013/06/dc_getting_younger_and_whiter_accor.php"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">DC is getting whiter</a>. <a
href="http://jamaicaplain.patch.com/groups/politics-and-elections/p/census-jamaica-plain-gets-whiter-and-less-brown"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Boston gentrified long ago</a>.
Even <a
href="http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/25-drop-in-African-American-population-in-Oakland-2471925.php"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Oakland is going for a lighter
shade of pale</a>. These cities voted for Obama 81% (NYC), 90% (DC), 80%
(Boston) and 84% (Oakland). As these cities get whiter, they get more
Progressive and they get more aggressive in their proselytizing. At some
level, they know the truth, but their coping strategy is to become even
more hysterical on race.

That’s why <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/04/us/cities-helping-residents-resist-the-new-gentry.html?ref=todayspaper&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story</a> in the NYTimes
is interesting.

*Cities that have worked for years to attract young professionals who
might have once moved to the suburbs are now experimenting with ways to
protect a group long deemed expendable — working- and lower-middle class
homeowners threatened by gentrification.*

*The initiatives, planned or underway in Boston, Philadelphia,
Washington, Pittsburgh and other cities, are centered on **reducing or
freezing property taxes for such homeowners in an effort to promote
neighborhood stability**, preserve character and provide a dividend of
sorts to those who have stayed through years of high crime, population
loss and declining property values, officials say.*

*Newcomers, whose vitality is critical to cities, are hardly being
turned away. But officials say a balance is needed, given the attention
and government funding being spent to draw young professionals — from
tax breaks for luxury condominium buildings to new bike lanes, dog parks
and athletic fields.*

*“**We feel the people who toughed it out should be rewarded**,” said
Darrell L. Clarke, president of the Philadelphia City Council, which
last year approved legislation to limit property tax increases for
longtime residents. “**And we feel it is incumbent upon us to protect
them**.”*

I love how they were not terribly concerned about “neighborhood
stability” when the neighborhoods were black and brown. Once the white
people took over, they suddenly start sounding like Rotary Club
Republicans from the suburbs. The even funnier part is the city council
president just about says they owe these urban pioneers for driving the
bad element out of the city.

*In doing so, cities are turning urban redevelopment policy on its head
and shunning millions in property tax revenue that could be used to
restore municipal services that were trimmed during the recession
because of budget cuts, including rehiring police officers.*

*A decision to reduce property taxes can be risky because such levies
account for at least 50 percent of operating budgets in most American
cities and sometimes provide as much as 80 percent of a city’s revenue.*

*But even Detroit, where a declining tax base has been at the core of
the bankrupt city’s troubles, recently announced plans to cut property
tax rates.*

*Last month, Mike Duggan, Detroit’s new mayor, said property taxes would
be cut by up to 20 percent to levels that more accurately represent the
value of homes in the city. The reduction could cost Detroit as much as
$15 million annually in revenue.*

*The tax adjustments are part of a broader strategy by cities to aid
homeowners — who continue to struggle financially since the home
mortgage crisis. In Richmond, Calif., lawmakers are attempting to use
eminent domain to seize underwater mortgages to try to help homeowners
keep their houses.*

*Housing experts say the arrival of newcomers to formerly working-class
areas — from the Mission District in San Francisco to the Shaw
neighborhood in Washington — is distinct from previous influxes over the
past 30 years because new residents are now far more likely to choose to
move into new condominiums or lofts instead of into existing housing,
making the changes more disruptive.*

*“This latest wave of gentrification has happened very quickly, and
cities are cognizant to keep from turning over entirely,” said Lisa
Sturtevant, executive director of the Center for Housing Policy, a
nonprofit research group. “And cities where property values are up and
budgets are generally more stable have the wherewithal to provide tax
breaks.”*

*Ms. Sturtevant said that given that many of the younger, newer arrivals
do not necessarily plan to stay for long, cities are making a sensible
economic choice.*

*“There’s less personal investment and less incentive to stay, so cities
are saying, ‘Let’s invest in the stayers,’ ” she said.*

It makes perfect sense for cities to try and lure middle-class white
people. There are a million arguments about crime and race and poverty
and education and drugs and blah, blah, blah. There’s no argument about
the crime rate among middle-class white people, as it is the lowest in
the world. Fill a city with them and you don’t have a crime problem. The
other fact no one disputes is low crime means higher property values,
high civic participation, better schools and more stable tax receipts.

This should be something everyone knows and accepts. If you really want
to help black people, demand they act white, instead of indulging their
bad behavior from behind the walls of your gated community. There’s
nothing to be gained from lecturing whites about diversity, while the
people doing the lecturing ethnically cleanse their own neighborhoods.
All it is doing is creating a lot of angry white people.
