---
title: "Lunatic versus Lunatic"
date: "2014-11-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3175"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3175"
---

The trouble with the trip to Utopia is when you get there, not everyone
agrees it is, in fact, the paradise everyone imagined. Since perfect
social harmony is the hallmark of Utopia, those still grousing about the
lack of perfection begin to look suspiciously at those saying they have
reached Eden.

Similarly, the people ready to settle into the garden look at the
complainers as the final burr under the saddle of humanity. Both sides
conclude that the only way forward is to get rid of the other side.
Regardless of outcome, this cycle continues with all utopian groups
until there’s no one left. Utopia, it turns out, is standing alone on
the hilltop drenched in the blood of your former comrades.

The Left is suffering from the same trouble. What has kept the whole
thing together is a hatred of heritage Americans. They began with blacks
and Jews. Then they started adding all sorts of weirdos and misfits into
the coalition. The trouble with that is blacks are not all that fond of
Jews and gays. The gays are not fond of one another and the feminists
hate the Asians and the gays.

The weird thing about the coalition is they have only one thing in
common, spiritually, emotionally and practically. That’s a hatred of
regular white people, particularly the pale penis people of the
middle-class. Obama reaching the White House was supposed to be the
promised land. The trouble is few of his followers agreed it was the
promised land. Six years later <a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/rose-mcgowan-attacks-lgbt-community-for-failing-to-campaign-for-feminism-gay-men-are-more-misogynistic-than-straight-men-9841873.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">they are starting to take aim at one
another</a>.

*Rose McGowan has declared an “indictment” of the gay community,
claiming that homosexual men are “more misogynistic” than their straight
counterparts and dismissing those who boycotted the Brunei-owned
Dorchester Hotel collection as “delusional idiots”.*

*The American actress, who claims to have lived a life “heavily
entrenched” in LGBT, was discussing the protest against the hotel chain
with gay author Brett Easton Ellis in his weekly podcast when she made
the comments.*

*The Dorchester Collection, which is owned by the Sultan of Brunei, has
been the subject of boycotts since the controversial change to the penal
code was scheduled to come into effect on 22 April 2014 that made
homosexuality punishable by stoning to death.*

*Stephen Fry was among the first celebrities to attach themselves to the
campaign.*

*The American Psycho author opened the conversation by calling the
Dorchester Collection boycott a “form of narcissistic,
self-victimisation, gay insanity” based on “illusionary and tenuous”
reports about the Sharia law that ultimately led to the harming of “the
people who simply work at the hotel”.*

*The actress, who herself held a defiant anti-boycott party at the
Beverly Hills Hotel over the summer, agreed, then condemned the
campaigners for failing to fight against the human rights abuses on
behalf of women in Arab states, too.*

*“Gay men are as misogynistic as straight men, if not more so,” she
said. “I have an indictment of the gay community right now, I’m actually
really upset with them.”*

What we are seeing now is the various groups packed into the positive
rights pyramid looking around wondering if this is all there is and
concluding that the real problem is the other misfits in the coalition.
Ms. McGowan has decided she would rather spend her time with the pale
penis people than her fellow benighted. Blacks and Asians seem to be
coming to the same conclusion. Lunatic on lunatic violence is sure to
follow.
