---
title: "The Jesus Hoax"
date: "2014-05-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-05-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1655"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1655"
---

It seems like a decennial occurrence. Some scholar somewhere discovers
some new proof that Christianity is all bunk. The most recent hoax was
proof that Jesus was married. That would prove once in for all that
Christianity is a conspiracy by the terrible white males to oppress
women, Jews, blacks etc. As is always the case, the proof turns out to
be nonsense. The <a
href="http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424052702304178104579535540828090438?mod=trending_now_3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">newly discovered papyrus by
Harvard Divinity School professor Karen King is a hoax</a>.

*In September 2012, Harvard Divinity School professor Karen King
announced the discovery of a Coptic (ancient Egyptian) gospel text on a
papyrus fragment that contained the phrase “Jesus said to them, ‘My wife
. . .’ ” The world took notice. The possibility that Jesus was married
would prompt a radical reconsideration of the New Testament and biblical
scholarship.*

*Yet now it appears almost certain that the Jesus-was-married story line
was divorced from reality. On April 24, Christian Askeland—a Coptic
specialist at Indiana Wesleyan University and my colleague at the Green
Scholars Initiative—revealed that the “Gospel of Jesus’ Wife,” as the
fragment is known, was a match for a papyrus fragment that is clearly a
forgery.*

*Almost from the moment Ms. King made her announcement two years ago,
critics attacked the Gospel of Jesus’ Wife as a forgery. One line of
criticism said that the fragment had been sloppily reworked from a 2002
online PDF of the Coptic Gospel of Thomas and even repeated a
typographical error.*

*But Ms. King had defenders. The Harvard Theological Review recently
published a group of articles that attest to the papyrus’s authenticity.
Although the scholars involved signed nondisclosure agreements
preventing them from sharing the data with the wider scholarly
community, the New York Times<span class="article-chiclet down"
channel-currency="$" channel-last-price="15.75"
channel-path="/quotes/nls/nyt" country-code="US" ticker-code="NYT"
utc-offset-hours="-4"> <span class="ticker"> NYT -1.40% </span> </span>
was given access to the studies ahead of publication. The newspaper
summarized the findings last month, saying “the ink and papyrus are very
likely ancient, and not a modern forgery.” The article prompted a tide
of similar pieces, appearing shortly before Easter, asserting that the
Gospel of Jesus’ Wife was genuine.*

A good rule with all science, hard and soft, is secrecy means
dishonesty. If you refuse to release your data and methods, you’re up to
something. It is why most people think Michael Mann is a fraud. He
refuses to release his data and methods. The reasons for this are all
bad. Going to the extraordinary step of forcing the researchers to sign
NDA’s was a big red flag. You see the same thing here. There is a lot of
effort going into concealing that which should be made public.

*Then last week the story began to crumble faster than an ancient
papyrus exposed in the windy Sudan. Mr. Askeland found, among the online
links that Harvard used as part of its publicity push, images of another
fragment, of the Gospel of John, that turned out to share many
similarities—including the handwriting, ink and writing instrument
used—with the “wife” fragment. The Gospel of John text, he discovered,
had been directly copied from a 1924 publication.*

*“Two factors immediately indicated that this was a forgery,” Mr.
Askeland tells me. “First, the fragment shared the same line breaks as
the 1924 publication. Second, the fragment contained a peculiar dialect
of Coptic called Lycopolitan, which fell out of use during or before the
sixth century.” Ms. King had done two radiometric tests, he noted, and
“concluded that the papyrus plants used for this fragment had been
harvested in the seventh to ninth centuries.” In other words, the
fragment that came from the same material as the “Jesus’ wife” fragment
was written in a dialect that didn’t exist when the papyrus it appears
on was made.*

*Mark Goodacre, a New Testament professor and Coptic expert at Duke
University, wrote on his NT Blog on April 25 about the Gospel of John
discovery: “It is beyond reasonable doubt that this is a fake, and this
conclusion means that the Jesus’ Wife Fragment is a fake too.” Alin
Suciu, a research associate at the University of Hamburg and a Coptic
manuscript specialist, wrote online on April 26: “Given that the
evidence of the forgery is now overwhelming, I consider the polemic
surrounding the Gospel of Jesus’ Wife papyrus over.”*

It was (probably) Mark Twain who said a lie is halfway around the world
before the truth gets out of bed. It will take decades before the usual
suspects stop insisting Jesus was married. Every Christmas and Easter,
the same nitwits claim the Christian holidays were ripped off from
pagans. It seems the people who know the least about Christianity choose
to be its harshest critics. You don’t have to be a religious person to
see that a society run by Christians is better than one run by
professors.

*Having evaluated the evidence, many specialists in ancient manuscripts
and Christian origins think Karen King and the Harvard Divinity School
were the victims of an elaborate ruse. Scholars had assumed that
radiometric tests would return an early date (at least in antiquity),
because the Gospel of Jesus’ Wife fragment had been cut from a genuinely
ancient piece of material. Likewise, those familiar with papyri had
identified the ink used as soot-based—preferred by forgers because the
Raman spectroscopy tests used to test for age would be inconclusive.*

*It is perhaps understandable that Ms. King would have been taken in
when an anonymous owner presented her with some papyrus fragments for
research. What is harder to understand was the rush by the media and
others to embrace the idea that Jesus had a wife and that Christian
beliefs have been mistaken for centuries. No evidence for Jesus having
been married exists in any of the thousands of orthodox biblical
writings dating to antiquity. You would have thought Thomas Aquinas
might have mentioned it. But this episode is not totally without merit.
It will provide a valuable case study for research classes long after
we’re gone and the biblical texts remain.*

That’s the art of the con. The confidence man first seeks to win the
trust of the mark and he does that by appealing to their biases.
Sometimes it is vanity. Sometimes it is hatred of something or someone.
Maybe it is the mark’s desire to be famous. In this case, the confidence
men sensed a strong  desire by female academics to feminize antiquity,
so  they created an artifact to meet that need. Look for similar hoaxes
to write blacks and Jews into the history of white people in the coming
decades.
