---
title: "Is Germany the Source of All Evil?"
date: "2014-07-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2213"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2213"
---

If you were tasked with coking up with the worst country in human
history, it would be a challenge as the idea of countries is relatively
new. That means the definition of country will have to be very general.
It would include city-states and empires. It would probably have to
include nations of people without clear boundaries. The Mongols left a
big mark on the world and they did have an empire. The Roman empire had
boundaries, but they changed considerably over time.

If you can accept that limitation, Germany is a good candidate for worst
country in the history of man. Again, it requires conflating country
with people. People often belong to more than one county.  Jews, for
example, are everywhere. In some countries they run everything (Israeli,
United States) and in others they have little influence. Germans are
decedents of the Franks, as are most French and the people in the low
countries, so by picking Germany, we are picking a subset of Germans.

Let’s keep it simple. If you were making a list of the world’s most
horrible countries, Germany is a good choice. Think about what sent the
civilized world into the Dark Ages. It was Germanic tribes sacking Rome.
In 410 AD, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alaric_I"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Alaric I</a> led the Visigoths
into the Italian peninsula and sacked Rome. Granted, Rome was falling
apart at the time and the capital of the empire had been moved from the
city. Still, the Eternal City was extinguished by Germans and what
followed was a thousand years of barbarism.

At the other end of the Medieval period we have the collapse of the one
uplifting and unifying force in Europe. That was done by, you guessed
it, Germans. The
<a href="http://www.theopedia.com/Protestant_Reformation"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Protestant Reformation</a> was
driven by a <a href="http://www.theopedia.com/Martin_Luther"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">crap-eating German lunatic</a>.
That led to the next great devastation of Europe.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thirty_Years%27_War"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Thirty Years War</a>
reduced much of Europe to rubble. Parts of central Europe were reduced
to cannibalism. This was the end of Christianity as the organizing force
in Europe.  Instead, nationalism became the religion of the elites and
Christianity went into a long decline.

The growth of nationalism as the animating ideology of Europe led to
wide-scale warfare on the Continent. Maybe it would have happened
anyway, but nationalism gets the blame for the long period of
warfare. Nationalism is blamed for the Great War that devastated Europe.
It was started by, you guessed it, Germany!
<a href="http://spectator.org/articles/59563/foul-tornado"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">As Peter Hitchens notes in his
great column</a> on it in the Spectator, it permanently altered the
landscape of civilization, leading to all that plagues us today.

*To say that that the First World War was the greatest cataclysm in
human history since the fall of the Roman Empire is to put it mildly.
The war destroyed so many good things and killed so many good people
that civilization has not recovered and probably never will. Long after
it officially ended, it continued to cause millions of deaths and
tragedies, most obviously during its encore performance of 1939-45. But
it did not stop even then. Many of its worst consequences came during
official periods of peace and are unknown or forgotten, or remain
unconnected with it in the public mind.*

*The loss cannot be measured in cash because it was paid in the more
elusive coin of faith, morals, trust, hope, and civility. The war is the
reason why Europe is no longer a Christian continent, because too many
churches supported it. Pointing to the poverty and scientific
backwardness of the pre-1914 world is a false comparison. Who is to say
that we could not have grown just as rich as we are now, and made just
as many technological and medical advances, had we not slain the flower
of Europe’s young men before they could win Nobel Prizes, or even beget
and raise children?*

*The astonishing thing is that so many conservative, Christian, and
patriotic people have yet to understand the damage this event did to
their causes. It is at least partly because we can barely begin to
imagine the world that we lost.*

*Stefan Zweig’s ambiguous description of a “Golden Age of Security” in
his curious memoir of Austria-Hungarian twilight, The World of
Yesterday, is one of the few attempts. But the civilization that Zweig
portrays as stifling and repressed seemed to many who lived in it to be
safe, calm, and free. His own mixed feelings, as he describes the
woebegone departure of the Imperial Habsburgs from their domains, and
the shocking sense of pain which beset him at the sight, are the truest
thing in the book—a realization, far too late, of what has been lost
forever and of what was now coming: unthinkable inflation, turning the
modest life savings of the gentle into dust, along with the destruction
of every known landmark and of all customs and manners, ending in the
pit of tyranny, racial mass murder, and yet more war.*

Of course, there’s no doubt why the war started.

*Germany started the war because she wanted and hoped to gain enormous
prizes through a swift victory, first over France and then over Russia.
She encouraged Austria to be inflexible toward Serbia in the hope that
this would happen, and the plan worked. It was not the first time that a
country had carefully fostered a pretext for war, and it will certainly
not be the last. Most readers in Britain and the U.S. will be able to
think of recent examples.*

*There is a strong argument for saying that it was reasonable for
Germany to want what she wanted, and that it was and is a great pity
that no peaceful way could be found of reaching a sensible compromise
over her legitimate demands.*

*There is an equally strong argument for wondering why the main critics
of the Great War have been those of the anti-capitalist or socially
liberal Left, while conservatives have tended to defend it, even to
stand up for its dreadful generals and its unspeakable carnage, as some
kind of necessity or patriotic duty.*

*The opposite should be the case. Those on the Left should defend it and
rejoice over it. It was the fulfillment of their dreams. No single event
has done more to advance the power of the state and of state socialism.
Britain barely had a state before 1914. By 1918 it was one of the most
tightly governed and bureaucratized patches of soil in the world. The
Russian revolution would never have happened had there been no war in
1914. The great Christian and conservative empires of the world would
probably all still exist. War also brought about the sexual, social, and
cultural revolutions that are still convulsing what used to be
Christendom.*

The whole article is worth reading. He goes on to point out that it was
Germany that financed Lenin and the Bolsheviks. The Germans, of course,
gave us Marxism as well as Fascism. Those two account for 100 million
deaths worldwide. They also gave us Critical Theory, otherwise known as
Cultural Marxism. Who knows what the body count will be from that in the
end. The EU is a German invention and is now run by Germans, which is
allowing Europe to be overrun by barbarians.

The damage done by Germans is not limited to Europe. The United States,
of course, has been greatly influenced by Germans. The largest ethnic
group in the country are Germans and they turned the former British
colonies from a classical liberal country into a social democracy. Well,
many of the culprits spoke German. They all were greatly influenced by
the Frankfurt School and fanatical anti-fascism, which has turned into
anti-white bigotry.

In the worst country contest, I think my vote goes to the Germans.
