---
title: "That Guy Again"
date: "2014-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2507"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2507"
---

The interesting thing about the creationists and Intelligent Design
advocates is they are not very Christian. They use Christian rhetoric
from time time and make explicit religious appeals to people, but they
are not in line with Scripture. In fact, they are almost pagan in their
beliefs. <a
href="http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/news/south-australia/darwins-theory-of-evolution-challenged-by-university-of-adelaide-genetic-memory-research-published-in-journal-science/story-fni6uo1m-1227024901078?nk=e7b68832df47eabebb50623482591195"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> that has been
kicking around the neo-Christian sites is a pretty good example. The
first sentence is a good starting point.

*LANDMARK Adelaide research showing that sperm and eggs appear to carry
genetic memories of events well before conception, may force a rethink
of the evolutionary theories of Charles Darwin, scientists say.*

Creationists and ID’ers look at evolution as a cult. They assume Darwin
holds the same place in the hearts of “evolutionists” as Jesus or the
Bible holds for them. If Darwin is proven to be wrong in some way, then
everything he said is false and the whole religion of evolution comes
crashing down. After all, if the prophet is proved false his religion is
proved false. The result of this thinking is an obsession on the part of
ID’ers with Darwin and trying to discredit him.

The trouble is science does not work like religion. Darwin was wrong
about a lot of things and he guessed about a lot of other things. He was
also not the only guy working on these ideas. Genetics and the cracking
open of the human genome have added more to evolutionary biology than
Darwin. Newton was wrong about plenty of things, but that does not mean
math is a false god. Science is the process of trial and error, with
error leading to new discoveries.

But, the ID’ers can’t think that way. Their interest in the subject is
not to gain a better understanding of the natural world. it is to defend
their faith. That’s where the paganism creeps into the story.
Traditional Christianity contains two key elements. One is that God is
rational and the other is God is unknowable. God created the laws of
nature and enforces them. They don’t change. God could change those
laws, but he doesn’t because he keeps his word, literally and
figuratively.

The latter, the unknowable part is where the new breed of Christian
wanders off the reservation. They think they are having a personal
relationship with Jesus. Traditional Christianity does not view Jesus as
divine in the same way Greeks viewed Zeus as divine. Jesus was the word,
God’s word, made flesh. If God were so inclined, he could have used a
stick or a rock as his covenant with man. Jesus is the symbol through
which God communicated his new covenant with mankind.

The neo-Christians into the Intelligent Design cause hold a different
view. They see Jesus as their personal God in the same way a Roman would
have a personal relationship with Apollo. Like the pagan gods, Jesus can
and does intercede on man’s behalf when asked. This is why the wide
receiver looks up and thanks Jesus after he scores a touchdown. The
result is an occasionalist view of nature. If Jesus were so inclined, he
could make the sky green and the grass purple.

In this regard, creationists are more honest that ID’ers. The
creationist simply says the world is as described in their version of
Genesis. They are not interested in knowing anything about their version
of Genesis or the science of evolution. ID’ers on the other hand are
only interested in evolution in order to come up with the right ritual
to persuade their god to smite the evolutionist. They dream of a time
when Jesus will defeat Darwin at the end times. That’s not science and
it it barely qualifies as Christianity.
