---
title: "From the Mailbag"
date: "2014-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2373"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2373"
---

The comment feature of this WordPress template is not the best. I chose
this template because it is plain and easy to navigate. I hate overly
complex sites with loads of web scripting. National Review and the Daily
Caller are horrible to navigate because of the ridiculous scripts they
have running, all intended to jam ads in your face. I went for simple
and that means the commenting space is limited.

Readers have made some points I’d like to address so I figured a post
addressing some of the comments would be worthwhile. Here are a few:

***fodderwing** writes:*

*There’s a big dif between having one’s questions answered and having
them answered satisfactorily. That Fred is still asking is not
necessarily evidence that he has ignored the “libraries full of books,”
but may only be telling us that the books give unsatisfactory answers.*

Satisfactorily to *whom*? It seems that millions of people have had no
trouble finding the answers Fred says are elusive. John Derbyshire has
addressed all of his points hundreds of times. Further, these answers
are more than satisfactory to the people interested in evolutionary
biology. They are, in many cases, axiomatic.

*fodderwing continues:*

*I have my own unanswered questions about evolution, but the real lazy
wusses in my view are the ones who get defensive when I ask. After
reading Michael Behe’s Darwin’s Black Box I thought it best to let him
ask the hard questions, I would stick with the easy ones. I have read
many answers to his “black box” concept, absolutely none of which seemed
sincere or for that matter particularly well thought out. As for my easy
questions, those are the ones that really frustrate people as the usual
responses can probably best be summued up as “why can’t you just
believe, man, like the rest of the smarter set? There is such
overwhelming evidence, so many libraries full of books … “*

If someone keeps asking you to explain why water is wet and ice is cold,
you will begin to think that they are uncommonly stupid, have an agenda,
or are passive-aggressively challenging your aptitude. If it is the
first case, there’s only so many ways to explain something. Once you
have exhausted them all, you give up. The world needs ditch diggers and
hod carriers too.

If it is the other two, then you are dealing with a dishonest person. In
both cases they are concealing their agenda, which is to sow doubt in
your mind about your knowledge of the subject. This form of
argumentation is common with the anti-science crowd, which makes it a
campaign to spread ignorance. It is why the response from science these
days when asked these sorts of questions is <a
href="http://i313.photobucket.com/albums/ll376/Earlsfat/Funny/not_this_shit_again.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this</a>.

I’ve said it before, but I’ll repeat it again. I have no quarrel with
creationists or intelligent design people. These beliefs are not
science, but the world will not spin off its axis of people believe that
stuff. We get enough oogily-boogily from the Left and their war on
science and reason. Christians would be wise to not follow their lead.

***Bones** writes:*

*Whatever else Fred is or isn’t, he isn’t a phoney. He’s always been
upfront about his life. Fred comes from a mildly prominent Virginia
family, but he was born in the coal mining town of Crumpler, West
Virginia and spent a lot of his youth in rural West Virgina and Northern
Alabama. He has a high regard for the people in the parts of Appalachia
where he grew up. The ‘down home’ writing style he sometimes adopts is
simply a literary device, used by people such as Joel Chandler Harris
and many others.*

*Fred has an excellent command of the English language. He is making
writing mistakes these days because he was hit in the face with shrapnel
in Vietnam and his eyesight has deteriorated. He is now blind in one eye
as the result of his latest eye surgery.*

*You may not like Fred or the stuff he writes. He may or may not know
what he’s writing about. But ‘phoney’ is no more than name-calling*

It is name-calling and I’m proud of my ability to use nouns. Without
name calling, we would still be riding those big things in that place or
whatever. I think Fred is a big phony and I have no qualms about saying
it. At least you know where I stand.

I could be all wrong on that. Maybe his act is harmless and sincere. We
all don a mask in public and maybe that’s just how Allah made him. I
don’t know and I can’t know. All I can go on is what I see and my own
sense of these things.

***james wilson** writes:*

*There are several factors. Jews, especially the ones you are
describing, have no great affection for the country (I am increasingly
sympathetic to that state of being). That being so they always have an
exit strategy and a tradition of using it, so they continue to indulge
their opinions–which are life itself to them–without restraint. And if
the block is busted, well, they’ll once again be the first to sell. This
strategy has worked well for them in recent times except for that
miscalculation of 1933-45. But Montaigne wrote that even opinion is of
force enough to make itself be espoused at the expense of life. No one
contributes more to opinion than Jews, with less regard for the
consequences.*

A couple of points here. Steve Sailer points out frequently that Jews
dominate certain industries and are wildly over represented in the
millionaire and billionaire clubs. The thing is, Jews dominate
transactional industries like the entertainment business, retail and the
law. You don’t see a lot of Jews in construction, agriculture, mining or
manufacturing. These are industries that require planning and investment
to mitigate events currently over the horizon.

Is that cultural? Maybe. The old line was that Christians did not let
Jews own property so they had no choice but to go into banking and
commerce. That was always nonsense. Jews in Europe left the farm for the
village 2,000 years ago. It is more likely the result of being a
distinct minority that has often needed an exit strategy. Loading up the
furniture and money is a lot easier than packing up the cattle or the
fame land.

The other point is the Jewish relationship with the state. This has
often been the justification for persecuting Jews. They were accused of
dual loyalties, with loyalty to the tribe overriding all else. If you
look at the world today, that seems like a shrewd position. Being an
American citizen carries little value. Abroad it is a burden and home it
is becoming a liability. We treat illegal alien invaders better than our
own poor.

The Jews seem to have it right. Governments and countries come and go.
Why sacrifice for a concept that has so little utility? America may have
been a special place long ago, but today it is just a slab of land with
a bunch of people living in it. It’s every tribe for himself, so to
speak, whether we like it or not. Only a fool clings to his patriotism
these days.

***Deck** writes:*

*The second law of thermodynamics puts the lie to evolution. Evolution
is atheistic dogma dressed up as science, nothing more. Psalm 14:1 “The
fool says in his heart, There is no God.” The vituperation coming out of
Pisco shows Fred hit a nerve. Read, In The Beginning by Walt Brown.*

The second law of thermodynamics states that the entropy of an isolated
system never decreases, because isolated systems always evolve toward
thermodynamic equilibrium, a state with maximum entropy. Put another
way, the natural process is for the complex to decay into the simple.
The final result is complete randomness.

This is a popular misappropriation of physical science to biological
science. This line of argument has been addressed many times in many
places.
<a href="http://www.talkorigins.org/faqs/thermo/probability.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s one</a> I found just by
entering “second law of thermodynamics” in a search engine. The fact
that it remains popular with creationists underscores my point about
Fred Reed. There’s no amount of facts and reasoning that will ever
satisfy the creationist. Therefore, why would I or anyone else bother
trying?
