---
title: "Kristen Gwynne Is A Very Stupid Person"
date: "2014-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2293"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2293"
---

<a
href="http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/pictures/the-5-most-dangerous-guns-in-america-20140714"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I saw this on the Fox News
Channel this week.</a>. I thought it was a joke at first, but it is real
post that is intended to be serious. It is remarkable how people this
stupid get hired to write for well funded publications. It’s deliberate
lying, but having a dimwitted fanatic do it adds plausible deniability.
Still, it is incredible how much agit-prop produced by idiots we have
beamed at every day.

*Contrary to what those who defend the right to own high-powered assault
rifles believe, not all guns are created equal. Due to a combination of
availability, portability and criminal usage the following five types of
guns are the country’s most dangerous.*

As a defender of self-defense weapons, I’m offended. Seriously, how many
words for “bad” do these nuts have in their language? The hilarity that
follows makes this statement even more ridiculous for the simple reason
Kristen Gwynne is a dingbat, who knows nothing about firearms. On the
other hand, 2A defenders are almost always very knowledgeable about
firearms. Yet, the stupid woman is going to lecture us about guns in a
way that is absurdly funny.

*Using firearm trace data from the ATF, as well as FBI homicide records,
we determined the types of guns most often recovered from crime scenes
and/or used in murders. The numbers are stark: According to the FBI’s
2012 Crime in the US data, nearly 70 percent of homicides for which the
FBI received weapons data involved the use of a firearm and handguns
alone accounted for about 72 percent of firearms used in murders and
non-negligent manslaughter. While the FBI does not elaborate on the type
of handguns used in these incidents, the ATF’s analysis of weapons
confiscated from crime scenes provides a more specific look at the
weapons criminals prefer, which we’ve shared with you here.*

Wackos always love to let you know they are super serious and relying
only on maths and stuff. Anyway, here’s the first “gun” on the list:

*Popular among handgun-owners, **pistols** are defined by their built-in
barrel and short stock. They are the most commonly recovered firearm
type reported by the ATF. With more than 119,000 pistols found at crime
scenes in 2012, this handgun model holds an unfortunately solid first
place in criminal weaponry.*

*One of the most popular pistols is the Glock, a short-recoil operated,
semi-automatic pistol produced by Glock Ges.m.b.H. in Deutsch-Wagram,
Austria. Glocks comprise 65 percent of the market share of handguns for
United States law enforcement agencies and are also frequently used by
international law-enforcement.*

This is rather amazing as it coincides with some of my own research.
I’ve noticed that cars account for most of the accidents on the nation’s
highways. In fact, cars are the most dangerous vehicle on the roads!

OK, drum roll. Here comes number two on the list.

*Revolvers, named for their rotating chambered cylinder, placed second
in the ATF’s ranking of guns found at crime scenes more than 46,000
recovered in 2012, the most recent year for which statistics were kept.*

*Some grenade launchers, shotguns, and rifles also have rotating
barrels, but the term “revolver” is generally used to describe handguns.
Revolver types include single and double-action firing mechanisms, the
latter of which does not require a cocking action separate from the
trigger pull.*

I own a lot of guns and I’ve never seen a shotgun with rotating barrels.
Other than a Gatling Gun, I don’t think there has ever been a mass
produced rifle with rotating barrels. I think the idiot who wrote this
just wanted to use some scare words like “grenade Launcher” even though
they have no idea what they mean. Now, I know you wondering what is
number three on the list so here we go.

*Rifles. Law enforcement agencies pulled more than 39,000 from crime
scenes in 2012, firmly establishing this weapon — designed to be fired
from the shoulder — in third place on the ATF’s trace list. Pulling the
trigger of a rifle fires one projectile at the intended target, as
opposed to the shotgun’s ability to spray. According to FBI latest
publicly available homicide records, in 2012 rifles were used to murder
more than 320 people.*

*Rifles were created to improve the accuracy of smoothbore muskets, for
which the musket ball was often an bad fit due to manufacturing
complications. Accurate and easy-to-aim, rifles are now the most common
hunting weapon.*

At this point, I’m starting to wonder if the person who wrote this is a
poorly designed AI robot or maybe a robot designed to be stupid. Anyway,
let’s move onto number four.

*Like rifles, **shotguns** are fired from the shoulder and may release a
single projectile. Unlike rifles, however, one pull of a shotgun’s
trigger may also spray the target with round pellets, or shot.
Additionally, the explosive that creates the energy to fire the gun
occurs in the fixed shell of a shotgun rather than the metallic
cartridge of a rifle.*

*Per the FBI, shotguns were used in 303 murders in 2012. With 27,000
shotgun recoveries reported to the ATF in 2012, they are the fourth most
common type of firearm confiscated at crime scenes.*

Now, I know what you’re thinking punk. You’re thinking “did he list five
guns or did he only list four?” Now, to tell you the truth I forgot
myself in all this excitement. But being this is…OK, OK. This idiot is
allegedly listing the five most popular *guns* used in crimes, but has
listed the four main categories of firearms sold on the planet. What
could be left? Well, here you go.

*Derringers, small pocket or palm-sized pistols with one or two barrels,
have no strict legal definition, but are included in the ATF’s trace
form as a category of firearm. With just more than 2,000 recoveries in
2012 — a small number compared to the other firearm types listed above,
largely because it is a subset of the highly-popular pistol — derringers
are the fifth most-cited firearm in crime scene recoveries.*

*While high-capacity-magazine assault weapons have bee linked to large
number of mass shootings over the past 30 years, varying definitions of
“assault” rifles make comprehensive information difficult to access. We
do know, however, that assault weapons — loosely categorized as
semi-automatic, rapid-fire weapons designed for combat use — are used in
a small minority of homicides and other gun crimes.*

I’m thinking the last time a derringer was used to kill was in a bawdy
house in San Francisco after the railroad was completed. It calls into
question whether this women really did look at FBI data. If the FBI is
really listing derringers as a weapon used in a crime, then you have to
wonder about their data.

Then you have the stupid woman’s description of a derringer. Gun
grabbers know little about guns, crime, 2A and gun culture. That’s
something all 2A people know. What’s surprising is just how deep the
ignorance goes with some of these people. Kirsten is an example of the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunning%E2%80%93Kruger_effect"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Dunning-Kruger Effect</a>. She
is simply too stupid to comprehend her own ignorance, but she tries to
make up for it with confidence..
