---
title: "Liberal Sports Fantasies"
date: "2014-04-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1458"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1458"
---

The old gag about newspapers went something like this. The *Wall Street
Journal* is read by the people who run the country. The *Washington
Post* is read by people who think they run the country. The *New York
Times* is read by people who think they should run the country. The
*Boston Globe* is read by people whose parents used to run the country
and they did a far superior job of it.

That used to be true, but not anymore. The great consolidation of the
media means they are all just branch offices for the ministry of
official dogma. Even the so-called conservatives of the Wall Street
Journal agree with the NYTimes on all of the big issues of this age.
Their differences are only in style and tone. The Journal has old Jewish
guys running the new side, while the Times  has childless Jewish women.
The editorial pages are the two faces of the ruling class.

The Boston Globe may have been a big deal to the former rulers, but now
it is sort of a low budget, off-Broadway act. It’s like a child actor
who has never come to terms with the fact he peaked at ten years old.
They have all the pretentiousness you find at the Times or Journal, but
none of the talent. Anyway, <a
href="http://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/editorials/2014/04/10/uconn-basketball-players-need-champs-academics-too/eZkAGiSEgiBIO5sXllcSPJ/story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this is an editorial</a> from
today regarding the Connecticut basketball team.

*Well before UConn began its magical march to the national men’s
basketball championship, it led the 64-team tournament in a far less
exalted category: lowest graduation rate. At 8 percent, UConn’s six-year
graduation rate for its men’s basketball team is, frankly, a disgrace
that can’t remotely be offset by the glories of Monday night’s victory.
Second-year coach Kevin Ollie, who wasn’t in charge when the players
started dropping classes like errant passes, wisely proclaimed that
academics comes first, and touted the classroom success of this year’s
team. He needs to keep working toward that goal, year in and year out,
and seek to build a legacy similar to that of Duke coach Mike
Krzyzewski, whose four national championships over 34 years is less
impressive than the fact that 98 percent of his players have gotten
degrees.*

Two things that jump out to me right away. Duke is an obvious exception,
as the demographics of their program are nothing like the typical
basketball program. If you are an above average IQ prep basketball
player, that’s your Harvard.  The very small fraction of basketball
players who have the cultural and intellectual ability to make it at
Duke is exceptionally small. Boston College has a similar graduation
rate and their program is awful. The supply of smart basketball players
is tiny.

The other thing that stands out is the obliviousness. The upper
middle-class whites who run the Globe casually assume everyone heads off
to college for the credentials and self-actualization. A bachelors in
Medieval Folklore from Tufts is just as useful as a Journalism degree
from Northwestern. For 90% of the kids getting basketball scholarships
at major programs, the degree is meaningless. They are there to be
trained for professional basketball, in America or overseas.

That’s an example of what makes radicalism such a potent religion. No
amount of facts and evidence can shake the fantasy. The answer to every
bit of dis-confirmation is either a bogeyman or a new plan to bring
about the utopian future. Here we have John Calipari, the gold standard
of college basketball coaches, <a
href="http://espn.go.com/mens-college-basketball/story/_/id/10760355/kentucky-wildcats-coach-john-calipari-likens-ncaa-dying-soviet-union-new-book"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">calling for the players to
become employees</a>. One would think this would cause the folks at the
Globe to re-examine their views on college athletics, but here they are.

 *The problem with academics in intercollegiate sports is deeper than
any one program. It’s a structural dynamic that’s easy to see: Craving
the best athletes for the sports that drive alumni interest and
fundraising, universities stretch their admissions standards to accept
players who would have a hard time handling their classwork in the best
of circumstances. But athletes face an array of challenges that other
students don’t: a punishing practice schedule that chews up dozens of
hours a week; a mixed set of incentives, since they get their
scholarships based on performance in sports, not academics; and an
exalted status on campus that puts them beyond some of the normal checks
and balances that keep other students focused on classes.*

*The National Collegiate Athletic Association bears a lot of the blame
for letting sports overtake academics for far too many players. Lately,
it’s tried to show some teeth by banning schools, including UConn last
year, from championship play if their graduation rates are chronically
low. But it’s an imperfect punishment. While universities deserve blame
for low graduation rates, their current players — who aren’t responsible
for the failures of their predecessors — do not. It’s tough to deprive
them of a once-in-a-lifetime experience.*

*Over the years, the person best positioned to manage the conflicting
pressures on the players has been the coach. If coaches make academics a
priority, their players are far more likely to earn degrees. Some
coaches, like Krzyzewski, are well known for showing care and concern
for their players’ classroom performance. Others, like Ollie’s UConn
predecessor, longtime coach Jim Calhoun, carry the opposite reputation.
So, Ollie has his work cut out for him. At 41, he’s already lived up to
Calhoun’s basketball legacy. It will take a lot of effort for him, and
UConn, to live down Calhoun’s record of letting team members falter as
students. He need only look down the hall of UConn’s athletic department
for inspiration: The UConn women’s basketball team also brought home a
national championship this year — with a 92 percent graduation rate.*

The comparison to women’s basketball is hilarious. The women, who are
not lesbians, have no expectations about playing professionally. They
can, but they will be more interested in finding a husband and getting
on with what biology requires. The lesbians, who make up a high
percentage of players (and an outlandish percentage of fans) are not
looking for a man, but their earning potential is very limited.
Therefore, basketball is a means to an end, not an end in itself.

That’s not so say there’s nothing wrong with collegiate athletics.
Basketball is a sewer of corruption. The fact that 60% of NBA players
file for bankruptcy within five years of retirement is no surprise. From
middle school through the professional ranks, the sport is dominated by
people who make boxing promoters look honest. Letting these people run
their businesses on college campuses is highly questionable. But,
admitting to any of that would open the door to a whole lot of questions
no one wants to ask.
