---
title: "Law Abuse"
date: "2014-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3220"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3220"
---

We have a police problem in the country. We have kitted out every Podunk
PD with mil-spec gear and turned them into game keepers. Only rich white
people have faith in the cops because they have no choice. Everyone else
ranges from total contempt to general distrust. A lot of crime goes
unreported these days because dealing with the cops is more hassle than
it is worth. The cops will go to the mat to catch you speeding, but
can’t be bothered to find your car when it is stolen.

It is easy to pick on the cops as they are the part of the iceberg we
see. Below the water line is the vast law enforcement industrial complex
that supports it. The following insane story is a good example.
Allegedly, <a
href="http://mashable.com/2014/11/14/polygraph-dot-com-doug-williams/?utm_cid=mash-com-Tw-main-link"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">it is against the law to teach people to
lie</a> and the Feds are now making a Federal case of it.

*The owner of a website that instructs people how to beat polygraph
tests was indicted by a federal grand jury on Friday for allegedly doing
just that — “training customers to lie and conceal crimes during
polygraph examinations,” the FBI announced.*

*Doug Williams, a former Oklahoma City police officer and owner of
Polygraph.com, who’s been teaching people how to pass polygraph tests
since 1979, was indicted on obstruction of justice and mail fraud
charges related to his work. The Department of Justice’s public affairs
office announced the news in a <a
href="http://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/owner-polygraph-indicted-allegedly-training-customers-lir-during-federally-administered"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">press release</a>. It reads, in part:*

*Douglas Williams, 69, of Norman, Oklahoma, was charged in a five-count
indictment in the Western District of Oklahoma with mail fraud and
obstruction. According to allegations in the indictment, Williams, the
owner and operator of Polygraph.com, marketed his training services to
people appearing for polygraph examinations before federal law
enforcement agencies, federal intelligence agencies, and state and local
law enforcement agencies, as well as people required to take polygraph
examinations under the terms of their parole or probation.*

*The indictment further alleges that Williams trained an individual
posing as a federal law enforcement officer to lie and conceal
involvement in criminal activity from an internal agency investigation.
Williams also allegedly trained a second individual posing as an
applicant seeking federal employment to lie and conceal crimes in a
pre-employment polygraph examination. Williams, who was paid for both
training sessions, is alleged to have instructed the individuals to deny
having received his polygraph training.*

*Williams is an outspoken critic of polygraph tests. On his website, he
says polygraph tests are neither reliable nor accurate, calling them
“insidious Orwellian instruments of torture,” a “scam” and a “sick
joke.” He says he’s administered thousands of tests with the Oklahoma
City Police Department, the FBI and the Secret Service and claims to
have testified before Congress and advised two presidents.*

The polygraph is pure nonsense. That’s why even our messed up criminal
justice system has rejected them. The whole shtick is an act to fool
dumb people into admitting things they would prefer not to admit. The
mark is strapped into a gizmo that looks serious and is run by a guy who
looks even more serious. The whole point is to convince the mark that
the contraption and the the technician can tell if he is lying.

If the DOJ was charging him with fraud, then maybe they have something.
The above paragraph is about all anyone can train you on regarding the
polygraph. Promising more would be dishonest, but that’s not what’s
going on here. This is not a consumer protection case. Weirdly, they are
admitting that you can “beat” a polygraph. Otherwise, why bother
indicting this guy? That alone should drop the use of the polygraph.

Regardless, this is a great example of anarcho-tyranny. The DOJ has
allowed the IRS to run wild harassing citizens. They have done nothing
about the systematic looting of the nation by the bankers. These are
things the people want from their government. Instead, they get the Feds
chasing after old men peddling DVD’s on-line.
