---
title: "Foreign Policy Shopping"
date: "2014-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2914"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2914"
---

I have never had a foreign policy or a world view on foreign policy. I’m
very interested in the world and all of its weirdness, but I’ve never
been all that interested in how our rulers interact with it. They are
going to do whatever they want to do, regardless of what I have say
about it. I try to keep up and read some trusted sources on the issues
of the day, but I find most of it boring. The history of the
<a href="http://www.unz.com/gnxp/how-turan-invented-islam/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Khorasani Arabs</a> seems interesting,
but I have no interest in why we <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2014/09/30/one-and-same-officials-give-conflicting-statements-on-al-qaeda-ties-to-khorasan/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">may or may not be bombing them</a>.

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/389308/market-foreign-policy-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This column by Kevin Williamson</a>
brought that home to me as I read the comments section. I have opinions
about our foreign adventures. I have some assumptions about what we
should and should not do. I have some opinions on the people and nations
of the world. But, I have no philosophy of foreign policy. I’m not even
sure if I fall into any of the convenient buckets. Some of the comments
in that NRO column strike me as insane. Others seem sort of reasonable.
The last bit of his post is what strikes me as the most sensible
starting place for my post.

*If I thought that the United States could be Switzerland, I’d be
tempted to import that foreign policy: Trade with everybody, get rich,
and be armed to the teeth in case you have to keep the global riff-raff
at bay. But the United States is not a tiny, landlocked, Alpine country
noted for its excellence in banking and watch-making. But I am in the
market for some creative thinking about how to use our economic weapons
— from trade to our newly abundant energy supply to the fact that the
elites of every country, including our bitterest rivals, want to send
their children to college here — to supplement what we’re all calling
“boots on the ground” now. I would not object to dispatching some
serious green-eyeshade types to the Pentagon to figure out how it has
come to pass that we’re still spending far too much money on defense
while seemingly cutting all the wrong spending.*

*And while I sympathize with Jonah Goldberg’s view that “[National Honor
Matters](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/387517/national-honor-matters-jonah-goldberg),”
I am very open to the prospect of simply buying off those who can be
bought. While the prospect may rankle, if doing so means lower
expenditures in treasure and blood both, consider Sun Tzu’s advice to
those in his time who resisted the use of spies, considering the
proposition either too expensive or dishonorable: Failing to make use of
available advantages, “simply because one grudges the outlay of a
hundred ounces of silver in honors and emoluments, is the height of
inhumanity.”*

*What I am most in the market for is a foreign policy that marries a
humane and prudent vision of our national interest to the operational
competence necessary to ensure that we do not spend decade after decade
scrambling to react to the mistakes of the immediate past. So far, I’m
not buying what anybody’s selling.*

It seems to me that before you can start shopping for a foreign policy,
you might want to start thinking about the reality of the world, that
foreign world for which we need a policy. “Humane and prudent vision of
our national interest” sounds great, but you have to figure out what it
means to have a humane policy while you’re figuring out the national
interest. I think I could sum up my criticism of the ruling class
approach to the world as ignorant, naïve and devoid of a sense of self.
In other words, the reason the rulers have failed is their understanding
of the world is wrong and their understanding of themselves is
delusional.

So, where to start?

**Celebrate Diversity:** For a very long time now the Left has been
chirping about the glories of diversity. It seems to be waning now, but
that’s not because the world has suddenly become homogenous. The world
is a big diverse place with all sorts of local weirdness. Most people
are not like us. They don’t live like us and they don’t think like us.
As much as it hurts modern America feelings, big chunks of the world
don’t like us. Their reasons may be justified or just plain crazy, but
there’s not much we can do about it. In all probability, trying to do
something about is why they hate us.

Recognizing it is half the battle. The other half is the why. Despite
what the Left has been preaching, science and observation tells us the
people of the world are not all the same after all. Africa is as it is
because it is full of Africans. It’s full of Africans because the humans
there evolved in that place for 50,000 years. As crazy as this may
sound, Africans are built for Africa, not Iceland. That means they are
good at being Africans, but not very good at being an Icelander or a
Texan. The same is true of China, Japan, Turkey, Iran, etc.

What we consider weird, these people consider normal. It is what they
know. A thousand generations of Bantus have been nothing but Bantus.
Thinking they will suddenly become Minnesotans just because we showed up
is a good way to make enemies. Respecting people for what they are is
not “the soft bigotry of low expectations.” It’s the reality of the
world. It is also the foundation for a “humane and prudent”
understanding of the world.

**We have a past:** Anytime I participate in a debate over foreign
policy, I get the sense that my fellow citizens have amnesia. I
mentioned in that thread on NRO that we have been bombing the Fertile
Crescent for two decades and people seem surprised by it. Desert Storm
was launched in 1991. We actually started flying combat missions in
1990. That’s a long time to have been dropping ordinance on people. We
try hard to only kill the bad people, but we have killed a lot of people
who did not think they were all that bad. Maybe they were, maybe not.

It really does not matter if we think they got what they deserved. The
people of the world have judged us on out deeds, good and bad. Our
system of government means we get a change in leadership every eight
years and that means we have reneged on a lot of deals, in addition to
killing a lot of people. The Kurds know we are an unreliable partner,
just as we know the French are duplicitous backstabbers. The point is we
have a history and we have a reputation. Our national interest is served
best when we can see ourselves through the eyes of the people on whom we
doing the foreign policy.

**Most of us just want to have normal lives:** Back in the Bush years,
the neoconservatives used to go on at length about national greatness
and the [new
nationalism](http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/03/07/c-bradley-thompson/neoconservatism-unmasked).
The stripped down version is that a nation must act like we expect a
good citizen to act in his community. It is a mix of moral obligation
and self-regard. Tromping around the world doing good works will
invigorate the populace to do even greater things at home and abroad.
Foreign policy is not just another public policy. It is the basis for a
moral philosophy that will define the nation and the citizens.

The trouble with this, in addition to be completely wrong, is that
almost all people just want to live their lives. They don’t look to
their rulers for a sense of identity. Americans, still mostly
Anglo-Saxon, prefer it if their rulers leave them alone. Even the more
hive minded around the world tend not to care very much for greatness,
unless it puts money in their pocket. Since the national interest of any
nation is those things that benefit the people of that nation, going
around the world inviting trouble can never be part of a prudent and
humane foreign policy.

I don’t know how you build a unified foreign policy off these three
pillars, but I think it is a good place to start. Maybe there are other
or better principles. I don’t know. The point is you can’t shop for a
foreign policy unless you have some idea why one is better than the
other. You have to have a starting point in order to make the necessary
comparisons.
