---
title: "The BBC’s Plan For America"
date: "2014-04-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1590"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1590"
---

Every society has its mythologies. The American founding myth is that
the country was founded by people looking for religious freedom. It is
certainly true that many of the original settlers were religious
fanatics, but the Constitution was written by rich guys who financed the
Revolutionary War. It’s why the Constitution is mostly about protecting
private property and commerce. The men running America in the 18th
century were property holders and a merchants. For them, religious
liberty was as much about taking religion off the table as any
idealistic notions of liberty. But, we still teach kids in school about
the Pilgrims, even making some of them black and Latino to be inclusive.

Another enduring myth in America is the people have a say in the running
of the country. <a
href="http://www.princeton.edu/~mgilens/Gilens%20homepage%20materials/Gilens%20and%20Page/Gilens%20and%20Page%202014-Testing%20Theories%203-7-14.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">There’s little evidence</a> to
back this up, but it makes for a nice myth. It keeps the peace. The
proof of this is the last thirty or so years. If you go back to 1980,
the Republicans have been the majority party for 16 years and the
Democrats for 18 years. If the polls are correct, the GOP will tie the
score here with the next election. At the end of Obama’s term, both
parties will have split the White House evenly.

Over that period, taxes as a share of GDP have changed very little, a
percentage or two one way or the other. What has changed is who pays how
much. Middle class tax rates have remained fairly static, while lower
income taxes have disappeared and rates at the top declined. The rich
have been made subject to new taxes and have seen many of their shelters
disappear so the net result is the tax burden on Americans has changed
little. The spending has gone up every year, regardless of who is in
charge.

The point being that regardless of the party in charge, the polices
remain the same. The counter is that the people like this stasis, but
that easily shot down. The people have never favored ObamaCare, yet it
passed and <a
href="http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2014/apr/25/mcmorris-rodgers-says-aca-likely-to-stay/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">will never be overturned</a>.
It is also why, despite widespread opposition across all demographics,
<a
href="http://www3.blogs.rollcall.com/218/immigration-overhaul-for-2014-decidedly-not-dead-says-diaz-balart/?dcz"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">amnesty will probably be
passed this summer</a>. No one in charge cares about the voters.

*A bipartisan overhaul of immigration, considered dead in the water just
a few weeks ago, is not only alive, according to the House Republican
leading efforts to broker a deal — it’s gaining steam.*

*Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., told CQ Roll Call that pro-rewrite
calls earlier this week from two Illinois Republicans, Reps. Adam
Kinzinger and Aaron Schock, recent comments from Speaker John A.
Boehner, combined with a rash of immigration rallies and protests across
the nation in recent days, are indications that momentum has shifted
back to those hoping to implement an overhaul of the nation’s
immigration laws this year.*

*Diaz-Balart, a major player in ongoing efforts to produce a bill that
could balance Republican demands for border security with Democratic
calls for legal status for the undocumented, said a solution is closer
than ever.*

*“I think we finally have the policy right,” he said in a phone
interview. “I think we have figured out a way to secure, to have border
and interior security, holding the administration accountable for the
enforcement … forcing the administration to enforce the law whether they
want to or not. And I think we figured out a way to deal with the folks
that are here in a way that is fair — fair, by the way, to those in the
legal system … who are doing everything legally, and also deals with the
folks that are here in a way that is fair and reasonable. And adheres,
strictly adheres, to the rule of law.*

*“So I think we finally have the policy right. And what we’re finding is
more and more people out there as they’re seeing it, different aspects
of the policy, are starting to say, ‘Hey, that is something that makes
sense.’”*

*Diaz-Balart said he thinks they’re close to a deal that can pass both
chambers.*

*“It is as close as we have ever been. It is still a big, big, heavy
lift,” he said. “I think we’re going to get there.”*

*The Florida lawmaker’s optimism comes as the immigration overhaul,
declared dead by pundits and politicians alike earlier this year, is
back in the headlines. Boehner, speaking at a Rotary Club luncheon in
Ohio, doubled down on his support for an overhaul and openly mocked
those in the Republican Conference who have dismissed immigration
proposals as “amnesty.”*

The reason, of course, is two fold. One is the Cult likes new citizens
from authoritarian hell holes like those in South America. These little
brown people don’t mind working in the field and living in tin shacks.
More important, they never question the big man in the big house on the
hill. Those rowdy white people from Northern Europe make bad subjects so
the Democrats, the political wing of the CML, favor open borders.

The GOP, on the other hand, just likes being bribed. Boehner is stuffing
his pockets with money from the Billionaire Boys Club to push amnesty.
<a
href="http://isteve.blogspot.com/2014/04/how-many-forbes-400-billionaire.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post from Steve
Sailer</a> makes clear who is against whom.  When all the rich people
are for something, there’s no stopping it. They have no qualms about
handing traitors like John Boehner their pieces of silver. To them, it
is pocket change. For Boehner, it is an easy way to get rich.
