---
title: "Why The GOP Is Toast"
date: "2014-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2909"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2909"
---

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/campaign-spot/389162/god-save-us-loud-im-staying-home-year-conservatives-jim-geraghty#comments"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I saw this</a> on NRO this morning. The
other day, <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/campaign-spot/389137/great-big-end-september-midterm-election-roundup-jim-geraghty"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I went around and around with some
sheeple</a> that I suspected were campaign volunteers for Ed Gillespie,
the Liberal Republican running for Senate in Virginia. My argument is a
simple one. If you don’t see a choice on the ballot that represents your
interests, not voting is always a choice and often the right one. If
you’re choice is a child molester and a rapist, no one would fault you
for refusing to endorse either option with your vote.

That’s the thing flaks like Jim Geraghty either don’t understand or
would like you not to understand. The latter is a strong possibility as
this has been explained to him dozens of times. A self-governing people
not only selects amongst the options available, they decide on the
options. One block offers up their preferred choice. Another block
offers up their choice. The people unsure of which block is right
ultimately decide. Some will reject all of the options and seek out an
alternative.

The grifters of the GOP insist the dissenters are being unreasonable.
After all, staying home means the other side wins. They always claim the
dissenters are looking for perfection and that the dissenters are being
childish. That’s obnoxiously stupid, which reinforces the sense amongst
the dissenters that the flaks simply don’t respect the opinions of the
dissenters. If every time you raise an objection you’re told to shut up
and sit down, what other conclusion can you draw?

What’s irritating about the “perfection” claims is they are easily
disproved by recent elections. Conservatives of all stripes, even
paleos, came out in force for the GOP is 1994, 2000, 2004 and 2010. The
latter election was fueled by the populist uprising called the Tea
Party. Their aim was to reform the GOP, not embrace it. Ever since, the
GOP has made war on these people. Telling these people that perfection
is the enemy of the good enough, when they have been living that life
and got nothing but abuse for it, is a kick in the teeth.

The problem for the GOP is that no one believes them. The Bush years
were a disaster for the Right and the GOP. A lot of Tea Party types
would run back to them if the GOP leadership was at least willing to
admit they bungled things in the Bush years. Guys like Jim Geraghty, no
one’s idea of a deep thinker, would do the most good popularizing these
confessions, not defending the privileges of an increasingly alien party
establishment. But, offering up profiteers like Ed Gillespie in a
winnable Senate race, however, says the GOP is more concerned with
purging their party of voters than fighting the Liberal Democrats.

This can’t last. It is why UKIP is about to drive a beer truck through
the Tories. The large number of Euro-skeptic in England need a party.
The large number of diversity and immigration skeptics need a party. If
the main parties refuse to speak to the issues important to the people,
the people will inevitably find someone who will. In the fullness of
time, the GOP’s decision to make war on the Tea Party will be seen as
the turning point similar to what the Compromise of 1850 was to the Whig
Party.

People on the Right are the most likely to accept half a loaf. It is
their greatest flaw, one that the Left has expertly exploited since the
birth of the American Left. The reasonableness and politeness of the
Right is its broken window, through which all of the Rousseau-ist rats
have entered. The party that pretends to represent the Right can no
longer demand their voters reach into the bowl and select a turd for
their turd sandwich.  Half a loaf is one thing. Half a turd is beyond
the pale.
