---
title: "Shrinkage"
date: "2014-04-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1467"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1467"
---

One of the truths about the modern economy is that it encourages the
sorts of deception the old economy considered fraud. <a
href="https://www.cnbc.com/2014/04/09/shrinkflation-the-consumer-goods-that-have-down-sized.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from CNBC in
“shrinkflation” is a good example. The very short version is retailers
are shrinking their products while keeping the price the same. This
games the inflation numbers. A candy bar may remain $1.25, but it is 80%
of its original size. The bag of sugar at the market went from five
pounds to two kilos, which is roughly 4.5 pounds.

That last trick is common with beverages. A fifth of liquor is now sold
as 500ML. A fifth is roughly 25 ounces, while 500ML is 17 ounces. They
will mess with the shape of the bottle so it tricks the eye. This may
sound like a small thing, but consider this. The tax on alcohol is
roughly $23 per gallon. That means the booze maker saves $1.30 on taxes,
plus the cost of tax collection and the cost of manufacturing his
product. Multiply that over a million bottles and you have real money.

Since most people don’t alter their eating habits all that much, they
tend to notice that the food bill is slowly going up. If it was showing
up on the price of product, people would notice it. When it happens this
way, it is hard to detect. That’s the fundamental dishonesty at work. We
live in a time when lying about everything is so common, no one notices.
Ours is a dishonestly culture. Not only is lying tolerated, it is
celebrated as the very pinnacle of business ethics.

This is not a new phenomenon. The old economy used to have examples of
how this sort of dishonestly was self-defeating. The example that used
to be used to teach was the pickle maker who hired a new plant manager.
Soon, the plant was much more profitable so the owner went to see how it
was done. The manager told him how he increased profits by removing one
pickle from each jar. That means every ten jars netted him one free jar
of pickles he could sell.

The owner fired his manager. The reason was the manager was not just
cheating the customers, he was cheating the owner. The “savings” were
eventually going to cost the owner business. In other words, they were
not savings, they were *accrued costs*. Somewhere down the line that
accrual would reverse out and someone would have to pay, most likely the
owner. This is the most basic form of intergenerational theft. That’s
spending tomorrow’s profits today. It creates a liability that has to be
paid tomorrow.

The fact that the food makers are lying to us is not surprising. The
standard has been set by public officials who lie so much it is
impossible to know the truth. They lie on spec, as the gangsters say.
Politicians have always lied, but it became the centerpiece of their
morality in the Clinton years. Aggressively trying to fool the public
was normalized in that period. As a result, no one can trust anything
said in public. These everyone free to emulate the ruling class and lie
about everything.

That last bit is not always obvious either. In a world where there is no
truth, you can easily miss what’s happening. In the last election,
Herman Cain was driven from the field because he liked getting freaky
with co-workers. The people shrieking in outrage, however, spent the
1990’s defending a man who was a serial rapist and was impeached for
shoving cigars into fat interns. The same people who lionized Hillary
Clinton for sticking by her man, mocked Cain’s old lady or doing the
same.

The Founders understood this and worked to shape public institutions
that were weak, so they would not warp the culture. They also worked to
make it tough for one religion to dominate the rest. The theory being
that if no one could hope to have control of the public institutions,
they would work to prevent others from it and the result would be a
preservation of republican government. They never anticipated what was
going to come from the radical reformers we call Progressives.

It is comforting to think that there is a limit to this. You can only
shrink the food so far, before the containers are empty.. You can only
hide the money creating and debt spiral for so long. Mathematics says
there are limits and once those limits are reached, the game is up. <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2014/04/10/us/nevada-rancher-rangers-cattle-showdown/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">It may be comforting to
think</a> there are still enough citizens willing to fight to keep the
country, but that’s probably a fantasy.

The overwhelming majority want the custodial state and will fight anyone
who tries to stop them. No matter how much and how often the Left lies
to them, they will trust the Left before they trust themselves. That
means the only way through this dynamic of institutional dishonestly is
some form of crisis. When the liars are no longer able to keep the
lights on, the public will turn to a truth teller. That truth teller
will be an autocrat who promises to restore order and dispose of the
radicals.

 
