---
title: "Assholes And Their Toys"
date: "2014-09-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2904"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2904"
---

Amongst gun people, New Jersey has a shabby reputation. The gun laws
there are authoritarian and oppressive. It’s why Tubby has zero chance
of winning the GOP nomination is 2016. <a
href="http://philadelphia.cbslocal.com/2014/09/30/new-jersey-man-accused-of-shooting-down-neighbors-remote-control-drone/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a> of
the nutty gun laws in the state.

* A New Jersey man was arrested after police say he shot down a
neighbor’s remote control drone.*

*According to investigators, officers with the Lower Township Police
Department were called to a home in the 1000 block of Seashore Road on
September 26th to investigate the report by a resident that his remote
control helicopter (drone) was shot down. Investigators say the resident
was taking aerial photographs of his friend’s home, which is under
construction.*

*While doing so, the resident told police he heard several gunshots as
he simultaneously lost control of the drone. After retrieving the drone,
the resident observed multiple holes in it that were consistent with a
shotgun blast. The resident called the Lower Township Police Department
and when officers arrived, he directed them to the area where he heard
the shots coming from.*

*After an investigation, police say they determined 32-year-old Russell
J. Percenti allegedly fired the shots that brought down the drone.
Percenti was arrested and charged with Possession of a Weapon for an
Unlawful Purpose and Criminal Mischief. The shotgun used to shoot down
the drone was seized by police. Percenti was released after posting
bail.*

First off, we will see more of this. Cheap flying gizmos with cameras
means every jerk in the neighborhood will have one. In the not too
distant future some jerk will have a drone spying on the woman next door
and her husband will throttle the guy. The reason the general IQ has
fallen is modern technology has allowed the stupid to escape the natural
consequences of their genetics. At the tail end of the technological
revolution, assholes get to easily reach out and share their
asshole-ishness with the rest of the world.

What gets gun people worked up about this is the homeowner who shot down
the drone gets charged with “Possession of a Weapon for an Unlawful
Purpose.” What in the hell is that? Unless they can prove the guy bought
the gun so he could shoot down that idiots drone, they are making stuff
up. This is why the cops are out of control. We have mountains of vague
laws like this. Every day in the precinct, the chief says,
“<span class="st">Show *me the man* and *I’ll find* you the
*crime*.</span>

As a gun owner and a normal person, I’m fine with local ordinances about
discharging firearms in residential areas. I’m also fine with the man
pulling the trigger being held responsible for the deeds of the bullet.
If the idiot flying the remote control copter wanted to sue, fine.
Giving the shooter a fine for discharging a firearm is fine too. This is
not a criminal matter. This is guy getting pissed off at his neighbor
who is a raging dickhead. But, this is New Jersey.

All that aside, technology is about to invite a whole new layer of
trouble in our lives. Assholes like the the guy flying the spy camera is
going to become a big problem and people will inevitably demand a
solution from the state. Frankly, I don’t know the right answer. If I
see a remote control gizmo flying over my property or even over my head,
I’m taking it down if I can do it. If I find the guy controlling it,
he’s having a very bad day. I’m sure I’m not alone. Banning the sale and
use of these things, including for police departments, is probably a
good idea.
