---
title: "Open Borders Religion"
date: "2014-02-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-02-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=985"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=985"
---

Eric Hoffer famously said, “Every great cause begins as a movement,
becomes a business, and eventually degenerates into a racket.” There’s
certainly a lot of truth to it, but he dismisses the religious aspects
that carry through to the racket stage. Al Gore is making millions from
the climate change racket, but he still believes it. The rest of the
cult *really* believes it. There are plenty of movements run by cynical
opportunists, but the congregation is still emotionally invested in the
faith.

<a
href="http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2014/02/meditations-on-steve-sailer-and-bryan-caplan.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> by Tyler Cowen
is a good example.

*In other words, we should keep on letting more people in until nativist
bias dwindles away into the dustbin of history.  I say backlash will set
in first, as  I have never met a truly cosmopolitan Volk, the
cosmopolitanites least of all.  I would say Bryan has the moral high
ground but not a practicable proposal.  Nonetheless we can and should
favor less nativism and more immigration at the margin. *

Cowen is a bright guy and often litters his posts with nonsense as click
bait. Still, one senses his attachment to open borders is so thoroughly
detached from fact; it is now an article of faith. No amount of facts
and evidence will dissuade him. Sure, he is cynically cashing in on it
when he can, but he is a true believer. In the comments, you really see
the fanaticism on display. A comment by dan1111 is a good example.

*I didn’t create American society; I just happened to be born in
America. It’s not clear to me that I have any more “right” to enjoy the
benefits of this society than people who happened to be born in China or
Ghana or Canada.*

*Also, underlying this is the assumption that a society contains some
finite amount of benefit that will be used up or diluted if more people
are allowed entry. When in fact, it is possible that these additional
people could be contributing to the society and increasing the benefit
to everyone.*

At the heart of every believer is self-loathing. They don’t join a cult,
mass movement or ideological cause because they are self-confident
individualists. They are attracted to these things out of self-loathing.
They hate themselves and by extension their ancestors and those who are
like them. They seek to swap out their identity for that of the group or
movement. This guy hates the part of himself called “American.”
Therefore he hopes America gets transformed into something else, thus
obliterating that which he despises about himself. He is the western
equivalent of the suicide bomber. Only through self-annihilation can he
be free. Taking the rest of us with him is his service to humanity.

In truth, I’m giving this guy far more credit that is warranted. In my
observation, the fanatic is not terribly introspective. They may spend a
lot of time in some form of
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Struggle_session"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">struggle session</a>, but they
have a huge blind spot, which is the mirror. The lack of self-awareness
is staggering at times. In this case, dan111 is most likely engaging in
a pubic display of piety. The point of which is to get positive feedback
from his coreligionists, which Brian Donahue, another fanatic, promptly
supplies. On-line, you often see the ritualized call and response you
see in Southern Baptist churches.

There’s another aspect that I think makes open borders enthusiasm a
religion. They always demand you prove them wrong to their satisfaction
in accordance with their preferred rules of debate. This is a common
tactic in cults. The Left used to do this with homosexual marriage. “Why
shouldn’t they be allowed to get married?” was a way of putting the
burden of proof on the opponent, by making homosexual marriage a moral
default. All of a sudden, the radical is defending moral order.

In the case of open borders, they start with, “Why should we restrict
immigration?” as if that question has never been addressed. This is like
stealing first base. Then they steal second and third base as well, by
asserting “Since immigration increase labor efficiency and makes society
more prosperous, how can limits on immigration result in positive
economic growth?” Finally, they eliminate the cultural arguments by
claiming opposition to open border is just a new form of racism, thus
anathematizing the issue.

A comment from a guy calling himself QWERTY gets to the heart of the
matter.

*Caplan never explains to us why immigration is so important. Why the
rights of travelling opportunist are more important than the rights of
the people who have created a society.*

*It is not at all clear why everybody should always have a right to go
to another society to enjoy what other people have created.*

Nope and they never will.
