---
title: "The Left & Free Speech"
date: "2014-04-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-04-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1443"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1443"
---

The sodomy lobby taking out the Mozilla guy has the right-wing cranks
out wringing their hands about the Left’s alleged turn toward
authoritarianism. It is a tiresome performance that never amounts to
anything. The game played since anyone reading this has been alive is
that the Left advances and the Right complains. There’s never
substantive push-back from the Right, just complaining about the
unfairness. There are two interesting things to consider about this
incident.

One is the Left has done such a great job selling their alternative
history of themselves, that hardly anyone knows it is nonsense.
Conservative Inc. accepts that the Left is the home of free speech and
tolerance. Of course, the one big idea that sprung from the Left was
Marxism and that has a body count of 100 million. If your thing has
spent the last century murdering anyone suspected of independent
thought, you’re not the religion of free speech and tolerance. But, here
we are anyway.

The other thing worth considering is if this is a change in past
practice. <a
href="http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/opinion/57788619-82/mozilla-eich-marriage-company.html.csp"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The tattered remains of
conservatism</a> thinks this is some ghastly new development. The Left
has been attacking people for unclean thoughts since anyone can
remember. According to David Horowitz, the New Left was running off
heretics every week back in the 1960’s. Going even further back, the
Left tried to ruin Whitaker Chambers because he had the gall to point
out that Alger Hiss was a commie. It is rather pobvious that intolerance
is a feature of radical thinking, not some new bug in the code.

Anyway,
<a href="https://www.jacobinmag.com/2014/03/the-left-and-free-speech/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a surprisingly thoughtful
look</a> at this last point comes from the very liberal Corey Robin.

*In a sharp take on the Left, Freddie deBoer asks, “Is the social
justice left really abandoning free speech?” Drawing on this report
about an incident at the University of California at Santa Barbara,
Freddie answers his own question thus:*

*It’s a question I’ve played around with before. Generally, the response
\[from the Left\] is something like “of course not, stop slandering us,”
or whatever. But more and more often, I find that the answer from
lefties I know in academia or online writing are answering “yes.” And
that is, frankly, terrifying and a total betrayal of the fundamental
principles we associate with human progress.*

*Freddie goes on to offer a rousing defense of free speech. I don’t want
to enter that debate. I have a different question: Is Freddie’s sense of
a change on the Left — “more and more often” — accurate?*

*To be clear, I know exactly the phenomenon Freddie is talking about, so
he’s not wrong to point it out. But from my admittedly impressionistic
vantage as a middle-aged American academic, it seems far less common
than it used to be.*

*Historically, the Left has had an ambivalent relationship to what used
to be derisively called “bourgeois freedoms.” From Marx’s On the Jewish
Question to Herbert Marcuse’s notion of repressive tolerance, some of
the most interesting thinking on the Left has been devoted to examining
the limits of what for lack of a better word I’ll call the liberal
defense of freedom and rights. And of course this tradition of thought
has often — and disastrously — been operationalized, whether in the form
of Soviet tyranny or the internal authoritarianism of the CPUSA.*

*But if we think about this issue from the vantage of the 1960s, my
sense is that today’s left — whether on campus or in the streets — is
far less willing to go down the road of a critique of pure tolerance, as
a fascinating text by Marcuse, Barrington Moore, and Robert Paul Woolf
once  called it, than it used to be. (As Jeremy Kessler suggests, that
absolutist position, which is usually associated with content
neutrality, historically went hand in hand with the politics of
anti-communism.)*

*Once upon a time, those radical critiques of free speech were where the
action was at. So much so that even liberal theorists like Owen Fiss,
who ordinarily might have been more inclined to a Millian position on
these matters, were pushed by radical theorists like Catharine
MacKinnon to take a more critical stance toward freedom of speech. But
now that tradition seems to be all but dead.*

*Something happened on the way to the censor. Whether it was the pitched
battle among feminists over the MacKinnon/Dworkin critique of
pornography — and their advocacy of anti-porn statutes in Indianapolis
and elsewhere — or the collapse of the Berlin Wall, most leftists since
the 1990s have been leery of deviations from the absolutist position on
free speech. Not just in theory but in practice: just consider the
almost fastidious aversion to shutting down any kind of discussion
within the Occupy movement.*

*That’s not to say that leftists don’t go there; it’s just that the bar
of justification is higher today. The burden is on the radical critic of
free speech, not the other way around.*

*Yes, one can still read of incidents like the one that provoked
Freddie’s post (though compared to the past, they seem fewer and farther
between). And critical issues like the relationship between money and
speech are still argued overon the Left. But, again, compared to the
kinds of arguments we used to see, this seems like small beer.*

*My take, as I said, is impressionistic. Am curious to hear whether
others have a different impression. And to be clear, I’m talking here
about the Left, not liberals, who may or may not be, depending on a
variety of factors and circumstances, more inclined to defend
restrictions on freedom of speech.*

The professor cannot be blamed for defending his side by claiming it has
been anything but in favor of free speech. That’s just human nature. He
seems to have a genuine interest in truth, even if he is a Progressive.
His willingness to confront his fellow ideologues is unusual and will
ultimately get him banished.  He is right to point out that this is not
a sudden up-tick in witch hunting. It has been worse in the past. They
are not killing anyone this time.

An alternative view is that as the last waves of this liberal flood
recede, the hard thumping fanatics are rampaging through the culture
looking for a few trophies. After the New Left had run out of steam in
the late 1960’s, groups like the Weathermen and
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbionese_Liberation_Army"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Symbionese Liberation Army</a>
went berserk and started killing people. Maybe we are in a
soy-vegan-latte version of that phase. On the other hand, maybe things
will get much worse over the next decade. Worse is always an option.
