---
title: "Wade Was LeeBonged"
date: "2014-07-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-07-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2224"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2224"
---

I’m laughing very hard watching the toadies in the sporting press line
up to fellate LeeBong this summer. The letter his people crafted worked
as intended and the full force of the liberal press is out promoting
LeeBong Inc. I give the guy a lot of credit for hiring smart people and
letting them run his affairs. One sports guy not falling for it is the
<a
href="http://bostonherald.com/sports/celtics_nba/nba_coverage/2014/07/borges_dwyane_wade_fooled_by_lebron_james"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">thoroughly cynical Ron
Borges</a>.

*If NBC is looking for contestants for the next season of “The Biggest
Loser” they can start with Dwyane Wade.*

*Wade now understands what Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert felt
like four years ago when he was jilted by LeBron James and temporarily
lost his mind. Put your trust in someone who says, “I’m all about
business,” and you’ll probably end up getting the business from him
eventually.*

*Four years ago James stuck it to a city, but at least the team he
played for deserved it to a degree because in seven years they didn’t
give him much help. This time he only stuck it to one guy but that guy,
Wade, damn sure didn’t deserve to be “Clevelanded.”*

*LeBron James was supposed to be more than Dwyane Wade’s teammate. He
was supposed to be his friend. But, hey, cash is thicker than blood (at
least when it’s in an $88 million pile), which is way thicker than water
and considerably thicker than whatever bound James to Wade apparently.*

*Two weeks ago Wade joined James and Chris Bosh, and opted out of the
remaining two years of his contract and the $41.8 million guaranteed to
him by the Heat, ostensibly to make room for Miami to do what it could
to keep the Big Three together. Only problem was The Big One wasn’t
staying.*

*Any chance he could have given Wade a wink or a nod? Any way he could
have left an anonymous tweet in Wade’s direct message box saying, “Ixney
on the opt-out!”? Might he have considered saying, “Think twice, my
brother, because you ain’t my brother, brother!”?*

*He might have, but instead he did to Wade what he did to the Cavaliers
and the city of Cleveland. LeBron James played him.*

LeeBong is not a dumb guy. He’s not a genius, but by the standards of
the NBA is an elite intellect. Unlike most of these knuckleheads he is
trying to build something that will outlast his playing days. To do that
means you have to be selfish. In this case, it means walking away from
his current team and playing the role of the prodigal son returning
home. Like the people managing his life, he always has a suitcase packed
and the care idling in the parking lot, ready for a quick escape.

*Maybe he didn’t do it consciously. Maybe he really believes he didn’t
know he left his heart in Akron, but the idea that it just hit him in
the last week that, as he put it on SI.com: “My relationship with
Northeast Ohio is bigger than basketball. I didn’t realize that four
years ago. I do now,” is ludicrous.*

*Where Wade goes from here is an open question. Not surprisingly after a
dalliance with the Houston Rockets that convinced them to deal away
point guard Jeremy Lin and a draft pick to the Lakers to open up cap
space for him, Chris Bosh reversed field and went back to Miami last
night, agreeing to a five-year, $118 million contract. Houston offered
him the max at four years and $88 million, but Miami could give him the
extra year and an additional $30 million, and Bosh, having learned
something from watching LeBron, snatched it.*

*At 32 and with aching knees, Wade is not in the same boat. At times
this year he seemed to have become the third wheel of the Big Three.
When healthy he can still play like D-Wade, but when his knees are
aching he plays like Lil Wayne, if he plays at all.*

*To save them and improve the Heat’s chances of getting at least to “not
two rings,” Miami rested him for 28 games. He averaged only 33 minutes
all season and played only nine games in 31 days going into the Eastern
Conference finals. Yet he still faded in the championship series. He
wasn’t alone, by the way.*

*Since he opted out, the Heat owe him nothing, but could admit he opted
out more to help them keep LeBron than to feather his own nest. Coupled
with all he’s brought to the franchise, maybe they pay him fairly, but
he won’t get paid like Bosh or James did, and unless Pat Riley has lost
his mind, he won’t get paid like he was going to be paid two weeks ago
either, whether he stays or leaves.*

*In the end, Dwyane Wade sacrificed himself for his team and his friend,
but it was all for naught.*

*Welcome to the other side of the NBA, Dwyane.*

The reason teams like to have veterans on teams is to help the young
guys figure out the reality of life as a pro. One of the things they
need to figure out is they only have so many years. At 20, a player may
think he will play forever. At 30 most have figured out they have only a
few years left. The guys who figure this out early tend to have better
career, assuming they avoid the things black players tend not to avoid.

James watched Wade fall apart over four seasons. He knows life after
basketball is right around the corner and he better be ready for it,
even if that means using and abusing his friends in the game. This move
back to Cleveland is all about LeeBong Incorporated producing cash long
after LeeBong in out of the league. That and giving the white fans
another reason to worship their black heroes.
