---
title: "Evolution and Bad Science"
date: "2014-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2014-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=2739"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2739"
---

Most of us with an interest in evolutionary biology understand that it
is mostly a speculative science. Genetics takes some of the speculation
out of it, but only a small part. The fossil record and materiel science
helps, but there are huge gaps in the fossil record that leave huge gaps
in our understanding of life in the long ago past. That does not mean it
is not science or without loads of interesting data. It just means the
the people in the field rely on inductive reasoning more than other
fields.

That said, there’s informed speculation and then there’s crazy talk.
<a href="http://www.businessinsider.com/future-human-evolution-2014-9"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> crosses into
crazy talk.

*Mankind is undergoing a major evolutionary transition comparable to the
shifts from prosimians to monkeys, monkeys to apes, and apes to humans,
according to Cadell Last, a doctoral student in evolutionary
anthropology and researcher at the Global Brain Institute.*

*Human life expectancy has already increased from about 45 at the start
of the 20th century to 80 today. Because of advancements in technology,
which will affect natural selection, Last suggests life expectancy could
increase to 120 as early as 2050 — a concept known as radical life
extension.*

*In addition to longer lives, humans will likely delay the timing of
biological reproduction and reduce the number of offspring too,
according to Last. Taken together, these changes could signify a new
type of human, more focused on culture than biology.*

Well, life expectancy has increased considerably, but that’s mostly due
to a drop in human violence and a massive drop in childhood mortality.
In 1900, getting killed by bandits was common in much of the world.
Dying from the runs was also common. It does not mean we are living
longer. People in the 18th century who were not murdered, killed in war
or killed by the plague in youth lived into their sixties and seventies.
Ben Franklin lived to 85. Augustus lived to 75. Tiberius lived to 79.

Fertility rates have been dropping in the west for a long time and no
one has a good explanation. The cost of children is one argument, but
children have always been a cost. Similarly, humans in the West have
been having children later in life. That’s not new either. Taken
together, it could be nothing more than a fad in the West that will go
away in a generation or two. Jumping to the claims about new types of
humans is nonsense.

*Last makes his case in a paper from the most recent issue of Current
Aging Science. Citing other futurists like Ray Kurzweil and Francis
Heylighen, Last theorizes about human interaction with technology,
relying on observations of past primate evolution and biology.*

Ray Kurzweil is a good example of someone who can have a top-1% IQ and
be crazy.

*According to life history theory, natural selection shapes the length
of an organism’s life and the timing of key events to produce the most
surviving offspring. In the “fundamental life history trade-off,”
organisms must choose between spending their time producing as many
offspring as possible or rearing those offspring to make them as
successful as possible, according to Last.*

*And as brain sizes increases, organisms require more energy and longer
rearing time to reach their full potential.*

Human brain size has gone down since human settlement. There’s no
science to back the idea that bigger brains mean longer development
cycles.

*Based on these ideas, three major shifts in primate history have
occurred toward longer lives and delayed reproduction: between
prosimians and monkeys, monkeys and apes, and apes and humans.*

*Humans already dedicate the most time and energy toward nurturing
offspring of any primate species, and this pattern is becoming only more
extreme.*

*“Human life history throughout our species evolution can be thought of
as one long trend towards delayed sexual maturation and biological
reproduction (i.e., from ‘living fast and dying young’ to ‘living slow
and dying old’),” Last writes.*

*While physical needs fueled previous evolutionary changes, cultural and
technological innovations will drive the next shift, which has been
accelerating since the Industrial Revolution.*

*Simply said, humans need more time to develop to take advantage of our
complex world.*

This is just Tofflerism wrapped in bad science. The pace of change may
seem like it is accelerating, but we can’t know how the pace of change
felt in 1930 or 1430. If you were alive in Bohemia in 1620, life was
changing pretty damned fast.

*Considering recent advancements like in-vitro fertilization,
egg-freezing, and even adoption, the mechanics of biological
reproduction have radically changed. “The biological clock isn’t going
to be around forever,” Last says — or at least, people can turn it off
or ignore it for a while.*

*Today, and even more so in the future, the success of individual and
collective human life depends on knowledge and economic prosperity.
Passing on new and important ideas to the next generation involves a
process called cultural reproduction, which redirects time and energy
toward cultural activities, as opposed to biological reproduction.*

In the 19th century, what passed for futurists used to write about how
the Industrial Revolution was radically altering humanity. H. G. Wells
comes to mind. Marx was so convinced he founded one of the most
destructive cults in human history. I would imagine that the spread of
settlement probably included cranks claiming the advent of farming was
the end times.

As far as a new type of human, that’s the lesson of the fossil record.
No species sticks around for ever. Some have a nice long run and things
change too fast for them to adapt. Then poof, they are nothing more than
weird looking marks on a stone. Others come along have a relatively
brief run and end up as nothing more than <a
href="http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/519b6a3c-3439-11e4-b81c-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3D3SCKsnF"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">drawings on a cave wall</a>.
But, some species adapt and then adapt and then adapt again. When you’re
in the drive through at KFC, you’re not thinking of T-Rex,
<a href="http://www.theguardian.com/science/2007/apr/13/uknews.taxonomy"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">but he is thinking of you</a>,
through the mists of time, leastways.
