---
title: "Dick Face"
date: "2015-04-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4352"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4352"
---

I’ve called a lot of people “dick head” in my life. I’ve certainly
called a few of them “dick face” when required. Australians have elected
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Face" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Dick Face</a> to local office. There’s a whole genre of
pornography on this theme that we can skip. Now, there’s a treatment for
aging that, well, takes the term “dick face” in <a
href="http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2015/04/23/foreskin-facials-hydrafacial-nyc/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">an entirely different direction</a>.

*What is the secret to a smooth, younger-looking complexion?*

*Foreskin, apparently. Baby foreskin to be exact.*

*The anti-aging industry is a billion dollar one, and both men and women
will try just about anything to get a youthful appearance.*

*Better known as a HydraFacialMD, the treatment claims to be highly
effective at improving overall skin health and remedying fine lines and
wrinkles, skin texture and advanced signs of aging — among other
things.*

*Dr. Gail Naughton, who developed the technology, told NY Magazine, “As
we age, our cells divide at a slower rate, which contribute to the
telltale signs of aging, like wrinkles and loss of firmness and
luminosity. Growth factors captured from the donated foreskin of a baby
(just one can generate over a million treatments) are at their peak
ability in promoting rapid cell turnover. Applied topically, they spur
adult skin cells to regenerate. This is said to have a smoothing effect
on the skin.”*

*Certain spas and doctors offices offer the foreskin facials in NYC.*

*Some who’ve tried it rave about the results.*

*Ashley Weatherford, <a
href="http://nymag.com/next/2015/03/can-a-babys-foreskin-give-you-youthful-skin.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Associate Beauty Editor for NY Mag</a>,
tried the facial and said it gave her “Beyonce-level confidence.”*

*“Of course when it comes to facials, the proof is in the mirror. My
skin glows in a way that I thought only Jennifer Lopez could glow,”
Weatherford wrote.*

*“And a part of me feels like a Disney evil queen, draining youth from a
newborn for a few weeks of a restored complexion. Is this the future of
facials? And if so, is it wrong that I want more?”*

*Would you try the HydraFacialMD? Let us know in the comments below and
[on Facebook.](https://www.facebook.com/CBSNewYork?ref=hl)*

This is why satirists are a dying breed.

 
