---
title: "Obama: The L. Ron Hubbard of Modern Liberalism"
date: "2015-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4810"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4810"
---

On a few occasions, here and elsewhere, I compared the <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/arts/culture/la-et-cm-thomas-jefferson-confederate-statues-20150624-story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">recent spasm of monument desecration by
the American Left</a> to what we are seeing with <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2015/06/24/middleeast/syria-isis-palmyra-shrines/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ISIS in the Near East</a>. It is an easy
comparison. One group of fanatics is attacking the monuments of the past
because Allah commands it. Another is attacking symbols from the past
because the void where God used to exist in their cosmology commands it.

Look, the primary attraction of the comparison is it makes Progressives
nuts when you point out this comparison. Their near total lack of
self-awareness coupled with total ignorance of their ideological
movement causes them to think they are pure logic machines, the exact
opposite of the sky-god worshiping barbarians. It’s a classic example of
the hive mentality of cults. Hold a mirror up to them and they shriek in
horror.

The joking aside, I do think the Left has jumped the fence and is no
longer simply a political ideology. This is fairly obvious with the
reaction to Bernie Sanders, who is an old school commie. Bernie is
focused on economics, not culture. When pressed, he mouths the Cult-Marx
platitudes, but he’s clearly not into it. His defense of American jobs
with regards to immigration sent the Vox boys into hysterics.

It’s tempting to think of the modern Progressives as tarted up commies
from the previous age, but there are a different breed of cat. Theirs is
a spiritual movement, more than economics or even ideology. They see
salvation through egalitarianism and multiculturalism. Leveling the
economic playing field is simply not important to them, especially since
most are in the managerial elite.

An example of what I mean is early on in Obama’s tenure, he talked about
creating a domestic army to address the laundry list of ills he thought
needed attention. He was not thinking about a teacher corp pr civilian
conservation corp. He had something closer to the Jehovah’s Witnesses in
mind, an army of young people scolding the non-believers. In other
words, they were building a mass movement.

That has eventually turned in Organizing for America, the off-the-books
campaign operation that Team Obama used to coordinate, outside the view
of Congress, their operations of the 2012 election. Presidents have
campaign operations, but this was a radical departure in that it was
intended to live on long after Obama left office. It would allow him to
co-opt future campaigns by maintaining a private agit-prop operation
coordinating with groups like the SEIU and the vast army of non-profits
like Planned Parenthood.

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/17/us/politics/with-high-profile-help-obama-plots-life-after-presidency.html?hp&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;module=second-column-region&amp;region=top-news&amp;WT.nav=top-news&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story in the Times</a> about how
Obama is doing something different folds in nicely with his dreams of
being the spiritual leader of global liberalism, defining the morality
of the New Religion and by extension, the nation.

*Publicly, Mr. Obama betrays little urgency about his future. Privately,
he is preparing for his postpresidency with the same fierce discipline
and fund-raising ambition that characterized the 2008 campaign that got
him to the White House.*

*The long-running dinner this past February is part of a methodical
effort taking place inside and outside the White House as the president,
first lady and a cadre of top aides map out a postpresidential
infrastructure and endowment they estimate could cost as much as $1
billion. The president’s aides did not ask any of the guests for library
contributions after the dinner, but a number of those at the table could
be donors in the future.*

*The $1 billion — double what George W. Bush raised for his library and
its various programs — would be used for what one adviser called a
“digital-first” presidential library loaded with modern technologies,
and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.*

*Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill
Clinton, whose associates raised just enough money to build his library
in Little Rock, Ark., forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors
for years to come. Including construction costs, Mr. Obama’s associates
set a goal of raising at least $800 million — enough money, they say, to
avoid never-ending fund-raising. One top adviser said that $800 million
was a floor rather than a ceiling.*

What Obama does not want to be doing in his retirement is grubbing for
money. What he enjoys most is standing in front of adoring crowds
telling them his inner thoughts. Obama speeches have always been an
interior monologue broadcast to whoever is within earshot. If the Obama
Foundation is a self-perpetuating financial engine that keeps him and
his wife in a lifestyle they believe they deserve, Obama is free to
spread the gospel.

*One top aide said Mr. Obama respected Mr. Bush’s decision to limit his
time in public after leaving office, but also admired Mr. Clinton’s
aggressive use of the spotlight to press his agenda.*

*“My sense is that he’s probably a blend of the two,”’ said David
Plouffe, one of Mr. Obama’s closest former aides and a member of the
library foundation board.*

*In response to a question from Mr. Doerr at the February White House
dinner, the president told the group that he wanted to focus on civic
engagement and opportunities for youths, pushing guests for ideas about
how to make government work better, Mr. Hoffman recalled in an
interview. The president asked if social networks could improve the way
society confronted problems.*

*In their conversations with Mr. Obama and his advisers, people from
Silicon Valley and Hollywood are pressing for a heavy reliance on
cutting-edge technology in the library that would help spread the story
of Mr. Obama’s presidency across the globe. Ideally, one adviser said, a
person in Kenya could put on a pair of virtual reality goggles and be
transported to Mr. Obama’s 2008 speech on race in Philadelphia.*

*Some discussions at the dinners have focused on the role Mr. Obama
might play internationally after the diplomatic opening with Cuba, the
nuclear deal with Iran, the confrontations with Russia and the drawdown
of American forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.*

Obama is not the hardest working guy in the world, something I actually
admire about him, so I question whether he will really want to be the
spiritual leader of his own cult. His people clearly think that is his
future. Undoubtedly,
<a href="https://www.barackobama.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Organizing for Action</a> will be a part of this
initiative. That will allow Obama to control the Democrat Party by
wielding financial and spiritual power long after he is gone from
office.

Progressive Awakenings tend to run out of steam after a decade or so.
The reason is the charismatic leaders tend to die off. Wilson was a
vegetable at the end. FDR dropped dead. JFK, MLK and RFK were all shot
in the 60’s and there was no one to pick up the torch.

Obama is young and in good health so he could possible keep the torch
lit well beyond the normal active phase. He could set himself up in New
York City and a mountain lair in Hawaii, where he can direct his
followers and issue encyclicals to the faithful. Another book is on the
way so it could perhaps be the <span class="_Tgc">**Dianetics** of the
Left.</span>
