---
title: "Cutting The Cord"
date: "2015-12-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5604"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5604"
---

Yesterday I got home early and flipped on the news for some reason. The
only time I bother with TV news is when something big happens and they
have pictures or video. Otherwise watching some dunces read from the
teleprompter is of no interest to me. The shout-shows are even less
interesting as they never have anyone on representing my ideological
perspective. for whatever reason, I had the urge, so I put on Fox News.

They have a show called The Five starring Greg Gutfeld and some other
people who are unknown to me. I saw a middle-aged guy who reminded me of
every marketing VP I’ve ever met. There was a little blonde scold that I
think worked for Bush. Being Fox, they had two bimbos with big hooters
to fill out the set. Presumably, the gag here is they have five people
on the set, hence the name.

I only watched for a few minutes as they were taking turns showing their
outrage and dismay over something Trump said about a reporter. It was
like an AA meeting where instead of taking turns confessing their sins,
they took turns confessing Trump’s sins. “Hi my name is Greg and Donald
Trump is a big meanie.” The way they were carrying on I thought maybe
Trump dropped the F-bomb on some nuns, but it turns out he just said
something mean to a reporter.

As I turned it off, I was thinking about why Fox would be anti-Trump. It
seems to me that their target audience overlaps quite a bit with the
sort of people who like Trump’s bluntness and candor. From what I
gather, they have a parade of chattering skulls day after day saying bad
things about Trump and his supporters. That strikes me as foolish, but
maybe I’m misjudging the Fox New audience.

Anyway, it got me thinking about the cable news rackets. I’m about to
cut the cord and go Kodi/Sling for my video entertainments and the one
thing I will not have is a cable news channel. I’m not really sure I
care, but I suspect the reason none of them offer a cable-free service
is they know there’s not that much interest. I’d watch free, but I would
not pay and I doubt many people would pay to see Fox or CNN.

The thing is, American news operations are pretty much the opposite of
what they claim. They always talk about speaking truth to power, but
that’s nonsense. They are not reporting on the doings of the powerful
for the benefit of the people. They are lecturing the people on behalf
of the powerful, operating as a propaganda organ for the managerial
state.

Conservative media like Fox was supposed to be what the Progressive
media claims to be, but it really has not worked out that way. Instead,
they function as the media arm of the Republican Party. One of the
reasons I no longer watch Fox News other than when there is a disaster
is that I know what they plan to say before they say it. It’s the same
old cheers I’ve been hearing since the Bush years.

One of my themes here is that the two parties are really just two sides
of the dominant culture of America. You see this with the cable news
operations. In the 90’s, CNN was the dominant operation and reflected
the ruling consensus. It was called the Clinton News Network for a
reason. Fox came along simply because CNN was so flagrantly biased in
favor of one side.

In the 2000’s, MSNBC became the super Progressive challenge to CNN. This
reflected the Progressive takeover of the Democratic Party and ruling
elite. Fox boomed as the other side of the coalition needed a media
outlet of its own. Poor CNN, which represented the old Clinton-Bush
consensus, fell to third place. There were times when CNN had no
ratings, suggesting no one was actually watching on purpose.

Fast forward to now and CNN has absorbed the MSNBC crowd to become the
left hand side’s media outlet. They are now \#2 in the ratings behind
Fox News, which is the right hand side’s propaganda outlet. Whether or
not the viewership numbers reported are accurate, I don’t know, but
hardly anyone watches any of these channels. They exist as entertainment
for the political class.

That’s why they are fighting the cord cutting and unbundling. Make CNN
optional and they lose 99.99% of their “subscribers.” Fox would probably
lose 95% of their subscribers. Fox could probably live off ad dollars,
but as a much smaller operation. MSNBC would go bust in a week and the
extra channels like CNBC would be gone in an hour.

Like so much of modern life, normalville is farmed for taxes and fees to
keep the managerial elite in the lifestyle they expect. Working men are
paying $100 a month for TV service so Bill O’Reilly can peddle his
crappy books. If you want to be an optimist, the coming implosion of the
cable model is one place to look. This rentier system that is the modern
American economy is slowly unraveling, one cord cutter at a time.
