---
title: "2015 Predictions"
date: "2015-01-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3471"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3471"
---

A popular thing to do this time of year is make predictions about the
coming year. I did such a post last year.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=745" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Here they are</a> if you are interested. I don’t have
anything I’d like to change about the prologue of that predictions post.

Predictions are easy to make and fun because we get to project our hopes
and dreams onto the blank sheet of tomorrow. The easy things to get
right in the near term are the linear ones. The inflection points and
random occurrences are very difficult to see in advance. <a
href="http://blogs.wsj.com/economics/2014/12/31/what-the-economic-forecasters-got-right-and-wrong-in-2014/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The black swan events</a>, of course, are
impossible to know. You know, like the collapse of oil prices that every
economist missed.

I’m a little surprised by how right I was in my picks. I got the Super
Bowl wrong. Otherwise, I was right on everything else. I guess you can
quibble with my stock market prediction a little, but I got the main
parts right. The same is true of the election and the economy.

The thing I’m happiest about is the collapse of ebook sales. It looks
like that fad has run its course. I read a lot and I mean I *actually*
read. The people who promote ebooks mostly browse and display. By that I
mean they skim a book and carry it around to show their friends that
they are reading the latest Michael Lewis or Malcolm Gladwell. You can’t
do that with a Kindle. For a while they could show off their iPad, but
now everyone has them so it is back to books.

After weeks of contemplation, years of study and the proper sacrifices
made to my gods, I have glimpsed into the future and teased out some
predictions based on my reading of the entrails.

1\) The US economy will have one of its best years in two decades.
Collapsing energy prices will push all prices down and the Fed will
respond with more free money. It is not an accident that every recession
is preceded by a spike in energy prices. Big economic booms are preceded
by a collapse in energy prices. The high growth in the Clinton years
came from cheap gas. In the Reagan years, cheap gas preceded the boom.
Gas prices are around two bucks now and will be under it by summer.
Growth will come in around 4.0% for 2014.

2\) The new money has to go somewhere and housing is the most likely
place. We’re already seeing a return of sub-prime lending, mostly in
cars, but also in housing. The bankers had time to think up new names
and new ways to package it so 2015 is a good time to unleash the hounds.
Expect your mailbox to be littered with credit card apps and mortgage
offers. I’m already seeing them here in the ghetto so they will be
hitting mainstream soon enough. You’re probably thinking that we can’t
be that dumb, but yes, we can be that dumb.

3\) The DOW will continue treading water as the world adjusts to cheap
energy. As we have seen of late, cheap energy is not all good news.
Every BTU in the ground has a financial instrument attached to it. Big
swings in price mean big ripples through the financial system. When that
asset you pledged as collateral is losing value, the bank makes the call
and you sell what you can to raise cash.

But, the market will respond to the better economy with a nice run later
in the year. The guys at Zero Hedge will be howling in agony, but the
great unraveling is not coming in 2015. By conventional measures, like 
P/E, the market is over valued, but nothing like before the previous
crashes. Better earnings will bring the ratios back in line. The DOW
breaks 19,000, but finishes just under that new high.

4\) There will be no material changes to ObamaCare from the courts or
from Congress. The ruling class was sharply divided over it, but they
will not go to war over it. That’s what everyone forgets. The people in
charge have other concerns besides keeping the rabble under control.
They have to keep their own peace. Obama will be gone in two years. They
can wait. Plus, it is a great jobs program for the friends and relatives
of elected officials. As we see with the tax code, complexity is good
for the skimmers and grifters called consultants.

5\) The GOP field for president will take shape this year. By the end of
the summer, the “Wets” will be led by Jeb Bush. His emergence will chase
off minor figures in that wing like Marco Rubio and Paul Ryan. His
competition will be Chris Christie, who has no choice but to run this
time. Christie is basically Bush-lite, no pun intended. Why have the
light version when you can have the real thing? Bush will be the leader
by fall, maybe even forcing Christie out before it gets started.

The “Dries” will be more interesting. Rand Paul is the early favorite,
but he has a problem. In Kentucky, he cannot run for Senate and
President at the same time. With Jeb in the race, my bet is he flirts
with it, but sticks with his Senate job. Scott Walker has the best
resume, but the worst TV style. Bobby Jindal has the ethnic thing going
for him and many in the GOP are looking for a chocolate savior, but the
Dries care more about ideas than image. In another age, Mike Pence would
be everyone’s second choice and emerge as the consensus choice. Today,
he just ends up as everyone’s first loser. Rick Perry will give it
another shot, but he has the Dan Quayle disease and he sounds too much
like W. John Kasich is the guy who will emerge as the conservative
choice in the primary.

Finally, the snake handlers will have a candidate. Rick Santorum filled
that job in 2012 and he’s not doing anything now. He plans a speaking
tour in Iowa this month so it is safe to assume he runs again. The
Evangelicals are not enough to carry a candidate to victory, but they
can keep him in the game. Mike Huckabee will also test the waters. He’s
been going to Iowa for a while now and he is a much better politician
than Santorum. My bet is he emerges as the leader of the Pat Robertson
wing this year.

6\) The Democrat field will be a little less fun, but still worth
watching. Butch O’Malley, the former governor of Maryland needs a job.
He’s a Clinton rump-swab, but he also needs money so he will run, hoping
to get on the ticket as a second. Jim Webb is running. Joe Biden will
run. I suspect we see some others jump in just to get some exposure. The
improving economy will do wonders for Crazy Joe as Obama will no longer
be as unpopular. Plus, he will have access to Obama’s machine and that
means the black vote.

The wild card is Fake Indian. She is the dream candidate for the hard
thumping crazies on the Left. Female moonbats have been buzzing about
her since she popped out of her teepee two years ago. The thing is,
she’s got some skeletons and the fake Indian stuff will get a thorough
review if she runs. The Boston media gave it a good leaving alone, but
she’s not getting off easy in a national race against a Clinton. I
predict she flirts with a run, but decides against it.

What we will begin to see in 2015 is the unraveling of the coalition.
Webb will target members of the old Democrat coalition, working class
whites. Fake Indian will be the candidate of the faculty lounge
radicals, until she makes it clear she will not run. O’Malley will
target the young, urban progressives that fill up the audience of John
Stewart. Crazy Joe will try to target blacks. Clinton will base her
campaign on Wall Street and K Street. My prediction here is 2015 is when
we see Butch O’Malley emerge as a serious candidate and legitimate
challenger to Cankles.

7\) Now for some lighter fare. I like the Patriots to play Dallas in the
Super Bowl, with the Patriots winning. The Patriots are an easy pick,
given the way they play at home. Dallas is the long shot pick, but we
always get something different. Plus, Jerry Jones has suffered enough
for that face lift. The gods will let him have one last trip to the big
game.

8\) The English Premier League will go bankrupt. The dozens of US soccer
fans will be so distraught, they will commit mass suicide by drinking
their beard oil. Soccer will then be banned worldwide in order to
prevent such a thing from happening again.

9\) In the other sport I watch, baseball, the Red Sox will return to the
post-season with the New York Yankees. The World Series, however, will
feature neither team. The Angels will emerge in the American League and
the Dodgers will win the National League.

10\) On the technology front, 3D printers will hit the market at
reasonable prices. By reasonable, I’m thinking under a grand for a home
model. They will be the must have Solstice gift for 2015. No one has any
need for 3D printing, but that discovery is for another year. In 2015,
everyone will be convinced they have to make their own plastic-ware or
be thought a Luddite.

11\) People will begin to wonder if Apple has a future. It has been a
great run, starting in 1998. That’s when Apple became a fashion
statement, instead of an expensive and buggy PC. Then they hit gold with
the iPod in 2001. The iPhone is 2007 and then the iPad in 2010 kept the
magic alive and the profits booming. Steve Jobs has been dead for three
years and nothing interesting has come from Apple since then. Jobs was a
master showman for this era. I’d put him up there with PT Barnum. The
poof who replaced him is not in that league.

Apple still sells a lot of stuff, but that stuff is on the verge of
becoming a commodity. Those elevated margins cannot last without some
way to keep the fad going. I just got a tablet for $100 from Asus. It
does everything you want from a tablet. Why would I spend five to ten
times that for an iPad? There’s a reason no one buys Apple desktops.
There whole act is about the fashion statement. That’s why their best
sellers are their most conspicuous mobile products – phones and tablets.
2015 is the year Apple stops being cool.

12\) Blackberry sells itself to Google for parts. They have some great
technology and patents. They are dug in deep with the car makers, for
instance. The trouble is they can’t sell enough phones to remain
profitable. They finally position themselves for a sale in 2015. Karl
Denninger has to be institutionalized as a result.

13\) This year we see the first widespread race riot in a major city. So
far the riots have been localized, but that can’t last. In a major city,
the cops will screw up and shoot a black guy that is actually innocent.
That will set off a race riot in that city and perhaps lead to unrest in
other cities. We’re on the down swing of the race cycle and that means
things will get worse until they become intolerable.
