---
title: "The Veto Society"
date: "2015-10-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5740"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5740"
---

Steve Sailer did
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/sleep-racism/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">a post</a> on this <a
href="http://www.nationaljournal.com/s/91261/black-white-sleep-gap?mref=scroll"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hilarious story in National Journal</a>.
I say it is hilarious because of the absurd claim that racism is keeping
blacks up at night. Blacks are obsessed with race, but even they take a
break from the topic on occasion, like when they go to bed. But, the
scolds who are forever lecturing us never take a break. They are
eternal.

What caught my attention was this line:

*“ON THE QUES­TION of how to ex­plain the black-white sleep gap it­self,
re­search­ers have a num­ber of re­lated the­or­ies. (There is a con­sensus
that in­nate bio­lo­gic­al dif­fer­ences between blacks and whites are not a
factor.)”*

It’s not enough to just ignore what the author clearly thinks is racist.
Just ignoring it could be viewed as insufficiently enthusiastic for the
One True Faith. The author puts that disclaimer in there so everyone can
relax and focus on the candy the Great Pumpkin is going to bring all the
good little boys and girls in the pumpkin patch. The rest of the article
is just a long pat on the head for the faithful.

It’s becoming a standard feature these days in public writing. The
author feels it necessary to sprinkle their work with quotes from the
catechism, enthusiastic dismissal of bad-think and the celebration of
good-think, even when none of these things has any place in the story.
Fundamentalist Muslims do this as well. They could be sending driving
directions to a relative and it will be sprinkled with praise for Allah
and maybe a verse from the Koran, just so there can be no mistake.

Anyway, I added a comment to the Sailer post which got this reply from
someone labeled AndrewR:

*In the most recent NR issue there literally was an article about
attracting more blacks to the GOP. There were paragraphs dedicated to
advocating the end of policies with “disparate impact” on blacks.*

*<https://www.nationalreview.com/nrd/articles/425617/civil-rights-republicanism>*

*As an aside, it’s juvenile and needlessly inflammatory to say things
like “sodomite adoption.” You appear to have the intellect to avoid
saying things like that, so please do so.*

My guess is that AndrewR is a homosexual. The worship of buggery has
reached a point where homosexuals now think they are a priestly class,
entitled and obligated to police the thoughts of others. He follows that
up with this:

*“Sodomite” has an obviously derogatory connotation.*

*No matter what one’s feelings about gays or any related issues, there
is absolutely nothing to gain by alienating gays and their friends, but
there is a lot to lose. Gays are not ideologically monolithic and many
of us want nothing more than to be able to discreetly live lives true to
themselves in a legal and dignified manner. Personally I can’t stand
most of the Gay Pride types. Most of them are basically radical
feminists with dicks. Many gays abhor the degeneracy understandably
associated with the gay lifestyle (pride parades, etc), and many have no
need to call their relationships “marriage.” As for adoption, I think
straights should take precedence but it’s very hard to argue that a
child would be better off in the foster system or in an orphanage than
in a stable, loving house with gay adopted parents. As for natural
birth, I strongly oppose gay couples choosing to have biological
children but I’m not sure it should (or could) be legislated against.*

*But I’m digressing here. My main point is that no person who actually
cares about effecting political change can afford to alienate gays at
this point in time. Certainly a couple generations ago there was very
little cost to alienating a group that largely lived in the shadows and
had few defenders. And no one knows what sort of fate the future holds
for gays in terms of political power and visibility. But undoubtedly at
this point in time no serious political movement can afford to use
language that would alienate essentially all gays.*

To repeat, my guess is this guy is gay and one of those strangely
prudish gays that tsk-tsk any bawdy talk, as if they are living in 19th
century England. The image of gay males on TV is always the flamboyant,
Liberace type that is outlandishly promiscuous in his homosexuality.
There’s another type that is the complete opposite of that popular
image, the type that thinks gay pride parades are an embarrassment.

Even if my assumptions here are all wrong, the point is that homosexuals
now have a veto over public discourse. They’ve become an axe wielding
lunatic in the middle of public debate that everyone tip-toes around in
order to avoid setting them off. My interlocutor in the Sailer post is
walking around thinking he could be sent to the lithium mines if he
upsets the local homos. No doubt he truly believes he is doing me a
favor my warning me about the dangers of angering the gays.

It’s not going to stop with the homos. Every fringe weirdo is lining up
to get their veto. Halloween has been canceled on the college campus
because it is impossible to dress up as anything other than a block of
wood without upsetting someone with a grievance. Vast swaths of
knowledge about the world are now off limits because people fear
upsetting one of these scolds.

This is the logical end of Utopian cults. The adherents endlessly
compete with one another to be the most pious. Think of a herd of zebra
where the animals are always jostling to be in the middle of the herd,
away from the outer dangers. The herds eventually gets so densely packed
it ceases to be a herd at all. It’s just a a jumble of snouts and
hooves.

That’s what is happening with the Left. Each group of weirdos wields
their veto with increasing ferocity, in pursuit of perfect purity. It’s
a recursive cycle of lunacy that eventually consumes the whole thing,
like a dying star collapsing in on itself. The trouble is these nuts are
going to take a whole lot of normal people with them into the abyss.
