---
title: "No Country For Greek Men"
date: "2015-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4943"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4943"
---

The idea of a nation or country as an organizing unit of human society
is a new thing in human existence. In the Bronze Age there were
city-states organized around the palace economy system. A ruling clan
could control multiple cities, but each city-state operated as
independent entities. Each one had a palace through which the economy
flowed. More important, the people in those polities identified with
their respective city-state.

The last time I bothered to read up on the history of the nation-state,
it was pretty clear that historians did not agree on much of anything
anymore with regards to the birth of the nation-state. The way I was
taught in school was that the nation-state was born with the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peace_of_Westphalia"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Peace of Westphalia</a>. The Westphalian
System was the first time Europeans had what we would consider to be
nation-states.

A nation was defined as a sovereign state with defined, internationally
recognized borders populated with people sharing a language and culture.
More important, the ruling authorities had exclusive dominion over
domestic affairs. The rulers of France would coin their own money,
manage their taxes and laws, arbitrate disputes between its citizens and
maintain whatever political institutions it found appropriate.

For the West, this has been the definition of a country for 367
years.That’s a long time but it is still an exception in human history.
The Roman Republic lasted 482 years. The Roman empire lasted 400+ years.
Put another way, the nation-state system has been in place for about 5%
of human civilization. City-states and empires have been the norm, along
with ad hoc temporary groupings along geographic and tribal lines.

This summer, the Westphalian System, as a practical matter, has been
ended.  Greece no longer possesses the things one uses to define a
country. The “Europeans” now control the financial system and the
currency. They will manage the national budget, setting spending limits
and priorities. They will dictate the laws and regulations. More
important, the national parliament no longer has any say over these
things.

Greece is not a ward of the state. Greece is a ward of the new global
technocracy. The alphabet soup of international organization were just
ad hoc councils until now, as they had no real power, other than what
the participants agreed to do with one another. In July 2015, for the
first time, a supra-national organization has taken over a country.
Greece is now a territory, a possession of the EU.

That’s the only way to read what has gone down over the last week. <a
href="http://apnews.myway.com/article/20150713/eu--greece-bailout-495b74be44.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The deal Greece “negotiated” with
Europe</a> is a full and total renunciation of its status as a free and
independent country. Tsipras admitted as much right after the deal was
agreed to on Monday. “We managed to avoid the most extreme measures,”
Tsipras said. “Greece will fight to return to growth and to **reclaim
its lost sovereignty.**”

In another age, a trouble maker country like Greece would face invasion
by other countries. If the Germans wanted the gold they lent the Greek
king, they would have to take it by force. Today, they invade their
financial systems and take the money that way. Of course, they are not
really taking the money. They are simply transferring what’s left in the
banks to the bankers in Europe. They will keep doing that to make sure
future interest payments are met.

It’s a fascinating thing in that most people, including me, thought the
Greek crisis was a threat to the EU model. It is turning out to be a
confirmation of the model. Maybe the Greek people will revolt. Maybe
there’s a Greek <span class="st">Gavrilo Princip</span> waiting for
Merkel somewhere. I don’t see any indications of that, but who knows
what the future brings. For now it looks like a stunning coup for the
Germans and their vision of Europe.

It is also a glimpse of what our rulers have in mind for the rest of us.
Participatory government is not very useful in the global age. The Dutch
East India Company had good reason to not go around the world spreading
Dutch republicanism. It is a hindrance to doing deals. The modern global
economy is for cloud people, through supranational organizations, to
make deals. Voters just get in the way.

The next thing to watch is how Greek politicians and the Greek voters
respond in future elections. If you’re a Greek voter, you have to know
voting in local elections is pointless. Years of that exercise have only
made your situation worse. Similarly, the young ambitious pols have to
see that courting voters is a waste of time. Snuggling up to the
technocrats in Brussels is the key to success.

Something no one in the major media bothers to discuss, because it is
hard, is how the loyalty chain is supposed to work in this new global
world. Kinship is the most basic form of loyalty. It is based in
biology. You increase the odds of your genes carrying on by working with
the people in your kin group. It is a basic evolutionary strategy.
Similarly, the tribe is just an extension of this as is the clan.
National identity is just the same concept scaled to its maximum.

The thing is, loyalty is both vertical and horizontal. The head of a
family has duties to his family and his family has duties to him. These
duties and loyalties are also between members of the family. In larger
groups, these become more formalized in customs, rules and, when you get
big enough, laws and religions. Still, even at the nation level, the
call of blood is still there. Francois Hollande is loyal to France as a
Frenchman. Merkel is loyal to Germany as a German.

How this is supposed to work in a global technocracy where the rulers
are floating around in cloud cities, disconnected from the people they
rule, is a mystery. How can Greeks have loyalty to Brussels? How can a
Dutch technocrat working in a cubicle somewhere in Europe feel any
loyalty to a grape farmer in Tuscany? To one another, they are not
people, just numbers on a page.

What is imagined for us is a no-trust, transactional society where
everyone is an economic man, whether he likes it or not. There will be
no countries and therefore no citizens. Everyone will be a rootless,
atomized cosmopolitan. The Greeks get to try it out first, but the rest
of the world will soon follow.
