---
title: "Free South Snohomish!"
date: "2015-08-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5234"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5234"
---

News brings word that the keepers of virtue have now trained their
sights on the South Snohomish girl’s softball team. Their crime, <a
href="http://q13fox.com/2015/08/18/local-team-eliminated-from-little-league-softball-world-series-after-allegedly-throwing-game-tie-breaker-loss/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">according to this story</a>, is in
playing by the rules in order to get a result the coercive authorities
did not like.

*A South Snohomish softball team in the thick of a major league-sized
scandal has been eliminated from the Little League Softball World Series
after losing a mandated one-game playoff.*

*South Snohomish lost a rematch Tuesday against Central Iowa, 3-2, ESPN
reports. The single-game playoff followed regular pool play — where
South Snohomish went undefeated — and was required after Central Iowa
levied accusations of game-throwing against the local team.*

*On Monday, the previously unbeaten team of girls from South Snohomish
lost 8-0 in pool play to a team from North Carolina at the world series
tournament in Portland. In complicated play rules, the loss in the final
game of pool play bumped the tough Central Iowa squad from the
tournament, while still allowing Snohomish to move on.*

*But early into South Snohomish’s loss Monday, officials from other
teams suspected something was up.*

*According to the Des Moines Register, the South Snohomish team didn’t
only lose to North Carolina, they lost badly. The previously hard-to
beat team didn’t get a hit, and they allegedly hardly tried to swing.
When they did swing, they allegedly tried to bunt on two strikes or
swung at balls in the dirt.*

*The Snohomish team’s four best players were also benched during the
game, the Des Moines Register reported.*

This is one of those examples that illustrates the difference between a
consensual society and a coercive society. The former is all about the
means, not the ends. Yes, the rules are there to give order and
structure, to mitigate issues that face the society. There is an end in
mind, but the focus is always on applying the rules uniformly and
universally, even if you sometimes get a bad result.

Coercive societies are focused on the ends exclusively. The rules are
just the tools used to get to the end. They are applied and ignored on a
case by case basis, because all that matters is achieving the desired
end. Utopian and religious societies are obvious examples, but every
authoritarian society is an ends justifies the means system.

In a consensual society, we admonish the sort of gamesmanship by this
team as poor sportsmanship. After all, throwing games is against the
spirit of fair competition, but it was permitted so you accept the
result. Utopian fanatics see an unwanted result and they change the
rules on the fly to suit their purpose. It’s why they cooked up a big
pile of goofy rules in the first place.

I think it was Alfred J Nock, but I may be mistaken, who formulated the
idea of the hidden law. That’s the unofficial rules, customs and taboos
that do most of the governing of society. Replace those with written
rules and you crowd out the social lubricants that allow for peaceful
coexistence. Put another way, written rules make crap weasels of us all
because they force us to game the system, like this softball team.
