---
title: "The Greek Revolution"
date: "2015-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4860"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4860"
---

The Greeks vote on something this weekend, but no one really knows
whether it matters. The news indicates that the deal offered Greece is
no longer on the table so the plebiscite on it would be moot. There’s
also the fact that <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11714655/Greek-banks-down-to-500m-in-cash-reserves-as-economy-crashes.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Greece appears to be in full blown
financial collapse</a>. The scenes on television remind me of the <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1998%E2%80%932002_Argentine_great_depression"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Argentine financial collapse of ’98</a>.
In fact, the comparisons are so close that the <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/argentina-recalls-financial-crisis-advises-greece-203416215.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Argentinians of that era are advising the
Greeks now</a>.

Here’s an interesting documentary on the Argentine crisis.

The fascinating thing about this last phase of the now seven year crisis
is that the enormity of Greek debt is finally being revealed.
<a href="http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2015/cr15165.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The IMF has released their analysis of
Greek debt</a> and there’s simply no way anyone can think the Greeks
will ever pay their debts. It is a mathematical impossibility. Further,
they will never be able to make their interest payments.

Greece has a €50 billion cash deficit through 2018, which means even
under the bailout plan that was offered, Greece would be accumulating
debt faster than it would be retiring debt. In theory, something magical
could happen so that the economy would boom, but the debt burden makes
that unlikely.

That means the people in charge of Europe have been lying to their
public all this time. Default was an inevitability. That will then be
followed by a restructuring of debt and debt forgiveness. Lying is no
surprise as it was always assumed that the EU was buying time to
transfer these debts from the private holders to the taxpayers.

The deliberate and seemingly pointless immiserating of Greece is what
one would expect from a loan shark. It’s not the money, it’s the
principle. The EU was supposed to make one big happy family of former
countries. The trouble is one of the family members is a bit of a
screw-up so the paterfamilias is teaching a lesson. It’s not so much for
the one taking the beating, but for the rest. “Don’t be like Greece or
we’ll break you like we broke them.”

That sounds good, but it remains to be seen if they will actually break
Greece. The first hit is the worst hit and Greece is taking the first
hit right now. By the time they vote, a fair number of Greeks will be
ready to see it through. The next hit lands to the body of the EU
financial system. No one knows what happens when the fallout from Greece
starts washing up in the rest of Europe.

It’s easy to dismiss Greece as a dead beat country full of oily
grifters. In theory, the Greek people have only themselves to blame for
electing crooks and liars. That’s an argument against democracy, but the
people never voted for bankruptcy. They were misled by their leaders,
who got hooked on the heroin of global finance. They supported joining
the Euro because they were told it would avoid these problems.

The problem at the core of global finance is that there’s no market
mechanism to restrain public debt. The whole point of a floating
currency regime is to disguise public debt in order to avoid making
tough choices about the welfare state. It’s not an accident that since
the Louvre Accords the size and scope of government has skyrocketed
throughout the West.

In other words, a currency system based on credit has worked at hiding
the cost of government. In fact, it has been so good at it no one
noticed that Greece was running up debt at an alarming rate. In the old
system, Greece would have been facing double digit borrowing rates long
before they reached this point.

Sovereign debt is mostly a way to rob the property holders of countries.
When the state borrows, there has to be someone on the other side of the
transaction. If they borrow from their people then they are taking
property with a promise to pay at a latter date. If they borrow from
abroad, then they are promising their tax payers will pay at a later
date.

The only people with the ability to pay sovereign debt are the tax
payers.

In the old currency arrangements, this was understood. Lenders knew
this. If you lent gold to the neighboring king, you did so knowing you
may have to invade his lands to get it back. That made lenders more
prudent, which made the crown more prudent. Credit currency makes it
appear that default is impossible so no one considers the cost of
collection.

Successive Greek governments have promised the property of Greek tax
payers as collateral. The Greeks on the dole are demanding their checks
and making a fuss about it on TV. The real revolt is the from the people
with money. The Greek taxpayers are refusing to pay up. Unless the EU is
ready to roll in the tanks, the debts will have to be forgiven.
