---
title: "Mitt Romney in Drag"
date: "2015-10-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5588"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5588"
---

In 2008, Mitt Romney ran as the guy to the right of John McCain, which
was not too hard given McCain’s record. The trouble for Romney was that
he was not much of a conservative, by anyone’s reckoning so the party
splintered. Evangelicals could not stomach a Mormon so they lined up
behind their coreligionist, Mike Huckabee. McCain had the party bosses
behind him, who thought having a black president was too important to
wage a serious challenge in the general.

In 2012, Romney re-purposed himself into Robo-Conservative. His
programming was combed through for any defects and bugs so that no
matter which buttons you pushed, out popped the standard “conservative”
response. It was a bit creepy watching a guy from West World run for
president, but they say we will be ruled over by robots soon enough so
it was good practice. The thing with Romney is that he said the right
things, but no one believed him.

That’s the problem with “evolution” in politics. If you start out as a
gun enthusiast who tried to bargain with the gun-grabbers, but evolved
into a 2A absolutist, people understand your journey and they believe
you.  If you start out as a gun-grabber and then suddenly change
positions, you better have a damned good story. Otherwise, you’re worse
than wrong, you’re a liar.

The Romney career is a great example. For twenty years he kept evolving
to meet the situation in which he found himself as a candidate. It was
not that he evolved as a candidate that got him in trouble. It was that
voters understood he would never stop evolving and that once in office
he could turn out to be anything or nothing. To paraphrase Malcolm X,
Romney believed in nothing so he would fall for anything.

Fiorina has the same problem, but it is not quite as evident to the
voters. I <a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5416" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">pointed out the other day</a> that she is a stalking
horse for the party bosses. They are tarting her up to walk the same
streets as Trump, hoping she can lure enough of his vote away to sink
his candidacy. Some guy at Bloomberg, who maybe reads this blog or can
see the obvious, <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2015-10-05/carly-fiorina-an-outsider-candidate-republican-insiders-can-love"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">has a similar take</a> on the Fiorina
show.

*Carly Fiorina is looking like the insider’s outsider candidate.*

*On the surface, it’s clear why the national political mood has swept
her, Donald Trump, and Ben Carson to the top of Republican presidential
polls. A former California technology executive, she has never held
elected office, a profile that a plurality of Americans say they prefer
to a candidate with gubernatorial or U.S. Senate experience.*

*Yet, as she recently demonstrated when otherwise-feuding Republican
lawmakers showed up to see her on Capitol Hill, she also has Washington
credentials that have won her fans inside the Beltway, even as she seeks
the nomination with a strategy that makes the GOP establishment a
frequent punching bag.*

I always thought that the problem with Romney, in the end, was that he
was an insult to the voters. The people who championed Romney just
assumed that the voters were too stupid to think about it too closely so
they would line up behind him as their betters instructed. Most did, but
many were disgusted by it all and stayed home. Whether or not it was
enough to swing the result is debatable, but it was enough to be
debatable.

Now the same folks that were ready to sell us Jeb Bush are now, in
response to the revolt on the Right, selling Carly! Fiorina as the
antidote to what ails the American Right. She is making many of the same
noises that the angry rubes in hooterville find attractive in Trump, but
she’s not one of those dirt people the modern GOP finds so disgusting.
The trouble is, <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2015/09/14/fiorina-backed-website-touted-planned-parenthood/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">she is just Mitt Romney in drag</a>.

Abortion is one of those issues that is a litmus test issue. If you
think it is a barbaric act, you are never in favor of anything that
makes it more attractive or available. There’s no wiggle room there. You
can allow for its legality and acknowledge the moral ambiguity in
certain circumstances, but you do so through gritted teeth. If you were
waving the Planned UnParenthood banner around, your conversion to the
pro-life cause better have happened on the road to Damascus. Otherwise,
you’re just adding “liar” to your list of defects.

Coincidentally, abortion was the issue that really hamstrung Romney as
he could never come up with a plausible answer for why he kept changing
his opinion. By plausible, I mean one that did not indicate he was a
soulless sociopath who would say anything to get elected. Fiorina is a
more gifted liar than Romney, having climbed the greasy pole of
corporate politics, which requires great skill at apple polishing. But
<a
href="http://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2016/president/us/2016_republican_presidential_nomination-3823.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">her polling</a> suggests she is not
catching on with voters outside the Acela Corridor.

Placing the Carly! phenomenon in the timeline with Romney, the picture
that emerges is of a party that has no idea why it is a party anymore.
All they know is they are not Democrats. The Democrats are not much
better as they are just a collection of fads designed to piss off the
squares in normalville. One party is a revolt against commonsense, the
other is a response to that revolt, with neither having anything to
offer beyond hysterics.
