---
title: "Sharper Than a Serpent’s Tooth"
date: "2015-11-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5851"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5851"
---

On the list of things you will never hear someone say is “Be careful
with those gold bars. They are valuable.” The reason for that, one
reason at least, is that everyone knows gold is valuable. It does not
have to be explained to people that gold is valuable. It’s obvious.

That’s true of most things. If a thing has universal value, everyone
knows it. That’s why they are valuable. Enough people want the thing, so
its value rises compared to things that are less desirable. The
exceptions are those oddities or specialty items that few know much
about, but there are exceptions to everything.

The same is true of people. Anyone who has sat through a “down-sizing”
session knows how it works. You look at the employee list and come up
with a rule for cutting jobs that keeps the valuable people. Maybe you
shuffle the deck so that those valuable people are moved to some new
position in order to keep them. If it takes a long explanation as to why
someone should be spared, they are not going to be missed.

That always comes to mind when [stories like this
one](http://dailycaller.com/2015/11/15/dartmouth-protesters-assault-students-while-screaming-racial-threats/)
get my attention. If black lives really mattered, no one would need to
say it. It would just be another item on the list of things everyone
knows. Instead, we have this organization financed by a [foreign
criminal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Soros) (why is he still
alive?) desperately trying to prove to the rest of us that black lives
matter.

To make matters worse, these protests are so futile that the activists
feel it necessary to assault people in at their school, place of work or
on public streets. Back in the summer these idiots were showing up at
breakfast joints in SWPLville desperately trying to get people, who
should be sympathetic, to pay attention. Instead, they just called the
cops and added security.

If your argument needs this nonsense to have a chance of convincing
anyone, it’s pretty safe to assume your argument is without merit. In
this case that means black lives really don’t matter very much. In my
neighborhood that’s obviously true as blacks shoot one another over
sneakers all the time. They abandon their children, beat their women,
and spend all of their time bringing shame to the black race. In the
ghetto, black lives are worthless.

That’s fundamentally the problem with the black lives matters stuff.
Instead of helping black people in some way, it just reminds everyone
else how screwed up things are with black people. Here we have a library
where students give a damn about their lives and, presumably, have
enough self-respect to take their schooling seriously. They are stopped
from being productive by a bunch of black people trying hard to be a
burden on the rest of the campus.

This turns out to be the one time where campus life resembles the real
world.

I’m no fan of inter-generational guilt or collective responsibility. You
are responsible for you. You cannot pass onto your children the guilt of
your deeds so that means your ancestors could not have done that to you.
Holding white people in America responsible for the deeds of white
people located here 200 years ago is madness. White people owe black
people nothing more than they owe themselves as citizens.

But that’s the thing. Like it or not, black, white, red, brown, and
yellow are here and we all have to get along as best as possible. As
citizens, we have a duty to one another to work in concert so that all
of us have a chance to make the most of what nature has given us. If
that means special accommodations like affirmative action, well *maybe*
that’s what’s best. I can live with it as it is a small price to pay for
peace, assuming that’s what results.

There’s the problem and it is clear in that Black Lives Matter protest.
Here we have unqualified blacks on the campus of Dartmouth, displacing
better qualified Jews and Asians who would relish a chance at an Ivy
League education. Instead of being grateful for the opportunity, these
blacks are bitching and moaning, making a nuisance of themselves. Worse
yet, they are interfering with the work of others.

Sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thankless er, Black Lives
Matter activist!

In the end, this Black Lives Matter movement is going to be a disaster.
More than a few white people I know have had enough of this stuff.
People who would never say anything racist are suddenly sounding like
John Derbyshire after one too many chardonnays. My bet is most of
America is damned sick and tired of Black America sounding like
ungrateful children. If black people want to find out their value, keep
pissing off the rest of the people with this nonsense.

 
