---
title: "Rambling About The Passive-Authoritarian State"
date: "2015-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4754"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4754"
---

<a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/men/thinking-man/11671617/Perhaps-the-worlds-conspiracy-theorists-have-been-right-all-along.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here is a strange article in the
Telegraph</a> that touches on a popular theme. That is, there are never
any consequences to failure these days. In fact, failure has become a
weird status symbol in the ruling classes. The bigger the screw up, the
more likely it will redound to your favor in the future. It’s as if we
have fallen into an alternative universe where all of the normal human
structures are upside down and backward.

The most obvious example is in finance. In the 80’s, the S&L Crisis
resulted in a lot of people going to prison for fraud, theft and
violations of various banking rules. I knew a guy who spent a few years
in the can after running a New Hampshire S&L into the ground. A lot of
people went to prison, including rich people. Further, a lot of rich
people were wiped out, losing their money or having it confiscated as
punishment.

Fast forward to the accounting scandals of the late 90’s and count up
the number of people who went to prison. That number is one. One guy
went to the can after Arthur Anderson collapsed. The number of people
who faced criminal prosecution after the dot-com bubble burst was tiny
and limited to the low-lifes running boiler room operations for
organized crime.

The pumpers in $5000 suits on CNBC faced no punishment. They did not
lose their jobs as TV fluffers. Most went on to hype mortgage stocks in
the following decade. Jim Cramer remains on TV despite recommending
Wachovia stock the night before the bank failed. This is the same guy
who defended Bear Sterns a week before it collapsed. He also has a long
list of scandals involving his days as a trader. Yet, there he is on TV.

There are, of course, plenty of excuses for why we no longer see anyone
of importance face consequences. In the case of the bankers and their
fraudulent mortgage practices, the excuse was that the law compelled
them to do it. That and forces no one truly understood, like magic or
evil spirits. The consequences of lending money to people with no
ability to pay was repackaged as a “black swan event.”

The Iraq Invasion mentioned in the article is another one of those
magical events that no one could have foreseen. After all, *everyone
knew* Saddam had secret super weapons and was about to use them on the
West. *No one*, of course, knew that Iraq would fall into tribal and
sectarian chaos once the strong man was toppled. It was all just an
inevitable chain of events no one could stop or predict.

Probably the best example of this consequence free world of the ruling
elite is what we have seen with Obama. I’m old enough to remember when
Nixon was run out of town for asking about whether the IRS could be used
against his enemies. Team Obama co-opted the agency as a part of its
election campaign and harassed hundreds of citizens. The agency then
repeatedly lied to Congress about it and still refuses to turn over
their records.

That’s a great example to use to show the break down of lawful order in
the ruling class. Forty years ago the people in charge vigorously
enforced their own rules on their own coevals. Today it is anything
goes. No one follows the rules, no one enforces the rules and no one is
the least bit troubled by any of it. The same people who cut their teeth
howling in protest over Nixon now defend Obama to the death. They don’t
do so on principle. They do so because they can.

If you want to dismiss this on partisan grounds, you can as that
requires no evidence, just wishful thinking. You cannot dismiss what’s
going on with Team Clinton on partisan grounds. Even her own people are
pointing out that they are running a blatant money laundering operation.
Their foundation is a way to process tens of millions in shake downs and
bribes. This is something on which the partisans agree.

Yet, no one dares do anything about it or even make much of a fuss about
it. The NYTimes and Washington Post report these stories and the people
in power shrug. There’s even a sense that many are privately laughing at
the audacity of the Clintons. Just when it seemed like they had plumbed
the very bottom of public ethics, they find some new lower level of
corruption.

This sort of lawlessness at the top is not without precedent. The third
century saw the Roman elite at war with itself. A general would be
raised up as emperor, only to be killed a month later by the same men in
favor of some new general. From AD 235–284 the Empire was convulsed by
economic and political crisis primarily due to a near total lack of
order amongst the ruling elites. It was finally ended by Diocletian.

Sticking with Rome, the years preceding Julius Caesar saw a breakdown of
the old order and the old customs. Rules regulating advancement through
the ranks were increasingly ignored.  War and crisis were used as
excuses to ignore prohibitions on holding positions beyond one term.
Eventually, Caesar rode into Rome and imposed a new order on the city
and the Empire.

It’s tempting to think we are seeing something similar in our current
age. Maybe it is, but it could also explain why national and global
elites are so hot for extra-national organizations like the EU, WTO and
IMF. Instead of inviting a strong man into impose order, they invite in
bureaucrats from an international organization to impose order on their
behalf. The Greek government tried exactly that with the austerity
program.

That may sound farfetched, but look at <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/jun/17/gop-leaders-vow-resurrect-obama-trade-deal/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the effort being put into this Obama
trade deal by the Republicans</a>. A year ago they were promising to
string Obama up by his junk and now they are murdering their own to pass
this deal for him. Packed in the deal are things that will allow some
international panel of bureaucrats to force things like amnesty, gun
control and increases in immigration on America, that could never pass
the legislature.

The future will not be authoritarian in the Orwellian sense. It will be
passive-authoritarian, where the elected officials stand around helpless
as their designates in the TPP or IMF force rules on the people against
their will. The inevitable abuses and corruption will result in everyone
standing around, carrying on like it is an act of God. Maybe there will
be some finger pointing at the alphabet soup organization, but no one
will ever be held to account.
