---
title: "Sanders-nistas"
date: "2015-05-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4596"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4596"
---

<a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2015/05/26/politics/bernie-sanders-campaign-launch-vermont/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Bernie Sanders is now running for
president.</a> First he tied an onion to his belt because that’s what
they did back when his ideas sounded fresh and original. Soda pop cost a
nickel and you could get a good haircut and a shave for two bits. Back
then, the Party stood up for the working man against the syndicates,
dadgummit!

Listening to clips from his  announcement, I could not help but think
that Michael Savage is right and liberalism a mental disease. Bernie
Sanders is an old man, 73 to be exact. That means he has seen every idea
of the American Left tried multiple times, all of which failed exactly
as predicted. Yet, he’s still demanding we spend more money on roads and
bridges, the poor and the environment.

His big idea is to spend a trillion dollars on road building. That’s a
about what we spend in seven years on roads. Bernie claims that will
create 13 million jobs. Assuming those jobs pay roughly $40K per year,
that means his big new roads program will keep those 13 million people
working for two years. Of course, most of the money would be stolen by
local pols, just like the stimulus money was stolen, so those numbers
are all mythical.

It’s something an old man should know, particular an old man who has
lived off the state for most of his life. That’s the thing with his
cult. These guys are always arguing from the position that their ideas
have never been tried and their cult has never had political power. The
big lefty stimulus bill was just a few years ago, yet no liberal ever
mentions it. Instead, they talk about the need for a stimulus spending
program.

It’s easy to dismiss a fossil like Sanders. After all, his schtick was
tired in the 1970’s when Phil Donahue was a big deal on TV. Forty years
on he’s like seeing a guy in a denim leisure suit with a perm. The thing
to remember, though, is that the middle-aged harpies on the cable news
channels will one day be old commie fossils like Sanders. No amount of
failure will ever change their minds. There’s no cure for this form of
madness.

The news coverage is worth noting. Sanders has no chance of winning and
90% of America thinks he is a nut, but he gets the favorite uncle
treatment. I guess that would be Uncle Ho. If a similarly fringe
candidate announced for the GOP nomination, the media would be giving
him the business and claiming it is proof the GOP is lurching into
madness.

Anyway, Sanders will get some votes. The wool socks and sandals crowd
now has an option on the menu. These are the people who think Ralph
Nader would have been a great president. Given the state of the Democrat
party, that’s probably worth 10% of the vote. That’s coming out of the
voter pool to be divided between O’Malley and Clinton. My guess is those
are votes that would have gone to O’Malley so Team Clinton has to be
happy.

The real benefit to Clinton will be the debates. O’Malley is young and
smooth, which would be big trouble for a run down old bat like Clinton.
Having Bernie on stage will make Clinton look young and sane by
comparison. It will be hard for O’Malley to draw easy comparisons
between himself and Clinton. The worst thing for a challenger is a
crowded stage, especially when one of the crowd is a crazy old man from
another century.

Aside from the entertainment factor, those of us outside the Left will
get a chance to see inside this fall. Cankles is the candidate of the
aging boomer crazies. These are the folks who cut their teeth in the
late sixties and early seventies. Butch O’Malley will be going for the
younger moonbats. I’m on the mailing list and it is already clear he
plans to be the white Obama.

The difference is O’Malley is probably more authentically black than
Obama, given their backgrounds, but O’Malley will have to run as a pale
penis person. Cankles is older now and her voters are older and
crankier. Eight years of watching the young whipper-snappers run things
has been tough.

Sanders is sure to throw some hay-makers at both camps, hopefully
working as a catalyst for full-on moonbat-on-moonbat violence. Imagine
the Democrat convention of 1968 except with walkers and middle-aged fat
guys in cheap khaki shorts screaming about Fox News. The riot will need
to be wrapped up by four so the Cankles supporters can make it to the
early bird.

I welcome the man from the past into the Democratic race.
