---
title: "The War On White"
date: "2015-12-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5957"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5957"
---

Living in an area dominate by the Cut of Modern Liberalism. I get to see
some hard thumping moonbat politicians up close. Liberal politicians are
a lot like Muslims in that they will try hard to blend in when they are
a minority. Progressive taqiyya allows the adherent to adopt positions
contrary to the one true faith if that’s what it takes to win office.
Bernie Sanders, for example, is pro-gun.

In their natural environment where they feel they can be open in their
faith, it is a different matter. In a state like Massachusetts, for
example, you can’t be too far to the Left, so you end up with
hilariously crazy congressmen and senators. Right now, one Mass senator
is a fake Indian and the other used to be an ice cream truck driver,
earning him the nickname Mr. Frosty.

Liberal politicians in the Imperial Capital have been running ads
letting us know how they have “stood up to the NRA” as if that means
anything. They are working with the White House on a choreographed
effort to take away white people’s guns. To do that, they are working
hard to make owning a gun the moral equivalent of owning a black guy.

Tonight, the *Head Nitwit In Charge* is giving a speech blaming
inanimate objects for making those wonderful Muslims go bonkers and
shoot up a Solstice party. This is supposed to be the cherry on top of
the media blitz the White House has orchestrated in their push to take
guns from white people. The [Daily News had
this](http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/san-bernardino-bloodbath-born-bigots-article-1.2456491)
last week. The New Yorker had [this
cover](http://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/cover-story-2015-12-14)
and the [NYTimes ran an unhinged op-ed on their front
page](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/05/opinion/end-the-gun-epidemic-in-america.html?_r=0).
Again, this an orchestrated campaign.

One interesting aspect to this is Team Moonbat is pretty much playing to
every stereotype people have of Progressives. The only thing missing
here is for Obama to start wearing wool socks and sandals, while
sporting an earring. Back pew mnoonbats probably think this is a great
strategy. A lack of self-awareness is a feature of all cults. Meanwhile,
[gun sales are at record
levels](http://freebeacon.com/issues/gun-sales-set-another-monthly-record/)
and keep breaking monthly sales records.

The other interesting part of this, and somewhat related to the above,
is that this is a standard tactic from the Progressive playbook. First,
they pronounce on some issue drawing a line between what is and what is
not morally acceptable to them. Then they demonize someone or some group
they see as representative of the bad think. At this point, the
Conservative Inc. is trembling, unwilling to take on their masters, but
forced to defend the victims. This is where they are relied upon to find
a way to surrender.

Homosexual marriage is a good example. Twenty years ago, it was a joke.
A man marrying a man was a standard gag in comedy. Then, it was ruled
out of bounds as the Cult geared up their assault on marriage. This is
where Conservative Inc. came up with “civil unions” thus ceding the
point, while pretending to stand up for normal people and their
traditions.

Then all of a sudden, anyone holding the traditional opinion on marriage
was hooted down and declared out of bounds. Today, if you are found to
be insufficiently enthusiastic for two dykes playing house, the state
takes your property away and threatens you with prison. Every baker in
America now lives in fear of the local buggery society.

That’s the plan here with guns. The Daily News piece flat out says
Nicholas Thalasinos deserved death because he was a fan of the NRA. The
NYTimes declares, “It is a moral outrage and national disgrace that
civilians can legally purchase weapons designed to kill people with
brutal speed and efficiency.” In other words, owning a gun is immoral,
unless you guard the NYTimes building, then it is OK. Otherwise, there
can be no defense of gun ownership.

One way to look at this is that the cult thinks they will win on this as
they have every other issue. They have made gun ownership immoral now so
the Right will tremble and then find a way to surrender to the Left on
guns. It’s tempting to think they are nuts, given America’s love affair
with guns, but these are the same people who passed Prohibition.
Progressives tend to get what they want even when the public opposes
them.

I’m not sure that’s all of it. There’s a sense of panic with the Cult
these days. Integral to their worldview is the belief that they are at
war with a great evil. Progressives are forever knocking over traditions
in search of monsters to destroy. Since Obama was elected, the
prophesies have said white racist America will try to take him out.
Normal people may joke about The Backlash™, but to the Cult, it is real
and they truly fear it.

In order to keep the coalition of weirdos and deviants pulling the
Progressive wagon, the Cult is declaring war on white people and their
guns. In other words, they are preempting The Backlash™ by apply extra
helpings of The Frontlash™ by declaring gun ownership immoral. It
remains to be seen whether they are prepared to go to war over it, but
religious fanatics trying to immanentize the eschaton are not known for
their restraint.
