---
title: "Banning Cigarettes"
date: "2015-07-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4888"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4888"
---

I remember the first time I noticed the anti-smoking Nazis. It was in
Cambridge and I saw a sign not only stating it was a no smoking area,
but it was a city ordinance. Lots of businesses at that point were
putting up no smoking signs. Restaurants had no smoking sections. It was
the first time I had heard of a law against smoking.

My thought at the time was that it was doomed to failure. Only a nut
would care so much about smoking to demand the proliferation of these
laws. It seemed like the wacko fad you’d find in Cambridge or Boulder,
but nowhere else.

A good rule of life is to always remember that the Left is crazier and
more committed than you can imagine. There’s always an “11” on their
crazy meter. In this case, anti-smoking laws spread like wildfire to the
point where some jurisdictions ban smoking in your own home. Now
[Seattle is banning smoking outside in public
areas](http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/07/06/us-usa-seattle-tobacco-idUSKCN0PG25520150706).

*Smoking cigarettes and other tobacco products in Seattle’s parks became
illegal on Monday, as the U.S. Pacific Northwest’s largest city joined
other American metropolises in restricting puffing in public.*

*Seattle’s Parks and Recreation officials voted in May to ban smoking in
all of its 465 parks. It had previously required smokers to maintain
25-feet minimum distances from other visitors in any publicly accessible
park land, the city said.*

*On Monday, the city, on its website, encouraged park goers to “smell
flowers, not smoke.”*

*The ban follows similar restrictions in more than 1,000 other U.S.
cities and communities across the nation, including New York, Boston,
Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Portland, the city said.*

*Cities have pursued the ban as the dangers of cigarette smoking became
more widely accepted, and because of cigarette butt litter.*

*“Tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of death and disease both
locally and in the United States, so it makes sense to take actions that
promote health and healthy environments in our public spaces,” Jeff
Duchin, Interim Health Officer for Public Health in Seattle and King
County, said in a statement after the May vote.*

*In Seattle, park rangers and police officers enforce the ban. A verbal
warning follows a first offense, followed by a written trespass warning.
Repeat offenders are subject to arrest.*

Imagine lockup in Seattle.

Thug: *What you here for?*

Hipster: *Smoking, sir!*

Of course, this move is due to the fact that smoking is just about gone
from American society. <a
href="http://www.livescience.com/48923-usa-smoking-declines-to-lowest.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Smoking rates are at all-time lows</a>
and it is now rare to smell cigarettes in public. Smokers, yielding to
constant harassment, go away to smoke. Office buildings now make smokers
stand away from the door so you don’t even smell smoke there anymore.

The bigger issue is the rise of vaping. The electronic cigarette has
turned out to be the greatest smoking cessation aid ever. I know plenty
of people who quit by using one of those things. I see people puffing on
those things more than I see smoking. The health effects are trivial and
the cost is far less than smoking so I don’t see why anyone would not go
this route.

You have to wonder if it is not getting close to the point where it
would be a good idea to ban cigarettes entirely. Smoking cigarettes is
mostly a habit of the poor so the lunatics can pretend they are doing
justice. They can get one last shot at the evil tobacco firms.
Enforcement would not be difficult as many retailers are getting out of
the cigarette business anyway. The black market would be trivial.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m not in favor of it. I was never in favor of
banning smoking in public. I spent many a night in a smoky bar either
screwing up my courage to talk to the pretty girl or commiserating with
the boys about the lack of women. If the bar wants to allow smoking
that’s their business. These small decisions must be left to the people.
It’s the natural order.

That said, if public health is your goal, banning cigarettes now makes a
lot of sense. Unlike narcotics, smoking is not a thing you do on your
free time by yourself or with a few addicts in a flophouse. Unlike
alcohol, smoking is not a social elixir. Ban cigarettes and most will
quit and the rest take up cigars or e-cigarettes.
