---
title: "The Parasite Economy"
date: "2015-01-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3495"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3495"
---

<a href="http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2015/01/05/virologist"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I saw this</a> in a Taki column by Ann
Sterzinger. I’m not a fan of Sterzinger’s brand of
<a href="http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Groaty"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">groaty</a> snark. It may be a
generational thing. Maybe it is my sexism. Who knows, but the New Yorker
piece on the Internet parasite was worth wading through Sterzinger’s
many references to bodily functions. Jim Goad has this habit too. Anyone
he does not like is compared to a bowel movement or vomit or some other
base human function. I don’t get the point of painting such pictures for
the reader.

Anyway, the linked piece above is interesting and free of scatological
references. The title is what gets me. A virus is always bad. Calling
someone a “virologist” should be an insult, unless the person works for
the CDC. Even after reading the article, I’m not sure if it is an insult
or compliment here. What’s clear is the subject of the story makes his
money by deceiving people and stealing the property of others. His sites
are built around appropriating the ideas of others to draw an audience.

Deception is the primary line of business.

*Much of the company’s success online can be attributed to a proprietary
algorithm that it has developed for “headline testing”—a practice that
has become standard in the virality industry. When a Dose post is
created, it initially appears under as many as two dozen different
headlines, distributed at random. Whereas one person’s Facebook news
feed shows a link to “You Won’t Believe What This Guy Did with an
Abandoned Factory,” another person, two feet away, might see “At First
It Looks Like an Old Empty Factory. But Go Inside and . . . WHOA.”
Spartz’s algorithm measures which headline is attracting clicks most
quickly, and after a few hours, when a statistically significant
threshold is reached, the “winning” headline automatically supplants all
others. “I’m really, really good at writing headlines,” he told me. “But
any human’s intuition can only be so good. If you can build a machine
that can solve the problem better than you can, then you really
understand the problem.”*

*At the bottom of a Dose post, there is usually a small “hat tip”
(abbreviated as “H/T”). Many people don’t notice this citation, if they
even reach the bottom of the post. On Dose’s first day of existence, its
most successful list was called “23 Photos of People from All Over the
World Next to How Much Food They Eat Per Day.” It was a clever
illustration of global diversity and inequity: an American truck driver
holding a tray of cheeseburgers and Starbucks Frappuccinos; a Maasai
woman posing with eight hundred calories’ worth of milk and porridge.
Beneath the final photograph, a line of tiny gray text read “H/T Elite
Daily.” It linked to a post that Elite Daily, a Web site based in New
York, had published a month earlier (“See the Incredible Differences in
the Daily Food Intake of People Around the World”). That post, in turn,
had linked to UrbanTimes (“80 People, 30 Countries and How Much They Eat
on a Daily Basis”), which had credited Amusing Planet (“What People Eat
Around the World”), which had cited a 2010 radio interview with Faith
D’Aluisio and Peter Menzel, the writer and the photographer behind the
project.*

What passes for building a better mousetrap in the new economy is
usually just using technology to game the system. In this case, the guy
started out by attaching himself to the Harry Potter franchise. Calling
it a “fan site” let him skirt the rules governing theft of intellectual
property. If he tried selling Harry Potter shirts he would have been
sued out of existence. Selling ads on a “fan site” is essentially the
same thing, but it skirts the rules just enough to avoid a lawsuit.

The click bait sites are just fraud, for the most part. He’s gaming
search engines and he’s misrepresenting his site to get hits. He then
uses the traffic to defraud advertises. Increasingly, mainstream sites
employ the same tricks. They split stories into many pages to drive up
page hits. Bleacher Report has figured out how to game Google so that
their crappy pages show up at the top of any sports related search. I’ve
had to modify by browser to block that site.

Stealing from one another is not economic activity. There are only three
types of economic activity that can increase the nation’s wealth. You
either invent things, make things or fix things. Emerson Spartz is not
doing any of that. He is siphoning money from people who make things,
invent things and fix things. These parasites are the only part of the
economy that are growing. The parasite economy has a natural limit. When
the host dies, the parasite economy dies with it.
