---
title: "Vox Means Stupid"
date: "2015-09-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5351"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5351"
---

The Dunning-Kruger Effect is a cognitive bias wherein relatively
unskilled individuals suffer from illusory superiority, mistakenly
assessing their ability to be much higher than is accurate. Another name
for this is the Joe Biden Effect, where a relatively stupid person is
certain he is the smartest person in the room, when he is most likely
the dumbest person in the room.

People in cults are prone to this because inside the cult, it appears to
be a perfectly logical structure for viewing the world. Intelligence is
seen as a measure of the degree of acceptance, as well as the ability to
repeat dogma in various situations. The result is knowing the catechism
better than everyone else makes you the smartest guy in the room.

Progressives suffer from this more than anyone, because they have
replaced the supernatural with a warped conception of science. Their
cause is not righteous it’s logical, even when it makes no sense to
anyone. <a href="http://www.vox.com/2015/9/4/9258133/white-lives-matter"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a> of someone
smugly thinking they are making a brilliant point, when they are
speaking gibberish.

*The point of Black Lives Matter isn’t to suggest that black lives
should be or are more important than all other lives, but instead that
black people’s lives are relatively undervalued in the US (and more
likely to be <a
href="http://www.vox.com/cards/freddie-gray-baltimore-riots-police-violence/race-police-force-freddie-gray"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ended by police</a>), and the country
needs to recognize that inequity to bring an end to it.*

For starters, the premise is a lie. This is easily discovered. A white
guy in confrontation with the police is <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/apr/21/police-kill-more-whites-than-blacks-but-minority-d/?page=all"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">more likely than a black guy to be
killed</a>. The fact is blacks are 13% of the population and commit more
than half the crime. Therefore, they will have vastly more
confrontations with cops, but even so, cops appear to be much more
careful with them than with white offenders.

*[Reddit user
GeekAesthete](https://np.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/3du1qm/eli5_why_is_it_so_controversial_when_someone_says/ct8pei1)
made this point in a thread explaining why the phrase “all lives matter”
is offensive*

Offensive to whom? It’s the question they never bother to answer as they
just assume they are speaking for Science! and you better bow down and
worship Science! The possibility that hooting “Black Lives Matter” is
offensive to everyone else never crosses their mind. That would require
introspection and self-awareness, traits not found in cults.

The childishness on display here is another example of how cults work.
When sensible people point out the absurdity of “Black Lives Matter!”
the response is a sneering dismissal. The assumption is you are too dumb
to understand so they make a silly cartoon to explain it, which not
really about explaining as much as the sneering. Cult members are highly
invested in who? whom? It’s what defines them.

Young German Lopez, the writer of that nonsense, most certainly thinks
he is a clever fellow. After all, he writes for Vox and that’s what
clever fellows do. Progressives are so susceptible to the Joe Biden
Effect because they have so much confirmation around them. Their cult
controls the high ground so there’s an unlimited number of pats on the
head for them.
