---
title: "The Rise of Russia"
date: "2015-10-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5656"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5656"
---

One of the stranger things about living in America is the lack of a news
media. With a few exceptions, what we call a news media is mostly just
the propaganda arm of the far-left and the ruling class. The
proselytizing is endless. Even sports is larded up with “messages” that
have nothing to do with sports. President Obama has been on ESPN more
than the coach of the New England Patriots.

Another consequence of this is that big important stuff gets ignored.
For instance, the great re-arrangement of the chess board in the Near
and Middle East has gone largely ignored mostly because it would be
embarrassing to Obama. <a
href="http://news.yahoo.com/syria-army-edges-south-aleppo-russian-air-cover-081857792.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Russians are about to rub out ISIS
and setup Iran as the regional hegemon</a>.

*Syria’s armed forces advanced south of the second city of Aleppo on
Friday in a fresh ground offensive backed by Russian warplanes, a
monitoring group said.*

*Since Moscow began its air war in support of Damascus on September 30,
the Syrian army has launched assaults against rebels in at least four
provinces with Russian aerial support, the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said.*

*Russian air cover is backing offensives by Syria’s army and allied
militias in the central provinces of Homs and Hama, as well as Aleppo in
the north and Latakia along the coast.*

*On Friday, the Syrian army pushed south from the provincial capital
Aleppo city, where control is divided between regime and rebels forces,
as Russian air strikes pounded the villages of Al-Hader and Khan Tuman
and nearby localities.*

*“The Syrian army started a new front on Friday and advanced to take
control of the villages of Abteen and Kaddar” about 15 kilometres (12
miles) south of Aleppo city, said Observatory head Rami Abdel Rahman.*

*He said “dozens” of Russian aerial attacks in the past 24 hours had
struck the area, which is controlled by a patchwork of groups including
rebels, Islamist fighters and Al-Qaeda’s Syria affiliate, Al-Nusra
Front.*

For a generation, the US ruled over the Middle East through the Saudis
and Israelis. It was hardly perfect, but that was the arrangement. The
main point of it was to keep the oil flowing and the crazies bottled up
in their own lands. Suddenly, the regional hegemon is going to be Iran,
backed by Russia, with some support from Syria’s Alawite tribe.

Once the Syrians regain control of the Western cities, the push east to
wipe out ISIS comes next. It’s easy to forget that ISIS is a Saudi
creation, for the most part, and the US has had some hand in funding
them. Once ISIS is gone, the Saudis are out of cards to play and they
will find their authority in the region greatly reduced. In the Arab
world, might makes right.

That’s not a small thing. The Russians will now control a vital piece of
Europe’s energy supplies. By setting up Iran as a Russian client and the
bully on the block, the Russians will effectively control Middle East
policy and be wired into the complex relationships that transcend the
region. A while back,
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5404" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I pointed out that those millions of Arab men marching
into Europe</a> will have a lot of Russian friends too.

Another piece on the board is the fact that the Russians have
transformed their military under Putin in response to what they have
learned from US military involvement in the Arab world. Those little
green men who turned up in Crimea should have been an eye-opener to the
West. Now it looks like the Russian military success in Syria is <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/15/world/middleeast/russian-military-uses-syria-as-proving-ground-and-west-takes-notice.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">getting the attention of Western
strategists</a>.

*The strikes have involved aircraft never before tested in combat,
including the Sukhoi Su-34 strike fighter, which <a
href="http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/n/north_atlantic_treaty_organization/index.html?inline=nyt-org"
class="meta-org"
title="More articles about the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.">NATO</a>
calls the Fullback, and a ship-based [cruise
missile](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/09/world/middleeast/russias-kalibr-cruise-missiles-a-new-weapon-in-syria-conflict.html "Times article.")
fired more than 900 miles from the Caspian Sea, which, according to some
analysts, surpasses the American equivalent in technological
capability.*

*Russia’s jets have struck in support of Syrian ground troops advancing
from areas under the control of the Syrian government, and might soon
back an Iranian-led offensive that appeared to be forming in the
northern province of Aleppo on Wednesday. That coordination reflects
what American officials described as months of meticulous planning
behind Russia’s first military campaign outside former Soviet borders
since the dissolution of the Soviet Union.*

From an American perspective, handing the Middle East over to the
Russians is not a terrible thing. Americans are far too moralistic to
run a proper empire. The Russians are too incompetent to remain a big
player in the region in the long run, but in the short run they will be
the whip hand that is needed to keep the peace. The Russians will kill
everything that moves in eastern Syria, for example, in order to subdue
ISIS.

The bigger issue is that the Russians can effectively coordinate a
multi-pronged attack on Europe, without triggering a nuclear war. In the
east, they can put economic pressure on the Baltics, Ukraine and Poland.
They can also put pressure on the Germans through their near monopoly of
natural gas flowing into Europe. Then there is the wave of migrants
flowing north that Russia can turn on and off as necessary.

The center of gravity in Eurasia is moving east and Americans hardly
notice. How much of this is due to Obama’s incompetence and how much is
Putin’s skill is hard to know. There’s also the fact that the American
foreign policy establishment is exhausted spiritually and
intellectually. Even so, the great under reported story of this decade
is the rise of Russia as a world player.
