---
title: "The Cloud People"
date: "2015-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3689"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3689"
---

[This story from the
Beeb](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/media/tv-radio/paris-attacks-do-not-call-charlie-hebdo-killers-terrorists-says-head-of-bbc-arabic-tarik-kafala-10001739.html),
as the Brits call it, is an excellent example of how globalism is
eroding the nation state.

*The Islamists who committed the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris should
be not be described as “terrorists” by the BBC, a senior executive at
the corporation has said.*

*Tarik Kafala, the head of BBC Arabic, the largest of the BBC’s
non-English language news services, said the term “terrorist” was too
“loaded” to describe the actions of the men who killed 12 people in the
attack on the French satirical magazine.*

*Mr Kafala, whose BBC Arabic television, radio and online news services
reach a weekly audience of 36 million people, told The Independent: “We
try to avoid describing anyone as a terrorist or an act as being
terrorist. What we try to do is to say that ‘two men killed 12 people in
an attack on the office of a satirical magazine’. That’s enough, we know
what that means and what it is.”*

*Mr Kafala said: “Terrorism is such a loaded word. The UN has been
struggling for more than a decade to define the word and they can’t. It
is very difficult to. We know what political violence is, we know what
murder, bombings and shootings are and we describe them. That’s much
more revealing, we believe, than using a word like terrorist which
people will see as value-laden.”*

This is an inevitable result of globalism. The BBC used to be a British
company funded by British taxes. Now it is a global concern (still
collecting British taxes) with more customers outside of Britain than
within it. The elites running it naturally have little reason to be
loyal to Britain or any other country in which they operate. Like their
company, they are citizens of the world, which is a polite way of saying
citizens of nowhere.

The global elites are the cloud people. They float above us, detached
from language, culture and history. They have no loyalty to a country or
the people and traditions of a country. It’s like the British Raj. The
people in charge are fine with the rest of us engaging in our quaint
customs, as long as it does not interfere with their looting of the
resources. When the ground people cause trouble, then the cloud people
step in to remedy it.

I suspect it is why our elites are berserk for mass immigration. At some
level, the fact that clusters of people with a common ethnicity and
common heritage exist is a challenge to the new post-national ideology.
If Europe can be turned from a patchwork of peoples and cultures to a
gray, featureless slurry devoid of cultural diversity, the elites will
feel justified in their indifference to toward the people.

At other times I have used the word neo-feudalism to describe this new
arrangement. The financial support of our elites comes primarily through
government sanctioned skimming operations. The BBC would not exist
without the British government and the British taxpayer. Much of the
modern economy is simply socializing costs and privatizing profits with
the former falling on the middle-class and the latter bubbling up to the
elites.

Mere greed does not explain the berserk behavior with regards to
immigration. It does not entirely explain why the BBC is willing to
indulge in linguistic acrobatics in order to avoid describing reality.
It turns out that Georg Lukács was right, but he was looking in the
wrong direction. It is not the proletariat that achieved class
consciousness through
[reification](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reification_%28Marxism%29).
It is the modern global elites.

The alienation that Marx and Lukács imagined as the natural result of a
mechanized, material society never materialized as the lower classes
always had other primary identities that trumped all else. The
neighborhood, the gang, rooting for a particular football team are all
ways working men give their lives meaning. No amount stuff can change
that, particularly in a welfare state.

The modern global elites are formless and their dealings are entirely
transactional. The rich and powerful of the Industrial Age used their
wealth and power to build the cultural and political institutions of
their country. They could look around them and see the envy and
admiration of their tribe, they people, their country. Today’s elites
hang out at Davos comparing Rolex watches and eating $50 hot dogs.

The class identity that our elites have realized is really an
anti-identity. They hold the rest of us in contempt. That’s why the BBC
looks for ways to poke the common Brit in the eye. It is why the NYTimes
roots for whoever is fighting against the American service man, wherever
he is sent to fight. It’s why elite academies keep retrograde companies
like Chick-fil-A off their campus. They are who they are because they
are not us.
