---
title: "That Clicking Sound"
date: "2015-07-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5075"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5075"
---

When I was a kid, I was often puzzled by the reaction of adults to
things that seemed normal to me. The reason for that is you come into
the world taking it for granted. It’s just the way it is and always has
been as far as you know. Old people, on the other hand, usually exit a
world that is vastly different from the one they entered. It’s not
always so, but that has been the norm now since the industrial age.

When I came into the world, the idea of the state rounding people up
because they had bad thoughts or showed signs of having bad thoughts was
the basis of Cold War. The Ruskies did that sort of thing. Free
countries did not do those things. That’s why we fought Hitler and Tojo,
so people couple be free of that sort of tyranny. It looks like I will
exit a world, however, <a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/threeyearold-child-from-london-placed-in-government-antiextremism-programme-10419346.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">where crime think is as normal a
sunshine</a>.

*A three-year-old child from London is one of hundreds of young people
in the capital who have been tipped as potential future radicals and
extremists.*

*As reported <a
href="http://www.standard.co.uk/news/london/london-child-aged-three-in-terror-alert-over-radicalisation-10418455.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">by the Evening Standard</a>, 1,069 people
have been put in the government’s anti-extremism ‘Channel’ process, the
de-radicalisation programme at the heart of the Government’s ‘Prevent’
strategy.*

*The three-year-old in the programme is from [the borough of Tower
Hamlets](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/education/education-news/hundreds-of-pupils-missing-from-registers-in-tower-hamlets-and-birmingham-schools--with-fears-they-could-fall-prey-to-extremist-ideologies-10388297.html),
and was a member of a family group that had been showing suspect
behaviour.Many of the government’s counter-extremism measures typically
relate to older children and adults – buy very young children can be
referred if authorities are concerned about the effect of their families
on them.*

*In the past, police have gone through the family courts to bring care
proceedings in cases involving these children, and measures have
included taking away the children’s passports, to make it harder for
them to be taken overseas.*

*With figures obtained from the London Assembly, the Standard found out
that London accounted for around a quarter of all ‘Channel’ referrals
nationwide since the start of 2012.*

*Since September 2014, 400 under 18s, including teenagers and children,
have been referred to the scheme.*

It’s a funny thing about this world. There are no results that don’t
lead to the demand for more state control. The government imports
millions of Muslims, resulting in domestic terrorism and the default
solution is even more state power. Reversing course and rolling back a
policy is never an option. In fact, you can be thrown in prison for
suggesting that Britain stops importing Muslims.

The startling thing to me is that no one finds any of this strange. The
reporting is not quite enthusiastic, but you get the sense that the
reporter thinks this is a good thing. How is it possible to reach
adulthood and not see the connection between this sort of thought
policing and just about every dystopian science fiction movie every
made?

It goes back to what I wrote at the start. You come into the world
accepting it as it is, because it is all you know. Young people don’t
pay much attention until they get into the world. That means most of the
reporters these days think the custodial state is just the way the world
works. Giving a little more power to the game wardens so they can police
the populace probably does not strike them as a big sacrifice.

It’s the one thing I think Orwell got right. People will put up with an
enormous amount of abuse from their rulers. It’s not just the threat of
violence either. People adapt and they adjust. Before long it is just
what passes for normal. The ratchet clicks and people adjust. A new
generation comes along full of optimism, the ratchet clicks again and
they adjust. It’s only on your way out can you appreciate how many times
you’ve heard the ratchet click, but then it is too late.
