---
title: "The Price Will Be Paid"
date: "2015-10-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5703"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5703"
---

My previous post used health care as a jumping off point to rant and
rave about the consequences of putting lunatics in charge. I did not get
into specifics about the potential consequences as I was running long
and I’m trying to keep these blog posts from sounding like manifestos.

The general point was that we live in what feels like an “infinite
margin of error” world where the people in charge are free to indulge
their wildest fantasies, because we have so much extra, society can take
the hit and bugger on. Whether or not that is true is debatable, but you
have to admit that decades of lunacy have not brought the roof down on
us yet. Maybe all the hand wringing is misplaced.

After all, what harm is there when a <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/10/25/women-cry-foul-glamour-magazine-names-bruce-jenner-woman-year/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">magazine dedicated to female sexuality
names a mentally ill transvestite as woman of the year?</a> The editors
are just trying to demonstrate their fidelity to the One True Faith. The
“tranny issue” or the “homo issue” is standard stuff now in the magazine
world, a sure fire way to get the other howling lunatics in the press to
notice you.

The moonbats think they can piss off the squares from the safety of
their Progressive cocoons so they never really pay any price. It’s a low
risk way to look butch on behalf of the One True Faith and it gets some
yuks at the expense of the rubes in flyover country. If there is even
the slightest rumble of push back from the normals. Glamour Magazine
goes back to posting stories titled “ten ways to please your man in
bed.”

On the other hand, the same people ululating with ecstasy over the
latest perversions don’t wave around <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/25/magazine/the-strange-case-of-anna-stubblefield.html?hpw&amp;rref=health&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;module=well-region&amp;region=bottom-well&amp;WT.nav=bottom-well&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the examples where real people suffered
real harm from this stuf</a>f. Every day, people are encouraged to spend
money on “professionals” who may as well be toting around Ouija boards
and tarot cards. People who should know better allow these scams to go
on because it is easier than doing their job and policing their ranks.

This Rutgers professor in the story was clearly a nut. She should have
remained a harmless nut, but she was promoted to the point where she is
the Chairman of the Philosophy Department at Rutgers. The poor people
victimized by her could be forgiven for trusting their betters to make
sure they were not putting the stamp of approval on lunatics by giving
them lofty titles.

That’s ultimately the damage that comes from this unwillingness of our
betters to uphold their end of the bargain. Being king comes with
*duties*. You never hear rich people talk about their duties and
obligations. The ravenous vermin that occupy political offices yammer on
about their “public service”, but we all know that’s a lie. <a
href="http://www.thewire.com/politics/2014/09/eric-cantor-to-land-on-his-feet-after-all-join-wall-street-investment-bank/379444/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They are getting rich through
politics</a>. Otherwise, no one talks about their duties and
responsibilities anymore.

When was the last time a plutocrat talked about his duty to his fellow
citizens? Or, his obligations to hold up the key values and
institutions? Even more laughably, make sacrifices for the good of their
country? Instead, they prattle on like college freshmen about
transforming the world, when they are not railing against the customs
and traditions normal people rely on to maintain a happy and peaceful
life.

Scipio Africanus, the man who beat the great Hannibal at Zama, was more
than a great general. He was a great politician. Part of that was always
showing the people that he was first and foremost committed to upholding
the customs and traditions of the people. He was a man committed to
public virtue. He would regularly make a show of his devotion by
conducting public acts of piety.

Today, all of our betters are the inverse of Scipio in that they are big
on public acts of piety, but their commitment is to destroying the faith
of the people. Turn on the TV, listen to the radio, surf the Interwebs
and you see example after example mocking the beliefs and customs of the
common people. The Christians under Diocletian had more reason to be
optimistic than Christians today. How long before they declare
Christianity a hate crime?

It’s not just words either. It’s deeds. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/11955742/We-are-seeing-the-last-dying-days-of-open-frontiers-in-Europe.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Take a look at the pictures in this
story</a>. Waves of savages from beyond the horizon are being invited to
flood into Europe, attacking and displacing the native populations. For
no good reason the people in charge of Europe are <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/london/2015/10/09/migrant-violence-nearly-500-attacks-germany-year-alone/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">sowing violence and discord into their
own societies</a>, simply to spite their people. That’s what it is,
spite. Like petulant children the leaders of the free world are throwing
a tantrum and unleashing hell on their own citizens.

Again, it is assumed that the West can keep absorbing the body blows
from these reckless acts by the people in charge. Our betters just
assume they will forever remain immune from the consequences as they are
hidden away behind high walls and armed guards. Maybe they are right and
maybe we have evolved beyond paying any real price for this reckless
disregard for reality.

Maybe. Maybe not.
