---
title: "Will They Miss Me When I’m Gone?"
date: "2015-12-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5999"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5999"
---

A while back I posted about my plan to dump my TV subscription. One
obvious reason for cutting the cord, probably the one most cited by
surveys, is the expense. Americans are seeing their TV bills jump every
year averaging something close to $150 per month in some areas. There’s
simply no way to justify it so people are cutting the cord and relying
on services like Hulu and Netflix.

Another reason, I suspect, is cultural. The great upheavals we are
seeing in politics across the West are over a common divide. On one side
are people who wish to maintain their traditions and customs. They
embrace material advances, but they also embrace the cultural heritage
that has made those advances possible. For us, the past is not a foreign
country. It is *our* country.

On the other side are the people who hate everything about the present,
seeing it as an impediment to their quest for the glorious future. The
past that produced this horrible present is a nightmare from which they
can never awake, which is why they seek to smash it all to bits.
Tradition is their cage and they want out, even if that means destroying
themselves and everyone else in the process.

Watch American television for any length of time and you can’t help
noticing the proselytizing in favor of the wrecking ball. I turned on
the NFL yesterday and it was endless chatter about the wonderfulness of
Cam Newton, the Carolina Panther QB. Despite being a mediocre player,
his team is undefeated, due entirely to its defense. But Cam is black so
he must be hoisted onto our shoulders and paraded around as a hero.

What’s galling about this nonsense is people, who know better, play
along because they fear losing their career if they are not sufficiently
enthusiastic. Instead of pointing out that Newton is just not screwing
up as much as usual, but is otherwise mediocre, they lay on the praise
as only a fearful supplicant can do. Sporting events have been turned
into preaching moments and I’m sick of it.

Having had enough of the preaching, I wheeled around the dial thinking I
should see if there is anything I’ll miss when I drop TV. I saw a
commercial for a show called Supergirl. The 30 second ad made clear it
was aimed at people with the IQ of a goldfish. It also made clear that
it was just more proselytizing. We are endlessly barraged with agit-prop
telling us how wonderful 20-something white women are at everything and
how hard it is for them because of the Pale Penis People.

I can probably ignore that nonsense, but you can’t even see a decent
movie because they keep insisting on making Vagina Power movies like the
Hunger Games and now Star Wars. Yep, Star Wars will now make the hero a
gal who defies the laws of physics by beating up all the men. It is one
thing to suspend disbelief but being asked to accept an 80-pound girl
throwing around a 250-pound man without the use of magic is a bridge too
far.

What I find intolerable about this trend is not that the female is the
action hero. It’s that all the men are now pussies. According to our
cultural overlords, the ideal white man is a bisexual wimp who is led
around by the nose. I’ll grant that foppishness is more common today,
especially with the young, but that’s a result of the Progressive
kulturkampf. Television is not a reflection of the culture, it’s the
whip used on the culture.

I think what has put me over the edge is the new habit of ad makers to
feature mixed race couples. I guess they think every white man in
America dreams of bringing a black man home to the old lady. They never
feature a white guy and a black woman. It’s always a black guy and a
white woman and it is most certainly on purpose.

The most egregious example is the Audi ad where the old white man is
puttering around the house listening to the weatherman telling him the
storm is shutting down all the roads. The visual tells us he is waiting
for his family, but the storm means he will be left alone to eat cat
food. Then the family bursts in because their Audis let them brave the
snowstorm and see grandpa.

It looks great until we see that the grandkids are black and the
son-in-law is the reason. The message they are sending could only be
clearer if the son-in-law was speaking a foreign tongue. Audi is telling
all the old Pale Penis People out there that their day is done. If they
want to have a peaceful death, they better lie back and accept it.

Yesterday, I saw an ad where a couple, black man and white woman of
course, is camping with their kids. One kid is black and one is white.
Maybe this is supposed to be the new Brady Bunch. Maybe the ad makers
are unfamiliar with the basics of biology. Then again, the howling at
the moon lunatics producing this stuff think biology is a social
construct. What matters, the only thing that matters to them, is the
message.

It’s not the mixed race stuff that bugs me. It is the ham-fisted
proselytizing that sends me over the edge. At least make the kids look
like the product of a mixed race marriage. If they were honestly trying
to sell their vision of the future, I could at least pretend it is
negotiable. But that’s the point they are trying to make. It’s not
negotiable and you better get used to it.

That’s really what has done it for me, I guess. The people in charge are
so smug, so arrogant, they don’t even try to make their case anymore.
It’s just a non-stop blaring of the megaphones. In North Korea they have
a PA speaker in the center of every village, screaming out propaganda.
In America, we have installed these things in our homes. It turns out
that the hippies were partially right. It’s time to drop out.

They will miss me more than I’ll miss them, now and in the glorious
future they imagine without me.
