---
title: "Transitive Rape"
date: "2015-09-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5339"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5339"
---

I was raped in another life by an ancestor of <a
href="http://www.jpost.com/Jewish-World/Jewish-Features/The-worlds-50-Richest-Jews-1-10"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Larry Ellison, Michael Bloomberg, Sergey
Brin, Larry Page, Steve Ballmer and George Soros</a>. Since these men
are all Jewish, the numbers say they share a common ancestor, if we go
back far enough. That guy raped by ancestor and according to <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/science/2015/aug/21/study-of-holocaust-survivors-finds-trauma-passed-on-to-childrens-genes"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the new rules of epigentics</a>, I am now
suffering emotionally from it. I plan to sure them for billions.

That’s absurd, of course, but we are nearing a point where this sort of
stuff  is moving from the absurd to the commonplace. <a
href="http://espn.go.com/college-football/story/_/id/13564286/woman-files-lawsuit-vs-mike-riley-oregon-state-failure-correct-sexually-violent-culture"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is an example</a> of it.

<a
href="http://espn.go.com/college-football/team/_/id/158/nebraska-cornhuskers"
rel="noopener" target="_new"><em>Nebraska</em></a>* football coach Mike
Riley and his former school, <a
href="http://espn.go.com/college-football/team/_/id/204/oregon-state-beavers"
rel="noopener" target="_new">Oregon State</a>, face a federal Title IX
lawsuit filed by a woman who said she was raped as a result of the
coach’s failure to correct a sexually violent culture in the program,
according to <a
href="http://www.oregonlive.com/pacific-northwest-news/index.ssf/2015/09/woman_sues_osu_football_coach.html#incart_m-rpt-1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a report by The Oregonian</a>.*

*The woman said she was raped by a player’s cousin in October 1999 as a
freshman at Oregon State.*

*Riley coached the San Diego Chargers in 1999 but led the program at
Oregon State in 1997 and 1998 and from 2003 to 2014. He was hired at
Nebraska in November and is set to coach his first game at the school
Saturday.*

*Riley said in a statement released by Nebraska that he was he was made
aware of the complaint Tuesday and previously did not know of the
incident. He declined, in the statement, to comment specifically on the
matter.*

*“However, I am committed to a harassment-free culture in our football
program,” Riley said, “and I am continually seeking ways to expand our
student education program. Sexual assault is a horrendous crime and has
no place in our society.”The woman, seeking $7.5 million in damages,
said she was raped after drinking at an off-campus party. She said she
was taken to another apartment, unable to fight off her attackers as she
faded out of consciousness, according to lawsuit.*

To summarize, a woman is suing because 15 years ago she has a fuzzy
recollection of maybe participating in a drunken gang-bang, which may or
may not have included a football player. As a result, she now expects to
get $7.5 million, since it was so long ago and she really does not
remember, but a rape occurred near there once.

Life is unfair. Women get raped and their attackers walk free. It is a
tough crime to prove under the best of circumstances. It’s made more
difficult by false claims, regularly made by women simply looking for a
payday. It is the cost of not sticking with the <a
href="https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Proverbs+6%3A16-19&amp;version=KJV"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">old rules</a> about bearing false
witness. Throw a few broads in jail for 20 years when they are revealed
to have falsely accused a man of rape and this problem fixes itself.

Similarly, make it clear that getting blind drunk with a bunch of
strange men eliminates your right to cry rape.This is not to say raping
drunken coeds is OK. I’m making the obvious point that it is a very bad
idea for a young girls to get drunk with a bunch of men. We used to know
this and work hard to keep it from happening. We used to know that if
Helen of Sparta was just a bit more modest Troy would still be standing.

The counter to this is that this case will be tossed as soon as it gets
to a judge. That’s fine but the cost of defending this lunacy is not
just paid for by the accused. Women everywhere suffer by lowering the
bar this way. The more fake rape claims we get, the less likely we are
to take the real claims seriously.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Boy_Who_Cried_Wolf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">We used to know that too</a>, long ago in
another country.
