---
title: "The Cost Shifting Economy"
date: "2015-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5179"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5179"
---

Car dealers train their salesmen to focus the customer on the car
payment and not the sticker price. There’s a number of reasons for it.
One is that people will take a larger car payment that they want if they
like the car. The difference between a $500 payment and a $550 payment
is easy to justify when you’re in love. That’s a few thousand dollars
more in car, but it only feels like fifty bucks.

The other reason is the dealer can bundle everything up so that the
customer cannot negotiate each item one at a time. The last thing a
dealer wants is to debate the trade-in, the interest rate, the dealer
options and so on. A good salesman can sneak in some high profit items
to the dealer, while hitting the customers peak tolerance for a car
payment.

The mobile phone market has always worked on this principle. My first
mobile phone was from a place in Boston that basically leased you a
phone and charged you each month for minutes. They quickly figured out
that was a loser and just included the minutes. That was late 80’s and
it has been that way ever since. You “buy” the phone, but you’re really
just making a down payment. The rest is financed through your monthly
bill.

<a
href="http://arstechnica.com/business/2015/08/verizon-wireless-moving-away-from-contracts-and-phone-subsidies/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s about to change</a> and it is
another example of the cracks showing up in the cost-shifting economy.

*Verizon Wireless today announced a new set of wireless data plans, and
none of them are available with contracts or phone subsidies.*

*It’s not clear from [Verizon’s
announcement](http://www.verizonwireless.com/news/article/2015/08/simplified-data-choices-match-customer-lifestyles.html) whether
it’s going to completely stop offering contracts and device subsidies to
new customers after these plans become available on August 13. Since the
announcement doesn’t say anything about killing existing plans, it’s
possible that the company could still offer traditional two-year
contracts, but without promoting them. We’ve asked Verizon about this
and will provide an update if we get one.Going forward, Verizon will
encourage customers to either buy phones outright or pay for the entire
device in installments. This differs from the model in which you get a
discount of several hundred dollars off the price of a new phone but
have to sign a two-year contract that can’t be broken without paying
early termination fees. When customers own their phones outright, it’s a
lot easier to switch carriers to get a better deal.*

The mobile carriers have been subsidizing the phone purchase by
financing it through the bill. That’s how the broke waitress can afford
a $650 iPhone. Apple was shifting the cost of their phone to the
carrier. The carrier, in turn, found a way to game the customer by
tucking the costs in the monthly bill. They also put some interest in
there too.

That worked fine in a growing market, but the market is saturated.
They’ve run out of greater fools. Now the carriers are chasing price and
that means the subsidies go away. The number of people will be willing
to pony up $650 for an iPhone is probably much less than the number
willing to pay $200. This will have the inevitable result of collapsing
the margins of the phone makers as they have to chase price.

For a long time now the US economy has been based on the belief that
growth is forever. When every business in a market is based on forever
growth, when the market stops growing, it collapses and takes everyone
with it. The housing bubble is a classic example, but large swaths of
the tech economy have worked the same way. We’re running out of new
people to pay for the old people now. The results are inevitable.
