---
title: "The Progressive Timeline"
date: "2015-06-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Progressives
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4819"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4819"
---

A topic of interest amongst many crime-thinkers, as well as some
mainstream writers who secretly read crime-thinkers for column material,
is why Progressives can never come to terms with the fact that they have
been in charge of most of society for generations. It’s as if they have
been asleep for the last fifty years or were taught an alternative
history.

Detroit collapses in on itself and Progressive are out in the streets
protesting as if the city was run by a secret cabal of Free Masons. They
demand change and the implementation of their preferred solutions. Left
out is the fact they were the ones in charge for fifty odd years and
they had implemented all of their preferred polices, causing the
collapse.

Race is the most obvious big social issue which has been totally
controlled by Progressives. Since the 1950’s, the Left has had a free
hand in trying tonmake the races get along. They even control the
definition of “getting along.” Despite this, the last few years has been
a non-stop campaign to “fix” race, as well as a cynical effort to cause
a race war.

After the church shooting, every member of the Cult was out in the
streets claiming nothing has changed since the last time a white guy
killed a bunch of black people, which was fifty years ago. Normal people
would look at the near total absence of white on black crime in the
South, relative to the bad old days, as an amazing development. To the
Left, this has not happened and it is still 1955.

My theory for why Progressives have a folded timeline is that their
religion is [synchronic versus
diachronic](http://faculty.washington.edu/cbehler/glossary/diachron.html)
and it is emotional. The Western tradition, informed by the Catholic
scholarly traditions, is diachronic and dispassionate. History is a
series of events, each influencing the other. The French Revolution, for
example, led to Napoleon, the latter being the result of the former.

The Progressive sense of history is synchronic and emotional. The Civil
Rights Movement has enormous emotional resonance with the left so it is
of constant interest and talked about as if it happened yesterday. On
the other hand, the near total domination of America urban centers by
Progressive politicians has no emotional resonance so may as well have
happened ten thousand years ago or not at all.

This jumps out when talking with millennials, who have been marinated in
the New Religion throughout their schooling. Even those who ostensibly
reject the one true faith have this emotional timeline baked into their
thinking. They divide the past into two parts. There are those events
that happened a long time ago before they were around and those events
that happened in their time, which are all consuming.

For instance, I recently was talking with a millennial about mobile
phones. He made the comment that life must have been rough before Steve
Jobs invented the iPhone. He just assumed that this thing important to
him, was a seminal moment in history. When I explained to him that I had
a mobile phone in the 1980’s, I may as well have told him I lived in the
age of dragons. He was incredulous.

I think this explains the current moral panic over the Confederate flag.
In the Progressive timeline, the Civil War looms large, casting a shadow
over everything. Their emotional response to the flag is the same as
abolitionists felt in the 19<sup>th</sup> century. It’s why [plagiarists
like Doris Kearns
Goodwin](http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/lincoln-would-be-a-democrat-390846)
try so hard to make Lincoln into a Progressive Democrat.

It’s also why after half a century that we are still treated to JFK
retrospectives around the anniversary of his death. Kennedy was an
insignificant figure in American history, but he looms large in the
Progressive imagination, even larger than FDR. The reason is he was
“martyred” and then turned into a saint in the Cult of Modern
Liberalism. The real JFK would have been revolted by modern liberalism,
but the mythological one is the Brigham Young of the faith.

A strange little book I read a long time ago is [The Man Who Folded
Himself](http://www.amazon.com/The-Man-Who-Folded-Himself/dp/1932100040),
by Star Trek writer David Gerrold. The premise is that the timeline can
be folded on itself so that points separated by eons can appear to be
moments apart. That’s the mind of the Progressive. Events of great
emotional import are clustered together on their timeline in the near
past. Everything else is scattered in the distant past, many beyond the
event horizon.

The result of this folded timeline is a historical amnesia. It is,
perhaps, a defense mechanism to deal with disconfirmations. When the
prophesies do not come true, those events quickly recede into the
distant past so the believer can maintain their faith. Think about how
chronic gamblers never remember their loses, but remember every cent
they won.

Those events that fit the narrative are always in their minds as if they
just happened. Sometimes, they confuse the imaginary events like the <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/oct/26/the-truth-behind-americas-most-famous-gay-hate-murder-matthew-shepard"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mathew Shepherd</a> murder with real
events. Just the other day a moonbat brought this case with me. When I
pointed out that he was not, in fact, a victim of homophobia, the
moonbat was incredulous. I had to provide proof and they were still
insisting it *could* have happened.

Oddly, the Dark Ages are described as the period when the barbarians
snuffed out the light of Rome. That’s not exactly true, but it is
useful. What will we call the period when the fanatics turn out the
lights on the past, disconnecting us from material reality? Maybe in 
the future, our time will be known as the start of the Blind Ages.
