---
title: "My Theory of Everything: Part VI"
date: "2015-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Theory of Everything
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5335"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5335"
---

Most everyone reading this is familiar with graph paper. That’s the
paper with the little boxes on it. Now, imagine yourself in a world like
that graph paper. You are in a room that has four walls and each wall
has either a door, a window, or nothing at all. The plain walls range
from impenetrable to fairly easy to bust through. You can go through the
doors and windows or try to bust through the walls, but you just end up
in another room that is a square on the grid. You don’t know what is in
each room until you enter it.

Presented with such a puzzle. you could go exploring, looking for the
route out of the maze. Let’s make the game more fun and added some
dangers in rooms. You will be a lot more cautious about seeing the other
rooms. You might take a peek through the door before charging into the
next room. I could go on, but you get the idea.

Even without me adding life threatening dangers to the puzzle, your way
out of the maze would be trial and error with lots of backtracking. If
in your first room you have two doors and those connecting rooms each
have two doors, there are four possible outcomes. It is not hard to see
how the possible outcomes can multiply quickly.

Now, imagine instead of a simple grid, the maze is like the gaming paper
from the 70’s version of Dungeons and Dragons. [That’s the hexagonal
stuff.](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-koshc4Xzzkg/UqPCaasW7aI/AAAAAAAABH8/ca2ZNsoiw3A/s1600/A4HexLandscape.jpg)
Instead of having four choices you now have six options at the start.
That means your first decision has thirty possible outcomes. Multiply
this out of a few moves and you see how quickly this puzzle becomes very
complex. Even after a few moves, you would struggle to retrace your
steps without some sort of map.

That last bit is important to understand. Each decision you face is the
result of previous decisions. If you make a bad move on step three, but
only discover it at step nine, you have an accumulation of bad decisions
to contend with before you can get back to the original error. That
could be daunting enough to make going backward unrealistic.

The point of this thought experiment is to illustrate how complicated
even simple decision trees can become after a few steps. Imagine that
each move is decided by a committee that represents the interests of
different groups. It’s not just deciding on which box to enter. It is
how to decide if that choice was a good choice and then deciding where
to go from there.

This is how societies evolve and develop. Even the most autocratic
societies make decisions that depend on previous decisions. Kim Jung-un
can only choose from the options available to him and those options are
the result of decisions made long before he was born. It’s why
reductionism should always be dismissed. There’s no great design or plan
from which the current actors are working. Every society is playing the
hand it is dealt.

This may seem obvious, but analysts are often prone to reductionism,
assuming groups are working like individuals. The most obvious example
of methodological reductionism is the mythological Zionist conspiracy.
Jews are often described as if they are working collectively from a game
plan worked out at annual retreats. The reality is that Jews, like
everyone else, are working within the constraints placed on them by
history. Jews just happen to be smarter than everyone else, on average.

Going back to our puzzle analogy, imagine that instead of a puzzle you
can transcend, the hexagon in which you and your tribe exist is where
you have always lived, at least in your lifetime. Maybe some of the
elders remember a time when your people lived in an adjacent hex.
Perhaps your mythology and creation myths talk about some hex at the
beginning that lies well beyond anyone’s ability to reach.

In other words, instead of a puzzle into which you were dropped, it is
where you have always lived. To you and your people it is not a puzzle.
You have no idea it is a puzzle because you lack the perspective to see
it that way. Instead, it is your world in the same way the tank is the
world as far as the goldfish knows. Leaving the hex, you are in for the
adjacent hex is not in pursuit of the way out, because there is no way
out.

Now, necessity from time to time will require you and maybe some others
to pick up and explore an adjacent square. You have to try something new
because the status quo becomes untenable or there is some hope that
greater opportunity lies beyond the hex you currently occupy. Again, the
options available to you and your clan are the result of similar
decisions made in previous generations. History is a nightmare from
which you can never awake

Societal evolution may be accretive, but it also happens in fits and
starts. If you and everyone you knew were suddenly under some pressure
to think about moving to the next hex, some of you could decide to go
even further. The need for change opens up a range of choices that
were previously off limits. If you’re going to make a change, why not a
big change?

We see this in our own lives. When I was a boy, television was a box in
the living room and my father cursing on the roof, adjusting the
antennae. I recall going with him to the hardware store so he could use
the tester to determine which vacuum tubes were dead. In the blink of an
eye, I can now watch TV on my mobile phone that has the processing power
of the space shuttle.

The thing is my experience with TV as a boy was not all that different
from the previous generation’s experience. Kids in the decades after
World War II had a consistent material life up into the 80’s and
then things started to change rapidly with the microprocessor. The kids
of today can’t imagine a world in the old hex of console television,
rabbit ears and rooftop antennae.

Think about it. In the 1980’s the fax machine was a whizzbang invention.
By the last decade it was obsolete. A decade ago, tapping on a
monochrome screen was cutting edge. Today no one remembers the Palm. At
the same time, the telephone of 1950 was still in use in most homes in
the 1980’s. We think the pace of change today will continue, but history
says it will slow to a crawl for a while and then another period of
rapid advance, long after we are dead.

The journey of a person, a tribe or a nation is just feeling around in
the dark, mostly out of necessity, looking for a solution to current
problems. There is no grand plan. The story of humanity in the aggregate
and the particular is a random walk. Assigning motives beyond temporary
necessity and accident, is reductionism, a structural error in thinking.
