---
title: "The Mind of the Moonbat"
date: "2015-11-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5771"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5771"
---

I was driving yesterday thinking about being interviewed by Bill Maher.
This was not some sort Walter Mitty fantasy. For some reason I was
thinking about the time I was sitting next to Bill Maher at a restaurant
in Miami a dozen years ago. He was at the table next to me and that had
us sitting within a foot of one another. He smelled like feet and looked
like he had not slept in a week. I think his companion was a hooker, but
maybe he just has a thing for skanks.

That led me to think about how a loathsome creature like Maher has
managed to get rich in entertainment. Why would anyone agree to go on
his show? Ann Coulter used to be a regular and I recall hearing her say
she counts Maher as a friend. Maybe my experience is not indicative of
the real Bill Maher, but people I know who do know him say I’m being too
kind. Maher is worse than I think.

That’s what led to my imagining what it would be like to sit on his show
and interact with. I have, from time to time, watched his HBO show. It
is mostly for anthropological reasons, like watching a show on Pygmies
or the Papuan. Instead of primitives, it is Progressives performing for
other Progressives, not thinking much about who else is watching. It’s
like being a fly on the wall of a cult meeting.

The thing with Maher is that he is a good example to use when explaining
how members of a religious cult understand and respond to the world
outside the cult. From my small sample size of viewings, the typical
show is Maher and other members of The Hive leading the audience in the
current hymns. Once is a while he has a normal person on in the same way
tent preachers bring the town drunk up to be healed. The point is to use
the hapless sinner as an example.

On a few occasions I have seen a normal shine the focus on some defect
of the Left and this is where you see Maher show himself to be a full
spectrum moonbat. He has a physical reaction to hearing contrary
information, squirming in his seat and rolling his eyes. It’s not
intended to to be dismissive either. It’s a genuine physical reaction to
unclean thought invading the safe space.

I’ve tested this on my moonbat office manager. I’ll engage her in some
normal chit-chat knowing that she will eventually figure out how to
conform the topic to one of the three solas of the One True Faith. This
is where I pounce and point out some defect in the faith or some
corruption of the party. She will recoil in horror and look furtively
around the room, the fight or flight mechanism kicking in like a shot of
adrenaline.

The other thing you can observe with Bill Maher is the tactic of
shifting the focus. His heretical guest will point out that Obama lied
about something or other and immediately Maher will respond with
something about Bush or Palin or some other monster in the moonbat
pantheon. The purpose is to change the topic of discussion away from
that which vexes the faithful to something more pleasing.

In comment threads of new stories critical of Ben Carson, you will see
moonbats jumping in when someone points out the double standard applied
to black Republicans versus black Democrats. This is very bad think so
they chime in with made up stories about how the racist white press in
the olden thymes tormented the heroic Obama. That shifts the focus from
present reality to something imaginary.

I used to think this was a defense mechanism, a herd instinct in the
human personality toolkit that is tapped into by the hive minded or
maybe dominant in these people. Every herd animal has some way for
members to warn the herd of danger. Progressives hooting about
stranger-danger is just an adaptation of this. The trouble with this
theory is that Progressives are forever trying to pick fights with
normal people. Instead of being a defense mechanism, this is an attack
mechanism.

That’s been my observation of shows like Maher’s and others where
three-on-one is moonbat fun. They bring the bad thinker in who valiantly
tries to make his points. The tactic of shifting the focus inevitably
puts the victim on defense. The segment was supposed to be about Obama,
for example, but instead devolves into another critique of his critics,
hinting that maybe the bad thinker is a racist.

The lesson here is that when dealing with a moonbat, the key is to
always keep the focus on them. They are highly skilled at shifting the
focus as it appears to be a biological instinct, but if you have some
discipline, you can have some fun watching them squirm in agony. This
old video of British airhead Piers Morgan being tormented by Ben Shapiro
is a great example.

If you watch carefully, you see Morgan desperately trying to shift the
focus from himself in order to put the guest on the defense. First he
tries the “how dare you stuff” hoping this will put Shapiro off his
game. When that fails he desperately tries to change the subject and
have the guess address arguments made by some third person.

I’ve always through that this video should be mandatory viewing for the
training of normal people going on these shows. This does not happen
because the Left signs the checks and the surest way to get fired is to
challenge the One True Faith effectively. Even so, for normal people
dealing with the moonbat relative or lunatic at the office, knowing how
to keep the focus on the moonbat is a valuable skill. If I ever find
myself interviewed by Bill Maher, I hope to remember it.
