---
title: "Irreconcilable Differences"
date: "2015-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5475"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5475"
---

*When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people
to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another,
and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal
station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature’s God entitle them, a
decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should
declare the causes which impel them to the separation.*

Viewing the after action reports on cable news and on-line, I can’t get
past the fact that the chattering class remains thoroughly perplexed by
what they are seeing. The script says they are supposed to coo over
Farina and her poll numbers will soar. Then they will put on the serious
face and tell us why one of the dwarfs is the only sober choice. The
dwarf will win the nomination and they will all live happily ever after.

Instead, it’s as if someone has removed the CPU from the robot. Rather
than working as expected, it is running amok, smashing up everything and
threatening to kill the soft graceful people who inhabit the world of
the chattering classes. The only thing missing from these reports on
Trump is to have the chattering skulls huddling together as they read
from the prompter.

Part of what we’re seeing is the chasm between the managerial class and
the rest of us. The folks on TV or writing for the mainstream sites
imagine they have a good bead on things. After all, they read each
others blogs, books and columns. They talk to all the smart people that
traipse through the studios. They even send foreign correspondents out
to places like Cleveland and Denver to report on what’s happening out
there, beyond the perimeter.

Another part is that they are programmed to think that politics is
simply a fight between the two sides of the ruling class. Their bosses
engage in ritualized combat over who gets to be in charge for a while.
Instead of fielding champions to battle it out in the pit, they give
each other tongue lashings on TV. The peanut gallery still gets to give
the kill sign, but it really does not matter who wins as they largely
agree on everything anyway.

That’s what is so confusing to them. Most of these people are simply
unaware of the vast body of opinion outside the their bubble. They have
this huge blind spot that the rest of us call reality. The chattering
classes don’t get the
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5389" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Trump Effect</a> because it’s not supposed to exist. In
fact, it can’t exist. Contemplating it is on par with noodling over the
existence of magical elves riding unicorns.

What we’re seeing on TV and the Interwebs is just the
<a href="http://www.atoptics.co.uk/fz236.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">glitter path</a>. There’s a huge chasm between the
ruling class of American society and those over whom they rule. It’s not
simply a disagreement over the direction of society. In many respects,
the duty of the ruling class is to guide their subjects to the right
policies. In a sane society, the people in charge are smarter and more
knowledgeable so they better be more right than the masses.

No, the dispute today is over the *nature* of society and it is an
irreconcilable dispute. The ruling class of today imagines a world that
does not include a thriving, rambunctious middle class that participates
in the decision making. They imagine a world that looks a lot like
feudalism, where  the people are kept, like pets or farm animals. It’s a
world that cannot accommodate the English speaking world’s idea of a
citizen.

The choice before us is a simple one. Either the ruling class gets a
*new people* or the people get a *new ruling class*. The ruling class,
to their credit, have figured this out a long time ago. Mark
Zuckerburglar is not spending millions to thwart reform efforts because
he is a greed-head. It is an article of faith among the billionaire
class that their survival depends on ending the concept of citizenship
and that’s best achieved with open borders and mass migration.

The people may be finally catching on and that’s why patriotic parties
are rising up in Europe while America is having Trump-a-paloosa. The
people supporting these efforts are committed to working within their
traditional processes. That means winning elections, passing new laws
and reforming the ruling class. The people supporting Trump are not
ready to cross the Rubicon and have a boiled rope party – yet.

Social reform works when the people in charge are driving the reform.
There are no examples of successful reform movements that were not
supported by some elements of the ruling elite. That’s important to keep
in mind when analyzing what’s happening in the West. Similarly, most
bottom-up reform movements have been crushed by the people in charge.
The exceptions are those that ended in revolution.

The other night, one of the dwarfs quoted Martin Luther King’s Letter
from a Birmingham Jail. “One has not only a legal, but a moral
responsibility to obey just laws. Conversely, one has a moral
responsibility to disobey unjust laws.”  This was in reference to the
civil disobedience over homosexual marriage.

The irony, of course, was lost on all of them. In that letter, King was
making a point to the white ruling class of the South. That point was
this. They could either negotiate with King and dismantle the legal
discrimination or they could deal with the mobs in the streets. King was
betting that they lacked the stomach to open fire on the mob, which
meant they had only one way out.

Donald Trump is not Martin Luther King and there are no mobs in the
street yet, but the situation facing the ruling elite is the same. The
ruling class has been slowly diluting the value of citizenship by
extending the benefits to millions of non-citizens. The hope was that
sentimentality or fear would keep people from noticing. That’s no longer
the case. People have noticed. From here, the ball can only roll down
hill one way.
