---
title: "The Cult of Magic"
date: "2015-12-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1010"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1010"
---

Over the last decade or so, I’ve lost interest in debating my
Progressive friends on most everything. I’ll torment them when the
opportunity arises or subtly mock them by appearing to go along with
their latest crackpottery, but I avoid getting into anything resembling
a serious debate with them. There’s simply no point. I’d have more luck
debating an astrologer.

The astrologer, at least, understands that their thing is bullshit.
People into the black arts willingly admit to being into magic and they
never pretend otherwise. Some astrologers, I suppose, come close to
making claims to science, but they never hide the magical bits at the
core. Instead, they believe the stars determine our fate in some magical
way that can be discovered. It’s kooky, but they don’t pretend it is
real science and it is basically harmless.

Hang around Lefty for any length of time and you inevitably bump up
against what can only be labeled as magical thinking. There’s an old gag
in engineering where you have a flow chart describing all the inputs
pointing to a box labeled “something magical happens” which then leads
to the desired output. The modern Progressive orthodoxy is shot through
with some version of this, usually dressed up with “studies” that read
like astrological charts.

<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5746" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I’ve visited this topic in the past</a>, but it seems
like a good time to catalog the various forms of magic floating around
the Cult. As the load bearing walls of the ruling class show signs of
distress, magical thinking is breaking out all over so keeping up on the
latest spells and incantations is probably a good idea. That and it
allows me to let my hair down and say horrible things about
Progressives.

And I’ve started drinking earlier than usual.

The most obvious example of magical thinking is gun control. The Cult is
out shaking their staffs at the heavens now, demanding special
ceremonies to make the guns stop shooting people. The way to do that,
they claim, is to go hassle some white guys in the suburbs who like to
hunt and shoot paper targets. Somehow, that’s going to stop Farouk and
Jamal from shooting up their neighborhood.

The thing about gun control is that ultimately it is based on the belief
that shaping a piece of metal or plastic in a certain way imbues it with
magical powers. The “studies” they wave about claim that the mere
presence of a gun shaped object causes otherwise sane people to commit
suicide, shoot their old lady, rob a liquor store and now, go on Jihad
at the local municipal building.

Magic Shape Theory is just one facet of the Progressive amulet. The guy
holding the amulet right now is the world’s greatest example of Magic
Negro Theory. Back in 2008, the Cult of Modern Liberalism assured us
that the sins of the past could be washed from the soul of the nation by
putting a black guy in charge. Even though he spoke mostly in gibberish
and had yet to show he could run anything more complicated than his yap,
he was our savior.

Sadly, we did not have a Pontius Pilate handy (or a Sirhan Sirhan) so we
got Barak the Magic Negro who promised:

*“I am absolutely certain that generations from now, we will be able to
look back and tell our children that this was the moment when we began
to provide care for the sick and good jobs to the jobless; this was the
moment when the rise of the oceans began to slow and our planet began to
heal; this was the moment when we ended a war and secured our nation and
restored our image as the last, best hope on Earth.”*

There’s political rhetoric and then there are incantations and
prophesies. Promising two cars in every garage and a chicken in every
pot is standard political rhetoric. Promising to alter physical reality
is the sort of thing people claiming to be warlocks say just before they
are carried off to the asylum or, preferably, thrown off a cliff. Not
only did the people voting for this ninny believe he was magic; Obama
believed he was magic.

The most famous form of magic floating around today is Magic Dirt
Theory. Put that phrase in a google machine and out comes 496,000
references. In the whole wide web, that’s not a lot, relatively
speaking, but it is not a little either. The fact that the phrase alone
could enter the mainstream so easily makes clear it is not just a
throwaway line. It’s a real thing, at least in the minds of the
believers.

For the unaware, Magic Dirt Theory claims that the soil alters behavior.
Place a bunch of Bantus in Paris and they magically transform into
Frenchmen. Round up residents of your typical inner city, set them up in
suburbia and they become the
[Cleavers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leave_It_to_Beaver), just
without all the honky-ism and white privilege. They will quit
gang-banging, get jobs, pay taxes and join the Rotary Club.

In the ongoing crisis, it’s tempting to think that belief in magic is
new or just a last gasp, but magic has always been a central part of the
Cult of Modern Liberalism. Decades ago, moonbats were convinced that if
they affixed a [Darwin Fish](http://www.darwinfish.com/) to their
Subaru, it would turn the vehicle’s occupants into scientists. Back in
the day, the surest way to spot the innumerate was to look for the
Darwin Fish.

At the time, people who should have known better dismissed it as mere
signaling. The people displaying these things were letting us know they
were in the cult of secular humanism. Remember that one? People used to
wear shirts claiming they were secular humanists.

Anyway, that’s exactly the point of a magic talisman. It is a signal to
the evil spirits that the wearer is protected by strong juju. Instead of
warding off Satan, the Darwin Fish people were using magic symbols to
ward off Christians.

Today, the hip and groovy thing to do is to let everyone know you love
Gaia by carrying grimy canvas sacks with you to the grocery store. The
people doing this believe the grimy sacks create a force field around
them repelling deniers who want to kill Mother Earth with their
lawnmower. If enough believers carry the grimy sacks with them, Mother
Earth will be protected from the bad men.

You can’t have a decent cult without a collection of abracadabra words,
the incantations that expose the evil doers in your ranks, give strength
to the faithful and diminish the power of the enemies. In modern
America, there’s no word more potent than “racist” and its use has the
power to slay dragons. [Theodore Dalrymple wrote a nice
column](http://takimag.com/article/the_will_to_outrage_theodore_dalrymple/print#axzz3vFT349Ot)
on how even non-believers can use the power of the R-word to destroy the
wicked.

Anti-racism has become the philosopher’s stone of the Cult of Modern
Liberalism. It’s not just a weapon, used to melt the faces off of
enemies like the Arc in Raiders. The faithful truly believe that once
they purge society of racism, the skies will open up and bliss will rain
down on mankind, bringing about the eschaton. This is no different from
the Puritans believing their purpose in life was to rid their
communities of sin and sinners.

One way to purge the world of sinners is through the magic of diversity.
Filling up your neighborhood with people not like you is the one sure
way bring about the eschaton. If you doubt this, well, you’re probably
related to Hitler. [Everyone believes diversity is
good](https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/she-the-people/wp/2014/11/26/diversity-is-good-why-doesnt-everyone-agree/),
because science! and because it is. It just is and if you disagree,
well, maybe you should [find somewhere else to
live](http://www.duluthnewstribune.com/news/3860965-dayton-minnesotans-who-cant-accept-immigrants-should-find-another-state).

Before we had the wonderfulness of diversity, we had tolerance, which
was this thing that drove away the people the tolerant simply could not
tolerate. Similarly, diversity is this thing where everyone is welcome
to celebrate their culture, unless they are white and from a culture
that has something to celebrate. Diversity promises to magically lift us
all to the heavens by pulling the roof down on Western Civilization.

But who doesn’t believe in magic?
