---
title: "The Twitter"
date: "2015-04-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4229"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4229"
---

Back when “social media” was getting going, I was invited to Facebook by
just about everyone I knew. I was familiar with the platform, but it is
did not interest me. I’m just not that interesting nor am I all that
interested in sharing my life with the world. I kept getting pestered so
I relented and setup my page. I used fake information, of course, and
set about friending all my friends, family and acquaintances. They, in
turn, friended me and before long my “timeline” was full of the comings
and goings of many people I know.

It did not take long to confirm my suspicions. Not only am I not very
interesting, but my coevals are not that interesting either. Posts about
gratifying bowel movements, pics of vacation trips, and updates on kids
I did not know or care about got boring quickly. For fun I would find a
moonbat page and harass the moonbats therein – until I was blocked,
which happened quickly. A few years ago I shuttered my account and that
was the end of it. A few friends asked why and I lied, saying I was
spending too much time on it.

With the blog doing well, I signed up for twitter, thinking that a) I
could get ideas and b) I could promote the blog. Plus, I thought I
should take a closer examination of twitter. On the first point, I do
get some post ideas on occasion. Of course, that means following people
and things that I may not like. The NYTimes or TED Talks are two obvious
examples. The second point has not produced much. I get some traffic
from twitter, but not a whole lot. At least not a lot from my very
modest efforts.

The thing about twitter, is it appears to be suffering from a tragedy of
the commons. Because it is free to be on twitter, you have loads of
people on twitter. They are there for content, presumably created by
other users. Writers, bloggers, news sites, celebrities, weirdos, etc.
post their stuff on twitter and you pick through it, like a hobo picking
through the dumpsters. The standard model for the theory is that the
number of takers will exceed the number of contributors. A cascading
effect ensues where the takers increase geometrically and contributors
abandon the project.

That’s not what’s happening with twitter. Instead, you have far too many
contributors. Every nitwit with something on his mind is littering every
post worth reading. One nugget of interest is therefore wrapped in a
thick coating of stupid. To break through the noise, bloggers and news
sites rat-a-tat-tat their twitter posts, usually promoting their site.
Kathy Shaidle is some sort of twitter bot, sending dozens at one clip
promoting her work. Multiply this over thousands and thousands of people
and even a small twitter account like mine is a tidal wave of useless
redundant data.

The worst offenders are the major news sites. I’m assuming they hire
interns to feed a twitter bot of some sort. Maybe they have automated it
from the content management systems. The redundancy suggest it is humans
or really bad coding. I’ll get the same story from the NYTimes fifty
times in a day. A site called TechCrunch was so bad I stopped following
it, even though some of their stuff was of interest. This strikes me as
a problem that can only get worse.

Initially, twitter was probably a great promotional vehicle. As more
people piled on, however, the people using is had to invest more in
promoting themselves through twitter. That just increases the noise
leading to more and more people doing the same. Users will then be
incentivized to follow far fewer people in order to minimize the
traffic. I dropped quite a few sites for this reason.

The other thing I noticed that I think is worth mentioning is that some
people seem to get hooked on twitter like people get hooked on exotic
porn. Their posting gets increasingly manic and strange, like they are
chasing some sort of unattainable high. They have these deranged 140
character interactions with other twitter-tweakers that are loaded with
abbreviations and references to previous tweets. Some of it is alcohol
fueled. Greg Gutfeld gets drunk and hits twitter, but there definitely
seems to be some twitter induced psychosis that I’m not getting. I guess
it is like gambling. Either you get the high from the spinning wheels or
you don’t.

I don’t think I get it. There’s pretty much nothing I need to say that
is under 140 characters. Those things can be handled with a nod or a
grunt when someone asks me if I need more beer or pizza. Everything else
exceeds those limits and I’m not interested in learning the weird pidgin
language of twitter.
