---
title: "The Bull Mouse Party"
date: "2015-09-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5425"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5425"
---

I’ve never been a fan of the “esoteric writing” concept. In theory, it
sounds great, until you think it through. Free thinkers, constrained by
the orthodoxy of their day, communicating to one another in a secret
language. That way when the authorities show up to inspect their books,
they find nothing that could get them time on the rack. Prisons around
the world combat this problem so it is hardly black magic.

The reason I tend to be skeptical of the <a
href="http://www.press.uchicago.edu/ucp/books/book/chicago/P/bo18692306.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">“philosophy between the lines”</a> stuff
is it opens the door for all sorts of mischief. If I’m a 15th century
monk writing heretical thoughts using secret language, it can only work
if the readers can decode my secret language. If some monk in another
land a century later can decode my text, then my contemporaries could as
well.

I realize there was a lot of it, but it was mostly just smart people
speaking over the heads of the less savvy. That’s a different thing than
what the esoteric writing guys claim, which is where the mischief comes
into the mix. It’s one stop short of deconstructionism, from there you
enter a world where words have no meaning.

The point of bringing this up is a related topic is the idea of the deep
state. The idea that a secret club composed of high-level elements
within the intelligence services, the military, the academy, business,
etc., who control the public institutions in various ways. It makes for
great movie villains, but it contradicts observable reality.

That said, like minded people with common interests will work together.
In government, relationships are what make the gears turn. A citizen can
easily be stymied by the machine, even though he has pressed all the
right buttons at exactly the right time. He calls his local congressman
and magically, the machine springs to life and everything works like
magic.

What happened is the congressman’s office has people who know people in
all the nooks and crannies of the bureaucracy. You don’t work for a
congressman unless you have contacts. Your job is either to raise money
or make some part of the machine work when asked. If you are really good
at either of those, you can go very far in government, further than
elected office.

A guy who knows lots of people who know lost of people is
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Kristol#Personal_life"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Bill Kristol</a>. He has worked the Acela
Corridor his whole life. In addition to running the Weekly Standard, he
has had stints in government and he knows lots of people who know lots
of people. Bill Kristol is the quintessential establishment man. In
Steve Sailer’s universe, Kristol has a shaved head and strokes a cat
while plotting the course of the country.

The Weekly Standard has a new sugar daddy these days so they have been a
little less neo-con and a little more con, but Bill Kristol remains the
Pope of Neo-Conservatism. Given that the Bush Party is pretty much
everything Bill Kristol’s father imagined, it’s worth paying attention
to what Kristol has to say about things. He was the first Beltway man to
mention Sarah Palin as a running mate, for example.

<a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/09/15/defcon-1-bill-kristol-threatens-third-party-support-if-trump-wins-nom/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s what makes this interesting to
me</a>.

*If frontrunner Donald Trump wins the Republican nomination, one of the
biggest names in the Republican Establishment, Weekly Standard editor
Bill Kristol, says he “doubts” he would support the Democrat in a
general election but would “support getting someone good on the ballot
as a third party candidate.”*

*“I doubt I’d support Donald. I doubt I’d support the Democrat,” Kristol
[told CNNMoney via
email](http://money.cnn.com/2015/09/14/media/bill-kristol-donald-trump/).
“I think I’d support getting someone good on the ballot as a third party
candidate.”*

*The old GOP Establishment hotness was demanding Trump pledge in writing
to support the Republican nominee, even if it isn’t Trump. He has since
done so.*

*It now looks as though the new GOP Establishment hotness is threatening
to support a third party candidate if Trump wins — the same third party
maneuver the Establishment loudly and repeatedly assured would mean a
Hillary Clinton victory if Trump chose that route.*

*…but if the plotting and planning among the GOP Establishment is to run
an Establishment candidate as a third party in the event of a Trump
nomination victory, by their own shrill admissions over the summer, the
Establishment is consciously prepared to flip over the entire boardgame
and hand the White House to Democrats in 2016.*

*Unless of course they were all lying with their loud claims that a
third party run would result in a sure-fire Republican loss. I don’t
think so. All the polling shows that any breach between Trump and the
Republican Party means — and by a safe margin — four years of President
Hillary Clinton.*

*Either way, a very large part of the Republican base has already lost
complete faith in the GOP Establishment. Kristol’s warning or trial
balloon or whatever it is  will only further alienate the Party from its
own base.*

*While Trump looks to [expand the Republican
Party](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/09/15/while-the-establishment-demands-purity-trump-expands-the-gop-base/),
Kristol’s comments will appear to many like a childish threat to
annihilate the Party if the GOP Elite don’t get their way.*

Would a guy like Kristol work to create a third party if Trump is the
nominee? Probably not. Getting on the ballot in every state would be
impossible. That means co-opting existing third party tickets and that’s
not easy either. It would require an enormous amount of cash and the
emotional commitment from establishment men to burn down their fishing
lodge in order to keep it out of the hands of the riff-raff.

What it probably means is the establishment would sit out the election.
Trump (or Carson) would find party organizers at the state level
unwilling to do much to help them get out the vote. Ironically, it would
look a lot like what happened to the Muslim Brotherhood when they took
over Egypt. Suddenly, the gears of the state stop spinning and no one
who knew how to make them spin was available to get them spinning.
That’s what would happen to Team Trump.

This would signal a show down where the Old Party tells the neophytes
they can either get back in the traces or the Old Party is going off to
become the Bull Mouse Party. Or, go to the Democrat Party and form what
would be the Coastal Party. Put another way, there’s no room for
compromise. If the revolting carry the day, the revolted will go
nuclear.
