---
title: "The Great Hoax"
date: "2015-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3778"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3778"
---

I am an empirically minded guy who thinks math is the only important and
necessary field of study. In my free time I like to work math puzzles
and learn machine languages. That’s not to say all the other stuff is
unimportant or useless, but I put it into the leisure activity category.
Western society took off with Calculus, not the Canterbury Tales.

That said, a healthy skepticism with science is warranted. Science, in
the abstract is pure, but we don’t live in the abstract; we live in the
real. In the real world science is financed by men and practiced by men.
That means all the stupidity, vice and bias that is a part of the human
animal will find its way into the lab. There’s no greater example of
that phenomenon than <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/earth/environment/globalwarming/11395516/The-fiddling-with-temperature-data-is-the-biggest-science-scandal-ever.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the global warming hoax</a>.

*When future generations look back on the global-warming scare of the
past 30 years, nothing will shock them more than the extent to which the
official temperature records – on which the entire panic ultimately
rested – were systematically “adjusted” to show the Earth as having
warmed much more than the actual data justified.*

*Two weeks ago, under the headline [“How we are being tricked by flawed
data on global
warming”](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/comment/11367272/Climategate-the-sequel-How-we-are-STILL-being-tricked-with-flawed-data-on-global-warming.html),
I wrote about Paul Homewood, who, on his Notalotofpeopleknowthat blog,
had checked the published temperature graphs for three weather stations
in Paraguay against the temperatures that had originally been recorded.
In each instance, the actual trend of 60 years of data had been
dramatically reversed, so that a cooling trend was changed to one that
showed a marked warming.*

*This was only the latest of many examples of a practice long recognised
by expert observers around the world – one that raises an ever larger
question mark over the entire official surface-temperature record.*

*Following my last article, Homewood checked a swathe of other South
American weather stations around the original three. In each case he
found the same suspicious one-way “adjustments”. First these were made
by the US government’s Global Historical Climate Network (GHCN). They
were then amplified by two of the main official surface records, the
Goddard Institute for Space Studies (Giss) and the National Climate Data
Center (NCDC), which use the warming trends to estimate temperatures
across the vast regions of the Earth where no measurements are taken.
Yet these are the very records on which scientists and politicians rely
for their belief in “global warming”.*

A basic rule of science is that data, data collection methods and data
normalization methods are always exposed to scrutiny. Heck, it’s true in
hedge funds and big data shops. No one takes anyone’s word for it. It
has to be right so the data, collection methods and adjustments are
checked, rechecked and monitored by multiple people. It’s simply
prudent.

In climate science, the opposite is often true. Michael Mann, for
example, refuses to expose his raw data to public scrutiny. The
“adjustments” are rarely explained and often hidden. The models these
guys rely upon are black boxes where even the inputs are not entirely
clear.

*One of the first examples of these “adjustments” was exposed in 2007 by
the statistician Steve McIntyre, when he discovered a paper published in
1987 by James Hansen, the scientist (later turned fanatical climate
activist) who for many years ran Giss. Hansen’s original graph showed
temperatures in the Arctic as having been much higher around 1940 than
at any time since. But as Homewood reveals in his blog post,
“Temperature adjustments transform Arctic history”, Giss has turned this
upside down. Arctic temperatures from that time have been lowered so
much that that they are now dwarfed by those of the past 20 years.*

*Homewood’s interest in the Arctic is partly because the “vanishing” of
its polar ice (and the polar bears) has become such a poster-child for
those trying to persuade us that we are threatened by runaway warming.
But he chose that particular stretch of the Arctic because it is where
ice is affected by warmer water brought in by cyclical shifts in a major
Atlantic current – this last peaked at just the time 75 years ago when
Arctic ice retreated even further than it has done recently. The
ice-melt is not caused by rising global temperatures at all.*

The other old rule of science and of life, is that if you have nothing
to hide you have no reason to hide. These guys keep trying to trick the
public for a reason and the only plausible reasons are not good. Worse
yet, they diminish the people’s trust in science, giving space for
lunatics like the anti-vaccine nuts make their claims.

 
