---
title: "HuckleBerry"
date: "2015-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3503"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3503"
---

I said in my predictions post that Mike Huckabee will run as the snake
handler candidate in the 2016 GOP primary. My reasoning was pretty
simple. This cohort needs a champion and they are a large cohort.
Someone will always step forward. Second, and most important, Huck needs
the work. He parlayed his last run into a TV job, but <a
href="http://www.politico.com/story/2015/01/mike-huckabee-ends-talk-show-weighs-presidential-run-113948.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">that has now run its course</a>.

*Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee
[announced](https://www.facebook.com/mikehuckabee/posts/10152701857157869)
Saturday night that he would be ending his Fox News talk show to gauge
support for a possible presidential campaign.*

*“There has been a great deal of speculation as to whether I would run
for President,” Huckabee told his followers on Facebook. “I won’t make a
decision about running until late in the spring of 2015, but the
continued chatter has put Fox News into a position that is not fair to
them.”*

Roger Ailes is no dummy. He knows Huck is running so he put him on the
clock. Whatever juice Huckabee has as a TV personality has waned as the
Evangelical movement dissolved in the last decade. Those people are
still there and they are still going to church, they just don’t hold
much interest to TV these days. The Libertarians are the cool new toy
for the cable outlets.

*“I feel compelled to ascertain if the support exists strongly enough
for another Presidential run. So as we say in television, stay tuned!”
he added.*

*Huckabee, who ran for the Republican nomination in 2008 and hosted his
show for more than six and a half years, had drawn renewed attention by
criticizing former secretary of state Hillary Clinton last month after
she said “smart power” also means empathizing and showing respect for
enemies.*

*“How can we empathize with terrorists who think nothing of beheading
innocent men, women and children?” Huckabee asked in a blog post on his
website [last
month](http://www.mikehuckabee.com/mike-huckabee-news?ID=d1fc8781-6145-4e17-8685-bed3e3ed9a61).*

Huckabee is a savvy political animal and he should not be under
estimated. He learned a lot from his last run. What he needs now is an
issue that lets him break out of the social conservative reservation.
Immigration would be the ideal issue, but he is an <a
href="http://michellemalkin.com/2007/11/26/mike-huckabees-open-borders-record/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">open borders fanatic</a>.

*The 2016 race is already well underway online.*

*Even before Huckabee had made his announcement, Rand Paul’s PAC was
firing away on the digital front. Just as the Kentucky Republican’s
political arm had done when Jeb Bush signaled last month he was weighing
a White House campaign, Paul’s team bought prime real estate for any
Google searches using the terms “Huckabee record,” “Huckabee
announcement,” “Huckabee taxes” and “Huckabee common core.”*

I find it interesting that the Paul camp is taking aim at Huckabee. Rand
Paul’s operation has hired a few key Santorum people. Rand has been
courting the Christian Right by <a
href="http://www.wnd.com/2013/06/rand-paul-stands-alone-for-persecuted-christians/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">defending Christians in the Middle
East</a>. He may be thinking that he can run a subterranean, outsider
campaign in the primary. On the one hand he has that loyal libertarian
following and on the other, he is picking up the cause of Evangelicals,
a group ignored of late by the GOP.

Huckabee would a problem, obviously. It’s why I suspect Rand Paul
eventually decides to sit this one out. Maybe he flirts with it, but
eventually declines to run. He has a pretty safe seat in Kentucky and
Mitch McConnell owes him some favors. That means he’ll get plenty of
money to win re-election. The Huckabee move probably seals the deal.

That’s what rank and file conservatives miss. The people running the GOP
are professional schemers, skilled at playing the long game within the
GOP. McConnell and Boehner crushed the Tea Party during the last cycle.
Now the Rovians are working on 2016 trouble makers. Huckabee will never
be president and he has a manageable price for his services. He can run
interference for the party with the Evangelicals, making sure they don’t
rally to a trouble maker like Paul or a Ted Cruz. Once it is all over
maybe he gets a job in the Jeb Bush administration.

That’s the theory anyway.
