---
title: "Fear of the R"
date: "2015-12-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5973"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5973"
---

In my most recent post in the series, “My Theory of Everything” I got
into the weaponization of race by the dominant half of the ruling elite.
The three-legged dog that is the dominant orthodoxy of America relies
excursively on the moralization of race to point where noticing anything
about race is dangerous. Egalitarianism, Multiculturalism and
anti-racism are the three legs, but it is anti-racism that is both the
cause and consequence of this worldview.

The Right, what’s left of it, is so fearful of the race issue that they
invest all of their time inventing ways to achieve some of the results
that flow naturally from freedom of association, but in a way that
inoculates them from the race issue. In some cases, they invent
externalities that get them off the hook so they can avoid the wrath of
the Left. In America, the worst thing that can happen to you is to be
tagged a racist.

Yesterday, <a
href="http://www.global.nationalreview.com/corner/428198/muslim-immigration-ban-and-constitution-jim-geraghty?target=author&amp;tid=814"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Jim Geraghty posted a panicked response
to Trump’s proposal</a> to ban Muslim immigration. In it is he makes the
absurd claim that everyone has a right to migrate and settle in America.
After all, that is the only way to read the claim that preventing
Muslims from immigrating is unconstitutional. If the charter of the
nation prohibits immigration, then only Hitler would be against
immigration!

The poor man is so afraid of the race issue that he is willing to sign
onto dissolving the nation, if that’s what it takes to avoid the “R”
word. Even after people with some knowledge of the Constitution and
American history explained to him that he was hilariously mistaken about
the constitutionality of it, he still clung to his belief like a
drowning man. “Better dead than racist” is the mantra.

Today, <a
href="https://pjmedia.com/diaryofamadvoter/2015/12/9/forget-trump-what-really-should-b/?singlepage=true"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Roger Simon has a similar trip</a> down
loony-tune lane looking for a way to avoid the scarlet letter, while
remaining serious about the problem of Sudden Mohammedan Explosion.

*As half the world knows by now, Donald Trump has gone “Full Monty” on
Muslim immigration, calling for a “total and complete shutdown of
Muslims entering the United States.”*

*That’s our Donald — never a master of understatement! (But he certainly
knows how to make monkeys out of the media — kudos for that.)*

*Like most commentators, however, I don’t agree with him — I support the
Constitution and its freedoms — but to deny we have a gigantic Muslim
problem in this country and in the world is to be a troglodyte of epic
proportions.  Something has to be done, domestically and
internationally, even if it’s not Donald’s “Full Monty.”*

First he makes sure to put lots of space between himself and the bad
thinker. Then he tries to cuddle up to the audience by laughing at how
silly the media has been over Trump. Finally he makes clear he is a good
thinker who rejects the bad thinker because he supports the Constitution
and its freedoms and puppies, he loves puppies too.

Unlike Jim Geraghty, Roger Simon is not a blockhead, but he has the same
fear of racism and so he decides to find some non-racist way to do the
same thing. His proposal is to ban Sharia, which makes Trump’s plan to
ban Muslim immigration sound modest and sober. Simon apparently thinks
banning Muslim immigrants is a horrible crime against “who we are”, but
it is OK to unleash the police state to root out people who want to
change the laws to match their beliefs.

Now, it is possible that Simon is just as dumb as Geraghty, but my sense
here is that fear of the “R” word is so intense it warps the thoughts of
otherwise sensible people. The narcotic of the ruling class is
anti-racism. They chew it like the khat. If you want to be a part of
elite culture, you better chew on it too. Otherwise, you will always be
under suspicion and eventually evicted.

The fact is, Trump’s idea is not preposterous; it is impractical. We
can’t screen for Islam, but we can close up the migration programs
bringing in people from Muslim countries. There’s no upside to bringing
in Afghans or Somalis. If Americans want grace by helping these people,
planes fly *to* these countries, not just *from* them. Let the grace
seekers hop a plane to Marrakesh and help the **Mohammedan** in his
native land.

But then, saying that means casting doubt on the whole moral structure
of the ruling class. If Mohamed is not going to workout as a potential
citizen in a modern technological society, then that means not all men
are the same after all. If that’s true then universal equality is false.
At that point the whole rationale for the modern American ruling elite
unravels. A ruling class without a r<span class="st">aison d’être is
going to have a short shelf life.</span>

After a Mohammedan went bonkers and shot up a military base, General
Casey came forward and said, “Our diversity, not only in our Army, but
in our country, is a strength. And as horrific as this tragedy was, if
our diversity becomes a casualty, I think that’s worse.” Most thought he
was just a pussy-whipped groveler, but he really meant it. They all mean
it. They see regular Mohammedan mass murder as the price *we* pay so
*they* can remain in charge.
