---
title: "More Texas"
date: "2015-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5625"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5625"
---

Sitting in the stands of a rodeo in Forth Worth is like going back in
time. I’ve been to the rodeo and I’ve watched the event on TV so I
understand the basics. In all honesty, I find it a bit dull so while I’m
sitting there watching girls ride horses around barrels, I’m thinking of
other things. My friends, who had never been to a rodeo, were
captivated. To them, it was incredible watching humans ride animals with
such skill.

Chit chatting about it after, I think the big attraction to rodeo for
many folks is that it reminds them of a better age. The rodeo is
wholesome family entertainment. There’s no sex or crude jokes. There’s
no hip-hop music blasting from speakers. It’s just wholesome looking
young people, corny jokes and a good time. Cheap too. Tickets to a rodeo
are nothing compared to a football game.

That’s what makes it feel like a trip back in time. For most of human
history, entertainments were relatively cheap. Entertainers lived on the
fringes of society and made very modest livings. Maybe the showman who
owned the circus or traveling act made a good living, but the performers
did not. Running away to join the circus was not a move up, it was
giving up. If you could not hack it in normal life you ended up as the
bearded lady in the circus.

Contrast that to today where we venerate knuckleheads with the IQ of a
goldfish and shower them with millions. In order to do that the cost of
entertainment has skyrocketed. I was at the Dallas Cowboy game on Sunday
and the prices are staggering. Cheap seats are $500 just to get in the
door. The facility, which is incredible, is simply a massive platform
from which to sell you stuff.

That’s what’s incredible to me. Everything has a sponsor. “This hot dog
concession stand brought to you by AT&T” is the sort of thing that makes
me think the Catholics were right about cupidity being a mortal sin.
Every square inch of the Cowboy facility has a sponsor attached to it
and almost every square inch is for the purpose of moving product of
some sort. You keep wondering, “Don’t they have enough?’

That excess allows the Cowboys to pay their star defensive end millions
of dollars, even though he spends his free time beating and strangling
women. You only do that when you have so much, you feel you are immune
from public opinion. Hearing the crowd cheer when that demented
knucklehead made  big play, I’m going to assume the paying portion of
the public is OK with wife beating.

I’m sure many rodeo entertainers are terrible people. That’s just a part
of life. My guess is though, public knowledge of bad behavior ends your
rodeo career unless you also get right with Jesus. The customers will
look the other way if you are turning your life around after getting
drunk and running naked through the streets. Otherwise, there’s probably
not a lot of tolerance for it.

In a weird way, people enjoy things like the rodeo now because it lets
them escape the wall of sound that is modern mass culture. The whole
downtown Forth Worth area feels like it exist as an escape. People dress
in their cowboy clothes and have an old fashioned good time. I was at a
bar in Fort Worth and it was just cheap drinks and people dancing to
country music, like they used to in the old days.

That’s the other thing that popped into my head comparing a night in
Fort Worth to the day at Jerry World. In today’s mass media culture,
everyone is assumed to be a child. At the football game, it is nonstop
noise and video. Between plays they are hitting you with some ad or
speech. In breaks for commercials, they hammer the audience with
messages. You don’t have a minute to talk to the guy next to you. They
assume you must be amused for every second like a toddler.

The infantilization at a modern ballpark extends everywhere. Buy a beer
and they open the container and keep the cap. I guess they don’t want
you to swallow it. The container is made from something that prevents it
from being a projectile, in case you have a tantrum. Of course, they
shut off beer sales half way through events so you don’t have too many.
The modern sporting even is the nanny state taken to the logical
conclusion.

All that said, Texas is a great place to visit. I’ll have more thoughts
on it when I return back to the Imperial Capital.

 
