---
title: "The Plight of the Super Genius"
date: "2015-04-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - IQ
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4327"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4327"
---

<a
href="http://polymatharchives.blogspot.in/2015/01/the-inappropriately-excluded.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I came across this</a> posted on
<a href="http://maggiesfarm.anotherdotcom.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Maggie’s Farm</a> the other day.

*The probability of entering and remaining in an intellectually elite
profession such as Physician, Judge, Professor, Scientist, Corporate
Executive, etc. increases with IQ to about 133.  It then falls about 1/3
by 140.  By 150 IQ the probability has fallen by 97%!  In other words, a
significant percentage of people with IQs over 140 are being
systematically and, most likely inappropriately, excluded from the
population that addresses the biggest problems of our time or who are
responsible for assuring the efficient operation of social, scientific,
political and economic institutions.  This benefits neither the excluded
group nor society in general. For society, it is a horrendous waste of a
very valuable resource.  For the high IQ person it is a personal tragedy
commonly resulting in unrealized social, educational and productive
potential.*

I think the facts presented in the article are open to debate, but they
do correspond with my own observations. The most obvious example is
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_G._Rosner" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Rick Rosner,</a> who has some of the highest test scores
ever recorded. He’s also a bit of a wacko. I’ve known a few 1% IQ’s who
struggled to make good use of their IQ. Even those who did “mainstream”
often did poorly compared to their less savvy coevals.

The two best examples of the latter are John Sununu and Chuck Schumer.
Sununu tested into Mega Society and Schumer hit a perfect score on his
SAT back in the 60’s when it was still a real test. Sununu had some
success in politics, but his prickly personality was a problem. Schumer,
of course, is known as the most unpleasant human on earth.

I suppose, in the case of Schumer and Sununu, it can be argued that
their unpleasant demeanor was overcome by their high IQ’s. Chuck
Schumer’s position is entirely dependent on his ability to push through
sophisticated legislation allowing the financial sector to loot the
economy. You have to be a smart guy to do that well so being a raging
dickhead probably counts for little.

Still, at the extreme right side of the curve, we see a lot of
eccentrics who prefer to be outside the conventional career paths. This
is probably why we say there is a fine line between genius and insanity.
These folksy observations persist for a reason and that reason is they
have a kernel of truth. High IQ people tend to be weirdos.

*What applies to productive environments also applies to social
environments and even personal relationships.  Theoretically, after
Hollingworth, **a person’s social relationships should be limited to
people with R16IQs within 30 points of their own.  For the 100 IQ
person, this will include about 94% of the population and consequently
it is not an issue.  However, for the 150 R16IQ (140 D15IQ), social
relationships are limited to 120-180 R16IQ people which represents just
a little over 10% of the population.  The 165 R16IQ (150D15IQ) person
will be limited to people with 135+ R16IQs (130 D15IQ).  This comprises
just 2% of the population.**   By 182 R16IQ (160 D15IQ) the problem
becomes critical with social relationships limited to those with R16IQs
over 152 (142 D15IQ) which comprises just 0.25% of the population.*

For the readers on the left side of the curve, not you of course, those
*other* guys, let me explain what this means. Humans tend to associate
with people like themselves. This does not just apply to IQ, by the way.
This does not mean we associate with people *identical* to us. It means
the more alike, the more we hold in common, which is the basis for
relationships.

Take, for example, a typical working class Irish guy from a Boston
neighborhood. He will easily socialize with people in his neighborhood
and other working class guys from other Boston neighborhoods. The
further you get from his natural environment, however, the less he will
have in common with people from other states, countries, etc. There
comes a point where socializing becomes impossible. It’s why dropping
Bantu warriors into Lewiston Maine is a very stupid idea.

In IQ, a similar relationship between distance and commonality exists.
If you have a 100 IQ, you will be roughly as smart as 90% of the people
you will encounter on a daily basis. That means you will be able to
understand most of the same things and not understand most of the same
things. That last bit is vital. Ignorance is bliss, especially when
shared with friends.

The further you move to the right on the curve, the smaller the
population pool of people in your intelligence range. That means most of
the people you meet will not know what you know and will probably never
know it. Worse yet, the vast majority don’t think like you think. That’s
not always appreciated.

*Members of high IQ societies, especially those that require D15IQs
above 145, often comment that around this IQ, qualitatively different
thinking emerges.  By this they mean that the 145+ D15IQ person doesn’t
just do the same things, intellectually, as a lower IQ person, just
faster and more accurately, but actually engages in fundamentally
different intellectual processes.  David Wechsler, D. K. Simonton, et
alia, have observed the same thing.*

*Since intimate social relationships are predicated upon mutual
understanding, this draws a kind of ‘line in the sand’ at 140-150 D15IQ
that appears to separate humans into two distinct groups.  This may
truncate the 30 point limit for those between 150 and 160 D15IQ people.
 Even when 150+ D15IQ people learn to function in the mainstream
society, they will always be considered, and will feel, in some way
‘different’.  Grady Towers explored this in depth in his article, ‘The
Outsiders’.  This is of mild interest to the group within which the 150+
D15IQ person is embedded but it is moderately to profoundly important to
the high IQ individual who will feel an often profound sense of
isolation.*

*It has often been observed that 150+ D15IQ people are loners.  Also,
Loius Termann found that children at this IQ level were emotionally
maladjusted in about 40% of the cases.  However from the above one
cannot help but wonder if this results from the children being
constantly thrust into ‘no-win’ social situations and never given the
opportunity to hone their social skills among their intellectual peers.*

I think the loner aspect is due as much to boredom with other people as
anything else. Human interaction is an exchange of value. If one side is
simply too stupid to value the other side, they will get bored. The
super-genius will also get bored or simply prefer to interact with a
machine or book.

In some respects, a 1% IQ is like being seven feet tall. There’s some
value at the fringes, but otherwise it has no value and can be a burden.
There’s a low demand for seven footers and to most people it is a little
weird being around a freakish giant. A 1% IQ is not in much demand and
most people don’t like being around Wile E. Coyote for long, unless the
genius is also blessed with a high
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Five_personality_traits"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">agreeableness and extroversion</a>.
