---
title: "Jeb Bush’s America"
date: "2015-03-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3929"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3929"
---

<a
href="http://www.news10.net/story/news/investigations/2015/02/24/foreign-workers-fill-hundreds-of-sacramento-area-it-jobs/22603549/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is what’s coming</a>.

*It’s nearly 8 p.m., and inside a state office building two dozen
computer experts design and troubleshoot a system that will take and
process millions of unemployment claims each year.*

*It’s a $200 million Employment Development Department project, but with
the exception of two managers, everyone inside the office is from
outside of the U.S. They are employed by Deloitte, a major U.S. IT
company hired by the state to create and manage its Unemployment
Insurance Modernization project. The mostly Indian nationals are allowed
to work here under a visa program called
[H-1B.](http://www.uscis.gov/working-united-states/temporary-workers/h-1b-specialty-occupations-and-fashion-models/h-1b-fiscal-year-fy-2015-cap-season "http://www.uscis.gov/working-united-states/temporary-workers/h-1b-specialty-occupations-and-fashion-models/h-1b-fiscal-year-fy-2015-cap-season")*

*Tech companies like Microsoft, Intel, Google and Facebook say they need
hundreds of thousands of foreign workers to fill jobs here because
American colleges can’t crank out computer science grads fast enough. In
2013, the industry lobbied Congress on the issue to the tune of almost
$14 million.*

*Those companies, who need workers with highly specialized knowledge
like computer expertise, are awarded the visas through a lottery
process. It’s allowed under the Immigration and Nationality Act and
administered by the [U.S. Department of
Labor.](http://www.dol.gov/whd/regs/compliance/FactSheet62/NumH1BIndex.htm "http://www.dol.gov/whd/regs/compliance/FactSheet62/NumH1BIndex.htm")
The visas can be valid as long as six years.*

*<span class="s1">News10 reached out to several H-1B workers over the
past three months, and they all declined to comment for this
story.</span>*

*“The program is going unfettered, unchecked, without bounds, and it’s
all in the interest of profit,” Computer Database Administrator Chris
Brown said. He said was displaced by one of the special visa workers in
1996, and he has been following the issue for the past 18 years.*

*Hewlett Packard laid off Brown from its Roseville plant during the
height of the H-1B program, when as many as 300,000 of the workers were
allowed to take jobs in the U.S. The [cap for
H-1B](http://www.uscis.gov/working-united-states/temporary-workers/h-1b-specialty-occupations-and-fashion-models/h-1b-fiscal-year-fy-2015-cap-season "http://www.uscis.gov/working-united-states/temporary-workers/h-1b-specialty-occupations-and-fashion-models/h-1b-fiscal-year-fy-2015-cap-season")
visas today is 85,000 after federal audits showed there were abuses in
the program. There’s an effort on Capitol Hill to raise the ceiling
again to levels last seen in the mid 1990s. And, during a recent
presidential trip to India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked President
Obama to help loosen the restrictions on the H-1B program. India’s tech
outsourcing industry makes billions of dollars every year sending
programmers and engineers overseas to work for U.S. companies.*

*Brown is watching those new developments with interest. When he lost
his job in 1996, it was just two weeks before Christmas. He says he’s
afraid more Americans will be replaced by foreign-born workers.*

*“I’m a single income, so on that particular day, as a direct result of
this program, we were unable to provide Christmas presents and I kept
telling my kids that day that Santa might not show up,” Brown said.*

*A spokesperson for Hewlett Packard said he would not comment on layoffs
that happened 18 years and three CEOs ago, but he defended the visas as
a needed resource for HP and the industry as a whole.*

*[U.S. Department of Labor
data](http://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/performancedata.cfm "http://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/performancedata.cfm")
shows more than 1,100 H-1B visas were certified for workers in the
Sacramento area in 2014. The largest number was for Accenture, an IT
company that is currently holding state contracts totaling more than $1
billion. It has 125 H-1B visa holders in Sacramento. Deloitte has
another 28, and there are four dozen of them filling positions in state
offices in the Capital City.*

*There’s no way to say exactly how many of the visa holders are doing
work directly or indirectly with the state. Hundreds of the local H-1B
visa holders were awarded to third-party contractors known as “body
shops.” Body shops apply for the visas and then farm them out to larger
IT companies looking to hire more foreign workers.*

*Accenture spokesman Mark Bonacci said while the company doesn’t
disclose the number of employees it has by city, state or region within
the U.S., “the vast majority of our people working in the U.S. are U.S.
citizens and residents.”*

*“Only a very small percentage of Accenture’s employees in the U.S. are
H-1B visa holders,” he said.*

*In an email, Deloitte spokesperson Courtney Flaherty said, “Our primary
focus is hiring U.S. workers, including experienced California
professionals and graduates.*

*“Our use of U.S. work permits is entirely consistent with the intent of
the Federal Government’s immigration program to complement our domestic
workforce with highly-skilled professionals,” she added.*

Does anyone really believe there’s a shortage of willing workers in
California to do this work? We’re not talking about gene-splicing or
physics. California has a 12.3% unemployment rate. They are bringing in
low-skilled IT people because they are cheaper than domestic versions.
In most cases, they avoid paying health insurance for these people. They
also get to work them like slaves. If they complain, the service that
brings them over just sends them back and brings in someone who does not
complain.

But, this is just the beginning. Once Jeb is installed in the White
House, it is open season on Americans.

 
