---
title: "Traveling Man"
date: "2015-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5306"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5306"
---

When I was young man and just getting out into the world, I noticed that
the gap between myself and my coevals grew quickly once I ventured
outside our shared confines. I had friends in school who had never left
the state and did not have much interest in what was beyond their little
slice of heaven.

Once I was regularly venturing beyond the perimeter, a gap between
myself and them started to grow. At the time, I did not get why they
lost interest in me, but I also had my own new interests. I lost touch
with them and that was it. Within a year or two, people I talked to
every day had become strangers.

Travel changes the traveler in ways the traveler does not notice. When
you’re young you don’t know these things, but through travel you begin
to figure it out. As I sink into decrepitude, I find that my only close
friends are people who have had a fair amount of travel. My trips
usually involve meeting these friends somewhere new or possibly visiting
them at their new digs.

In a gathering, I can quickly figure out if someone has a lot of miles
on them. There’s an aloofness, an otherness, that comes from travel,
particularly living in strange places for extended periods.  I suspect
that it comes from having seen humans in various natural environments
and discovering that settled life is mostly the same everywhere. Life in
Portland Maine is pretty much the same as life in Portland Oregon.

Once you figure out that your way is not all that special, it is hard to
remain a provincial. The heart of provincialism, it seems to me, is the
belief that your way is unique, not necessarily better. Once you see
that it is not unique some of the ropes tying you to your ancestral
lands are cut and you can no longer feel the same way about it.

Saying that, I have know men who have traveled for work, yet lost none
of their provincialism. I worked with a guy from Pittsburgh, who got on
a plane every Monday going somewhere. He and his family had moved a few
times around the country for work. Yet, everything about his
professional life was geared toward getting back to Pittsburgh and
getting off the travel circuit. He was and would always be a *Yinz*.

There’s also a gap between people who travel beyond their native lands
and those who just travel around their country. I have a friend, one I
was visiting with recently, who has lived all over the world. He has a
different air about him than friends who have stuck to North America. I
think you acquire a sophistication about humanity when you observe
foreigners in their native habitat.

I suspect this is why Europeans seem so sophisticated to Americans while
the English just feel like funny talking rubes to us. There’s
familiarity too. Most Americans know enough about the English to
understand something about them. Living in a land where over the next
hill live a bunch of weirdos speaking gibberish probably makes
provincialism difficult.

I once worked for a company that moved managers around every two years
in order to break their provincialism. The theory was that living in a
bunch of different places would make them company men rather than
“Bostonians” or “Iowans”. Anyone who does not understand the link
between corporate ideology and fascism has never worked at a large
corporation.

The FBI used to follow this model, but for entirely different reasons.
In order to avoid corruption, agents moved from field office to field
office every two years, while they were field agents. They wanted fresh
eyes, but they also wanted to avoid the possibility of corruption. The
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Connolly_%28FBI%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">“Zip” Connolly</a> story shows why that
was a good idea.

Part of what drives the managerial elite’s hatred of the American
middle-class is this cosmopolitan – provincial tension. The girl who
went off to Holyoke to major in public administration and womyn’s
studies was not trained to hate normal people. She acquired it through
travel and class solidarity. First she went off to college, then maybe
grad school, with internships in DC and NYC in between.

By the time she lands in the bureaucracy somewhere, she looks back on
her parents and childhood with a degree of contempt. Those local yokels
seem small and stupid to her, because, after all, they have not seen the
world. The fact that she may be as dumb as a post only
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunning%E2%80%93Kruger_effect"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reinforces this dynamic</a>. Her tribe is
the vast army of cubicle jockeys in the bureaucracy, naturally at war
with the “other”, who happen to be Americans.

With that in mind, it is not hard to see why the Maoists and Khmer Rouge
sent these people out to the fields. I’m fond of pointing out that the
commies are often pretty good at noticing the problems. It’s their
solutions that are criminally insane. The Asian commies really
understood the gap between the cosmopolitan and the provincial and how
it warped the relationship between the ruled and the rulers.

That and it was probably a lot of fun sending egg heads out to the rice
paddies. Who amongst us have not seen <a
href="http://thefederalist.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/n_mj_cooke_130412.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a guy like this</a> and thought it would
be a good idea to send him out to the mines? But, that’s a topic for
another day. I have to unpack.

 
