---
title: "The Homo Wars"
date: "2015-04-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4231"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4231"
---

The last Great Progressive Awakening started in the 1950’s as American
Progressives began looking for an alternative to Communism as their
organizing religion. The Soviet Union, despite the attempts by major
newspapers like the New York Times to normalize political murder, was an
embarrassment to the American Left. If you read the accounts of David
Horowitz, his generation of radicals were ashamed of the old CP-USA
types, like his parents.

Radicals latched onto the Civil Rights Movement. What better way to
freak out the squares, like their parents, than to invite the blacks in
for dinner? So the New Left jumped into the cause, not to help blacks,
but to harass white people like their parents. At the heart of
radicalism is a tantrum against biological reality. Eventually, we all
become our parents and radicals rail against that by indulging in
juvenile and dangerous political causes well into adulthood.

This round of radical lunacy started in the 1990’s with the
disappointment that was Bill Clinton. The Progressives really thought he
was going to be JFK 2.0 and when he was basically JFK 2.0, rather than
the imaginary version of JFK, Progressives began to radicalize again.
The result has been a war against normal Americans for the last two
decades.

Unlike the last wave, this one has been a bit more diverse. Blacks have
proven to be unreliable victims. Like the Soviet Union, it is hard to
ignore the bodies stacking up. The near total absence of demonstrable
discrimination was also a problem. Whites have been reordering their
lives to accommodate the sensibilities of black people for a long time
now. A new civil right movement was just not practical.

Instead, they went for homosexuals, sexual deviants, immigrants and
single white women. Blacks, as a voting block, have been taken for
granted by Progressives for a long time now so there’s no reason to
cater to them, other than when they can be used as a cudgel. Blacks have
become just another bit of furniture in the Progressive fun house, so
the Left could go after Hispanics and gays without fear of alienating
blacks.

When building a coalition of bitter weirdos, the bitterest will always
rise to the top. In the 60’s, the pasty-faced white kids in the student
movements gave way to the bitter (and violent) weirdos of the black
power movement. In the 90’s, the most bitter and deranged weirdos turned
out to be the homosexuals. As a result, the Great Fag Wars have raged
for close to two decades now.

Take a look at some recent skirmishes. Razib Khan gets hired and fired
in one day by the NYTimes, allegedly for hanging out with people that
say bad things about immigrants. The head of that lynch mob was <a
href="http://takimag.com/article/the_accidental_gawker_gavin_mcinnes#axzz3WWmBAeNH"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a deranged homosexual working at the
homosexualist site called Gawker</a>. If McInnes is accurate, the Gawker
guy just wanted to be an asshole.

Of course, the recent turmoil in Indiana, where very modest protections
against predacious homosexuals were put in place, has been led by
homosexual fanatics like Tim Cook, the gay ruler of the Apple cult.
Homosexuals from around the country have been taking to the Internet,
threatening anyone and everyone who supports protecting Christians from
these rampaging mobs. ISIS has to be wondering why we care what they do
to *their* Christians.

Even the rape hoax stuff on college campuses is being championed by
homosexual activists. Rolling Stone is run by the flamboyant homosexual
Jann Wenner. The homosexualist site Gawker <a
href="http://gawker.com/that-uva-frat-letter-denying-rape-is-bullshit-and-heres-1667421511"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">got in on the act</a>, defending what was
clearly a fabricated story. The New Republic, run by the billionaire
homosexual fascist Chris Hughes, <a
href="http://www.newrepublic.com/article/120401/university-virginia-rape-federal-governments-role-i"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">was also on the case</a>, trumpeting the
veracity of the story, despite their history with the fabulist that
wrote it.

Blacks, in the long run, turned out to be poor mascots for the Cult of
Modern Liberalism. Government discrimination against blacks, however,
was a real problem and overturning it was a good thing. Denying people
full citizenship based solely on their ethnicity is no way to run a
republic. The train load of other stuff that came along with overturning
those laws may have been a disaster for the country, but it was right to
overturn those laws.

No such dynamic exists here. This is a war on Christianity and a war on
traditional Americans. There’s nothing that can be plucked from the
tidal wave of sewage coming from the Left that one can hold up as a
benefit. It’s all filth and the people riding the wave are the worst
elements of society, the deviants.

I have no predictions as to how this ends. The last Great Progressive
Wave collapsed in an orgy of drug abuse and violence. This wave will end
similarly. The last time, however, American society had huge storehouses
of surplus. Today, we are showing the signs of exhaustion, with limited
reserves to blunt the denouement of this wave. My sense is the great
homo wars will not end well.
