---
title: "The Mosque on the Hill"
date: "2015-11-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5919"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5919"
---

One of my themes here is to point out the similarities between modern
Progressives and the Islamic lunatics in the Middle East. Both sides of
that equation would deny the equality symbol exists, but that’s the
nature of the fanatic. The hatred of Islamists toward the West, in most
respects, is due to the similarities they perceive in the other side.
You always hate most in others what you fear about yourself.

One way to look at ISIS is in the context of the sectarian wars within
the Christian West starting with the 30 Years War. The first schisms
eventually lead to increasingly extreme  rejections of the dominant sect
culminating in the Puritans who left the West entirely and set out for
the wilderness. The folks who landed on Plymouth Rock were the ISIS of
their day.

<a
href="http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/261368-obama-syrian-refugees-are-like-pilgrims-on-the-mayflower"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It turns out that Obama agrees with
me</a>.

*This Thanksgiving, President Obama is calling for Americans to lend a
helping hand to another group of pilgrims fleeing persecution.*  
*“Nearly four centuries after the Mayflower set sail, the world is still
full of pilgrims – men and women who want nothing more than the chance
for a safer, better future for themselves and their families,” Obama
said in his weekly address Thursday. “What makes America America is that
we offer that chance.”*

*The president praised Americans who have offered to open their homes to
refugees fleeing war-torn Syria.*

*“One woman from Pennsylvania wrote to me to say, ‘Money is tight for us
in my household. … But I have a guest room. I have a pantry full of
food. We can do this,’ ” Obama said.*

*“Another woman from Florida told me her family’s history dates back to
the Mayflower — and she said that welcoming others is part of ‘what it
means to be an American,’ ” he added.*

*Obama called for citizens to put the “generosity” of America on full
display by welcoming refugees into the country with arms wide open.*

*“I hope that you and your family have a wonderful Thanksgiving,
surrounded by loved ones and full of joy and gratitude,” he said. “And
together, may we all play our own small part in the American story, and
write a next chapter that future generations can be thankful for.”*

Obama, like all Progressives, sees the West as a fading force in the
world. The future will belong to the yellow, brown and black. You really
can’t blame him for that. That’s what the facts are telling us.Just look
at the television for a short time. It’s Pale, Male and Stale being
pushed aside by young and vibrant. The Puritans had the same view of
Europe in the 17th century.

There’s a new Audi commercial that captures this perfectly. It starts
with an old white guy thinking no one is coming for the Solstice
celebration. He’s putting away all those old western culture items,
preparing to have dog food for dinner. Then, his mixed race family
arrives and all is good. His hilariously black granddaughter informs him
how Audi is responsible for her being there. Not hard to see the point
of that ad.

Audi is letting you know, old white man, that the future is not you.
Audi is the future, helping bring the black, brown and yellow to you.
You better embrace it. That way you can have some peace in your final
years. Otherwise, it’s dog food for you. Or, worse.

That’s ultimately why the Left across the West wants to flood your
neighborhood with young male Arabs. You’re not just the past. You’re a
wilderness, a nothing, into which the vibrant people of the future will
arrive and build a new mosque on the hill. In the process, that means
slaughtering the locals and pushing them into holding pens, but let’s
not notice that and instead pretend our sacrifice will be noted by
<s>Allah</s> God.
