---
title: "Bill Cosby"
date: "2015-07-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5004"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5004"
---

We live in a strange time in that the people in charge of the culture
are at war with human biology in ways that we have never seen, at least
not to this scale. In prior ages the religious would rage against vice,
but that had some logic. A population of drinkers or gamblers is a drag
on society. For most of human history scarcity was the the norm so
society could not afford a lot of dead weight. Virtue had practical
purposes.

Sexual taboos were mostly to keep the peace. Males compete with one
another for females and females compete with one another for males. It
should be easy to see how that can lead to trouble so cultures developed
rules to limit violence and ritualized the competition. In the early
middle ages, the Catholic Church implemented rules for sexual conduct to
end things like cousin marriage, which people figured out was a problem.

Today, the people doing the ranting and raving about biology are
religious fanatics from the Puritan tradition of Yankeedom. They’re
driven by a desire to nose around in everyone’s business and push people
around. There is a big hole where God used to exist and they deny their
thing is a religion, but otherwise the <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/19/arts/bill-cosby-deposition-reveals-calculated-pursuit-of-young-women-using-fame-drugs-and-deceit.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">people at the NYTimes could be sporting
big buckles on their shoes and black hats</a>.

*He was not above seducing a young model by showing interest in her
father’s cancer. He promised other women his mentorship and career
advice before pushing them for sex acts. And he tried to use financial
sleight of hand to keep his wife from finding out about his serial
philandering.*

*<a
href="http://movies.nytimes.com/person/85992/Bill-Cosby?inline=nyt-per"
class="meta-per">Bill Cosby</a> admitted to all of this and more over
four days of intense questioning 10 years ago at a Philadelphia hotel,
where he defended himself in a deposition for a lawsuit filed by a young
woman who accused him of drugging and molesting her.*

In other words, Cosby is like any other man. The drugging and raping
stuff would be a crime, of course, but the rest of it is what every man
does, particularly powerful men. It’s not clear Coz ever did any raping,
as he has never admitted to any of it. Women seek the attention of high
status males and high status males use that as a way to get them in the
sack. Welcome to biological reality Graham and Sydney.

*Even as Mr. Cosby denied he was a sexual predator who assaulted many
women, he presented himself in the deposition as an unapologetic,
cavalier playboy, someone who used a combination of fame, apparent
concern and powerful sedatives in a calculated pursuit of young women —
a profile at odds with the popular image he so long enjoyed, that of
father figure and public moralist.*

*In the deposition, which Mr. Cosby has for years [managed to keep
private](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/09/business/media/cosby-legal-and-publicity-teams-opt-for-silence-after-admission-is-released.html "About the strategy. ")
but was obtained by The New York Times, the entertainer comes across as
alternately annoyed, mocking, occasionally charming and sometimes
boastful, often blithely describing sexual encounters in graphic
detail.*

*He talked of the 19-year-old aspiring model who sent him her poem and
ended up on his sofa, where, Mr. Cosby said, she pleasured him with
lotion.*

*He spoke with casual disregard about ending a relationship with another
model so he could pursue other women. “Moving on,” was his phrase.*

*He suggested he was skilled in picking up the nonverbal cues that
signal a woman’s consent.*

*“I think I’m a pretty decent reader of people and their emotions in
these romantic sexual things, whatever you want to call them,” he said.*

*Through it all, his manner was largely one of casual indifference.*

Of course he is indifferent. He’s probably baffled that anyone would be
shocked that he liked women. Cosby is from a generation when people were
not surprised that men pursued women. We used to know these things but
after decades of control by religious lunatics named Graham and Sydney
many people are shocked to learn that Bruce Jenner is not the norm.

This turns up in the date rape nonsense. We used to know that some males
will cheat in the pursuit of women. <a
href="http://io9.com/5983275/why-spanish-fly-only-works-on-men--and-is-deadly"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The “Spanish Fly” hoax</a> of the 60’s
and 70’s did not spring from nothing. Elixirs to make women horny and
stupid have been around since the dawn of civilization. That’s why
letting girls hang out with unattached males was greatly limited. People
knew that some percentage of men would “take advantage” of young women.

Lunatics from the womyn’s studies departments, however, have made
everyone forget that, so every weekend young girls get knee walking
drunk with strange men and some percentage of them wake up regretting
their choices. That’s why Graham and Sydney are so baffled by the Coz.
For their whole lives they were taught that only monsters like Hitler
did these things so they are properly outraged when Cosby is nonchalant
about it.

*Interest in Mr. Cosby’s deposition grew this month when a federal judge
[unsealed](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/08/business/bill-cosby-said-in-2005-he-obtained-drugs-to-give-to-women.html "About the court record.")
a 62-page memorandum of law in the case, which had been settled in 2006.
The memorandum contained excerpts from the deposition, including Mr.
Cosby’s acknowledgment that he had obtained quaaludes as part of his
effort to have sex with women.*

*The parties have been prohibited from releasing the memorandum because
of a confidentiality clause that was part of the settlement agreement,
but the deposition itself was never sealed. This month, Ms. Constand’s
lawyer asked the court to lift the confidentiality clause so her client
would be free to release the nearly 1,000-page deposition transcript.
The Times later learned that the transcript was already publicly
available through a court reporting service.*

What the Times leaves out is the judge should never have unsealed the
documents, but he is a fellow fanatic so they just assume it is proper.
This is something you always see with fanatics. The ends justify the
means. When Obama was running for Senate, fanatics got sealed documents
into the hands of the press in order to eliminate his competition. In
California, a judge willy-nilly overturned a marriage referendum simply
because he did not like the result.

Another aspect of this story that you see regularly with Progressive
fanatics is the grudge. They never forget a slight. Cosby made the
mistake of railing against black ghetto culture and siding with
traditionalists over personal responsibility. The Cult never forgets and
they eventually found a way to hang him.
