---
title: "My Theory of Everything: Part VII"
date: "2015-12-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Theory of Everything
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6053"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6053"
---

In the previous episode of this endless series of posts, I explained my
view of history as a random stagger. Societies move from one phase to
another haphazardly, constrained by the choices of those who came before
them. North Korea has the options it has due to the choices made by
those of the previous generations. The decisions made today will
constrain future generations.

Those decisions, however, don’t spring from thin air. The choices made
by Kim Il-sung were for a reason and that reason was to address a
problem. The organization of his political party, for example, was about
solving problems that Kim and his people were facing. Like all
solutions, they were trade-offs. As is always the case with good
commies, Kim let the debit side of the trade-off fall on his people,
while he kept the credit side.

Everything around us, the political institutions, the laws, the customs,
etc., all evolved to address the immediate needs of society and the
desires of the people in charge of society. There’s not a single
punctuation mark in the legal code that is not there for a reason. Every
jot and tittle in the regulatory code has a constituency behind it that
wanted it in the code to fix a problem for them.

The temptation is to point at these things and dismisses them as
corruption, greed, or ideological lunacy. Even when that is true,
self-dealing solves a problem for the political elites doing the
dealing. The modern Democrat party shovels money to public sector unions
because it is good for the party. The unions use those funds to elect
Democrats, who in turn shovel them move money. From their point of view,
it is the perfect solution.

Even the ideological stuff is done to address what the ideologues see as
a pressing need. FDR and the New Dealers rolled out the welfare state
because they truly feared popular unrest due to the Depression. They
thought social security was a great solution to the problems of old age.
They thought the Wagner Act would help stabilize labor and prevent the
sorts of radicalization they saw in Europe.

Thus, the world into which all of us were born is a world populated with
solutions to problems. Some are cultural institutions like churches and
social customs. Others are in the political economy of society.
Government, the legal structure of every society, was created and
evolved as a solution to the problems of how to best organize and rule
society.

Of course, many of those problems were long solved and the lingering
solutions no longer seem to have a justification. This is where
Progressives get into trouble. They swing the wrecking ball without
wondering why the thing they intend to destroy was created. In the
1980’s, America emptied out the lunatic asylums because lefty felt bad
for the crazies. Ever since, American cities have had a “homeless
problem.”

Then there are problems that have been truly solved. In America, food
shortages have been solved and now the poor are fat, while the rich are
skinny. Despite the abundance of cheap calories available to everyone,
we still have food subsidy programs for the poor and farm subsidy
programs for farmers. Billions are taken from taxpayers, given to rich
farmers and fat people so the rich farmers can sell the fat people cheap
food.

Every year, sensible people propose that we spend public funds on new
problems, but the cost of farm subsidies for rich people and food
programs for the fat people means there’s not enough money for the new
solutions. We kick a lot of cans down the road in order to avoid
unwinding unneeded solutions to long solved problems.

Even though we have long blown past the point where the returns turned
negative, the perceived costs of rolling back these old solutions
exceeds the benefits. As a result, they keep rolling along, becoming
ever more draining on society. Many public policy solutions take us down
a cul-de-sac.

The most well-known example of this is the Roman Empire. Early conquests
had huge returns that more than paid for the cost of gaining them. That
meant new conquests were the obvious solution to adding to the wealth of
Rome.

That made sense up to the point where the costs of new conquests
exceeded what the Romans could loot form the newly conquered people. By
the time of Augustus, expanding the Empire further simply made no sense,
because the cost of conquering more barbarians exceeded the benefits.

The trouble for the Romans was the *ongoing* cost to past conquest.
Those conquered lands had to remain conquered. The frontiers had to be
guarded and that meant paying for legions to fight the barbarians.
Administering an empire had costs as well. Roads had to be built, army
officers bribed, dissent suppressed. The on-going costs of maintaining
the empire eventually hollowed it out, leading to collapse.

An example of how culture can become a suicide vest can be found with
the Celts. They had a tradition of burying their dead leaders with their
wealth. New leaders acquired their own wealth, which created a
meritocracy of sorts. To become a great Celtic leader, you had to be
good at war and peace so you could gain great wealth for yourself and
your people.

The trouble was, destroying that wealth on the death of the ruler made
it harder for each generation to acquire gold, silver, precious gems,
etc. Eventually, the number of people seeking gold far exceeded the
amount available in Celtic lands. Historians believe this led to the
collapse of Celtic society and the Celtic invasions.

That’s fundamentally why companies fail, revolutions topple governments
and empires collapse. The cost of the status quo becomes untenable, but
the cost of reform is also untenable. The business cannot reorganize,
the elites cannot reform and the empire cannot downsize. The only
“solution” left is liquidation, a clearing off all the old solutions and
their costs. A clean start.

At a nation level, revolution is just bankruptcy with more theater. The
revolutionaries seize the public assets of society, liquidate them and
start over with a clean sheet of paper. What is useful is retained, but
all obligations are voided. The whole point of a revolution is to wipe
away all those old solutions, which are viewed as mistakes and burdens,
so the people can have a fresh start.

The crisis faced by the West is not just the wave of migrants or the
mountains of debt. Those are easily solved. The crisis is caused by the
overhang of old solutions to old problems. Angela Merkel is the answer
to a question posed thirty years ago, one no one asks anymore, because
we have new questions to answer, like how to keep Mohamed from
self-detonating in Europe.

What comes next, what always follows an economic revolution, is a
massive political reorganization. Maybe this time it is collapse under a
wave of flea infested migrants from the south. Maybe the popular
uprisings in response to the flood of migrants will usher in a clearing
of the debts. Maybe the Germans will stop apologizing for Hitler and
Southerners will stop apologizing for slavery.
