---
title: "Corinthian 15"
date: "2015-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4101"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4101"
---

Shay’s Rebellion, The Whiskey Rebellion, Nat Turner’s Rebellion, The
Know-Nothing Riot of 1856, The Boston Police Strike, Bonus Army March,
Zoot Suit Riots, The Watts Riots. There’s a long tradition of men (and
women!) taking matters into their own hands and striking out at the
state or society over grievances.

<a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/mallory-heiney-writes-in-the-washington-post-she-isnt-paying-back-her-student-debt-2015-3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Now, we have the Corinthian 15.</a>

*Mallory Heiney, a 21-year-old former student of the now-defunct
[Everest College,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everest_College) is part
of a group of students refusing to pay back their student loans.*

*Heiney wrote an [op-ed article in The Washington
Post](http://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2015/03/16/my-for-profit-university-folded-im-not-paying-back-my-student-loans/?tid=sm_tw) in
which she described the lies Everest allegedly told her as well as the
insufficient education she says she received.*

*Heiney called Everest a “debt trap.” When she explained to her adviser
that she couldn’t afford student-loan payments while in school, she was
assured she could defer the payments on her $24,000 in student loans
until post-graduation, according to her article.*

*That ended up being untrue, she said. Heiney said she was on the hook
to start paying interest payments on her loans two months into her
program.*

*The program also allegedly failed to provide her with a quality
education. She said her teachers did little more than read aloud from
textbooks, and she was unaware of basic concepts required to pass her
nursing licensing exam. She said she was able to pass only by “spending
hours researching the test questions online and watching YouTube
videos.”*

*Heiney and [15 other students who attended the Corinthian College
system](http://www.businessinsider.com/corinthian-college-debt-strike-2015-2)
have banded together to fight what they describe as predatory
student-loan tactics by the financial aid offices and a failure to
provide quality education.*

*The members of the group, referred to as the Corinthian 15, feel
justified in their refusal to pay back their loans. They believe they
are fighting for students everywhere who are manipulated by unfair
university practices and are riddled with student loan debt as a
result.*

*“In 1955, Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on a bus,” Heiney
wrote in her article. “This soon led to the revolutionary Montgomery bus
boycott. If those who came before us can take a stand in the face of
persecution, harassment, beatings, imprisonment and even death, I will
certainly stand in the face of wage garnishment and a tarnished credit
report.”*

Ah yes, Rosa Parks. That’s who comes to mind whenever I think of former
students not paying their school debts. At least she did not compare
herself to Jesus. I guess that’s something to celebrate.

<a
href="http://fox17online.com/2015/03/09/west-michigan-student-joins-nationwide-debt-strike-refuses-to-pay-student-loans/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Other former students are joining in</a>,
at least publicly, so maybe it is a thing. Then again, default rates are
through the roof, over 15% according to various sources. It seems to be
a tough figure to pin down because of the blend of private and federal
lending. <a
href="http://febp.newamerica.net/background-analysis/federal-student-loan-default-rates"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This report</a> is the best I could find
in five minutes of searching. Banks look to keep default rates below 2%
as a rule. Anything higher is considered a problem.

Howling lunatic <a
href="http://www.mainstreet.com/article/second-time-around-for-warren-student-loan-re-fi-bill-may-be-the-charm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Elizabeth Warren is back again with
another scheme</a> to hand tax payer money to students who are in debt.
That’s really not quite right as her scheme is about transferring tax
payer money to her pals in the academy. No one ever seems to ask why
college has become so wildly expensive. It’s just assumed to be an
unalloyed good. No price is too high for the laying on of hands at the
academy.

The sad reality of American higher education is that it has become a
workfare program for the lesser lights of the managerial elite. If you
have something on the ball you head off to the law of finance. If you
are not terribly bright you end up in the economics department at local
college. Most of what goes on at our colleges has nothing to do with
training young people for productive work. <a
href="http://trends.collegeboard.org/college-pricing/figures-tables/tuition-fees-room-board-time-1974-75-2014-15-selected-years"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s why tuition rates have
skyrocketed</a>.

But, that’s a subject we’re not permitted to discuss.

Now, whatever sympathy I may have for young people and their families
facing modern college costs, I’m having a tough time mustering empathy
for Ms. Heiney. The outsized sense of self-importance displayed by this
young woman, the ring leader of this micro-protest, is a bit much. She
is an adult and she foolishly entered into a bad contract. That’s not
the fault of the taxpayers or the people who lent her the money.

That’s the trouble with the moaning about college debt. The people doing
the moaning seem to be in a perpetual state of adolescence. Generation
Onesie, raised by helicopter parents, expects the rest of us to pick up
after them, tend to their boo-boos and organize our lives around them.
The vibe that comes through in these stories about school debt is an
overweening sense of entitlement.

Ironically, the institution inculcating this solipsism in the young is
the source of their troubles, the colleges and universities. Go onto a
modern college campus and it is a weird Potemkin village that operates
nothing like the world around it. I always get the same feel as I get
when I’m at a resort. It’s West World for young adults.

Elite universities are the worst. Just look at the graduation rates of
these places and it is clear that failure is not an option. No one ever
bothers to notice that schools allegedly offering the most challenging
and rigorous education, have a near zero attrition rate. BUD/S training
prides itself on its 65% failure rate. Ranger school is similar. Duke,
in contrast, takes pride in its 99% graduation rate.

Ms. Heiney, who no one would mistake for an Ivy League graduate,
nevertheless assumed that all that was required of her was to sign some
forms, show up as requested, repeat what was was told to her and the
world would be her oyster. This is the thread that runs through all of
the complaints about school debt. No one takes responsibility for
anything. Instead, strangers are expected to pick up the bill for the
mistakes of these people.

One of the best lines Penn Jillette ever uttered was that government
makes weasels of us all. You see it with college. The massive government
loan system has turned the colleges into dependency rackets. Everyone
involved is looking to separate the suckers from their money. The
process produces waves of young adults expecting a good life at the
expense of others.

The simplest and quickest way to end the problem is to end the
government role in financing college. In short order, colleges will get
cheap again, so that young people from modest backgrounds can work their
way through school. Of course, we’ll need to find something for the
Womyn’s Studies gals to do, which is why this will never happen. The
ruling class needs a place to dump its misfits and that’s the college
campus.
