---
title: "The Greek Struggle Session"
date: "2015-07-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4922"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4922"
---

I have found the Greek financial crisis endlessly fascinating over the
last five years. The main reason I can’t get enough of it is that unlike
American political scandals, all of the important parts of the Greek
drama are hidden. What we see from the performers is their reaction to
those important actions and we are left to guess what is going on behind
the screen.

After all, the Greeks have no money and they owe a massive amount of
money relative to what they can possibly raise over the next ten years.
Even if they stated auctioning off islands and national treasures, they
are never paying off their debts. We finally learned that they will
never be able to pay the interest on those debts. There’s some other
reason Europe is spending countless hours pretending to disentangle an
“impossible” knot.

Reading <a
href="http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2015-07-10/over-you-merkel-greek-govt-approves-bill-greek-people-voted-no"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this post on ZH</a> this morning, I think
I may now know the answer. The European Project is all about reducing
cultural and national identity administrative distinctions. Being an
Italian simply means living in a place that used to be a country called
Italy. If you are a Bantu who floated over last week, granted EU
citizenship and now reside in Milan, you are an Italian!

Here we have the Greek stubbornly acting like Greeks by voting out
politicians who go along with the European program. They voted out one
main party for another and when that failed they voted out the main
parties altogether. Syriza, despite its Marxist trappings, won on an
explicit appeal to Greek patriotism. The Greeks even went so far as to
vote in huge numbers against the EU proposal in last week’s plebiscite.

The result, as that Zero Hedge piece points out, is the Greek parliament
voting in favor of the same deal that was rejected last week by the
people. Talk about the ultimate in humiliation. If you are a Greek who
voted for Syriza and against this plan, you have to feel like a fool.
The people in charge are laughing at you. All you did with your silly
voting is waste the ruler’s time and for that you will suffer.

And that has been the point all along. It’s not the money. It’s the
humiliation. The Greeks have been cast in a German snuff film for the
titillation of German technocrats and as a warning to everyone now
living under the German yoke. You either goose step to the tune being
played in Brussels or end up like Greece.

In the last century, Marxism relied on personal humiliation to break the
will of people. The rulers would require the people to say ridiculous
things in public about the wonderfulness of the regime and it’s
animating theodicies. Children would be made to sing party songs and
officials would be required to participate in official charades. It was
all intended to humiliate the people. It is hard to rise up in revolt
after you have been made to toady to the state in front of your peers.

There was also the forced confession and the struggle sessions. Forced
confessions were how individual heresies were made into collective ones.
They turned a natural virtue – empathy – into a vice. How could one feel
sorry for a suffering human who had gone against the revolution? It was
intended to atomize the citizen, cutting off his loyalties to his
fellows and replacing it with loyalty to the state.

The struggle session worked similarly. The heretic would be forced to
confront their own apostasies in such a way that altered them
emotionally. Everything about them, right down to their core, was
challenged and questioned. Once they could no longer trust themselves,
they could only trust their masters in the party.

Ultimately, that is what has happened in Greece. It is one long struggle
session. Like the forced confessions and show trials the Soviets were so
fond of, this was intended not just for the Greeks, but the rest of
Europe. The Greek Finance Minister said it was to warn the French, about
being French. It was certainly a warning to the Brits and others who
have patriotic parties making noises about Europe.

If you are a Greek citizen, how can you have any faith in your Greek
democracy? Why would you bother with it? You now see that voting is just
a charade. The people making the decisions are in Berlin and Brussels
and they speak German. Those are the people in charge, not those guys
lobbying for your vote. Comrade, why are you struggling against the tide
of history?

As an aside, if you ever thought about what Europe would have been like
if the Nazis had won, take a look at today’s Europe. Eventually Hitler
would have died, probably assassinated, and been replaced by technocrats
like Albert Speer. The Germans love technocrats more than they love scat
films. By now, rule by street thug would have given way to rule by <a
href="http://www.thecommentator.com/system/articles/inner_pictures/000/004/171/original/angela_merkel.jpeg?1379919472"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">lemon-pussed technocrats</a>.
