---
title: "The Gawker Veto"
date: "2015-03-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4131"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4131"
---

Last week the queer website Gawker bagged another crime-thinker when <a
href="http://www.vdare.com/posts/razib-khan-hired-and-fired-by-the-new-york-times-both-on-the-same-day"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">they “outed” Razib Khan</a> as he was
about to take up a space on the NYTimes website. Apparently it was
assisted by the in-house racist of the NYTimes, Jamelle Bouie. That’s
not surprising. The dumbest employee of the NYTimes is probably the best
person to be their ambassador to the Gawker-verse.

As an aside, I always wonder how guys like Bouie and TN Coates live with
themselves. They have to know they are ornaments and not taken seriously
by their owners. None of the trust fund types running the Times and the
Atlantic have any interest in what these guys are saying or doing. I
guess it beats working the drive through.

Anyway, as Derb pointed out, it was a bit shocking to see the Times
hiring someone like Khan in the first place. The religion of anti-racism
pretty much precludes any discussion of genetics beyond the sort of
stuff that turns up in grammar school text books. It just shows that the
people at the NYTimes are completely unaware of what goes on outside
their bubble.

Let me just say that I have read Khan for years and I enjoy his work. I
don’t know him, but I suspect he and I would not get along very well.
Therefore, my appreciation of him is purely intellectual. He is simply
one of the best genetics bloggers/writers on earth. You cannot have an
interest in population genetics and not read Razib Khan.

The fact that Gawker now has a veto over hiring at the NYTimes is not
entirely surprising. One of the things about these leftists is they
always end up handing power to the worst elements in their cult. From
The Reign of Terror forward the pattern has always been the same. The
movement grows increasingly fanatical until control is in the hands of
psychotic lunatics.

The reason for this is that utopian religions have no natural limit.
There’s no line that reads, “This is enough.” Christianity has those
lines. Judaism has those lines. Once you do certain things, show you
believe certain things, you are pious enough. Built into the religion is
an upper bound and a caution about trying to go beyond it. The Catholic
Church burned more than a few heretics for trying to immanentize
eschaton.

On the Left, no such limit exists. They are premised on the firm belief
that there is a way to arrange things just the right way to create
heaven on earth. They don’t call it that, but the echos are there in
discussion of health care or poverty programs, for example. Obama spent
three years talking about his plan to have more people on government
health services while also lowering the cost, a mathematical
impossibility.

The dynamic that evolves is one where adherents compete with one another
over who is the most pious. Since there’s no objective way to measure
piety and no defined limit to piety, a weird race to the bottom
ensues.The only way to “prove” yourself is to be more fanatical than the
next guy. The following guy has to do more.

During the Reign of Terror, fear of being branded a
counter-revolutionary led moderate men to embrace violence against their
fellows. The result was an escalation of violence. The Nazis and
Bolsheviks went through similar period of fervor during which members
were purged and alleged enemies murdered. The Kmer Rouge is probably the
most grisly example of how this process can quickly spiral into madness.

I think we’re seeing something similar happen with Progressives. I’m old
enough to remember when respectable liberals would not be caught dead in
the same room with a guy like Al Sharpton, for example. The ranting
lunatics of MSNBC would have been confined to public access cable, not
given their own nationwide platform. The face of Progressive America has
grown increasing gnarled and ugly over the last two decades.

Now here we are with Gawker running the HR department of the NYTimes. If
there are humans more odious than those who work at Gawker, I am unaware
of them. These are the lowest of the low. Yet, the trust fund babies at
the NYTimes fear them. Entertainment liberals tremble at the mention of
Gawker. They have become the
*[Sturmabteilung](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sturmabteilung "Sturmabteilung")*
of the Progressive movement.

Handing authority of any kind to sociopaths is a terrible idea and it
never ends well. The Obama coalition has always been fragile because it
is a coalition of anti-social misfits and cultural anarchists. Turning
over party discipline to sadists and borderline psychotics like Nick
Denton is throwing a gas on the fire. Whether or not the remaining
sensible elements of the Progressive church can take back control of
their thing is unknown.

I’m not optimistic.
