---
title: "Men Shut Their Doors Against A Setting Sun"
date: "2015-02-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3786"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3786"
---

Every president has his issues and by that I mean the things he likes to
work on as a matter of policy. Johnson was a natural at domestic policy
wrangling. Nixon had a great mind for foreign affairs. Clinton loved
interns. Bush the Younger became a war president and surrounded himself
with people good at prosecuting wars. The defect in the American system
is that we are stuck with our president until he dies, leaves office or
is voted out in the next election, which rarely happens. So, if our guy
is not very interested in foreign affairs, like is the case with Obama,
you have to hope nothing big happens in the world while he is in office.
Otherwise, it can get ugly.

The Europeans seem to have figured this out finally. I’m surprised it
has taken so long, but old habits die hard. Most of our post-WW2
presidents have had experienced people to rely on for this stuff and all
of them have been willing to work with the Europeans. Some of them too
much, but that’s hardly a vice. You can disagree with the policy, but
even our week presidents have not followed weird policy goals. Obama is
the exception. He has a weak team and he seems to hold the Europeans in
contempt.

I think Europe has finally thrown in the towel and is ready to walk away
from the US, <a
href="https://ca.news.yahoo.com/leaders-scramble-avert-dramatic-spiral-ukraine-143455277--sector.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">at least when it comes to Ukraine</a>.

*MUNICH (Reuters) – The leaders of Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France
agreed to meet in Belarus on Wednesday to try to broker a peace deal for
Ukraine amid escalating violence there and signs of cracks in the
transatlantic consensus on confronting Vladimir Putin.*

*The four leaders held a call on Sunday, two days after Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President Francois Hollande traveled to Moscow
for talks with Putin that produced no breakthrough in the nearly
year-long conflict that has claimed over 5,000 lives.*

*After the call, Ukraine President Petro Poroshenko said progress had
been made and that he was hopeful the meeting in Minsk would lead to a
“swift and unconditional ceasefire” in eastern Ukraine, where
pro-Russian separatists have stepped up a military offensive in recent
weeks, seizing new territory.*

*But Putin warned in a newspaper interview that Kiev must stop its
military operation in east Ukraine and stop exerting economic pressure
on rebel-held regions.*

*“Kiev’s attempts to exert economic pressure on Donbas (region of east
Ukraine) and disrupt its daily life only aggravates the situation. This
is a dead-end track, fraught with a big catastrophe,” Putin told
Egyptian state newspaper Al-Ahram, according to an English transcript
provided by the Kremlin.*

*A Ukraine military spokesman said on Sunday that intense fighting was
continuing around the rail junction town of Debaltseve, with rebel
fighters making repeated attempts to storm lines defended by government
troops.*

*At a high-level security conference in Munich over the weekend, Merkel
said it was uncertain whether further negotiations would lead to a deal
with Putin but argued that all opportunities for a diplomatic solution
should be pursued.*

*She came under sharp criticism from U.S. Senators Lyndsey Graham and
John McCain, both Republican hawks, for opposing the sending of
defensive weapons to the Ukraine army to help it fight the separatists.*

*“The Ukrainians are being slaughtered and we’re sending them blankets
and meals,” McCain said in Munich. “Blankets don’t do well against
Russian tanks.”*

If you’re Merkel, Hollande and Putin, you have to be thinking you’re on
your own at this point.Obama let the State Department run wild in
Ukraine, helping create this mess. Victoria Nuland should have been
publicly sacked so as to show the World Obama is not going to tolerate
that sort of bungling. Instead this woman stays on, like a big”FU” to
the Europeans. Further, Obama keeps sending John Kerry to Europe,
despite the fact everyone thinks he is a ridiculous person.

The bellicose ramblings of the warmongers in the GOP must be very
concerning. A weak president surrounded by boobs can be bulldozed by a
John McCain channeling Cato the Elder. Americans are largely clueless
about the politics in the provinces, the rest of the world watches
American politics closely. They have to worry that weak, lame duck
president could be bullied into doing something stupid. Eliminating that
possibility means even a bad deal is a good deal.

The trouble with the Europeans <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/ukraine/11397217/Fears-of-Western-split-over-Ukraine-as-Germany-rebuffs-American-threat-to-send-weapons.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">turning their back on Obama</a> is it
means turning their back on America, if they can make a deal with Putin.
Putin surely knows this so now he has a reason to make a deal over
Ukraine. There’s the looming Greek problem that could also complicate
things. <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/russia-military-agreement-in-cyprus-2015-2"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">When Cyprus is talking with Russia about
military bases</a>, it’s reasonable to assume the Greeks would jump at
such a deal. The rest of Europe has to think they would be better off
letting the Russian have Ukraine back so they can focus on their other
issues to the south.

I don’t think Putin is the evil genius many on the Right think. It’s
just that he is matched against a nitwit. In comparison to Obama, Putin
looks like Goldfinger.
