---
title: "Progressive Eugenics"
date: "2015-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4862"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4862"
---

One thing no one is allowed to notice is that Progressives have a deep
fascination with eugenics. Every liberal friend I have thinks there are
too many people. They blame climate change on over population. The
inability to build roads is the fault of too many people spilling out of
the cities into the countryside. Even explaining to them the math of
population density does not change their mind.

Progressives have a long history with eugenics. A century ago American
Progressives were preaching the virtues of forced sterilization as a way
to fix the population. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. in [*Buck v.
Bell*](http://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/historics/USSC_CR_0274_0200_ZO.html),
a 1927 Supreme court case upholding a Virginia law that authorized the
state to surgically sterilize certain “mental defectives” without their
consent.

In fact, America was the leader in the eugenics movement, not the
Germans. This is an example of where fascism relied on an American
intellectual development to inform their own views. Margaret Sanger, of
course, was a raving eugenicist, in addition to being a nut. She wanted
the state to distribute babies based on the fitness of potential
parents.

As I said at the start, we’re not allowed to talk about this anymore.
Instead, we must pretend that Ted Cruz wants to pack Bibles into the
wombs of young women and sew their legs shut. While that’s happening, <a
href="http://www.lifenews.com/2015/07/02/schools-implant-iuds-in-girls-as-young-as-6th-grade-without-their-parents-knowing/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Left can force young girls onto birth
control</a> in the public school system.

The school in question is mostly minority. <a
href="http://www.greatschools.org/washington/seattle/1548-Chief-Sealth-High-School/details/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">According to Great Schools</a>, it is 68%
non-white. The demographics of the surrounding area tell me this is
where the SWPL’s send the poor whites and minorities. The Feds are
paying for this scheme through an anti-poverty program. The map tells me
there are a plethora of abortion clinics nearby.

For as long as I have been alive, Progressives have worked to put the
poor and black on mandatory birth control. The argument they use these
days is that unwanted children keeps poor women poor. Getting them on
birth control means they can go to school and get out of the ghetto. The
fact that fifty years of doing this has not worked is not seen as a
deterrent.

The thing about this is many people reading this would probably agree
with mandatory birth control in these schools. I think there is a good
argument for making birth control a condition of public assistance. If
you’re on the dole, you get fixed. That’s for males too. Vasectomies are
reversible so if you want your free cheese, drop trow and look to your
left.

Similarly, drug testing the dependent is debatable, even if you are in
favor of legalizing drugs. Getting high is a luxury item and people on
the dole should not be spending on luxury items. On the other hand,
having the idle high on drugs probably makes them more docile so maybe
the libertarians will make drug taking mandatory for the dependent.

The bottom line here is that eugenics have always been a big part of the
Progressive future. It has always been there. Sanger argued that “Birth
control must lead ultimately to a cleaner race.” She also wanted to
“Give dysgenic groups in our population their choice of segregation or
compulsory sterilization.”

They have softened the language, but scratch the paint of a Progressive
and you will also reveal a swastika.
