---
title: "Time To Build The Gallows"
date: "2015-02-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3914"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3914"
---

<a href="http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/article/2560750"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Ides of March are coming so maybe</a>…

*It’s starting.*

*As promised, President Obama is using executive actions to impose gun
control on the nation, targeting the top-selling rifle in the country,
the AR-15 style semi-automatic, with a ban on one of the most-used AR
bullets by sportsmen and target shooters.*

*The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives this month
revealed that it is proposing to put <a
href="http://www.atf.gov/sites/default/files/assets/Library/Notices/atf_framework_for_determining_whether_certain_projectiles_are_primarily_intended_for_sporting_purposes.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the ban</a> on 5.56 mm ammo on a fast
track, immediately driving up the price of the bullets and prompting
retailers, including the <a
href="http://www.cabelas.com/browse.cmd?categoryId=630609480&amp;WT.tsrc=EML&amp;WT.mc_id=email-nl&amp;eid=14810931&amp;cmp=EP20150225&amp;seg=EPP0ALL&amp;cnt=11516&amp;ctb=SUBFEAT1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">huge outdoors company Cabela</a>’s, to
urge sportsmen to urge Congress to stop the president.*

*Wednesday night, Rep. Bob Goodlatte, the Republican chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, stepped in with a critical letter to the
bureau demanding it explain the surprise and abrupt bullet ban. The
letter is shown below.*

*The <a
href="https://www.nraila.org/articles/20150225/urge-your-representative-to-join-congressional-response-to-batfe-ammo-ban"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">National Rifle Association</a>, which is
working with Goodlatte to gather co-signers, told Secrets that 30 House
members have already co-signed the letter and Goodlatte and the NRA are
hoping to get a total of 100 fast.*

*“The Obama administration was unable to ban America’s most popular
sporting rifle through the legislative process, so now it’s trying to
ban commonly owned and used ammunition through regulation,” said Chris
W. Cox, executive director of the
<a href="https://www.nraila.org" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">NRA-ILA</a>, the group’s policy and lobby shop. “The NRA
and our tens of millions of supporters across the country will fight to
stop President Obama’s latest attack on our Second Amendment freedoms.”*

*At issue is so-called “armor-piercing” ammunition, an exemption for
those bullets mostly used for sport by AR-15 owners, and the recent
popularity of pistol-style ARs that use the ammo.*

*The inexpensive 5.56 M885 ammo, commonly called green tips, have been
exempt for years, as have higher-caliber ammunition that also easily
pierces the type of soft armor worn by police, because it’s mostly used
by target shooters, not criminals. The agency proposes to reclassify it
as armor-piercing and not exempt.*

*But now BATFE says that since the bullets can be used in semi-automatic
handguns they pose a threat to police and must be banned from
production, sale and use. But, as Goodlatte noted, the agency offered no
proof. Federal agencies will still be allowed to buy the ammo.*

*“This round is amongst the most commonly used in the most popular rifle
design in America, the AR-15. Millions upon millions of M855 rounds have
been sold and used in the U.S., yet ATF has not even alleged — much less
offered evidence — that even one such round has ever been fired from a
handgun at a police officer,” said Goodlatte’s letter.*

*Even some police don’t buy the administration’s claim. “Criminals
aren’t going to go out and buy a $1,000 AR pistol,” Brent Ball, owner of
417 Guns in Springfield, Mo., and a 17-year veteran police officer told
the <a
href="http://www.news-leader.com/story/news/local/ozarks/2015/02/21/ban-armor-piercing-bullets/23816437/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Springfield News-Leader</a>. “As a police
officer I’m not worried about AR pistols because you can see them. It’s
the small gun in a guy’s hand you can’t see that kills you.”*

*Many see the bullet ban as an assault on the AR-15 and Obama’s
back-door bid to end production and sale.*

*“We are concerned,” said Justin Anderson with
<a href="http://www.hyattguns.com" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Hyatt
Gun Shop</a> in Charlotte, N.C., one of the nation’s top sellers of
AR-15 style rifles. “Frankly, we’re always concerned when the government
uses back-door methods to impose quasi-gun control.”*

*Groups like the <a
href="http://www.nssfblog.com/oppose-atf-556-m855-ball-ammunition-ban/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">National Shooting Sports Foundation</a>
suggest that under BATFE’s new rule, other calibers like popular deer
hunting .308 bullets could be banned because they also are used in
AR-15s, some of which can be turned into pistol-style guns. “This will
have a detrimental effect on hunting nationwide,” said the group.*

This is another example of how the final Obama years will be just a
revenge fantasy made real. The unwillingness of the GOP to push back on
anything just encourages more of it. My bet is we see far more
outlandish moves in the next 18 months. Just wait until it comes time to
pardon people. Lois Lerner and her cohorts will get a blanket pardon, I
bet.

It’s why this is what every politician should see on his way to the
office.

<img
src="http://legalinsurrection.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/gallows.jgp_.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="636" height="480" />

 

 
