---
title: "The Fall Reset"
date: "2015-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5468"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5468"
---

Watching the debates, I wondered how many of the Trump people really
cared much about any of it. My sense is the Trump vote is just the
immigration patriots plus the red pill conservatives.The former only
support Trump because of immigration. The latter support Trump because
its fun to watch Judge Smails have a stroke over it. I’m obviously in
the latter group.

Reading the news today, it’s pretty clear that the press has no idea how
to talk about Trump. They prefer to talk about Farina and Carson, as
they fit neatly into their respective boxes.There’s also a sense that
Farina could cut into Trump’s support, but that’s a fundamental
misreading of things. Some of the media is still hoping to revive one of
the dwarfs, but that’s not a fun task at the moment.

Anyway, this debate is the start of the fall campaigning season. The
next debate is the end of October, then another in the middle of
November and another in the middle of December. They have a debate
tentatively scheduled for January, but that’s the final stretch to the
first batch of primaries. The next four weeks will make the field for
the 2016 election season. So, where are we?

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**The Dead**</span>

George **Pataki** will not take the hint. They gave Gilmore the wrong
date and time for the last debate so he would not clutter up the stage.
If Pataki does not take the hint, he will wake up with Gilmore’s head in
his bead. My bet is they find some way to exclude him from the next
round or he just throws in the towel. Maybe he and Gilmore can open a
B&B together.

Caitlyn **Graham**‘s disturbing performance is not going to go unnoticed
by his friends in the party. Graham is a reliable vote for the
establishment so they don’t want him going bonkers and maybe needing to
seek professional help. He’s also 60 and can hold that seat for another
20 years so they will have the talk with him and he will drop out before
the next debate.

Rick **Santorum** was thinking he could live off the land through the
fall and then make a run at Iowa. His appeal is to the cultural
conservatives who vote against abortion and the homos. The trouble is
those voters are more vexed over the Latinos than the homos and Huckabee
is splitting what’s left. The Huckster has the connections to the
churches so look for Santorum to get the hook or drop out next month.

Watching **Christie** on the main stage, I saw a guy who knew it was
over and this was probably his last day in the spotlight. He was loose
and goofy, just enjoying himself. A lot of Yankee Conservatives like
him, but there are too many guys striving for this vote. There’s no
money to keep him going so my guess is he quits and opens a muffin shop
on the Jersey Shore.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**The B-List Establishment
Men**</span>

**Jindal** has been playing an interesting game. He has spent nothing so
he can hang around as long as likes. His talk radio work has been to
defend the party, promote his brand of reform and trash Donald Trump.
Everyone knows he is running for a cabinet spot so it’s not about
polling with him. He wants to get one shot at the big stage and hope to
catch people’s attention. With his coevals in the group faltering, it’s
not a bad strategy if he can hang around for another month.

The collapse of **Walker** is a good example of how mass media has
warped modern society. Walker is a dork with a bald spot so voters are
turned off by him. He also has a nasally voice which reminds people of
the IRS guy at their audit. He raised a lot of money and he showed a
little spunk of late, but he has another month to figure out how to not
be Ned Flanders or he’s a goner.

**Kasich** is another guy on thin ice. The party men all thought he was
going to be a great alternative to Bush and encouraged him to join the,
telling him he would be the VP for Bush at the worst. If Bush faltered,
Kasich would the next man up and get the nomination. That whole plan is
unraveling now as Bush sinks and takes the rest of the establishment men
with him. Kasich has no money and he needs to start producing or he will
be out of cash by Thanksgiving.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**The A-List Establishment
Men  
**</span>

**Bush** has such a huge war chest, he can hang around until 2020
regardless of his polling. His problem is he is the second choice of a
lot of voters who are currently backing other establishment guys. Once
the lesser lights drop away in the next couple of months, his numbers
will rise. That’s the plan at this point. Play the rope-a-dope and get
to January as the sole Establish Man left in the race. If the other
choices are yahoos like Trump, so the theory goes, the voters will come
home to Bush country.

I put **Rubio** in this category simply because I can’t think of another
place to put him. He’s got enough money to stick around through the
first wave of primaries. He is an establishment guy that the party
really wants to succeed. His trouble is he The Beaver to Jeb’s Wally.
Since Bush is not going anywhere, I just can’t see how Rubio breaks out
and becomes the company man. But, he has nothing to lose so he will
stick around hoping for a miracle.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Weirdos**</span>

I’ve wanted to like Rand **Paul**, but let’s face it, he is a weird
little dude. As I said during the debate, Rand is that guy in the
neighborhood everyone suspects when a kid goes missing. It’s not what he
says or his position on things. It’s that his priority list seems to be
completely out of kilter. He’s deeply passionate about weed laws, but
seems indifferent to immigration or taxes. He’s why most men outgrow
libertarianism a few years after college. He will stick around until New
Hampshire and then quit to focus on his Senate run.

**Huckabee** is another strange man. I just can’t look at him without
thinking about him “marrying” his wife a second time so he could game
the gift ban, treating the bribes as wedding gifts. Like other grifters
from the Ozarks, he is tenacious and resourceful. Gypsies would be awed
by him so he will stick around hoping to win the Evangelical vote in
Iowa and get himself into the race as the morality candidate.

It pains me to put Ted **Cruz** in the weirdo category, but where else
does he fit? He’s hated by the party and he only appeals to fringe
weirdos like you people. His game is to be there when Trump collapses to
pick up his vote as the rebel leader. He has the money and smarts to
keep that plan working through the end of the year. As long as he sticks
close to Bush in the polls, he can plausibly raise money and get into
the debates.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Outsiders**</span>

Ben **Carson** looked like he was stoned during the debate and it was so
bad that even the rump-swabs in the conservative press had to admit it.
Unlike Trump, Carson is a novelty without a purpose. He has no signature
issue and no real reason to be running. When you think about it, Caron’s
argument is he is simply the most moral man on stage and therefore he
should win. I suspect his vote starts to decamp to Farina now that she
is the new shiny penny on the scene.

**Farina** is a gold plated phony, but she is now seen as the dragon
slayer by the party. Farina worked for John McCain for a short while so
she has party connections. No one seriously thinks she can be the
nominee, but she could steal enough of Carson’s vote to be treated as
the hot new alternative to Trump for a while. Her job therefore is to be
the dutiful straw, appealing to Trump voters, but pulling her punches
against the establishment men.

**Trump** is the most interesting political story in my lifetime. He’s
the anti-candidate. None of the normal rules apply as he is now the
symbol of protest. What should scare the party is that 30% number.
That’s a lot of people who are ready to blow the party up to spite the
establishment. The thing to watch is the polls over the next two weeks.
If Trump keeps climbing, it’s time for Rinse Penis to turn on the bat
signal as the party is in deep trouble.
