---
title: "A Sickness Reason Cannot Cure"
date: "2015-12-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5948"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5948"
---

One of the stranger things about daily life is that the most obvious
answer, the one most likely to succeed at the lowest possible cost, is
almost always declared unacceptable or even impossible by the people in
charge. More often than not, the next best option is also eliminated,
even laughed off. Somehow, the public debates always revolve around
options that are unlikely to work or promise to make things worse.

This madhouse dynamic is most obvious when it comes to health care. The
laws of supply and demand apply to all things. Prices go up when demand
outstrips supply. Prices fall when supply exceed demand. Health care,
like all other goods and services, must be rationed. That’s either done
through price or through monopoly, which has failed everywhere it has
been tried, leaving price as the best solution yet discovered.

Therefore, the most obvious way to make health care cheaper is to
increase the supply. If we have more doctors, hospitals, pill makers and
so forth, the price for their services will fall. The way government
helps this along is by removing impediments to entering these fields.
Government can also remove the artificial costs that make these fields
less attractive. This is ground floor economics, yet it is never
discussed anywhere by anyone.

Instead, the public debate over health care in America is one side with
their insanely complex plans versus the other side with their insanely
complex plans. ObamaCare is tens of thousands of pages of rules and
regulations that no one comprehends. The results have been disastrous,
but simply repealing it is considered madness. Instead, the only
possible option is to pile on even more insanely complex plans, like
throwing a drowning man an anchor. It’s as if the people in charge want
the whole thing to collapse.

If you are a normal person looking at this, there are two ways you can
go with this. One is you can doubt yourself and assume the issue must be
vastly more complex than you can comprehend. I suspect many take this
option, preferring to ignore it all rather than consider the other
choice.

The other choice, the other way you can go is to try to understand why
the people in charge insist on not doing the obvious, most sensible
thing. Why are seemingly smart people allergic to the obvious? <a
href="http://www.kausfiles.com/2015/11/30/why-doesnt-the-gop-elite-give-up-on-amnesty/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mickey Kaus touches on this in this
post</a>:

*If the Republican establishment is so panicked about Donald Trump — a
wild, proto-fascist egomaniac with his finger on the button, in their
telling — you’d think it would do the one thing that would almost
certainly stop him: Surrender. By “surrender” I mean abandon their
decades long dream of winning Latino votes through a magic pill called
“comprehensive immigration reform” (known to its opponents as amnesty).
After Romney’s 2012 defeat, conservatives like Charles Krauthammer
argued that if they just caved to the Democrats on this one issue —
immigration — they wouldn’t really have to change anything else. (“It
requires but a single policy change ….”) In 2013, with Marco Rubio as
their smiling pitch man, they tried desperately to sell out on
immigration. They failed.*

*Today, Trump’s massive rallies can be interpreted as an expression of
the historic populist undercurrent animating America’s white working
class. Or they can be interpreted, with less sophistication, as
Americans saying, as loudly as they can, “WE DON’T WANT YOUR F\_\_\_ING
‘COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM.’” Either way, anger over elite “more
immigration” plans is the molten core of the Trump eruption. Is there
any doubt that if “comprehensive immigration reform” went away for good,
Trumpism would wither? So why don’t Haley Barbour and Karl Rove call a
big K Street meeting where they say, “Boys, we have to throw the damn
yahoos this bone. We’re giving up on amnesty”?*

My bet is most sensible people think that after the recent terror
attacks, the people in charge will back off of open borders and the
importation of Muslims. After all, the people are starting to get [very
pissed off over the
Muslims](http://www.foxnews.com/us/2015/12/03/as-syrian-refugees-arrive-in-texas-series-anti-islamic-incidents-suggest/).
All across the West, the people are shouting, “Enough with the fucking
Muslims!” Yet, the people in charge are out [grinning like chimps
promising to import even more
Muslims](http://www.redlandsdailyfacts.com/government-and-politics/20151010/critics-keep-syrian-african-refugees-out-of-redlands).
You would be forgiven for thinking that maybe they like it when Mohamed
shoots up a mall or an office park.

That, I think, is the part that is hard for most people to face. It’s
hard to imagine that President Obama or Angela Merkel or David Cameron
really want to see their people suffer. It’s unfathomable that someone
could be so deranged by self-loathing that they would commit their lives
to pulling down the roof on their countries. It’s a madness that is
impossible for normal people to contemplate, but what else is there?

The most obvious answer to the problem of Syed Farouk coming back from
Saudi Arabia and murdering his co-workers at the Christmas party is to
not import guys named Syed Farouk in the first place. But, that’s the
obvious answer, the one most likely to succeed. Instead, the madmen in
charge insist on building a police state so they can keep importing
Muslim fanatics. There’s no reasoning with them. No amount of carnage
will shake them of this disease that has driven them mad.
