---
title: "Pundits Under Glass"
date: "2015-05-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4529"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4529"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, I had an exchange with Jonah Goldberg
about someone who was writing for VDare or associated with the site. I
no longer recall who it was exactly. I want to say it was Peter
Brimelow, but it it is not important. What is important is the reaction
from Goldberg. He scolded me like I was child about how I should never
read that site or anyone associated with it. “trust me, you should stay
away from them.”

I can’t say I’m a big fan of VDare or Peter Brimelow, but it is a big
world and you can’t be a fan of all of it. I’ll read Derbyshire’s pieces
for VDare and Sailer, but that’s about it. I’ve said many times that I
find white nationalism to be a bit silly. <a
href="http://th09.deviantart.net/fs70/PRE/i/2012/178/0/7/white_nationalists_by_themistrunsred-d554age.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">These are not guys</a> on my side,
regardless of skin tone and cultural affiliations. Even so, VDare seems
mostly harmless to me.

The point of the story is just how frightened people in the chattering
classes are of the morality police. Guys like Jonah Goldberg have one
fear and that’s being accused of racism by the Cult. It may not destroy
a career, but it knocks you off the regular television gigs. At best you
can kick around as a guest for weekend news shows that no one watches.

I don’t blame them. Chattering skulls like money as much as anyone else
and being an A-list skull on TV is a well paying job that requires
surprising little talent. That means there’s a long line of equally
skilled skulls just waiting for the A-list skull to screw up so they can
take his spot. Suddenly you can go from living the good life in New York
or Washington to being a guy who writes for, well, VDare, hoping readers
will donate money to you.

The other day some of <a
href="http://hotair.com/archives/2015/05/14/the-fad-of-entry-level-political-opinion/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the chattering skulls were passing this
around the twitter</a>, obviously thankful for a potential way out of
the skins game trap of political punditry.

*He’s right. Too often, and mostly on the left, opinion readers are
privy not to profound argumentation, clever prose, and a depth of
insight, but to the establishment of genetic legitimacy and the facile
condemnation of obscurities. As though the opinion journalism sphere
were little more than a small claims court, modern opinion bloggers
occupy their time tilting at windmills of minor empirical value. What’s
more, this process often mandates that the writer inflate the gravity of
their subject to absurd proportions if only to retroactively validate
holding such a strong opinion on matters so trifling. And you know what?
This is a wildly successful approach to opinion journalism.*

*It’s entry-level political opinion. One need not have a profound
historical understanding or a background in the social sciences to have
a fully-formed
[outlook](http://hotair.com/archives/2015/05/05/the-left-eats-its-own-and-liberals-dont-like-it-much-at-all/comment-page-1/)
on why a particular shirt or a Marvel Comics film adaptation could be
construed as offensive. Nor would anyone care if that were merely a
subjective objection. Those grievances must be framed as oppressive in
the extreme, and objectively so. People enjoy consuming this form of
“political opinion” for the same reason some like to write about it;
there is no barrier to entry in order to read, understand, and draw your
own absolute and self-righteous conclusion on the banal transgression at
issue.*

Steve Sailer has been arguing that the Tribe is getting a bit worried
about the skins game and maybe rethinking its utility to the Tribe. I’m
not inclined to psychological reductionism so I think he’s barking at
shadows on this one. But, it is easy to see why, given that the guys
fretting over the skins game have names like Noah and Jonah.

Further, the line of attack is not to confront the skins game head on,
but instead to discredit it as not living up to some mythological
standard of opinion writing. Rothman is basically arguing that name
calling is a disqualification, which is not going to mean a whole lot to
the people in the name and shame business. To the hive mind, name
calling is the whole point. It’s how you point out the bogeyman.

I found this a bit amusing:

*While this manner of commentary is all nonsense, it stimulates a
particularly dull-witted readership that cares little for arcane and
often tedious aspects of genuine political commentary like crosstabs
analysis, coalition dynamics, monetary policy, economic theory, and
international affairs. All of these subjects require the reader have
some basic grasp on a variety of assumptions before they can fully
comprehend the author’s point. The average identity crusader thrust into
an analytical post by [John
Sides](http://www.washingtonpost.com/people/john-sides) would be as at
sea as college freshman compelled to attend a fourth-year Chinese
language course. Rather than elevate the reader, however, the country’s
aspiring opinion makers have determined to talk down to their
audiences.*

Noah Rothman may be a peach of a fellow, but I really don’t care what a
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/pub/noah-rothman/4/22a/7b7"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Russian Studies</a> major has to say
about social science statistics. He’s going to find out that the people
in the skins game, those entry level opinion writers, don’t care about
fake nerds and their charts either.

The skins game folks generally have biology on their side. A black guy
ranting about the blue-eyed devil is at least right about the biology.
He is black and the blue-eyed devil is white. The same can be said for
the womyn’s rights people, ethnic grievance clubs and so forth. It’s
only when you get into the weird sex cults that things stray from
reality. The truth of the matter is the ethnic grievance industry is
just pissed about reality.

The fake nerd with his spreadsheets and splatter charts is more often
than not at odds with reality. The boys at Vox are fond of conjuring
statistics that prove! their cult is the one true way to happiness
because science! The phrase “studies show” has become  a marker for
identifying bravo sierra. Like climate science, bad math has become a
tool of the lunatic.

If there’s any doubt about that, just consider the plight of Sailer,
Richwine, Lott and Murray. All of whom know their statistics, but arrive
at heretical conclusions and face the wrath of the morality police. It
does not matter that they are right and often brilliant. The truth is no
defense against the charge of heresy.

In the game of chattering skulls, what matters is being the prettiest
flower in the hot house. If you want to stay inside the hot house, you
better not upset the people in charge of the hot house. The people in
charge are all in the Cult of Modern Liberalism. If you’re taking a
paycheck from them, you just have to suck it up and play the game by
their rules.
