---
title: "Collapse of the Middle"
date: "2015-07-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4785"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4785"
---

Every society is focused on four things: Security, Prosperity, Culture
and Trust. Security is both external and internal. A primary duty of
every society is to make sure it is defended from outsiders, but also
from deviant insiders. Those who work against the internal order are
just as much of a threat as the invader. It’s why traitors have always
been held up for the worst punishments. They threaten the very existence
of the society.

Prosperity is another focus of human society since settlement.
Technology, after all, is all about increasing prosperity, which is why
so much of our efforts are involved in advancing technology. Every
society has its own take on what it considers prosperity, but the main
reason for human society is that the whole is greater than the sum of
its parts. It is a part of our group evolutionary strategy. It is
expressed differently across groups, but it is as much a part of
humanity as left handedness.

Despite what the lunatics in charge claim, preservation and advancement
of the culture is a priority of every society. Culture, after all, is
just the rolled up preferences of the individuals in society, handed
down from generation to generation. It is a collective identity. It is
also how essential knowledge is passed from one generation to the next.
A few hours reading the Bible teaches more about humanity than four
years in a college.

These three distinct priorities are strung together with trust. Clannish
societies will place a premium on culture and security, forgoing
prosperity in order to maintain the clan. Altruistic societies will
focus resources on prosperity as their cultures are dynamic and
adaptive. Swedes spend much more time worrying about prosperity than
defending Swedish culture, while Arabs invest all their time in culture
and live in squalor.

That very broad outline is a useful way to view politics in western
societies. The three main priorities shift up and down in the public’s
hierarchy of importance. In times of plenty, the pubic will reward
leaders promising to keep the party going. Alternatively, at the end of
an up cycle, doubts about the impact on public morality may reward
candidates that speak authoritatively to cultural traditions.

This is clear in the recent American elections. Barak Obama won in 2008
largely due to the other side getting blamed for the financial collapse
and the bungling of the Muslim problem. Prosperity and security. In
2012, however, the public was uneasy about the deranged assault on the
culture by Obama and went looking for an alternative. While Romney said
all the right things on the culture, no one believed him. *Trust* is the
shadow that hangs over everything.

Shifting over to Greece, we saw promises of prosperity trump all else in
the rush to join Europe and the single currency. The public put aside
cultural concerns, expecting the trade-offs to be economically
beneficial and they were initially. When things went sour, the public
switched from one main party to the next and then finally a coalition of
main parties, all in an attempt to restore prosperity. When that failed,
the middle collapsed and the fringe parties moved to the center.

Syriza, for all its blather about socialism and Marxism, is a populist
party making a *cultural* appeal to patriotic Greeks. They have no plan
for solving the debt crisis. There is no solution. What they have is a
cultural appeal, which folds in neatly to an appeal to security. Greeks
think Syriza is best to guard the culture and keep Greece safe from the
financial vultures. Most of all, Syrza is trusted. They are what they
say they are and that means a lot.

In the rest of Europe, security and prosperity trumped all else for
forty years after World War II. Our betters like to say this was due to
people recalling the horrors of fascism, but that’s not true. Fear of
Soviet aggression (and nukes) was the top security concern. It trumped
all else. Economic integration was, in part, a component of the security
issues. It was only after the wall came down that economics become the
top priority.

Ignoring the culture has worked in Europe for a long time, but that time
is quickly passing as people begin to realize that Greeks are not Fins
and Spaniards are not Brits. Just because everyone uses the same money
and flies the same flag does not mean they are the same. Those
differences will be expressed through culture, which inevitably shapes
economics and politics.

In America culture is always in the discussion due to the Cult making
war on traditional America, but it is a one-way discussion. The
Progressives form up and start to pull down some important cultural
institution and the Right tries to stop them. The only thing keeping the
Right in business is as a fire department, called into to try and save
what’s left of America. There’s not a lot left these days.

Of course, good times economically and no fear of invasion make sacking
the culture possible. Cultural Marxism is a luxury good affordable in
rich societies with loads of free time. China and Indian have made great
strides economically, but they are still too poor to indulge in
ethnomasochism. Like throwing away food, only rich societies in the West
can afford to throw away their patrimony.

At least for now. Europe is seeing a collapse of its political middle as
the cultural vacuum underneath the political parties grows. Across the
Continent, mainstream parties treat their citizens as enemies, standing
aside as invaders from the south flood into Europe. They heap private
debts onto public balance sheet all in the name of a prosperity that is
just over the next hill.

In the US, one party is racing toward a weird techno-fascism while the
other party pads along behind them like a slow-witted little brother.
Issues of paramount concern to the public are ignored in favor of the
ridiculous and absurd.The full force of the state is brought to bear on
behalf of homosexuals playing house, while no one can be bothered to
halt the invasion from the south. For close to half the country, the
political parties have nothing to offer, other than the satisfaction of
voting against one of them.

It’s why Donald Trump is getting so much attention. Outsiders have
always popped up in party primaries only to fade from the scene. Usually
they have a novel idea or represent a narrow constituency. Trump would
have been laughed off if he had not had the good sense to say what the
public is thinking about taboos subjects like immigration.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2942" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">He’s an American Beppe Grillo</a>.

The other side is not immune. American progressives may have been
motivated by a hatred of core Americans, but they always thought of
themselves as the righteous defenders of fairness and morality. Bernie
Sanders is having success pointing out that the modern Progressive
movement has more in common with Italian fascism than old school
liberalism.  He does not say it that way, but he is tapping into the
growing doubts on the Left over the direction of their movement.

At the start of this long-winded post I said that trust is what strings
the three key social categories together. The people will naturally
trust leaders with whom that naturally identify. It’s why colonialism
ultimately failed. The foreign rulers may have done a better job bring
peaces and prosperity, but they could never be trusted because they were
foreign. People will take one their own, even if he is a screw up, over
a foreigner, even if he is brilliant.

In the West, the ruling elite no longer identifies with their host
countries. They see themselves as having evolved beyond national
identity. Their actions over the last few decades has made them
foreigners to the people over whom they seek to rule. When times are
good and the world is at peace, people can overlook the culture gap.
When peace and prosperity fade, that gap becomes a maw, collapsing the
center.
