---
title: "Opening Up Old Wounds"
date: "2015-01-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3548"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3548"
---

The Paris attacks are like a bad storm that blows through and reveals a
lot long forgotten items that were buried under the water. The people
who put them under the water are not happy they have come to the
surface. Everyone else is shocked by their existence and can’t be
distracted from their sudden appearance. This is what jumps out  about
<a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2903600/Every-single-French-Jew-know-left-Paris-Editor-Britain-s-Jewish-Chronicle-claims-people-fleeing-terror-hit-French-capital.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a>.

*Jews are fleeing terror-hit Paris because of growing anti-Semitism in
France, one of Britain’s most influential Jewish journalists said
today.*

*Stephen Pollard, editor of the Jewish Chronicle, spoke out after an
Islamic terrorist took six people hostage and held them captive in a
Kosher supermarket in the French capital.*

*This afternoon police ordered all shops in a famous Jewish neighborhood
in central Paris to close.*

*The mayor’s office in Paris announced the closure of shops along the
Rosiers street in Paris’ Marais neighborhood, in the heart of the
tourist district and less than a mile away from the offices of satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo where 12 people were killed on Wednesday.*

*Hours before the Jewish Sabbath, the street is usually crowded with
French Jews and tourists alike.*

*Mr Pollard said today’s terror attack in Paris, linked to the massacre
at the office of Charlie Hebdo, will force more French Jews to flee the
country.*

*Many are moving to Britain or to Israel, according to a report
published in the newspaper last year.*

*He said the fact that a terrorist had chosen to target a Jewish store
was no ‘fluke’.*

*In a series of tweets he said: ‘Every single French Jew I know has
either left or is actively working out how to leave’.*

*‘So, it’s a fluke that the latest target is a kosher grocer, is it?*

*‘What’s going on in France – outrages that have been getting worse for
years – put our antisemitism problems in perspective’.*

*The hostage situation in the Porte de Vincennes part of the city is
ongoing today.*

*But amid fears the terror attack may be linked to anti-Semitism police
have also demanded that shops on Rue des Rosiers, in the Jewish quarter
of Paris, to close early ‘as a precaution’ in case of further violence.*

*18 months ago France had around 500,000 Jewish residents – the largest
population in the EU – but this may now be below 400,000, Mr Pollard’s
newspaper said.*

In America, Jews are all over the place. There’s a tendency to think all
the Jews are in New York City and Los Angeles, but that’s not the case.
Maryland and Massachusetts, for example, are 4% Jewish, almost all of
whom live in suburbs and exurbs. In Europe, Jews are still packed into
cities. In France, almost all of their Jews live in Paris, making them
an easy target for Muslims.

Despite the aftermath of *you know who*, continental Europe has
maintained a mild antisemitism. It’s not official or overt, but it’s
there if you look. The waves of Muslims invited in by French elites are
now exposing that for the world to see. The Paris attacks not only
highlighted the insane immigration policies; they have reminded the
world that the French are still not all that fond of Jews.

The low countries have been struggling with the same problem. Jews have
been chased out of some cities while the authorities stand aside, hoping
no one will notice what is happening or maybe not caring. It’s
reminiscent of the pogroms that erupted with the onset of the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Death_Jewish_persecutions"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Black Plague in the 14th century</a>. 
Many Jews fled east to what is now Poland and the Ukraine.

This time around the plague sweeping north and east is the tide of
Muslims invited in by European rulers, angry with their people for
wanting to share in the bounty of modern life. The Jews of France are
unlikely to flee west this time, despite Putin working hard to invite
back the Jews who fled after the fall of the Soviet Union. Maybe this
time the people will take it out on their rulers, instead of the Jews.
