---
title: "Travelogue: Texas"
date: "2015-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Immigration
  - Trump
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5621"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5621"
---

Travel is one of the best ways to see the world. I’ve been lucky in my
life in that I have had the luxury of traveling quite a bit on someone
else’s dime. Business travel is not vacation travel, but I think it is
often a better way to see the world simply because you have long
stretches with nothing to do so you look around, explore, adventure. On
vacation, you have “stuff’ that fills every waking moment, usually
within the confines of the Potemkin vacation area.

I’ve been to Texas many times. I used to travel here often for work
matters. Thirty years ago when I first visited Texas on the way to
Mexico, I thought this is a place I should live. For some reason, it
just seems to fit my sensibilities. Every time I’ve come here, I have
had the same thought: I don’t think I’m going back. But, here I am
nearing my jump into the void and I’m still just a guy who visits Texas.

The funny thing about Texas is it is remains the one place in America
that is brimming with confidence. Texas is not a terribly sentimental
place. They will knock down an old building for a new building without
giving it a thought. In the Northeast, an army of weirdos will be there
guarding the old building, even though the weirdos will have no clue why
the old building was built. It’s just old so they think it has to be
saved.

At the same time, those same weirdos will claw one another’s eyes out to
cancel the school Christmas play. There’s the lack of confidence. In
most of America, our betters conduct themselves like the ne’er do well
grandchildren of a successful man. The kids compete with one another as
to who is the most reverent toward the old man, but not a one of them
tries to emulate him. The best they can do is have a big picture of him
in their house, which he bought for them.

Texas does not have the problem yet. Texans love being Texans and they
love being in Texas. There’s really nothing special about Texas. Dallas
is a massive suburb that looks like every other suburb in the South, but
they are proud of it and you see that everywhere you go. Texas plays
Oklahoma today in the Cotton Bowl and tickets are selling for $500 on
the secondary market, even though UT is terrible. It’s just a great
celebration of Texas football history.

I think that confidence is why Texans are soft on immigration. They are
cocksure that if you move to Texas, you will become a Texan. They are
right about it too. Vietnamese refugees landed in Houston and are now
Texans whose ancestors came from Vietnam.  Of course, Texas has always
had loads of Mexicans from the northern part of Mexico. A big part of
what makes Texas tick is the blend of Southern culture and northern
Mexican culture.

In Massachusetts, there’s zero cultural confidence. If America were
invaded, the good thinkers of the Bay State would surrender on day one
and begin taking classes in the language and culture of the invaders.
That’s why the northeast seems to be leading the charge on the
immigration fight. They are scared. A friend here in Texas, who is from
Mass, is a rock-ribbed Trump man now and it is all over immigration.

In the South, illegal immigration is an issue, but mostly because it
offends the people’s law and order instincts. It’s not seen as a threat
to their way of life. In many respects, migrant workers are a part of
their way of life. The South would be a very different place without the
flow of migrants into the agribusinesses. Go into a poultry plant in
Virginia or North Carolina and you see nothing but Hispanics. It’s been
that way for generations.

The same is true of Texas. Mexican migration in and out of the state is
just a part of the state’s character. The Mexicans who live here
permanently came here because a part of what made them Mexican also made
them Texan. The transition was easy. Of course, there are Texas families
who were here before Texas was a place. The result is most Texans feel
they have a good handle on how to manage Mexican immigration.

Finally, kicking around here it strikes me that the Cult hates Texas for
the same reason they hated Sarah Palin. In the case of Palin, the idea
that dirt people could live the feminist ideal while hanging onto dirt
people culture enraged the Cult. Palin was the living negation of the
One True Faith. There’s a similar thing with Texas. here, diversity is
on display all over, but it’s held together with the dominant Texas
culture.

The Cult believes this is impossible. For them, diversity means
obliterating all culture by running it through the blender of
multiculturalism. The result is the exact opposite of vibrant diversity,
but the screaming and bellowing makes it impossible to point it out. A
state like Texas puts the lie to the Cult’s blathering about diversity.
Texas has boatloads of it without adopting any of the Cult-Marx
nonsense.

Now, I’m off to eat my weight in fried food.
