---
title: "Ian O’Connor: Stupid and a Liar"
date: "2015-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3666"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3666"
---

Last night, Ian O’Connor posted a <a
href="http://espn.go.com/new-york/nfl/story/_/id/12213363/tom-brady-tale-hold-weight"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">column</a> about the Brady Flat Balls
scandal. It’s the sort of meat-head nonsense you get from sports
columnists these days. The thing is, it contains a lie that has now been
obscured with careful editing. The current opening graph is this:

*Under his oversized ski cap, [Tom
Brady](http://espn.go.com/nfl/player/_/id/2330/tom-brady) could not hide
from the fact he was convicting himself in the court of public opinion.
The quarterback of the [New England
Patriots](http://espn.go.com/nfl/team/_/name/ne/new-england-patriots)
admitted that footballs pumped up to 12.5 pounds per square inch are “a
perfect fit for me,” yet swore he did not notice a difference in the AFC
Championship Game when most of the balls had significantly less
pressure.*

The original paragraph and the basis for his entire rants read this way:

*Under his oversized ski cap,
<a href="http://espn.go.com/nfl/player/_/id/2330/tom-brady"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Tom Brady</a> could not hide from the
fact he was convicting himself in the court of public opinion. The
quarterback of the
<a href="http://espn.go.com/nfl/team/_/name/ne/new-england-patriots"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">New England Patriots</a> admitted that
footballs pumped up to 12.5 pounds per square inch are “a perfect fit
for me,” yet swore he did not notice a difference in the AFC
Championship Game when the **balls weighed two pounds lighter**.*

If you read the comments, people caught it quickly and mercilessly
mocked the idiot for not understanding grammar school science. This guy
actually thought footballs weighed 12.5 pounds, one pound of weight for
every pound of air pressure. Therefore, a fully deflated football would
weigh zero and float away.

I’ve had experience with sports reporters in press boxes and interview
rooms. Most reporters are surprisingly obtuse. Sports reporters are
uncommonly stupid. The only skill they possess is a willingness to spend
their lives on the road watching ball games. That and the ability to
avoid noticing anything prohibited. These are the same people who failed
to notice the use of steroids in baseball, when it was obvious to most
fans.

The other thing with this story worth noting is that Ian O’Connor
pretends to be an intellectual on TV. Television is entertainment so all
of the chattering skulls play a role, like comedians. Larry the Cable
Guy is not actually a cable guy and his accent is entirely contrived,
along with his act. O’Connor pretends to be the cerebral guy on the
stage, despite having a two-digit IQ.

The difference between a comedian and the fake intellectual is the
former is honest, while the latter is *dishonest*. Pretending to be an
accountant, dispensing advice for a fee lands you in prison for fraud. 
Pretending to be an accountant on a news program, dispensing advice for
a fee wins you an Emmy. The parade of fake military experts is a good
example of how lucrative fraud is on television.

The reason stupid people, like Ian O’Connor, are so common in the news
business is narrative journalism. The news business has been dominated
by the Cult for decades. Instead of reporting the facts of a story, it
is a race to jam the facts into the narrative, which is always based on
some left-wing fable.

O’Connor embraces this philosophy and flatters his bosses by pretending
to be an intellectual, who *embraces their* philosophy. That means
rising quickly to the top.

Multiply this a million times and you have the modern American news
media.

 
