---
title: "Bad Whites"
date: "2015-09-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5364"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5364"
---

The place I usually get my drugs is on the edge of the ghetto. It serves
the white ghetto and the soft black ghetto adjoining it. There also a
Ferguson like white working class area there, which appears to be going
Hispanic. The last time I was sent into the
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3520" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">heart of darkness</a> so I was grateful to avoid that
this time.

In line to buy drugs, I spied a typical white trash couple that is a
common feature of the white ghetto. They were in shorts and flip-flops,
exposing an array of tattoos. One had a cane, but he kept forgetting
which leg had the limp. He is probably working a disability scam,
something so common that lawyers advertise for it around here now.
<a href="http://www.ssa.gov/oact/trsum/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">It’s also threatening to bankrupt the system</a>.

The two of them had iPhones, which is ironic. Combined they probably
have a two-digit IQ yet they feel the need to have expensive smart
phones. Both had headphones so that means they have been downloading
music on someone’s dime, because what good is an iPhone without music?

The tattoos always get me. Poor people like display items. Drive through
the black ghetto and you will see expensive sports cars packed in front
of run down housing blocks. Poor whites like cars too, but they have
worse tastes in cars than blacks. Instead they invest their creative
skills in ink. The two I saw today had elaborate Celtic images on their
arms and legs.

Lots of people on the Dissident Right talk about the black underclass,
but that’s easy. It’s celebrated on TV as if it is high culture. What
never gets mentioned is the expanding white ghetto that is replacing
what used to be the white working class. Those old solid neighborhoods
where fathers worked two jobs are collapsing into lands where no one
works and everyone is on the dole.

The two crackers I saw at the pharmacy are typical. The one with the
fake limp is living off the woman. She had the EBT card and their
Medicaid card. I’m pretty sure they were picking up a pain killer as one
asked the other if they were “V” or “M” meaning Oxy. They call it
hillbilly heroine for a reason and that reason is white trash love Oxy.

That’s the difference between the black ghetto and the white ghetto. The
black ghetto is ruled by young black males. Older males who survived,
get the hell out and stay out. The women are either baby mamas or their
mothers. The white ghetto skews older, with many more older men.

There’s also less crime in the white ghetto. White teens commit crime,
but they fear blacks and Hispanics so they keep their crime small. They
don’t organize street gangs or battle for drug turf. That allows drug
taking to be a family activity. It also means their intellectual
capital, if you will, is invested in gaming the system for benefits.
Whole neighborhoods are on disability in the white ghetto.

That’s the incredible thing about the ghetto. The women know how to work
the system. They get a lot of help from government, but they have enough
smarts to game the programs. On the other hand, they lack the smarts to
avoid keeping a deadbeat under their roof who knocks them up between
drug binges. There’s something at work, other than intelligence and
education.

Something else that does not get mentioned is just how multicultural the
underclass is compared to the over-class. It’s not strange to see a fat
white girt with braids pushing a stroller containing a caramel colored
baby. Hispanics and whites hang out together far more than you would
ever see amongst good whites.

There’s a great blending going in the underclass, even though our
betters insist otherwise. I wish I had a nickel for every time I was in
a room full of upper middle-class white people bemoaning the latent
racism of the poor whites. The irony escapes them because they never go
anywhere near the ghetto.

It’s just a part of the Brazilification of America. I bet something
similar is happening in Europe. Instead of blacks, whites and Hispanics,
it’s Arabs, Africans and lower class whites. In a generation or two, the
West will be a vast sea of caramel faces ruled over by a sparkly white
ruling elite. That’s South America.
