---
title: "The Left At War"
date: "2015-06-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=1485"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1485"
---

*A day will come when sacred Troy shall perish,*  
*And Priam and his people shall be slain.*

I’ve always found the [Third Punic
War](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_Punic_War) to be a deeply
instructive period of Roman history, one that helps us understand much
of the modern world. What allowed the Romans to survive and then
dominate their neighbors was their implacability. They never quit
fighting even when they were beaten. The only ways to gain peace with
Rome were surrender or defeat. No matter how many times you beat Rome in
the field, they would keep coming back until they figured out how to
win.

I think the reason for this is explained in the Punic Wars, particularly
the final chapter that ended with the sack of Carthage. Rome was more
than a place and a people. Rome was an idea, an animating force that
defined the people of the city. Being Roman was more than just about
lineage or location. It was a way of life, the way of life for righteous
people. To accept defeat or compromise would be to reject the essence of
being Roman.

It’s this nascent nationalism that drove the Romans to keep fighting. It
is what drove them to sack Carthage and later Corinth. It was impossible
to be Rome if these cities existed as anything other than subjugated
provinces of Rome. This implacability is what carried Rome through the
third century crisis period. Even when maintaining the empire made no
military or economic sense, they did it anyway. It was who they were.
Keep in mind that in the third century, Rome was led by men from the
Balkans known then as Illyricum**.**

If you were an enemy of Rome, you knew there could only be two outcomes.
You could surrender and hope for good terms or you could fight and
eventually lose. Sure, you could win some battles and have a good run of
success, but the Romans would never stop coming. Eventually, they would
gain the advantage and win. Just as important, Rome did not just extract
rents from conquered people. They *Romanized* them. Rome was the first
iteration of The Borg.

This comes to mind now that we are in yet another Confederate flag
debate. The first one of these was in the 90’s, but I seem to recall the
Left in a snit over the flag in the 70’s when Southern Rock started
using it in their stage shows. Regardless, the Left tried to stamp it
out in the 90’s, the 2000’s and now again in this decade. Ever since
that lunatic shot up the church in South Carolina, the Left has been
buzzing about that stupid flag as if it is the cause of something.

As we saw with Obama’s birth certificate, the only people who care about
this flag are liberals and lunatics, the distinction between the two is
impossible without professional training. The rest of us, a group
professional demographers call normal people, simply don’t care. But, we
live in a country run by a quasi-religious cult and they do care, so the
rest of us have to care – or else. That’s how it works in a theocracy.

What’s instructive here is we see the same implacability on display as I
described with the Romans. In the 70’s and 80’s, I used to see Rebel
flags on sale at convenience stores – even in Boston. Now, only outcasts
display them and the occasional red neck. Most red necks have decided it
is not worth the hassle. But, the Left is still determined to sack any
city that flies the flag in any way shape or form. The Left never quits
and never settles. They declare peace only when they have won completely
and permanently.

Of course, the flag is not really the issue. That’s why normal people
are caught off-guard whenever the Left starts waving it around and
ululating like lunatics. The real issue is the long War Between the
Whites that started in the 19<sup>th</sup> century and continues to this
day. We call this the Civil War and that’s a good label, but I prefer my
label, as it is more precise. Civil War implies both sides were equal or
the same or viewed one another in that way. They never did and they
still don’t.

In the 19<sup>th</sup> century, northern whites of mostly English
ancestry used slavery as an excuse to attack and kill as a many Southern
whites as possible. Those southern whites were of mostly Scots-Irish
ancestry. The northern whites were ready to join their European coevals
in the industrial, global age and they did not want those backward
agrarian crackers holding them back. Slavery had to go and the people
responsible for it had to be punished.

Abolitionists cared more about punishing southern whites after the war
than the welfare of the freed slaves. The squabbling between northern
lunatics and more reasonable minds over how to go about the post-war
reconstruction is largely responsible for the failure of reconstruction
to resolve the issue of freed slaves. That was left to the South to
figure out on its own.

Like those Romans 2,000 years ago, the Left never quits or accepts
defeat. For 150 years northern whites have been trying to finally
eliminate their eternal enemy. Over the decades the Left evolved from an
English Protestant thing into a full blown post-industrial theodicy.
They still have a special hatred for southern whites, but they have
expanded their field of vision to include what Obama called “typical
white people.”

That’s what was missed when he made that comment. Everyone thought race,
when Obama was thinking class. This is a guy raised by elites in elite
culture. His grandparents were low-class compared to his coevals in prep
school. They were typical Americans, which the Left identifies as
middle-class, white and embarrassing. While normal people in the South
have no emotions about the rebel flag, it means everything to the Left
as it has always been, in their imagination, the flag of their enemy –
core Americans.

If you follow the logic, so to speak, it makes perfect sense for the
Left to go on jihad against the rebel flag after the white guy shot up
the black church. The Left’s idealized image of the enemy is white,
male, southern and poor. His flag is the Confederate flag. Therefore,
the logical response to this shooting, from the perspective of the Left,
is the same as the Romans when Carthaginian traders ripped off Roman
merchants. That’s a policy of the extirpation.
