---
title: "Too Much Neo in NRx"
date: "2015-03-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4120"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4120"
---

I’ve mentioned in the past that I am not much of a Moldbug fan. Maybe
one day I’ll do an in-depth post on the subject, but for now just
understand that I’m more than a bit skeptical about the NRx
thing.There’s a whiff of Scientology to it, with Moldbug playing the L.
Ron Hubbard role. To quote myself, I suspect some of these guys have
spent too much time working on their Frodo costumes.

Anyway, <a href="https://jaymans.wordpress.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Jayman</a> and
<a href="https://hbdchick.wordpress.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">HBD Chick</a> were <a
href="https://occamsrazormag.wordpress.com/2015/03/19/problems-with-the-puritan-thesis-in-nrx/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">discussing this</a>, as it were, on
twitter today and it touches on one of my complaints about the whole
neo-reaction stuff. That is, it is inward looking and strangely immune
to the vast storehouse of knowledge around them. They spend so much time
talking to one another, they seem to have forgotten there’s a whole big
world out there.

I’ll grant that many of the things discussed on the dark side are
off-limits outside of the fringes of the Internet. Much of what I post
here would get me tossed in jail if I were based in Europe and I’m
pretty mild compared to some of the stuff, so I get why they would spend
more time on the fringe stuff.  It is, however, an error to think that
there’s nothing of value being discussed by mainstream sites.

All that said, the Puritan =&gt; Progressive idea is, to be blunt,
ridiculous and Occam is correct to take issue with it. The Puritans cast
a long shadow in the minds of Progressives only because they were a
convenient foil. In the early 20th century no serious intellectual
talked about the influence of the Puritans or Puritanical America. That
was a fad that bubbled up in mid-century.

Early Progressives were overtly Protestant, mainly Episcopalian and
Methodist. Go further back, and I can argue that the abolitionist
movement was the first flowering of American Progressivism. It was a
secular cause for spiritual reasons. Everything about American
liberalism can be framed as a secular cause for spiritual reasons. <a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/spiritual-shape-political-ideas_819707.html?"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This wonderful essay</a> on the subject
from The Weekly Standard is a nice introduction.

I think the way to look at it is this. On the Continent, the 30 Years
War discredited Christianity as a legitimizing ideology. When vast
swaths of civilization were plundered in the name of Christ, it was a
tough sell as a legitimizing ideology. In its place began to flower
nationalism as the source of legitimacy.

In America, something similar happened but much later. In the name of
Christ millions of Americans were slaughtered in the Civil War to free a
handful of black people from bondage. Both sides were sure God was on
their side only to learn that God was not on either side. Onward
Christian Soldier sounded a bit ghoulish after Sherman’s March. As a
result, mainline Protestant Christianity lost its energizing appeal to
the ruling classes.

Yet, those same crusading passions existed amongst both the victors and
the vanquished. In the South, a uniquely American form of Christianity
filled the void. In the North, a form of European socialism filled the
void. Over the the last 150 years, both sides have battled a cold civil
war over which side has the right answer to the
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_God_Go" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Great Question</a>.

The Southern model has one big advantage in that it is not Utopian.
Evangelicals are under no illusions about the perfectibility of man. The
great disadvantage is it relies on an an invisible man in the sky with
whom you are required to have a personal relationship. In a world of
increasing skepticism about the supernatural, this is a hard sell.

The Northern model has the advantage of being adaptable. Because it
functions more like a cult or tribal network, the adherents need only
worry about who is in and who is out. Early Progressives, for example,
were all for neutering the poor. Then you know who came along and they
had to shift gears. Since none of their scripture is written in a dead
language, change is easy.

The big downside is that it is Utopian. The Abolitionists were sure they
could recreate the city on the hill if they just killed off all the
slave holders in the South. Wilsonians were sure they just needed to
sterilize the unfit. Today they avoid talking about killing people, but
nothing can be allowed to stop “progress.”

This is, I think, where many of the NRx types lose their footing. They
simply don’t know enough about history. Instead, they rely on the
mythologized version from the Left. The other day I had a right-winger
complain to me about the persecution of gays by the GOP. I had to remind
him that it never happened.

The other defect I sense is the need for a unified field theory of
progressivism. That’s where the Frankfurt school, Marx, Rousseau and all
the rest get in on the act. American Progressives certainly borrowed
from their European counterparts, but they also made up their own things
too. Eugenics, after all, was an American innovation. It’s better to
look at European and American intellectual life as complimentary,
stealing ideas from one another when practical.

The important thing, I think, is to not get trapped in the chain of
causality. American Progressives developed in a different environment
from their European counterparts. There’s no analog to the triumph of
New Deal Democrats in European politics, for example. While they
borrowed heavily from European intellectuals, it is a different branch
with its own unique history.

 
