---
title: "Islam’s Threat To Progressives"
date: "2015-02-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3906"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3906"
---

<a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/jihadi-john-the-islamic-state-killer-behind-the-mask-is-a-young-londoner/2015/02/25/d6dbab16-bc43-11e4-bdfa-b8e8f594e6ee_story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> is a good example of how
assimilation is only possible when dealing with similar people. Our
rulers are terribly vexed as to why so many Western born and raised
Muslims are heading off to jihad. The story of Jihad Johnny is familiar.

*The Kuwaiti-born Emwazi, in his mid-20s, appears to have left little
trail on social media or elsewhere online. Those who knew him say he was
polite and had a penchant for wearing stylish clothes while adhering to
the tenets of his Islamic faith. He had a beard and was mindful of
making eye contact with women, friends said.*

*He was raised in a middle-class neighborhood in London and on occasion
prayed at a mosque in Greenwich.*

*The friends, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the investigation, believe that Emwazi started to
radicalize after a planned safari in Tanzania following his graduation
from the University of Westminster.*

Less than 1% of Western Muslims decide to go on jihad. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/religion/11433776/Quarter-of-British-Muslims-sympathise-with-Charlie-Hebdo-terrorists.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Polling says</a> that about a quarter of
Western Muslims think killing infidels is a great idea. Those poll
results are typical of others done over the last two decades. Given the
nature of polling, it is probably fair to say the real numbers are
significantly higher. When asked, people tend not to admit to opinions
the general public has deemed wrong. Even so, my guess is the majority
of Muslims in the West just want to live quiet, prosperous lives.

But, a large minority don’t want to live quiet lives. Therein lies the
problem facing the West. If we suddenly found that 25% of men with red
hair would one day run amok and start murdering people for no reason, we
would not let men with red hair walk free. No society could tolerate
such a risk. Obviously, long before now we would have either euthanized
all red haired babies at birth or maintained a place to exile for all
red heads, like an isle of misfit toys. Ginger Island.

Obviously, the Muslim problem is both an old problem and a new problem.
The old problem dates back to the 7th century and the Muslim conquests.
The answer to *that* problem was discovered in the 8th century.

*While Abd ar-Rahman was pursuing Odo, he decided to despoil Tours by
destroying its palaces and burning its churches. There he confronted the
consul of Austrasia by the name of Charles, a man who, having proved
himself to be a warrior from his youth and an expert in things military,
had been summoned by Odo. After each side had tormented the other with
raids for almost seven days, they finally prepared their battle lines
and fought fiercely. The northern peoples remained as immobile as a
wall, holding together like a glacier in the cold regions. In the blink
of an eye, they annihilated the Arabs with the sword.*

*-The Mozarabic Chronicle of 754*

The old problem, in other words, was solved by coming up with this idea
of separate countries for Muslims and non-Muslims. Islam is a religion
of the sword, according to the people who created the religion. Their
mythology claims there will be a great final conflagration and Islam
will win the final battle at the end times. There’s no reasoning with
that so it is best to keep them penned up in their own lands, which has
been the policy of the the world for over a thousand years.

The new problem is not so much a Muslim problem as a Western problem.
The new problem starts with the new religion of the West. The religion
we call multiculturalism. This religion requires Western government to
invite the people of the world to move to their lands and mingle with
the locals, but not accepting the culture of the locals. <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/may/23/london-ukip-nightmare-labout-tories-local-elections-farage"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They imagine the nicer parts of
London</a> as the ideal utopian future, with cultured restaurants full
of young, educated hipsters.

Some portion of those swank young hipsters, however, will decide to
strap on a dynamite vest and walk into that “Shoreditch bohemian”
hangout. So far, the single thread running through every incident is
Islam. It has either been a Muslim immigrant, a man raised in a Muslim
home in the West or a convert to Islam. Multiculturalism has strict
rules against noticing, but it is hard not to notice when a man yells
“Allahu Akbar” and then blows himself up in a crowded restaurant or
starts shooting patrons at a Jewish deli.

That’s the problem the West faces. If they notice that Muslims tend not
to play well with others, that means diversity may have its limits. If
there is some *limit as to how much diversity* a society can tolerate,
then there has to be a debate about *where that limit lies and why*. In
other words, noticing the Muslim problem puts the whole project up for
debate. The only “rational” response is demand <a
href="http://www.app.com/story/opinion/editorials/2015/02/25/editorial-islam-terrorismnot-synonymous/24015131/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">everyone not notice</a> the exploding man
yelling “Allahu Akbar.”

That’s also why the West seems obsessed with discovering what mysterious
force causes good Muslims to go bad. Mr. Emwazi, the fellow at the start
of this post, was provided with everything one can hope from life in the
West. Yet, he is described as having been “radicalized” like some sort
of rage zombie, infected by a virus. They allude to his having been
discriminated against or, gasp!, profiled by authorities as being the
cause. This hunt for a cause, presumably, is intended to find a cure.
Perhaps a vaccine at birth that prevents Muslims from going bonkers as
adults.

Like so much of the late Rousseau-ist project, the true believers are
scrambling around to find a suitable solution other than the ones
learned over generations of trial and error. Discarding the traditional
institutions that serve as the storehouse of history means relearning
all of those lessons painfully learned the first time. Our rulers better
be quick studies. What was once a speck on the horizon is <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/islamic-state/11418966/Islamic-State-planning-to-use-Libya-as-gateway-to-Europe.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">now a short boat ride away</a>. This will
not end well.

 
