---
title: "Christianity and ID"
date: "2015-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4035"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4035"
---

I generally think of Christians in America as being on “my side” of
things. By my side I mean opposed to Cultural Marxism, socialism and so
forth. That’s not always true, of course. Many Evangelicals are
socialists. Many are simply religious and will vote for anyone who is
“born again.” Jimmy Carter won a big slice of the Evangelical vote thus
allowing him to [carry the South and win the
election](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_presidential_election,_1976).
I’ve known many Evangelicals that think the only issue that matters in
politics is the religion of the politician.

American Evangelicals are interesting to me in that I’m not entirely
sure the current version is, strictly speaking, Christian. They
certainly share much with traditional Christianity, but they have some
big differences too. The focus on the text of the Bible is one obvious
departure. Traditional Christians understand that the Bible, as we know
it, evolved over centuries. Translations have errors and never fully
capture the nuance of the original. Therefore, a literal interpretation
is not possible.

This leads to some rather strange circular reasoning when talking with
an Evangelical about scripture. Pointing out what I just wrote above
about the trouble with translation is met with a quote from the Bible.
If you make mention of the fact that the Catholic Church selected the
books of the Bible and you get some other quote from scripture. The
Bible is proof that the Bible is literally the word of God. It is a
tautological defense that only makes sense to those who already believe.
It’s many skeptics think Evangelicals are a cult.

That does not mean Evangelicals are a cult or way outside the definition
of Christian, but it certainly sets them apart from the Christian
tradition. I’m painting with a broad a brush here, so bear with me. I’m
thinking mainly about the narrow strains within the Evangelical
movement. The followers of [Joel
Osteen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joel_Osteen), for example, are a
different breed of cat from the old ladies at First Evangelical. Watch
one of Osteen’s preacher shows and the word “cult” comes to mind. In
another age, Osteen would have been burned at the stake as a heretic.

What got me thinking about this topic is some posts I saw recently,
railing against evolution. There is a sub-culture in the self-taught
Christian sphere that seems to be an off-shoot of intelligent
design. It’s not that they believe in ID or creationism, but they think
you’re crazy for “believing” in the false god Darwin or his false
religion, evolution. It’s mostly anti-Darwinsim, if there was such a
thing as Darwinism. It’s as if they created a secular religion they can
criticize. Anyway, it go me thinking about
<a href="http://www.intelligentdesign.org/whatisid.php" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">what ID’ers believe</a>.

*The theory of intelligent design holds that certain features of the
universe and of living things are best explained by an intelligent
cause, not an undirected process such as natural selection. Through the
study and analysis of a system’s components, a design theorist is able
to determine whether various natural structures are the product of
chance, natural law, intelligent design, or some combination thereof.
Such research is conducted by observing the types of information
produced when intelligent agents act. Scientists then seek to find
objects which have those same types of informational properties which we
commonly know come from intelligence. Intelligent design has applied
these scientific methods to detect design in irreducibly complex
biological structures, the complex and specified information content in
DNA, the life-sustaining physical architecture of the universe, and the
geologically rapid origin of biological diversity in the fossil record
during the Cambrian explosion approximately 530 million years ago.*

The implication here is that the designer, willy-nilly, chooses to
rearrange the natural world as he/she/it sees fit. They carefully avoid
discussing the designer as that would raise some uncomfortable issues,
I’m assuming. Instead, they focus on the claims that certain natural
phenomenon could not happen naturally and therefore must have been
created by a designer for unexplained reasons. That last bit is
important. The designer’s reasons are not only unknown; they are
unknowable. Therefore, there is no need for inquiry.

The term for this is occasionalism. It is also explicitly
anti-Christian. The foundation stone of Christianity is the fixed nature
of God. When God makes a deal, he sticks to it and when he created
heaven and earth, it was by fixed and discoverable rules. This idea,
first promulgated by the Hellenized Jews, is a big deal in the evolution
of religion. Instead of the super natural acting cynically and
capriciously, God set the rules of nature and they are permanent. A
rational God and a rational universe is the basis for Western
civilization.

Now, creationism and intelligent design are harmless beliefs. Outside a
few areas, people’s understanding nature is meaningless. Creationism is
certainly inside the realm of traditional Christian theology, but
intelligent designs seems to fall outside of it.  With creationism, God
can be viewed as the watchmaker, who set all of the natural processes in
motion. Young earth creationism is nuts, but the more common form is
what the Church taught for a thousand years. Intelligent Design, in
contrast, does not fit inside Christianity.
