---
title: "The Left Versus The Clintons"
date: "2015-05-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - My Advice
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4478"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4478"
---

It’s generally assumed that religions are punctilious about enforcing
their rules. Particularly the rules regarding personal morality. This is
due to the fantasy versions of religious history taught in public
schools around America.

In those versions, the Puritans were severe sexually repressed fanatics
who stoned women for showing a little ankle. Further back, the Catholic
Church was slaughtering people throughout Europe for missing confession.
Of course, modern Evangelicals are peeping in your bedroom to make sure
you’re not having too much fun.

That’s all nonsense, of course. The truth is religions are terrible at
self-policing. The exception is theocracy. When the church controls the
state and has a monopoly of force, it then has the duty of enforcing the
rules. Its legitimacy is largely based on enforcing the rules.

That means policing itself as well as the populace. If a member of the
clergy gets caught stealing they will face a more severe punishment than
a commoner because the church has to maintain its legitimacy. A crime
against the state is a crime against the church and therefore must be
punished.

Theocracy is a rarity in human organization. The norm is a separation.
In a monoculture this is not a problem because the church can rely on
their coreligionists in the state to manage the enforcement of man’s
rules. The church is free to worry about the spiritual side of things.
It’s why multicultural societies are rare and tend to violence, but a
topic for another day.

Catholic France is a good example of where the state was run by Catholic
men who were not men of the Church. Britain after the Synod of Whitby is
another that comes to mind. Pre-Civil War America was a land with a
secular government run by Protestant Christians who were more than happy
to let the laws be informed by their faith. It’s why the Civil War can
be viewed as a religious schism amongst American Protestants.

Religions in lands where the secular authorities are hostile have
peculiar pressures on them to not police their own too rigorously. They
tend to focus on crimes against the faith like heresy or apostasy.
Challenges to the hierarchy of the faith are also monitored. The issues
that could involve the secular authorities present a problem. Turning
over a criminal to the secular authorities could both violate the faith
and place the faithful at the mercy of those outside the faith.

An example of what I’m getting at is the Catholic Church scandals.
Priests are supposed to remain celibate and those who don’t face
sanction from the church, but not expulsion from the church. Even sex
with minors does not get you tossed, as long as you confess the sins to
a priest and make satisfaction for them. Turning the priest over to the
secular authorities is not on the book. More to the point, it invites
the secular authorities into the church, which brings about a whole
bunch of new troubles.

Now, most of what happened in the Catholic Church scandals was just good
old fashioned sloth and corruption. It was easier to sweep it under the
rug so that’s what happened. Then there was the Lavender Mafia that grew
like cancer on the priesthood. Those elements in the Church not only
worked to cover up these things, those outside that element did not want
to reveal the existence of a Gay Mafia in the Church. The result was a
decades long cover-up.

Now, what does have to do with the Clintons?

The new religion that is growing in the ruling elite is facing the same
problems all religions face. How do they police themselves without
undermining the legitimacy of the faith? Compounding that problem is the
fact that the religion is largely defined by its political activities.
Turning over a defective member of The One True Faith means giving
political opponents ammunition to use against the faith. The Clintons
may be dirtbags, but they are still members of the faith in good
standing.

Christianity sets out a clear path to salvation. Act in certain ways,
believe certain things, participate in certain rituals and you are going
to heaven. Your salvation is not determined by other men. The rules are
taught to the faithful as a part of their participation in the faith.
Your priest could think you are a jerk, but as long as you take
communion, go to confession and live a Christian life, you’re all set.

The new faith is occasionalist, in that the rules are always shifting.
What makes you a member in good standing is that the clerisy considers
you are a good liberal. In part, that’s why Rousseau-ist cults are prone
to radicalism. Being pious means being *more pious* than the other guy.
The result is a race into fanaticism. It’s also why the only sins that
Progressives take seriously are heresy and apostasy.

The Clintons present a challenge to the faith in that their sins are
outside the Cult of Modern Liberalism. Bill Clinton is a deviant and a
pathological liar, but he has been devoted to progressive causes.
Similarly, Hillary is a humorless harpy and a crook, but she never goes
against the faith. The extreme members of the faith don’t like her, but
their reasons have nothing to do with her selling influence as Secretary
of State.

This new religion, let’s call it Spiritual Marxism, has to figure out
how to deal with sociopaths like the Clintons and that means building
out fixed rules. For an occasionalist faith, as we see with Islam, this
is nearly impossible. In the case of Islam it reduces the authority of
Allah. For Progressives it means stripping power from the trend setters,
the people largely responsible for keeping the flame burning.

But, the alternative is to sanction general anarchy and no religion can
last if it an assault on order.
