---
title: "Snow Falls in the Ghetto"
date: "2015-02-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3642"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3642"
---

When I was in Boston a few weeks back, one of the things that jumped out
at me is the number of young people walking around with shovels looking
for work. The streets were not thick with these kids, but I saw more
than few groups of teens, all white, walking around town. On the Monday
of the storm, crew of teens shoveled my buddy’s house. They saw us
shoveling and offered to do it for $20 a man. We were happy to take them
up on it because you have to encourage this stuff and shoveling snow is
not much fun for old men.

That’s not something you see in the ghetto. When it snows, the natives
stay inside. The fact is, the ghetto is beyond a low trust society and
is a high *distrust* society. If you see a group of young males, you
have to assume they are up to no good. Walking with their pants hanging
down and one hand on their balls is tough in good weather, so they can’t
go out in the snow. Even so, if I’m approached by a group teens offering
to shovel, I’d be more inclined to pull my gun than agree to hire them.

Of course, no one shovels snow in the ghetto. Check that. Few shovel out
their cars and their sidewalks. Most just wait for someone else. The
landlords hire Mexicans to do it. The government has crews to shovel
their part of the ghetto, but even they have outsourced to companies
using Mexicans. One of the stranger things you see in the ghetto is
tropical people happily shoveling snow. Say what you want about Latinos,
but they are generally happy people.

One reason why the natives never shovel out their cars is the fact none
of them have jobs or any place to be. I’m old enough to remember when
they made welfare recipients show up once a week to get their check.
Then it was once a month. Then they mailed the check. Now they have EBT
and that means they can order takeout on-line. It’s not hard to imagine
a time when the local drug dispensary will be delivering to the ghetto.
That way the natives can have their weed delivered with a large pizza
and some [purple drank](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purple_drank).

Another oddity when snow falls in the ghetto is that the people who do
venture out walk in the middle of the road. The sidewalks are still
covered in snow and the plows have made one pass on the roads. That
leaves the middle of the street as the path of least resistance. Ghetto
natives are not known for their work ethic so if the choice is
struggling on the sidewalk or waddling down the middle of a plowed
street, they are walking in the street. Driving in the ghetto therefore
is more of an adventure than in civilization.

Cops, I suspect, love the snow. There’s an old saying that the rain is
the cop’s best friend. Hoodlums stay inside when the weather is bad.
White trash tends to have shootouts over the dinner table when cooped up
by the weather, but non-whites become more docile. Black crime is almost
always over respect, women or drugs. If everyone is stuck inside, it is
hard to disrespect someone, mess with his woman or steal his weed. As a
result, crime is at its lowest in bad weather.

I suspect that’s why the plows come to the ghetto last. Most people
assume the politicians cater to the tax base and that’s probably true,
but they also rely on the ghetto vote to beat back middle-class
backlash. But, it rarely snows at election time and the locals seldom
complain about the lack of plows. It keeps the boys off the streets so
it works for everyone.

Steve Sailer likes to refer to [Moynihan’s Law of the Canadian
Border](http://www.vdare.com/posts/moynihans-law-of-the-canadian-border-522-correlation)
and there’s some truth to it. It’s an esoteric way of addressing a taboo
subject. What you learn about living in a low trust society is just how
fragile they are in some respects. New Orleans could not respond at all
to Katrina because it was a low-trust society incapable of large scale
cooperation. A snow storm in the ghetto is paralyzing because no one in
their right mind trusts their neighbor. A ghetto in Canada without aid
from the surrounding people would not make it through the first winter.
The locals would be eating one another by February.

It’s why you don’t see a lot of complexity in places like sub-Saharan
Africa or Mesopotamia. The greater the complexity of a society, the more
vulnerable it is to natural disasters. In Europe, with a high percentage
of smart people and lots of native cooperation, complexity is a great
tool against nature. In low-trust societies with an excess of dimwits,
complexity is lethal so we get simpler, big man societies.

Maybe the answer for America is to send our ghettos to Canada.
