---
title: "Stupidity as Fashion Statement"
date: "2015-05-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4421"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4421"
---

I was watching an old Dirty Harry movie last night. I think it was
Magnum Force. In it, Callahan is assigned to Human Resources to
interview rookie cops. On the panel with him is a very lesbian looking
old bag who lectures Harry about  the progressive new way the police
will hire cops. Harry responds dismissively with a line about how that’s
very fashionable. Fifty years on and <a
href="http://www.ijreview.com/2015/05/310771-san-francisco-business-owner-threatened-minimum-wage-law-asks-important-question-possible/?utm_source=facebook&amp;utm_medium=organic&amp;utm_content=PRM3&amp;utm_campaign=PRM3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">we keep repeating that scene</a> over and
over in different settings.

*Brian Hibbs, the owner and operator of Comix Experience, is having a
difficult time confronting the reality presented by San Francisco’s new
minimum wage law.*

*The law passed in November by a huge majority requires that wages
increase, as of May 1st, to $12.25 and will end up at $15 by 2018.*

*Anticipating only a slight increase in his costs, Hibbs was originally
supportive of the law. But, then he did the math:*

*I was appalled! My jaw dropped. Eighty-thousand a year! I didn’t know
that. I thought we were talking a small amount of money, something I
could absorb.*

*We’re for a living wage, for a minimum wage, in principle. . . . But I
think any law that doesn’t look at whether people can pay may not be the
best way to go.*

*The problem he faces is that comic books and graphic novels, the
cornerstone of the business, have their retail prices printed on the
covers, so he can’t raise those prices to offset the increase in costs.
Also, his store’s usually staffed by only one counter worker, which
makes reducing the store’s labor costs impossible.*

*The solution he’s come up with is to start a special club with an
annual fee of $240, whose members will get special perks.*

*His comments and his business’ story drew the attention of a<a
href="http://abc7news.com/business/sf-businesses-find-clever-ways-to-stay-afloat-after-wage-hike/657070/"
rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank">local news</a>station, which
reported on Comix Experience and another local book store,<a
href="http://www.ijreview.com/2015/02/244578-headscratcher-san-fran-bookstore-closes-due-minimum-wage-law-yet-owners-still-support-law/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Borderlands Books</a>, which has resorted
to crowdfunding in order to generate extra revenue.*

*With that publicity, customers have directly commented to Comix
Experience on the wage change:*

*‘I’m hearing from a lot of customers, ‘I voted for that, and I didn’t
realize it would affect you.’*

*Hibbs is a self-identified progressive, but he’s looking for
answers. Then he asked a profound question:*

*Why can’t two consenting people make arrangements for less than x
dollars per hour?*

***He admits to believing in capitalism**, and
according<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/417763/when-minimum-wage-hikes-hit-san-francisco-comic-book-store-ian-tuttle"
rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank">National Review</a>, he’d “like
to have the market solve this problem.”*

This last bit is something that is a pet peeve. Capitalism is not the
same as markets. I’m for free markets to a point, but I’m not in favor
of predatory capitalism fueled by currency manipulation. Letting Amazon
use negative interest rate debt to clobber retail is not market
competition.

Further, saying you “believe” in something means you think there is some
chance it does not exist. In other words, you are pretty sure X is true,
but you have no evidence that X is true. For that reason, no one says,
“I believe in gravity.” Capitalism is a thing that exists, whether or
not some hippie dipshit believes in it.

Of course, what he really means is he likes making money, but he resents
the fact others make *more* money. That’s the core of Progressive
populism. It is resentment that one particular set of career choices
don’t pay very well. Comic Book Guy think he should make as much as a
banker and hates the fact he makes the same as a janitor at the bank.

None of these people are very bright. They get caught up in these
progressive fads because it beats thinking and it sure as hell beats
standing alone. I doubt he so dumb as to think raising his labor rates
would not impact his business. It was was just easier to go along with
his idiot neighbors. He cares more about being one of them than being in
business.
