---
title: "Watching the Debate"
date: "2015-08-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5145"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5145"
---

I’m not sure if I will watch the debates tonight. I have been meaning to
clean the dryer vent for a while and maybe learn how to do a prostate
self-exam. In all seriousness, I have a tough time watching these things
as they have been turned into talent shows, without the talent. The
preening clowns from the media, grinning like chimps for the cameras,
asking a bunch of moist robots pointless questions is no way to run a
country.

I’m not alone. Last cycle, the best numbers for a debate were early on
when Gingrich was bashing the press. The debate in August of 2011 got
seven million viewers. The rest struggled to break three million, which
is 1 out of every 50 households. I doubt the debates have any impact on
voter behavior. Romney waxed the floor with Obama in the debates and
still lost handily.

I think one of the things to watch for tonight is how much of an ass
Chris “Thanks Dad” Wallace makes of himself trying to be clever. He’s
there to mug for the camera and that means trying to trip up the
candidates with silly questions he thinks are clever. Trump’s presence
will be too much for him to resist so I expect Wallace to show up
wearing big floppy red shoes and a red rubber ball nose.

The night is, of course, all about Trump. He’ll get the business from
Wallace and how he handles it will be the story. Having Wallace asks the
questions probably works for Trump, but you never know. Trump’s act
works when he fills the room. Being one guy on a stage of ten may make
him look small. That’s what happened to Fred Thompson. Everyone expected
the bigger than life TV guy and they got *just another guy*.

The other thing I’ll be watching is how Christie is treated and how he
does with his one shot to get attention. I’ve always suspected the media
liked him as “good TV, but totally safe on policy.” Take away the
bombast and you have Rudy Giuliani in a fat suit. If ¡Yeb! can’t get his
act together, the fat man is a good alternative for the party and their
media sponsors. I don’t think primary voters feel the same way, but
Republicans tend to fall in line, rather than fall in love.

That’s the other big story. Can ¡Yeb! arrest his decline. In the
candidate forum the other day he was awful. I forgot just how bad the
Bush Klan is at speaking in public. They have a way of making good news
sound like a cancer diagnosis. Bush needs to give people a reason to
like him. Right now he is trading on his name recognition and starting
now the other names will become recognized. Personally, I hope he strips
naked and runs screaming into the street.

The warm-up acts are another area of interest. The kiddie table Fox has
set up for the candidates not polling well enough to get a seat at the
adult table could be a story of their own. My hunch is the media will be
looking for one they can start to champion just to have a story to tell.
Narrative journalism requires at least one long shot and plucking a
Carly Fiorina from the pack and promoting her fits the narrative. Plus,
the press could use her to prove Republicans hate women.

I’m going to watch Walker and Cruz. I can’t say I’m a big fan of either
guy, but they have a tale to tell. Cruz is the populist firebrand, at
least by today’s soft feminine standards. TV is a cool medium that tends
not to work well for firebrands. Walker is a boring dork who sounds like
a robot, but he has the best resume of the bunch. I’m curious as to how
they try to make this thing work for them.

Otherwise, this is the first weekend of the NCAA tournament for
politics. It’s fun to sort through the candidates and think about how
they could win, but we all know the game is rigged. Still, it is fun to
see the underdogs score some points and give the big dogs a fight.
Football season starts in a month so it fills the time between now and
then.
