---
title: "Filling The Void"
date: "2015-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5674"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5674"
---

<a
href="http://www.vox.com/2015/10/19/9565119/democrats-in-deep-trouble"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I sent this to my liberal friends</a>
mostly because I was bored and I sometimes find pleasure in making them
miserable. That does not make me a good person, but on the list of
things I have to answer for, it is far down the list. I was also curious
to see if they would repeat the same lines they always do when someone
points out that their cult is not about to reach the promised land.

Sure enough, the old chestnuts came out right away. “The GOP is in worse
shape” was the universal response. “The demographics are on our side so
it is just a matter of time” was a close second. Both of those may be
true, but it is a strange response when you think about it. A story
about the problems with Democrats and the response is to change the
subject. Cults are funny like that.

Anyway, Matthew Yglesias, no relation to Julio, is sort of a silly
person, but he is worth paying attention to if you follow politics. His
analysis is nothing much, but he is a useful indicator of what is being
discussed in the fever swamps, away from the public. He and his site are
messengers, of sorts, spreading whatever is this the official position
at the moment. At least that’s what the Vox boys are hoping.

There’s little doubt that the Democratic Party is shriveling up to be
simply the Progressive White People Party with blacks attached to it.
The map in the story show just how marginalized the party has become
over the last decade. It’s not that the GOP suddenly has a monopoly on
commonsense, it’s just that the Democrats have become an ideological
party that appeals to about 20% of white people.

<img
src="https://cdn1.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/Fnkw_UPXHORTRvn5R-cMp52IHq4=/cdn0.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/4139120/StateSenateControl-Post-Election-GIF.0.gif"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="700" height="421" />

What I found hilariously telling is this bit:

*In what Democrats should take as a further bleak sign, four of the 11
states where they control both houses of the state legislature —
Maryland, New Jersey, Massachusetts, and Illinois — have a Republican
governor. This leaves just seven states under unified Democratic Party
control.*

*Republicans have unified control of 25 states. Along with the usual set
of tax cuts for high-income individuals and business-friendly
regulations, the result has been:*

-   -   *An unprecedented wave of restrictions on abortion rights*
    -   *The spread of union-hostile “right to work” laws into the Great
        Lakes states*
    -   *New curbs on voting rights, to further tilt the electorate in a
        richer, whiter, older direction*
    -   *Large-scale layoffs of teachers and other public sector workers
        who are likely to support Democrats*

<!-- -->

-   

You could be forgiven for wondering what in the hell he is talking about
with regards to curbs on voting rights and large scale layoffs of
teachers. The real howler is the “richer, whiter older” stuff. Pretty
much the only white people voting for Democrats these days are old and
well off. Normal people can’t afford to be progressive. That’s a rich
man’s hobby.

This is the money graph:

*Winning a presidential election would give Republicans the overwhelming
preponderance of political power in the United States — a level of
dominance not achieved since the Democrats during the Great Depression,
but with a much more ideologically coherent coalition. Nothing lasts
forever in American politics, but a hyper-empowered conservative
movement would have a significant ability to entrench its position by
passing a national right-to-work law and further altering campaign
finance rules beyond the Citizens United status quo.*

An essential element of the progressive faith is they believe they are
in a war with a superior enemy and only through a total commitment to
the One True Faith will they defeat Grendel and achieve grace. When no
such enemy exist, they invent one. Their claim that the GOP is a
“ideologically coherent coalition” sounds insane to normal people, but
Progressives believe it, they have to believe it. Otherwise they are
just a bunch of meddling weirdos harassing normal people for no reason.

Even so, we live in an interesting time. The GOP is a party of men with
the imagination of mid-level bureaucrats at the department of motor
vehicles. The Democrats are a bunch of geriatric hippies and radicals
that sound like extras from a documentary on the 60’s. The hard part
about watching Sanders and Clinton go at it is not laughing. It’s two
old farts arguing over bingo at the retirement home, but instead of
bingo, they think they will get the chance to rule over the rest of us.

The funny thing about this Vox piece is that Progressives are correct
about the condition of their movement. It’s exhausted. They are running
around trying to champion trannies and deviants because they have run
out victims to exploit. Similarly, the alt-right is correct about the
condition of the Conventional Right. It’s a racket for moving books and
merchandise to well intentioned Americans thinking they are doing the
right thing.

Something is going to fill the void. Donald Trump did not stroll in and
become the front runner by accident. When given the choice between
something and nothing, people will always pick something, even if it not
all that much. At some point, something better than Trump is going to
come along. What that is, I don’t know.
