---
title: "Ross Douthat and Changing the Subject"
date: "2015-05-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4441"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4441"
---

Here is an <a
href="http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/05/05/two-premises-on-poverty-and-culture/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">interesting article</a> from a
fashionable conservative.in question. I’m told Ross Douthat, in addition
to having an odd name, is a reasonable fellow that reasonable people
should read, if they wish be thought of as reasonable. The Conventional
Right loves quoting him. Pseudo-intellectual poseurs like Ezra Klein
often cheer him. Douthat’s presence at the NYTimes tells me he likes
money more than being right, but there’s no crime in that. Pay me enough
and I start writing paeans to Obama.

Still, experience says you have to treat the non-liberals in the pages
of the times a little different than other people you read. They often
employ an esoteric language that allows them to go unnoticed by the
Cult, but point out inconvenient bits of reality. It’s a weird
compromise and I really don’t know how these people do it. They say
prisoners in the worst gulags get used to it in time so maybe that’s it.

*The last time I
[followed](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/15/opinion/sunday/ross-douthat-for-poorer-and-richer.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=c-column-top-span-region&region=c-column-top-span-region&WT.nav=c-column-top-span-region&_r=0) certain
of my colleagues into an argument about poverty, economics and culture,
it took
[several](http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/03/17/left-and-right-family-and-economics/)[thousand](http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/03/17/men-money-and-the-marriage-crisis/)[words](http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/03/26/inequality-and-the-marriage-crisis/)
to find my way back out.
[This](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/01/opinion/david-brooks-the-nature-of-poverty.html)[time](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/04/opinion/paul-krugman-race-class-and-neglect.html?partner=rssnyt&emc=rss)
I’m going to try a briefer intervention, stressing again that I think
[conversations](http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/30/what-to-do-in-baltimore-and-elsewhere/?module=BlogPost-Title&version=Blog%20Main&contentCollection=Opinion&action=Click&pgtype=Blogs&region=Body)[about
policing](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/03/opinion/sunday/ross-douthat-our-police-union-problem.html?rref=collection%2Fcolumn%2Fross-douthat)
are a more productive response to what’s happened in Baltimore than
leaping up a level to the persistent right-left argument about the
welfare state. But since that debate is happening no matter what, it
might be helpful to describe a framework in which I think these
arguments should take place, because quite often the two sides can’t
even decide on where the argument should start. So here, for your
consideration, are two premises about the last fifty years of American
history.*

One of the byproducts of having a religious cult take over your country
is everything gets jammed into a binary model. The hive minded can only
view the world in relation to the walls of the hive. You’re either
inside or outside. Even those not in the dominant cult adapt to this
framework.

*1.) The modern welfare state has succeeded in substantially cutting our
country’s poverty rate. This is a point that both right and left
sometimes obscure, the right because it complicates a simple “we fought
poverty, and poverty won” narrative about the Great Society, the left
because it complicates claims that Reagan or Gingrich gutted welfare
spending and crushed the fortunes of the poor. But the basic evidence
seems very convincing: Whether it’s Scott Winship [analyzing the
numbers](http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2014/01/war-on-poverty-conservatives-102548.html#.VUfR_tpViko)
from the center-right or Harvard’s Christopher Jencks [doing the
same](http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2015/apr/02/war-poverty-was-it-lost/)
from the center-left, you can see dramatic reductions in the poverty
rate since the 1960s, with various public programs, means-tested and
otherwise, pretty clearly playing a substantial role.*

This is a favorite tactic of Progressive types. “If both sides agree
then it must be the truth!” This is a logical fallacy as there’s nothing
in the premise to even suggest that both sides can only agree when they
are right. Both sides are habitually wrong about all sorts of things so
it’s just as likely that they are wrong now. Of course, the point of
this bit of rhetorical jujitsu is to cut-off debate. Just accept it and
shut up.

If you dig into the source material, they are very weak cases. Yes, our
poor people are less poor and we have, during that period of declining
poverty, spent trillions on poverty programs, but the causality is
debatable. All anyone can say for certain is we spent a lot of money and
all Americans are richer than forty years ago. In fact, the whole earth
is richer.

*2.) The modern welfare state has not succeeded in producing
clear improvements in opportunity, mobility and human flourishing.
Recall that the hope for the Great Society’s social programs, from the
vantage point of 1964, was not merely to raise the incomes of poorer
Americans. <span id="more-20966"></span>Their architects also aspired
(to quote [the chief of
them](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/features/primary-resources/lbj-michigan/)) to
make America “a place where every child can find knowledge to enrich his
mind and to enlarge his talents … where leisure is a welcome chance to
build and reflect, not a feared cause of boredom and restlessness …
where the city of man serves not only the needs of the body and the
demands of commerce but the desire for beauty and the hunger for
community.” And if you try to translate these soaring hopes to
quantifiable indicators, the impact of public spending has not been at
all what was hoped. The poor have more money, but their chances at
upward mobility are persistently weak
and [basically unchanged](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/23/business/upward-mobility-has-not-declined-study-says.html) relative
to several generations ago. Schools have more money, but [academic
performance looks
stagnant](http://www.cato.org/blog/new-naep-scores-extend-dismal-trend-us-education-productivity) and
big racial gaps endure. Cities have more money, but crime rates are only
now returning to the levels of the early 1960s, and today’s peace has
been purchased by incarceration on a scale that would have seemed
horrific (because it is) a half-century ago.*

This was always the argument against anti-poverty programs. It is
feature of progressive thinking to forget all of the arguments from the
past. The primary argument against the Great Society was that handing
people checks did not address their poverty. In fact, paying people to
be poor would only keep them poor. Here we are fifty years on and
Goldwater was right.

*These two realities, taken together, do not necessarily point toward
either a left-wing or a right-wing diagnosis of our situation. You can
acknowledge both realities and believe that the key issues are all
economic, that the welfare state just needed to be even stronger still
(and various other economic policies more worker-friendly) to make up
for the devastating impact of global capitalism on wages and job
security and the devastating social impact of rising inequality. Or you
can acknowledge both and believe that the programs themselves are often
part of the problem, that they raise incomes but also increase
dependency, encourage idleness, crowd out the basic institutions of
civil society, and so on through the libertarian critique. Or you can
acknowledge both and argue (as [I
have](http://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/01/29/social-liberalism-as-class-warfare/),
occasionally) that the cultural revolutions of the 1960s go a long way
toward explaining how the poor in our era can have more money but
less access to other basic human goods. (And therefore, because those
goods are connected to economic advancement, less money than they might
have had absent those revolutions.)  Or you can talk, reasonably and
non-ideologically, about the multiplicity of causes behind all
broad-based social trends.*

*But I think just getting to the point where we could all agree that 1)
public spending can make people less poor and 2) public spending hasn’t
delivered on the Great Society’s social promises would be a big win for
reasonable debate. Because that combination of realities, and the
various questions that it raises, is why this argument exists, why it’s
genuinely interesting, and why it isn’t going away anytime soon.*

This last bit is a dopey version of what you see from conventional
conservatives after a race riot like we had last week. It is a
systematic and studied avoidance of unpleasant realities. Conservatives
are so afraid of being called racists, they turn themselves into knots
trying to prove they never for a minute noticed that all the rioters
were black.

This tendency in the hands of progressives is aimed at shifting the
focus away from the fact that they have been in charge for more than
half a century and none of the prophesies have come true. West Baltimore
is worse now than it was at the start of the Great Society.
Acknowledging that means questioning the one true faith and that can
never happen so let’s talk about something else.
