---
title: "Jerks Ruin Everything"
date: "2015-06-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4615"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4615"
---

I’m fond of pointing out that jerks and a-holes will ruin the best of
plans. No matter how carefully you work out the details, some jerk will
come a long and throw  a wrench in your plans. It’s just the nature of
things in the modern world. Everyone is walking around with a sense of
entitlement and no one wants to be the heavy so the jerks run wild.

It’s a variation of the tragedy of the commons. In the standard model,
individuals will figure out that it is to their individual advantage to
take more than they contribute. This sets off a cascading effect leading
to everyone taking and no one contributing.The most common examples are
grazing lands or fisheries. Without regulation and policing, you get
over grazing and over fishing.

The jerk variation is when jerks decide they have a right to do some
activity simply because there is no explicit prohibition against it.
Everyone will understand, for example, you should not let your dog poop
on the bike path, at least without policing it. The jerk walks their dog
on the bike path and let’s the chips fall where they may, as it were.
When confronted, they respond by saying there’s no rule against it.

Another example of jerks make life hard for the rest of is right here on
this site. Blogs and news stories invite comments. Jerks come along and
fill the comments with work at home scams and penis pill ads. That means
we have to have spam filters and police the comments sections. A good
chunk of the code in a WordPress site is to fend off jerks trying to
mess up a blog for no other reason than they are an asshole.

Anyway, the jerks are ruining the interwebs in a different way and
that’s with ads. There are some sites I don’t bother to visit because
they are so bogged down with popups, scripts and the worst thing of all,
auto-playing videos. The guy who came up with that idea should be burned
at the stake. There’s nothing worse than having some nonsense come
blaring through your PC speakers as you feverishly look for the source.

Like most everyone, I have ad-blockers, script blockers, flash blockers,
pop-up blockers, you name it, on my daily browser. I use Chrome as my
video browser so if I wished to see something on youtube I open it in
Chrome. My Mozilla-based browser has a flash blocker. It’s a bit
ridiculous, but it is necessary to have a decent internet experience.

<a
href="http://www.mondaynote.com/2015/05/25/ad-blocks-doomsday-scenarios/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That is not without its consequences.</a>

*In coming weeks, a large analytic firm will release disturbing figures
on the state of the ad blocking scene. According to someone who has
advanced knowledge of the data, on desktop computers and on critical
segments of the digital audience, the use of ad blocking keeps rising
exponentially.*

*Along with The Netherlands, the German market is by far the most
affected one by the ad blocking phenomenon. There, ad block use
approaches 40% of the internet population. The reasons for the epidemic
are unclear, but two elements are likely to play a role. First, [AdBlock
Plus](https://adblockplus.org/) (ABP), the most popular ad blocking
software, has its roots in Cologne. Second, a cultural factor: German
opposition to online advertising that manifests itself in the
government’s obsessive anti-Google stance pushed by large media
conglomerates such as Axel Springer SE.*

*In France too, ad blocking use is on the rise: about 30% of Gallic
internet users are said to have installed extensions that remove banners
and other modules; and the Millennials segment (born in 1980-2000) is
twice more likely to use an ad blocker. The worst hit are Gaming sites
with 80% to 90% of their views deprived of ads. More broadly, the more
technophile an audience is, the more likely it is to resort to an ad
blocking product.*

*The US market seems the less affected with 15%-17% of the internet
population, again on average, using an ad blocking extension. Among the
Millennials, the share is said to be twice the average. The UK is said
to experience the same pattern.*

*Altogether, 300m people in the world have downloaded an ad blocking
extension and about half have actually installed it.*

This may not seem like a big deal, but ads are based on site views and
site views assume the embedded ads are being seen.

*For publishers, ad blockers are the elephant in the room: Everybody
sees them, no one talks about it. The common understanding is that the
first to speak up will be dead as it will acknowledge that the volume of
ads actually delivered can in fact be 30% to 50% smaller than claimed —
and invoiced. Publishers fear retaliation from media buying agencies —
even though the ad community is quick to forget that it dug its own
grave by flooding the web with intolerable amounts of promotional
formats.*

One of the comments gets it right:

*There are sites that I don’t block ads at. They usually ask me not to
block ads. They also treat me with respect. No pop-ups. Not autoplaying
video or sound. Good privacy policies.*

*Sites that respect me, earn my respect in return. All other sites earn
blocks instead.*

*If this drives them out of business, I’m good with that. What would be
better is if they learned to treat their readers with respect.*

*And that would be a win win too. Not only would they not be blocked,
but since blockers like adblock often slow the browser down, I would see
ads and have a faster browsing experience.*

I don’t solicit Breitbart because it is infested with ads created by the
nation’s dickhead community. Loads of viruses are spread through
embedded ads as well. If a site has no choice but to go the jerk route
with their ads, then they should go out of business. The world has
plenty of jerks. We’re full.
