---
title: "The Sons of Haven Monahan"
date: "2015-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4040"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4040"
---

Reading the news these days is difficult because it so often reads like
an old Lampoon gag. How many stories about boys being expelled for
finger guns can you read before you start to think the schools are run
by madmen?

<a
href="http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-venice-high-school-arrests-20150313-story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is one of those times</a> when I’m
left wondering if it is not some sort of elaborate gag.

L*os Angeles police descended on Venice High School on Friday, arresting
nine students in connection with a series of sex crimes that began more
than a year ago and involved at least two female classmates.*

*All but one of the arrests were on campus; authorities were attempting
to locate five other students. The investigation began after a parent
reported the allegations on Tuesday.*

*As detectives investigated, they discovered at least one photograph
showing sex acts, according to law enforcement sources. A photo that
appears to show two teenagers engaged in a sex act has been circulated
on social media. Allegations involved both consensual sexual acts
between minors and coerced acts, which complicates the case, police
said.*

My first read registered “sex **with** minors” rather than “sex
**between** minors.” Since the story is about arresting students, I went
back and read it again, thinking I missed the part where the students
were middle-aged men. Nope. They just arrested boys for having sex with
their female classmates.

*The alleged crimes include sexual assault and lewd acts with a minor.
Although the incidents date back to 2013, Smith said, most occurred in
the last two months — and as recently as this month. Sources said that
several boys were present during at least some of the incidents.*

*Authorities provided few details about the allegations and declined to
identify the boys who were arrested because they are minors, all between
the ages of 14 and 17. Sources in law enforcement and at Venice High
said some of the boys are members of the high school’s football and
basketball program.*

Someone better alert Steve Sailer. Haven Monahan has replicated and
turned up in his local high school.

*The allegations, they said, involved a group of male students working
together to pressure girls into having sex. The boys were accused of
making verbal threats and threatening the girls’ reputations, according
to one of the sources.*

In other words they just arrested boys for doing what boys have been
doing for 50,000 years or more.

*L.A. Unified Supt. Ramon Cortines said the students’ parents had been
notified and crisis counselors were on campus to assist any other
students.*

*“This is a painful moment for Venice High School and this district,” he
said in a statement. “I want you to know that no sexual misconduct of
any kind by students or staff will ever be tolerated in L.A. Unified.”*

*“We’re pouring all our resources over there today and for the next
couple of weeks to make sure every child over there feels safe,” said
school board member Steve Zimmer, who represents the Westside school.
“Our crisis team and our psychiatric social workers are on site ready to
provide services to every student who is affected by this, indirectly
and directly.”*

The fact that a school system has a “crisis team” and psychiatric social
workers should be the place to start when historians dig through the
rubble of our culture.

This will not end well.
