---
title: "Barak Milhous Nixon"
date: "2015-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3844"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3844"
---

One of the striking things about the Left is just how much they model
their tactics on those they swore Nixon used against them back in the
last Great Liberal Awakening. Even forty years ago, when the Left was in
a panic over Tricky Dick, their charges sounded more like a revenge
fantasy than plausible reality. By that, I mean they were accusing Nixon
of what they would do if only they were in his position.

A good recent example is Obama’s “Executive Amnesty” that was just
blocked by the courts. This is reminiscent of Nixon’s use of
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impoundment_of_appropriated_funds"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">impoundment</a>, the power of the
executive to not spend appropriated funds. In theory it gives the
executive the opportunity to reign in nutty ideas funded by Congress. In
practice, it was simply a way for a president to block spending on
something he did not want.

The paranoia of the Left about Nixon, the imaginary one not the real
one, led to the Impoundment Act of 1974. This stripped the power from
the executive. Like most of what the Left claimed about Nixon, they
imagined he was doing what they would do if they had the chance. In
reality, Nixon’s use of impoundment was trivial.

The Left claimed Nixon was trying to be an emperor, which is always a
concern in our form of government. There’s a balance between the
executive, legislative and judicial. Giving the president too much power
runs the risk of sublimating the other two branches to the whims of a
temporary dictator. A degree of paranoia about what the executive is
doing or planning is probably healthy.

Of course, no such paranoia exists now because Obama is the leader of
the Cult of Modern Liberalism. The <span class="st"
hveid="38">*Führerprinzip* </span>has always been very strong with
American Progressives. Just look at how they rallied to defend Bill
Clinton, despite knowing he violated holy writ. With Obama, it is off
the charts because they truly think he is Chocolate Jesus. There’s
nothing the man could do to shake their faith in The One. Naturally,
they are defending his lawless amnesty to the last man.

Yesterday I got home and flipped on the news. A Greg Gutfeld show was on
and one of the people on the set with him was repeating the old line
about Obama’s amnesty relying on the precedent of Reagan. <a
href="http://thefederalist.com/2014/11/20/no-reagan-did-not-offer-an-amnesty-by-lawless-executive-order/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">It is nonsense and a lie</a>, but the
Cult believes it so they keep chanting it nonetheless. The striking
thing about what the woman was saying is just how much it reminded me of
the Nixon years. Nixon was no Boy Scout and he often justified his
actions by comparing them to past liberal presidents. This tactic sent
the Left into a frenzy. He was trolling them, in a way.

Here we are forty years later and the Cult is doing all the things Nixon
did, plus the things they imagined Nixon wanted to do , but never got
around to doing. The IRS scandal is a good example of how Obama is
making Nixon look like a piker. Having the DOJ harass reporters as Obama
has done would have led to massive protests in the 1970’s, championed by
every news organization in the country. Today they defend it because it
is their cult and that’s how cults work.

This amnesty stuff is more striking in that it gets to the heart of the
liberal brief against Nixon. That is, an Imperial President inevitably
leads to an Emperor. It was not what Nixon did that warranted removal;
it was what he *could* do that warranted removal. The justification for
pushing through The Impoundment Act was that Nixon, in the midst of
Watergate, could not be trusted with that power.

Fast forward forty years and we have Obama claiming he can re-interpret
laws in ways that clearly contradict the letter of the law. In this
case, he says can direct federal agencies to not enforce certain
criminal statutes and direct other agencies to ignore certain legal
requirements. There’s no discussion of a limiting principle, which means
there is no boundary to this authority. Logically, what they are
claiming is the president could stop the FBI from arresting bank robbers
and order prosecutors to drop all their criminal cases. In short, he can
re-write the laws as he sees fit.

Interestingly, someone in the administration sees the problem and the
risk of such an approach. If you read <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/politics/interactive/2015/02/17/federal-judge-order-to-block-obama-immigration-executive-action/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the judges ruling</a>, it appears Obama
never actually signed an executive order, which is a legally recognized
document. Instead, he ordered DHS to issue a memorandum. The judge wrote
that “both sides agree that the president in his official capacity has
not directly instituted any program at issue in this case.”

Later he writes, “Regardless of the fact that the Executive Branch has
made public statements to the contrary, there are no executive orders or
other presidential proclamations or communiqué that exist regarding
DAPA. The DAPA memorandum issued by Secretary Johnson is the focus in
this suit.”

This is something even Nixon, the imaginary one concocted by the Left,
was never able to conjure. Here we have the president saying he has
issued an order, when in fact he did not. Of course, the reason for
lying to the public is to deceive, something Tricky Dick was accused of
in the
<a href="http://watergate.info/impeachment/articles-of-impeachment"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Articles of Impeachment</a> drawn up by
Congress. Not actually issuing the executive order is an obvious attempt
to shield the president from legal jeopardy. Again, that’s a degree of
slipperiness Nixon could not imagine.
