---
title: "Thinking About Iran"
date: "2015-04-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4225"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4225"
---

The hand-wringing and high-fiving over the Iran deal has me a bit
puzzled. No one really knows what’s in the deal. Even the parties to the
deal are at odds over what is in the deal. They only agree that the deal
is an agreement to strike a deal at some point in the future. The
Americans take this to mean “soon,” while the Iranians have no
understanding of the concept. Persia, in one form or another, has been
around for five thousand years. “Soon” is measured in decades.

That has not stopped the 24×7 clown show that is the American media from
having a food fight over the deal to make a deal. The Progressives are
hailing the deal as the greatest achievement of man since the wheel.
Conservative Inc is condemning the deal and calling Obama Chamberlain.
They have a Nazi fetish, comparing every Muslim with a bad attitude to
Hitler. I watched a bit of Fox yesterday and it was clear that none of
them knew more than my cat about this deal, but they were certain they
were right.

That’s how things work in a democracy. The people running things employ
persuasive morons to sell their position to the persuadable morons.
Arguing through a megaphone leaves only one option. The side that is the
loudest wins. It’s why Progressives will work free of charge for a turn
at the megaphone. They get it. Own the megaphone and the people will
obey you. It’s why Jeb Bush is the smart bet in 2016. Everyone in the
press says he is the frontrunner.

Putting all that aside, I looked up the deal in the foreign press and
the best I can tell it is an agreement that slows down Iran’s quest for
a nuclear weapon and lifts the sanctions on them. The fact that [every
energy firm on earth is lining up to make a deal with the
mullahs](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3970) says the sanctions are
sure to be lifted, no matter what Iran does or does not do. Western
governments are the tools of their rich people and their business
interests. Western business loves groveling to despots. It is their
natural state.

From the point of view of Iran, negotiating with the great Satan is an
easy call. There is little downside. The hardliners in Iran have a lot
of power, but they have no constituency outside the ruling elite. Iran’s
rulers have to respect their sensibilities, but that still leaves plenty
of room to deal. Since they have no intention of abandoning their
nuclear program, they only stand to gain. In short, if the West is
willing to accept Iran’s terms, why not make the deal?

The West has different motives. The Europeans want that natural gas
pipeline from the gulf to get done. The preferred pipeline around Iran
to the west or east is simply unrealistic. Afghanistan will never be
pacified and the eastern route runs into the Israeli problem. The most
practical route is through Iran. While the Europeans are not in love
with the idea of giving the Russians more leverage over their gas
supplies, they can use that as a carrot in trying to fend off Russian
aggression in the Baltic states and Ukraine.

The Americans are the key and Obama really wants this deal. It is easy
to forget that Obama and his cult see him as the anti-Reagan. They used
to pitch him as the Progressive Reagan back in 2008. The narrative did
not work out as they planned, it never does, but this deal gives them a
shot to fulfill part of the fantasy. Having Obama give a speech in
Tehran would be the rejection of the Reagan policy toward Iran. It would
also finally heal the wound to the pride of Progressives over Carter’s
handling of the hostage crisis. The subtext of the Left’s celebration
right now is “Carter was right after all.”

There’s also another bit going on here. The American empire is exhausted
and most in Washington know it. Trillions have been spent trying to
conquer the Muslim lands and we have nothing to show for it. Conquest
only works if the booty exceeds the expense. The early expansion of Rome
during the Republic was financed by the booty of the conquered. Once the
Romans ran out of rich people to conquer, expansion ended and decline
immediately started as the economics of empire reached the point of
diminishing returns.

America is a rich country with a huge reserve so the blunders into Iraq
and Afghanistan may not be as costly, but they could be and the more
savvy people in Washington know it. They have looked around at the
Middle East and determined that the entity with the best prospects over
the next several decades is Iran so they are making a deal with them.
The US will back off and the Iranians will keep the oil and gas flowing.
If the Iranians decide they need nukes to do it, that will be worked out
when it happens.

In theory, it is not a terrible plan. America needs out of the Muslim
world. Whether or not it is a good idea to turn things over to the
Persians remains to be seen, but history is on their side. They have
been the dominant people in the region for 5,000 years, give or take.
How the rest of the region responds is an unknown, but you can be sure
the Saudis are in Pakistan offering whatever it takes to get a nuke of
their own. The rest of the GCC is there with them.

There are also the demographics to consider. The last three American
presidents have so badly bungled things in MENA, Europe is now facing a
great wave of barbarian invaders to her south. Europe is as weak today
as she was prior to the Muslim conquests. Maybe even weaker. There are a
billion poor people to her south ready to head north. Iranian help in
rebuilding the buffer zone in the Maghreb would go a long way toward
forestalling the collapse of Europe.

 
