---
title: "The Mind of the Maniac"
date: "2015-06-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Progressives
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4666"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4666"
---

Whenever controversy breaks out over some new Progressive lunacy, a
daily occurrence of late, the normal community struggles to explain what
is happening, without writing it off to insanity. Usually, the old
tropes are deployed as a way of labeling it as nuts so everyone can move
on. “Marxism!” “They just want power!” “It’s the radical Progressive
agenda!” “The Chicago way!”

Frankly, I think the next person who mentions Saul Alinsky should be
<a href="https://youtu.be/9b_Uxfb8Qmk" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">pushed up against the wall and shot</a>. But, that’s why
I refrain from watching Fox News or listening to talk radio. I know
those people are, for the most part, on my side of the fight, but I just
can’t take the repetition of catch phrases that has become what passes
for Conservatism these days.

That aside, the more thoughtful outside the fever swamps struggle to
come to grips with what’s going on. After all, the people hooting and
bellowing about the use of pronouns with regards to Bruce Jenner seem
like sensible people. They went to college. They have respectable jobs
in the media. They function in their day-to-day lives without a
custodian. How can they not see the madness of our age?

Take for example <a
href="http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Military/2015/0529/All-8-women-fail-Ranger-School-Some-Rangers-say-standards-should-change-video?cmpid=FB"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story about Ranger School</a>. The
short version is, in the name of fairness, girls were allowed to enter
Ranger School and all twenty washed out the first time. Eight were
invited back and they washed out again. Three were invited to give it a
third shot. Strongly hinted, but not explicitly said, is the plan to
maybe lower the standards so the girls can pass and become Rangers.

*The Rangers are the best of the best, and being a Ranger means passing
a physical test that pushes body and mind to the breaking point. If
women can’t do it, the argument goes, then they shouldn’t be Rangers.*

*But there is another opinion quietly being voiced as well: that Ranger
School is more akin to a rite of passage – an opportunity for men to
“thump their chest,” as one Ranger puts it – than a realistic
preparation for leading in war. That women can actually make Ranger
units more effective. And that the standards that keep them out are
outdated.*

This, of course, is an attempt to move the goal posts. Ranger school was
designed to cull the weak from the strong, both physically and mentally,
so the remainder is an elite corp of fighters. This is not unique to the
US military or to modern militarizes. Germanic tribes utilized a form of
special forces against the Roman Legions. The Spartans organized their
society around segregating their elite warriors into special units.

The question, therefore, is why in the world would the military want to
risk degrading these units in an effort to include women. You’ll note
that it is just assumed that inclusion of women would make the units
more effective. Nowhere will you find anyone providing a reason why that
is so. It is just a given like the laws of thermodynamics or gravity.

The question remains. Why?

Normal people would look at this and conclude the obvious. That is,
point of the spear soldiering is the most physically and mentally
demanding thing a human can do. Men are larger, stronger and possess
greater cardiovascular capacity so men will dominate women in the
physical aspects. Men are also more aggressive and violent,
characteristics that come in handy when trying to kill people.

The members of the New Religion, however, believe biology is an illusion
and that sexes are an artifact from a bygone era. There are no “men” or
“women” in a strict sense. People are “assigned” a sex at birth and that
colors their development into what we think of as men and women. That’s
why the “women” are failing Ranger School.

Further, perfect equality is the optimal result of humanity, the true
nature of man. Therefore unequal results must mean we’re doing something
wrong. Our society is arranged in an immoral or unjust way causing these
variations in results. That’s key to understanding the worldview of
these people. They have a mystical vision of the perfect human society,
which drives them to keep rearranging things in order to achieve it.

That’s why Ranger School will eventually be turned into diversity
seminar. It’s effectiveness as a fighting unit is of no concern to the
New Religion. What is of ultimate concern, the all consuming concern, is
that the unit is perfectly equal and there is no difference between the
members, regardless of what “sex” they were assigned at birth. If it is
impossible to achieve such a thing, then it must be destroyed. An
offense to the great spirit cannot be tolerated.

That’s the other part of the New Religion. Their destruction of social
institutions without the slightest idea of how to replace them is not
nihilism. Much like fanatical Muslims, fanatical Progressives see the
elimination of that which offends their beliefs as part of the march to
perfection. The Mohammedan thinks that end is to dwell with Allah for
eternity. Progressives see the end as the eschaton, which can only come
about when the imperfections are removed.
