---
title: "Lunch as a Religious Statement"
date: "2015-04-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4370"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4370"
---

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/417521/should-christians-watch-game-thrones-michael-potemra"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This post</a> the other day on NRO is a
good reminder about how religions work, how they have to work. That is,
every choice and every action is set against the tenets of the faith to
be judged. Born Again Christians used to wear WWJD bracelets as a
reminder that their faith commands them to live as Jesus would live.
Muslims pray five times a day in order to remain in communication with
god and, presumably, obedient to god.

That’s the way it has to be with religions. They are either all
consuming or nothing. After all, if you can be a part-time Catholic, for
example, what’s the point of Catholicism? Similarly, if you can pick and
choose what parts of the faith to follow and which to reject, you cannot
plausibly be of the faith. You can’t be on the team unless you follow
the rules, all of the rules, exactly as described.

It’s why faithful Christians worry about watching Game of Thrones
(apparently). The Bible makes no mention of the show so it is not clear
if God condemns it or supports it. That leaves the faithful to puzzle
through it looking for the correct answer. It strikes the secular ear as
weird and silly, but when everything is experienced through the lens of
a religion, religion is everything.

It is why I argue liberalism is a religion. It demands the adherents
immerse themselves in the faith and judge everything through the lens of
the faith. When you talk with a moonbat, it does not take long before
they are hectoring you about some outrage or another. Even discussions
of the weather will eventually turn into a debate about global warming.
They may not sport crucifixes, but they are going to signal their
commitment to the one true faith and proselytize if the chance arises.

A good example is <a
href="http://apnews.myway.com/article/20150424/us--mcdonalds-turnaround_ideas-c9aa7a838a.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this innocuous story about McDonald’s</a>.
The burger chain is the quintessential symbol of core America. it is the
place where suburban moms have been taking their kids for fifty years.
People around the world know the golden arches better than any other
symbol of America. But, tastes change  and, like America, McDonald’s is
on the decline. The article contains some “solutions” to their decline.

*People are increasingly seeking out vegetarian options, even if they’re
not converting into strict vegetarians, said Paul Shapiro, a spokesman
for The Humane Society of the United States. He said that means it’s
time McDonald’s offers a vegetarian option.*

*Shapiro noted that many other chains already court people who feel like
skipping meat. Chipotle introduced a vegan topping called Sofritas.
Denny’s and Johnny Rockets have veggie burgers, and White Castle
recently said it would make veggie sliders a permanent part of its menu
after their popularity as a limited time offer.*

*“So many of McDonald’s competitors are serving plant-based entrees, and
McDonald’s is lagging behind,” Shapiro said.*

Despite the mountain of evidence to the contrary, faithful Progressives
still believe vegetables please the gods in some magical way.

*In a column in The Chicago Tribune, Easterbrook said he wants to
transform McDonald’s into “modern, progressive burger company on many
fronts,” focusing on perceptions about its food and workers.*

*It came right after McDonald’s said it would raise the starting wage
for workers to $1 above the local minimum wage. But labor organizers —
who are calling for $15 an hour and union — said the move falls far
short especially since it only applies to company-owned stores, which
account for a tenth of U.S. locations.*

*Robert Reich, former labor secretary and a supporter of the Fight for
$15 campaign, said raising wages across the chain would not only mend
the chain’s image as an employer, but lower its worker turnover and help
business.*

Here’s you see the lunacy of the progressive faith. Fast food is for
working class people, for the most part. Jacking up wages means jacking
up food prices. But, that’s a big part of the liberal faith. Deep down,
they hate poor people. Therefore, their preferred solution for
McDonald’s is to transform it into something not McDonald’s.

*Ronald McDonald has been a source of tension among some who say the
chain uses its mascot to market unhealthy food to children. By retiring
the red-headed clown, McDonald’s could start rebuilding its trust with
many moms, said Jesse Bragg, spokesman for Corporate Accountability
International, which has criticized the company’s marketing practices.*

*“It’s clear this brand has lost the trust of people,” he said.*

*Those who make a career of impersonating Ronald shouldn’t worry,
though. Although he had faded to the background for a couple years,
McDonald’s has defended its spokesclown as a “force of good.” Last year,
it even gave him a new outfit and said he would be appearing on its
social media sites more.*

One of the more bizarre aspects of modern liberalism is the duality. On
the one hand they give lip service to the old commie themes of
anti-capitalism like marketing and sales. On the other, they really love
money, as we see with liberal lions like Elizabeth Warren and the
Clintons. The disdain for overt money chasing works best when the
adherent has money. That way they can pretend their riches are due to
their goodness, not their greed. McDonald’s using a clown to sell
burgers is gauche.
