---
title: "The Leverage Candidate"
date: "2015-07-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5029"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5029"
---

Like a lot of people on the fringe, I’ve been enjoying the Donald Trump
show. Watching the panda-men of Conservative Inc. gasp and faint over
the latest Trump statement is great theater. As Nate Silver from 538
puts it, <a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/donald-trump-is-the-worlds-greatest-troll/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Donald is the world’s greatest
troll</a>. I get the sense Nate must read my blog as
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2942" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I made similar points two weeks ago</a>. Maybe the
shadow of this blog is longer than I think.

Anyway, I was thinking about Trump the other day when he lit up Caitlyn
Graham and Rick Perry. That stunt with the phone number was pure gold.
It both amused the crowd and shamed Graham for being a hypocrite. <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2015/07/21/donald-trump-rick-perry-glasses-sc-bts.cnn"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The line about Perry now wearing
glasses</a> was close to genius. When you can shift the focus from
yourself to your critics in an amusing way, the critics get scared and
usually pipe down.

Trump is our first leverage candidate. For two decades now we have seen
loads of leverage companies and leverage financial institutions. The
crash of 2008 was brought about by a leverage industry toppling over and
taking the economy with it. The entertainment businesses, especially
sports, are all levitating on warm gusts of leverage carrying them into
the heavens.

The real estate business has always been about leverage. In normal
times, someone with equity in a rental property could borrow against it
to buy another rental property. The rule of thumb was that 80% of rental
income had to cover 100% of the debt service. In simple terms, if the
property generated $10,000 a month in rents at its peak, the mortgage
could not be greater than $8,000 a month.

Clever real estate men like Trump would figure out how to push up rents
to increase cash flow, which in turn drove up their asset base, allowing
for more borrowing which they used to buy more properties. As principle
was paid and the asset value increased, the difference in asset value
and leverage could be turned into a tax free windfall. In Trump’s case,
he would often liquidate properties he had made famous thus cashing out
at their peak.

The way to think of it for the purpose of understanding Trump’s campaign
is this. The savvy real estate man is always looking for a way to
leverage his assets so he can jump on the next opportunity before the
next guy. If you look at Trump’s career, you see he has moved from one
project to the next, very often leaving suckers holding the bag as he
walked away with a profit. Trump’s not a builder. He’s an opportunist.

That’s what’s happening in his campaign. He took stock of his assets.
He’s famous and he is rich. He’s also nearing the end so he can afford
to piss off other famous rich people, unlike regular candidates that
have to suck up to the rich. Trump also has a way of connecting with the
common people. He’s been doing improvisational television for a long
time and he is good at it.

Those are the assets he has to leverage. The opportunities he is
exploiting are immigration, the media culture, discontent with the
Republican establishment and widespread angst about the culture and
economy. My guess is he never had strong views on any of these things.
He may not even have had opinions about them until now. He’s just a guy
who is good at seeing and exploiting opportunities.

I think this is why the GOP is looking so silly trying to swat away
Trump. They are used to dealing with people who fear nothing more than
separation from the heard. Trump is not knocking on their door asking to
join the club. He’s out on the lawn throwing rocks through the window
because that’s where the opportunity lies. John McCain leaning out the
window in his nightshirt and cap, yelling at Trump to get off his lawn
is what Trump wants. It plays to his advantage.

Similarly, Trump is not builder. He does a deal and moves on. His whole
life up to this point has been geared to winning the moment. That makes
him uncommonly good at moving past a problem, a gaff or a misstep. He
takes the loss and moves onto the next item. To be successful in his
line of work, you have to have the conscience of a burglar. You can be
sure Trump remembers every win and not a single loss.

That makes the conventional political attack ineffective because he is
so good as brushing it off and re-focusing on his next opportunity. When
he gets grief for being mean to McCain, he brushes it off and takes a
shot at Caitlyn Graham. When the press howls about that, he points out
that Rick Perry has a two-digit IQ.

As with everything, there is a limit to leverage and you eventually have
to settle up and show a profit. Trump has made a lot of people a lot of
money which is why people do business with him. But, he ruined more than
a few too. It remains to be see how his presidential run will end, but
the insiders are betting/hoping he is unable to deliver more than pithy
lines criticizing his opponents.

That said, he is a smart guy and he likes winning. What started out as a
vanity candidacy is looking more like a real campaign. Beppe Grillo
started out as a gag too. Most people, especially the smart people,
thought it was ridiculous to think a divorced actor could be president.
Similarly, no one picked a degenerate from the Ozarks as a s serious
candidate at this stage of the 1992 election.

For now, it is a good show.
