---
title: "US Women Led By A Lesbian And A Lunatic"
date: "2015-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4697"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4697"
---

Imagine if the US men’s soccer team went into the World Cup led by a
wife beater and a flamboyant homosexual. The news, of course, would be
all about the wonderfulness of the homosexual, because they are our
gods. We would know nothing about the other players, other than than the
degree of wonderfulness they display while embracing the sodomite.

We know this because we have two good examples. In the NBA, <a
href="http://ftw.usatoday.com/2014/11/jason-collins-retire-first-openly-gay-player-nets"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Jason Collins</a>, a bench player at the
end of his career, announced he was gay. For the next twelve months ESPN
was unwatchable because it was a 24×7 marathon of stories about the
homosexual basketball player. Similarly, the college football player,
Michael Sam, got hundreds of hours of air time, simply because he acted
gay on TV. He even got a shot in the NFL.

The US Women’s soccer team is led by Megan Rapinoe. If you put her name
into a Google machine you see the usual stuff about an athlete. This
despite her best efforts to <a
href="http://www.sbnation.com/london-olympics-2012/2012/8/8/3228890/u-s-womens-soccer-megan-rapinoe-lesbian-london-olympics-gay"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">make money off of being a lesbian</a>.
Before the Olympics she all but went door to door telling people she
liked muff. Yet, the news has no stories on the poor girl, other than
the fact she is trying to win her first World Cup.

Of course, if anyone dares mention that Mx. Rapinoe is a dyke, they will
be fired so you can’t blame the airheads in the media for leaving it
alone. They are not terribly bright, but they know how the game is
played. Mention Rapinoe is a lesbian and the SJW’s pounce on you
demanding to know why you care about her sex life.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m fine with the silence on this women’s private
life. I think this is proper. In fact, there should be a penalty on
those who keep putting their business in the street. The absolute worst
thing to happen in modern times is people sharing their private lives
with strangers. Mx. Rapinoe’s private life is none of our business and
she should keep it that way.

The point is, a homosexual male athlete means everyone all the time must
talk about how wonderful it is that he likes the penis sampler at the
club, while a female homosexual athlete means everyone better not notice
– or else. I can’t help but feel sorry for the dykes. It seems that
liking muff in modern America is the one unforgivable sin, whether you
are a man or a woman.

Now, let’s look at the lunatic on the team, Hope Solo. <a
href="http://espn.go.com/espn/otl/story/_/id/12976615/detailed-look-hope-solo-domestic-violence-case-includes-reports-being-belligerent-jail"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Her biography</a> reads like a cautionary
tale told to parents about the dangers of letting your daughter play
sports. “If she plays soccer, there is a 70% chance she will turn out to
be white trash on a reality show.”

Solo has been arrested multiple times for things like beating up a
minor, disorderly conduct and public drunkenness. If I were being
charitable, I’d describe her as a handful and every man reading this
would know exactly what I meant. In addition to being a handful, <a
href="http://radaronline.com/celebrity-news/hope-solo-arrest-records-threatened-police-officers-custody/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">she is not the most gifted liar</a>,
despite working hard at it.

Every week, male athletes involved in drunken brawls, grand theft and
domestic violence lose their careers. Ray Rice lost his career in the
NFL and a multimillion dollar contract because he slapped his old lady
in an elevator. Greg Hardy, another NFL player, remains out of work
because of a domestic violence beef.

The ESPN article is the only thing you see about Solo from the media.
They have decided that it is old news and there’s no reason for you
chauvinistic cave dwellers to talk about it. Instead, her story will be
a tale of redemption. Since we can’t talk about the lesbians and no one
watches women’s soccer, the narrative will be Solo’s triumph over
adversity!

This is where American women find themselves after a century of
feminism. The role models for their daughters are lesbians and lunatics,
but no one is allowed to mention that these women are lesbians and
lunatics. They traded in one set of double standards for another set,
the former being based in biology and the latter at odds with it.
