---
title: "Conspiracies Afoot"
date: "2015-01-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3574"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3574"
---

I’ve never been much of a conspiracy buff. My own experience says people
have a tough time keeping a secret. Anglo-sphere countries also suffer
from the concreteness of language, which makes it tough to pull off a
good conspiracy. For a ruse to work, the mark has to believe things that
are not true based on his own mistaken interpretation of what has been
said by others. English is not a great language for that.

Arabic is a great language for nuance. Russian is a pretty good language
for deception as well. In both there is lots of room for interpretation.
Whether culture shaped the language or language shaped the culture is
unknown, but a hour working with Arabs or Russians and you figure out
that it is nearly impossible to pin them down on anything. It’s why
contract law is alien to Arabs.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/8e9e4ac6-9a6e-11e4-8426-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3OeXLAZ2u"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this got my attention today</a>. Since it
is probably fire-walled, I’ll past it here.

*Barely 24 hours after Ahmet Davutoglu, Turkey’s prime minister, joined
millions [marching in
Paris](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/e8974d40-99a4-11e4-a3d7-00144feabdc0.html?siteedition=intl#slide0 "Foreign leaders join 4m French in march against Paris terror killings - FT.com")
to pay tribute to the 17 people killed by Islamist extremists, the
country’s president struck a much more confrontational tone.*

*“The duplicity of the west is obvious,” Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at a
press conference on Monday evening. “As Muslims we have never sided with
terror or massacres: racism, hate speech, Islamophobia are behind these
massacres.”*

*“The culprits are clear: French citizens undertook this massacre and
Muslims were blamed for it,” he added.*

*Although political leaders in Turkey have repeatedly condemned the
attacks on the [Charlie
Hebdo](http://www.ft.com/home/europe "Charlie Hebdo attack marks new ‘hybrid’ terror model - FT.com")
magazine, a Jewish supermarket and a policewoman, a parallel narrative
has emerged in the country, with conspiracy theorists blaming the
murders on foreign intelligence agencies rather than radical Islamists.*

This is so Turkish. I’m by no means an expert on Anatolia, but I have
strong interest. It is, in part, due to their love of conspiracy. The
other reason is the first “fast woman” I ever had fun with as a young
man was Turkish.

*A similar phenomenon has occurred in Russia, which sent Sergei Lavrov,
foreign minister, to Sunday’s march.*

*Some such theories have been endorsed by pro-government figures —
highlighting the growing resentment and suspicion of the west in two
strategically important countries at a time of rising tensions over
Ukraine and the Middle East.*

Russians are not the same sort of conspiracy mongers as the Turks.
Russians seem to like the deeper, more subtle brand of conspiracy and
intrigue. There’s an assumption that things are not as they seem, but
also an internal logic is at work. Turks seem to like chaotic
conspiracies that make no sense to anyone.

*“In
[Turkey](http://www.ft.com/intl/topics/places/Turkey "Turkey news headlines - FT.com"),
at least, it looks dangerously like people are playing a double game,”
said Aaron Stein of the Royal United Services Institute, a UK
think-tank. “Issue condemnations that play internationally, even as you
tolerate supporters pushing crazy opinions that appeal to your political
base.”*

*Melih Gokcek, mayor of Ankara for the ruling AK party, said on Monday
that “Mossad \[the Israeli intelligence service\] is definitely behind
such incidents . . . it is boosting enmity towards Islam.” Mr Gokcek
linked the attacks to French moves towards [recognising
Palestine.](http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/50b9cb20-85d5-11e4-a105-00144feabdc0.html "European parliament votes to recognise Palestinian state - FT.com")*

*Ali Sahin, a member of Turkey’s parliament and foreign affairs
spokesman for the AK party, last week set out eight reasons why he
suspected the killings were staged so that “the attack will be blamed on
Muslims and Islam”.*

*Mehmet Gormez, director of the state-run religious affairs directorate,
described the attacks as a “perception operation” that cynically used
the symbols of Islam, although he later appeared to tone down his
comments.*

*In his own remarks on Monday, Mr Erdogan added: “Games are being played
throughout the Islamic world”. He expressed bewilderment that French
intelligence services had not followed the culprits more effectively.
However, he has mainly appeared to hint at a conspiracy behind the
depiction of the killings rather than the murders themselves.*

That’s the other difference between Turks and Russians. Turks
personalize their conspiracy theories. Whoever is pulling the strings is
not as important as who is the target of the subterfuge. In this case,
they start with Muslims being blamed and work backwards. Russians don’t
have the self-pity for this sort of stuff.

*In
[Russia](http://www.ft.com/intl/topics/places/Russia "Russia news headlines - FT.com"),
some pro-Kremlin commentators sought to link the killings to
geopolitical machinations by the US.*

*Komsomolskaya Pravda, one of Russia’s leading tabloids, ran the
headline: “Did the Americans stage the terror attack in Paris?” and
posted a series of interviews on its website that presented various
reasons why Washington might have organised the attack.*

*In one interview, Alexander Zhilin, head of the pro-Kremlin Moscow
Centre for the Study of Applied Problems, claimed the terror attack was
US retribution against President François Hollande for a January 6 radio
interview in which Mr Hollande urged the EU to lift sanctions against
Russia.*

*Washington used the attacks as “a quick fix for consolidating” US and
EU geopolitical interests in Ukraine, Mr Zhilin claimed.*

*Others repeated a popular Russian conspiracy theory blaming the US
intelligence services for a swath of terrorist assaults, from the 9/11
attacks on the US to last week’s Paris killings.*

*“For the last 10 years, so-called Islamist terrorism has been under the
control of one of the world’s leading intelligence agencies,” Alexei
Martynov, director of the International Institute for New States, a
think-tank, told pro-Kremlin internet outlet LifeNews. “I am sure that
some American supervisors are responsible for the terror attacks in
Paris, or in any case the Islamists who carried them out.”*

The Russians, I think, just enjoy giving the Americans the business by
feeding Muslims these wacko ideas. Given what is happening in Ukraine
and Syria, it is in the interests of the Russians to angry up the
Muslims. That does no mean the Russians don’t think skulduggery is at
foot. It’s just that the assume it is rational. So, they throws some
logs on the fire to suit their interests.

In all seriousness, I keep wondering when the West is going to wake up
and figure out that Turkey is a lost cause. Turks with anything on the
ball are heading to Europe. The remaining Turks are trying to figure out
how to keep from being outnumbered by the Kurds. Their answer is to go
all in on Islam. Supplying these guys with modern weapons and technology
is a terrible idea.
