---
title: "The Islamic States of America"
date: "2015-07-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4925"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4925"
---

I’m fond of pointing out that America has a lot in common with Iran
these days. The fetishes and fascinations of our ruling lunatics are
different from those of the Iranian lunatics, but the underlying
motivations are the same. A group of fanatics is trying to force the
rest of us into their fanaticism. <a
href="http://www.myrecordjournal.com/wallingford/wallingfordnews/7490124-129/wallingford-police-look-into-complaint-about-nazi-confederate-items-sold.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a>.

*Local police received a complaint when a shopper discovered Nazi and
Confederate merchandise at a popular flea market last weekend, according
to Chief William Wright.*

*An officer responded to the Redwood Flea Market on South Turnpike Road
Sunday to investigate the report and found Nazi and Confederate
memorabilia for sale. He told the complainant, who is Jewish, there was
nothing police could do because the merchandise was on private
property.*

*“There was a table set up with this material,” Wright said, unsure of
the exact amount, but speculating several showcases. “It’s not
criminally illegal, but obviously it offended this person. It causes
some people a sense of being uncomfortable. Certainly the owner could
preclude this merchandise.”*

*The complainant, a town resident, feared possible backlash and asked to
remain anonymous. He told the Record-Journal that in addition to several
showcases there was Nazi merchandise, including German helmets with
swastikas, images of Hitler, and Jewish stars of David, in a truck.*

*“I was shaking and almost vomiting,” he said. “I had to run. My
grandmother had numbers,” he said, referring to the Nazi system of
tattooing numbers on prisoners.*

I doubt that this man’s grandmother had such a tattoo. The tattoo that
looms so large in modern lore was not common. It was just not terribly
practical. But, inter-generational transitive post-traumatic stress is
still a big deal for many Jews. It’s an excuse to make a scene in public
trying to get some grace on the cheap.

*Ken Dubar, who owns and manages the flea market, disputed the man’s
account of how much anti-semitic and Confederate merchandise is at the
weekend venue.*

*“There may be some of those items, some collectibles and some might be
counterfeit,” he said.*

*Dubar also emphasized police found no evidence of any crime.*

*Jason Teal, president of the Meriden-Wallingford NAACP, said he was not
familiar with the flea market and had not heard any complaints about the
merchandise being sold there.*

*“It’s difficult because it’s on private property and it’s considered
free speech,” Teal said.*

*The man also contacted Mayor William W. Dickinson Jr., who immediately
asked Wright to determine if any laws were broken.*

*“I had to check with the chief over what is actionable and what isn’t,”
Dickinson said. “Unless something violates state or federal law, there’s
no jurisdiction for government to do anything. We had to ask, is it
something controlled by law?”*

Unremarked here is the fact the local cop was not sure if there was a
crime. That’s how far down the fascist hell hole we have fallen as a
society. I’m old enough to remember when “this is a free country” was
the default response to this stuff. Even lunatics like the guy making
the complaint would have been tempered by it.

Today, it is just assumed that the lunatics have the whip hand.
Everyone, including the cops, figured it is best to ask permission than
to run afoul of the religious authorities. This is no different than
what you would see in Iran or Saudi Arabia. People are more worried
about the fanatics than the cops.

The irony here is the lunatic who made the scene not only will not be
charged, but he is now pretending to be the victim. The newspaper is
hiding his identity as if he has something to fear, when he’s the one
making a nuisance of himself. That  is the real danger we face. These
nuts are convinced they are defending themselves as they try to pull the
roof down on all of us.
