---
title: "Never Cross The Left"
date: "2015-01-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3544"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3544"
---

I’m fond of comparing the Left with Islam, as I think there are a lot of
points of comparison between the two. That and it drives Progressives
bonkers, but both religions do have a lot in common. One good example of
a commonality is the willingness and ability to hold grudges. Once
either religion puts you on the list, they never forget about you. The
Friday news dump brings word that the Feds plan to charge <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/10/us/politics/prosecutors-said-to-recommend-charges-against-former-gen-david-petraeus.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">General Petraeus will be indicted for
pillow talk</a>.

*The F.B.I. and Justice Department prosecutors have recommended bringing
felony charges against retired Gen. David H. Petraeus for providing
classified information to his former mistress while he was director of
the C.I.A., officials said, leaving Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.
to decide whether to seek an indictment that could send the pre-eminent
military officer of his generation to prison.*

*The Justice Department investigation stems from an affair Mr. Petraeus
had with Paula Broadwell, an Army Reserve officer who was writing his
biography, and focuses on whether he gave her access to his C.I.A. email
account and other highly classified information. F.B.I. agents
discovered classified documents on her computer after Mr. Petraeus
resigned from the C.I.A. in 2012 when the affair became public.*

Petraeus was put on the proscribed list back in the Bush years when he
managed to change the course of the Iraq mess, thus stealing a victory
from the other fundamentalists going crazy at the time, the Democratic
Party. The fanatic website MoveOn.org ran [full page
ads](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MoveOn.org_ad_controversy) in the New
Cult Times <span style="text-decoration: line-through;">issuing a
fatwa</span> denouncing Patraeus as a
<span style="text-decoration: line-through;">heretic</span> traitor. The
<span style="text-decoration: line-through;">Islamists</span> Democrats
continued to call him General BetrayUs through the remainder of the Bush
years.

The Left never forgets about these things. They finally got their man
when he foolishly decided to accept the CIA post from the Obama
administration. That was probably a setup. In order to get the job he
had to submit to a full FBI background check. You would think this
happens with generals while they serve, but that’s not the case. The FBI
is supposed to do regular background checks on people holding security
clearances, but they don’t. Nominating Patraeus to the CIA post was like
the mob boss setting up a meet with his arch enemy in order to whack
him.

[As Steve Sailer pointed
out](http://takimag.com/article/silencing_general_petraeus_andrew_napolitano/print#axzz3OLnKjlE6)
at the time, the affair that got Patreaus jammed up was surely turned up
long before it was revealed. It is one of those useful things in the
sort of war-band politics played in DC these days. Whether or not they
dropped the dime on him to cover up their shenanigans in Libya is
debatable, but they put the screws to him for a reason.

The decision to send the guy to prison leads me to believe it is
revenge, not some Libya conspiracy. The press did all the hard work
covering up the gun running the administration was doing in the Maghreb.
There was no need to blackmail Patraeus. I could be wrong, but that’s my
sense. The White House put the hit on the general to pay a debt to the
fanatics. This is just the finishing blow.

It is yet another example of how the the normals simply don’t get what
they are dealing with in regards to American liberalism. They keep
thinking these people can be reasoned with like normal people. Instead,
what we call the Left is more like the Scientology. Their primary
motivation is defense of the cause. That trumps everything. All enemies
within striking distance must be struck, no matter the cost.

 
