---
title: "The Specter of Immigration"
date: "2015-08-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5254"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5254"
---

A specter is haunting the West — the specter of immigration. All the
powers of the old establishment have entered into a holy alliance to
exorcise this specter: Liberal and Conservative, democrat and
aristocrat, college radicals and billionaires.

Where is the party in opposition that has not been decried as fascistic
by its opponents in power? Where is the opposition that has not hurled
back the branding reproach of racism, against the more advanced
opposition parties, as well as against its reactionary adversaries?

Obviously, I’m having some fun here by reworking the opening lines of
the Communist Manifesto to fit our current age. I’m fond of pointing out
that Marx was not wrong about everything, and he made some useful
observations. In the 19<sup>th</sup> century, he noticed that the real
fight was between the rising new ideology against the old ideologies
tied to the previous economic era. The Industrial Revolution was
reshuffling the deck.

It’s also important to note that he got most everything wrong about how
the world would look after the revolution. He was also stunningly wrong
about human nature and the human condition. The followers of Marx
murdered 100 million people trying to prove Marx right with regards to
the nature of man and the making of the egalitarian society. I’m
throwing that out there so my new readers don’t think I’m a Marxist.

Anyway, the thing about the rise of international communism in the
19<sup>th</sup> century is it scrambled the normal feedback loop between
the public and the rulers. All of a sudden there were conversations
about how to best organize society that did not include the people
currently in charge. What was most frightening to the people in charge
was that in the ranks of the ruling classes were people secretly
enamored with communism and sympathetic to the arguments.

That whole vibe keeps coming to mind reading the increasingly unhinged
rants from “conservative” writers with regards to Trump and immigration.
A couple of days ago Brit Hume was humping [this
article](http://thefederalist.com/2015/08/21/are-republicans-for-freedom-or-white-identity-politics/)
on Twitter. Hume is sort of the neo-con emeritus these days, so he has a
lot of stroke with the rank and file chattering skulls. Today [National
Review’s Kevin Williamson has a rewrite of that
article](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/422919/donald-trump-bernie-sanders-national-socialism-immigration)
up under his own name.

In both cases you have allegedly conservative writers calling
immigration reformers racists and fascists. Not long ago, these writers
were excoriating Progressives for using such language against George
Bush and the neo-cons. That’s quite a transformation and a revelatory
one. The question presented by the issue of immigration to the people in
charge is “which side are you one?” We are seeing the answer in the
response to the rise of immigration parties.

That’s what has me thinking about old Uncle Karl. Communism in Europe
was an existential challenge to the ruling elites because it challenged
the spiritual framework holding the old guard in place. That’s what made
it so dangerous and why the people in charge reacted so violently to
anything that smacked of communism. The Reds were a virus that had to be
wiped out completely.

It’s a similar problem with immigration today. The people in charge have
drawn long and hard from the well of egalitarianism. They believe it
with the intensity of the fanatic. Therefore, they lack the intellectual
toolkit to address the concerns of the people seeing their towns and
neighborhoods overrun by foreigners. [The people of Dresden, for
example, are demanding answers to a question the rulers of Dresden
cannot
answer](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/dresden-riots-protesters-in-germany-attack-refugee-buses-shouting-foreigners-out-10467287.html).

I think most people understand why Progressives demand open borders.
It’s not just the practical matter of cheap votes. There’s a spiritual
element. The Left is always looking for grace on the cheap. Inviting the
world and putting them on welfare lets Progressives pretend they are
doing the Lord’s work without actually having to sacrifice anything. The
peasants are packed into your neighborhood, not theirs.

Professional conservatives have a similar thing going on with
immigration. Conservatives have always struggled to answer the charge of
racism from the Left. They have always struggled to square the founding
myths of America with the founding realities. Immigration is how they
could square that circle. By championing the little brown guys, they
think they are washing off the stink of racism.

It’s why the reality of Hispanic voting patterns have never left a mark
on the thinking of modern conservatives. It’s also why they keep yapping
about how they must win over these “natural conservatives,” even though
all the data says otherwise. They are sure they are on the side of
angels. They have the right answer to the Great Question. Facts will
come around soon enough.

Now all of a sudden, the bad thinkers are drawing massive crowds and
mocking the complaints of the anointed. If you were a good thinker, sure
you were just about to crest the last hill before the promised land, the
horror of coming upon Trump hosting 30,000 people at an anti-immigration
rally is something like Moses descending Sinai to see the Golden Calf.
There can be no intellectual response, only an emotional one.
