---
title: "Then They Came For The Tenured"
date: "2015-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4656"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4656"
---

One of my gags is to point out that if the people flooding over the Rio
Grande had law degrees, the American Bar Association would make Pat
Buchanan look like an open borders fanatic. The penalties for hiring
illegal lawyers would be draconian, involving torture and slow death.
The border would make the DMZ look like Golden Gate Park.

In America following WW2, it was a great time to be working and middle
class. If you had anything on the ball and a modest amount of
self-control, you could create a fine life for yourself and your family.
The twenty year period following the war was the heyday of middle-class
America.

Just as the 1950’s were not a great time for the talented ten percent of
blacks, it was not a great time for the cognitive elite of white
America. No great fortunes were amassed in the 50’s and 60’s, like we
saw in the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th. Men got rich, but
not over-class rich. There was simply no way to transfer large chunks of
middle-class wealth to the ruling class.

Things changed in the 70’s and by the 1980’s, the technological
revolution was setting the stage for a new robber baron class to emerge.
First we allowed the financial class to auction off the manufacturing
base to the third world. Then all sorts of new value transference
schemes were created allowing Silicon Valley to boom. Of course,
<a href="http://mercatus.org/publication/rise-capita-federal-spending"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">government metastasized</a>.

This great concentration of wealth over the last three decades has been
spurred on by the reckless enthusiasm of the managerial class. Educated
people who should have known better cheered on the financialization of
the economy by Wall Street and the assault on the culture through mass
immigration. After all, the “new money” was bankrolling the universities
and think tanks.

This is nowhere more obvious than in our university system. Even the
most pedestrian of colleges are staffed with tenured radicals and
overgrown hippies preaching nonsense. Middle class children are saddled
with tens of thousands in debt for an education that used to be free in
pubic school. The basic training for a work life is loaded down with
agit-prop of no value in a human society.

The crushing reality of mathematics, however, may <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2015/06/01/wisconsin-might-destroy-tenure-for-professors/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">finally be reaching these tenured
radicals</a> on the college campus.

*Lawmakers in Wisconsin advanced a daring proposal made by Gov. Scott
Walker that would eliminate state laws guaranteeing faculty tenure at
state universities, a dramatic potential shift that has faculty and
administrators up in arms.*

*The Wisconsin legislature’s Joint Finance Committee voted 12-4 Friday
to approve a proposal that would eliminate tenure from state law and
allow tenured faculty to be laid off even if a school isn’t in a
declared financial emergency. The proposal would also weaken faculty
influence in setting policy and would cut the University of Wisconsin
(UW)’s budget by $250 million over the next two years, down from a $300
million cut that was proposed by Walker.*

*The elimination of tenure protections was first suggested by Walker
back in February, but was considered a longshot proposal. The Joint
Finance Committee, however, is tremendously influential, and its
decision to send the rollback to the floor of the legislature is seen as
making passage much more likely.*

*By itself, the measure wouldn’t end tenure, but it would remove the
current protections it has under state law and allow universities to set
their own policies on the matter. <a
href="https://www.wisconsin.edu/news/archive/statement-by-uw-system-president-ray-cross-and-board-of-regents-vice-president-regina-millner-on-the-joint-finance-committees-proposed-changes-to-shared-governance-and-tenure/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">In response</a>, current UW system
president Ray Cross said the school’s board of regents will act to
enshrine tenure as university policy in a meeting later this week. No
statement of the university’s intent can match the power of state law,
though.*

All movements become a business and then a racket. Tenure was seen as a
way to increase discourse on campus in an era when the dominant religion
was Christianity. It allowed the educated to challenge the prevailing
orthodoxy. As Christianity died off, the New Religion turned tenure into
a jobs racket for members of the faith. If you are not an adherent, you
will never get tenure at an American university.

The result is our centers of training and learning have been transformed
into monasteries of lunacy, divorced from financial reality and the
market economy. If you want to have a nice life, you must pay these
gatekeepers for the credential and join, to some degree, their cult.
What was intended to be an asset to a thriving people has become another
anchor on a sinking culture.

The math of the managerial state means the top must consume the middle
in the name of the bottom. The trouble is the middle is finite, meaning
the erosion of the lower middle, becomes an erosion of the middle. Then
it is onto the upper middle-classes. The rot is now reaching those with
advanced degrees. Maybe those alarm bells going off in the universities
will wake some of these people up. Maybe it is too late.
