---
title: "Trump: Dragging The Overton Window Our Way"
date: "2015-12-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5963"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5963"
---

A year ago, the great frustration of the Dissident Right was that the
“I” word was pretty close to being the “N” word in politics. The only
time members of either party discussed the issue was when they were
preaching the glories of open borders and flooding your neighborhood
with foreigners. Mitt Romney actually said he wanted to throw you out of
your job in order to make room for a foreigner.

Then Trump came along talking about building a big beautiful wall along
the southern border. The political class howled, but the public
applauded. The interesting thing about the last six months is that the
Republican Party has avoided going after Trump on immigration, instead
attacking him in crude personal ways. Even the insulated elites felt the
ground shifting on the issue.

The thing about Trump is he is the ultimate opportunist so he has
drifted from the immigration issue of late, taking shots at the other
candidates as the opportunity presented itself. I called him the
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5029" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Leverage Candidate</a> back in the summer, because he
invests everything into the next deal he thinks he can win.  It’s his
mentality so he is going to meander from topic to topic.

The other thing about Trump is he is a risk taker, but he is not
foolish. He saw how Carson picked up support after <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-politics-carson-trump-bias-20150929-story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he said honest things about Islam</a>. I
suspect he saw that and wondered how he could use it. Then the muzzies
went bonkers and shot up Paris and then California so<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/12/07/donald-trump-calls-for-banning-muslims-from-entering-u-s/?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Trump is about to drag the Overton Window
a few clicks in the right direction</a>.

*Donald J. Trump called on Monday for the United States to bar all
Muslims from entering the country until the nation’s leaders can “figure
out what is going on” after the terrorist attacks in San Bernardino,
Calif., an extraordinary escalation of rhetoric aimed at voters’ fears
about members of the Islamic faith.*

*A prohibition of Muslims – an unprecedented proposal by a leading
American presidential candidate, and an idea more typically associated
with hate groups – reflects a progression of mistrust that is rooted in
ideology as much as politics.*

*Mr. Trump, who in September declared “I love the Muslims,” turned
sharply against them after the Paris terrorist attacks, calling for a
database to track Muslims in America and repeating discredited rumors
that thousands of Muslims celebrated in New Jersey on 9/11. His poll
numbers rose largely as a result, until a setback in Iowa on Monday
morning. Hours later Mr. Trump called for the ban, fitting his pattern
of making stunning comments when his lead in the Republican presidential
field appears in jeopardy.*

*Saying that “hatred” among many Muslims for Americans is “beyond
comprehension,” Mr. Trump said in a statement that the United States
needed to confront “where this hatred comes from and why.”*

*“Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the
dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of
horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad, and have no
sense of reason or respect for human life,” Mr. Trump said.*

This is horrifying, of course, to the ruling class, but most Americans
will think it blazingly obvious. We can’t seem to figure out which
Muslims are going to blow, so why import millions of them into the
country? Again, the number of people walking around saying “We need more
Muslims” rounds to zero.

The beauty of this move is it not only shifts the conversation, it will
flushes out the lunatics in the GOP. Trump is not just moving the window
of acceptable discourse, he is trolling the meatheads and nitwits that
pose as statesmen.

*Repudiation of Mr. Trump’s remarks was swift and severe among religious
groups and politicians from both parties. Mr. Trump is “unhinged,” said
one Republican rival, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, while another,
while another, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, called the ban “offensive
and outlandish.” Hillary Clinton said the idea was “reprehensible,
prejudiced and divisive.” Organizations representing Jews, Christians
and those of other faiths quickly joined Muslims in denouncing Mr.
Trump’s proposal.*

The thing we’re seeing with Trump is that there is no benefit in playing
along with these people. The better course is to keep pushing the
boundary and force the Social Justice League of America to defend
*their* position. In a weird way, Trump is doing to the ruling class
what Progressives have done to traditional Americans for fifty years. He
swings the wrecking ball and says, “Tell me why I shouldn’t do it.”

*Experts on immigration law and policy expressed shock at the proposal
Monday afternoon.*

*“This is just so antithetical to the history of the United States,”
said Nancy Morawetz, a professor of clinical law at New York University
School of Law, who specializes in immigration. “It’s unbelievable to
have a religious test for admission into the country.”*

*She added: “I cannot recall any historical precedent for denying
immigration based on religion.”*

Times change Nancy, times change.
