---
title: "Being Wrong"
date: "2015-11-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5750"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5750"
---

There’s a genre of expository writing where the author explains in
detail how he got something completely wrong. The name for this form is
“nonexistent” because no one ever does it. Similarly, you will never
hear a lecture from an economist explaining how he got some prediction
totally wrong. For instance, Obama’s economic team swore that the
stimulus bill would set off an economic boom through the magic The
Multiplier. They were wrong and it was a flop, but no one talks about it
because it is simply not done.

This is something you see in all fields, not just public policy. You
never read about scientists discussing how they screwed up an experiment
or fell for some nutty idea that sounded good at the moment. What we
expect and what we get is equivocation, denial and when that does not
work, an attempt to flush the incident down the memory hole. It usually
works too. [Paul
Ehrlich](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Population_Bomb) was
hilariously wrong about human populations, but he has paid no price.

The weird thing about this, I think, is we know that being wrong is
usually more important than being right. When you are a student learning
mathematics, you are required to show your work in detail. The reason is
the teacher wants to see your mistakes. In sports, coaches focus on the
mistakes even after a big win. The reason is we learn more from our
errors than through our successes. It’s an axiom of life that old people
teach to young people as they help them get over some difficulty.

I think one reason why public people never admit being wrong is they
know that a lot of people really want them to be right. The people
telling the public that economic science said the stimulus bill was a
sure fire cure for the economy knew that a lot of people wanted that to
be true. They voted for Obama believing he was Jesus. Those economists
selling the stimulus probably believed it too. They really really wanted
to be on the winning side of history. When that did not happen, they
could not face it so they did not face it. The dogs barked and the
caravan moved on.

Our side of the game is not immune to this either. Read Zero Hedge and
you come away thinking the world is about to explode any minute. Every
day they have a post title something like “Five Charts Predicting
Armageddon.” That’s been a feature every day since it started in 2009
and the world has not exploded. More important, being wrong for six
years has not discouraged them. In fact, they are more certain than
ever, operating under the theory that they are due, I guess.

It’s not just the fringe weirdos on our side. Reagan was convinced that
taking tax hikes off the table would eventually force the welfare state
into retreat. His reasoning at the time sounded great. Make tax hikes
the third rail of politics and it leaves borrowing as the only way to
finance the government. Eventually, the bond markets would force a roll
back as the deficits would grow so large that eventually no one would
lend. Reagan came into office when debt was at $900 billion. He left
with debt at $2.6 trillion. Obama will leave office with $20 trillion in
debt.

I’ve been thinking about that a lot lately. In the 1980’s people knew
that no country could survive with public debt equal to or greater than
GDP. Now, that mountain of debt may one day topple over and take us all
down, but it is not happening tomorrow. As it stands, the great day of
reckoning over public debt is 25 years late and nowhere to found. That’s
important to keep in mind when thinking about the current issues of the
day. The odds are, we are all wrong about what’s coming next.

The people in charge, the central planners running the economy through
the central banks, are often mocked by people on our side. After all,
every effort at central planning has failed miserably so why should this
time be different. The thing is, it has been different and it remains
different. Say what you will, but the massive debt and real estate
bubble that burst seven years did not plunge the world into depression.
Maybe it was dumb luck or maybe the central planners are better than we
think. I’m not saying they are perfect or that they really know what
they are doing, but I don’t see any soup lines either.

It’s possible that the looming custodial state, where the Cloud People
rule over the Ground People like game wardens, is going to be wonderful.
The Ground People will embrace being cared for like children and accept
being pushed around by the authorities when necessary. The sense of
looming catastrophe that animates much of the alternative right will
turn out to be completely misplaced. Instead, it will be viewed as a
great leap forward for humanity.

Or, I could be completely wrong.
