---
title: "The Soros Army Gets a Human Sacrifice"
date: "2015-05-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4408"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4408"
---

I predicted after Ferguson that the rational response of small cities
being attacked by Soros Inc. will be human sacrifice and tribute. The
city leaders will hang a few cops, preferably white ones, so everyone
knows they will do what it takes to pacify the rent-a-mob Soros has
gathered at the city gates. Once those ceremonies are over, the city
will quietly pay money to the “community organizers” so they will shut
up and go away.

The Soros Army rampaging through America right now is not all that
different from pirates in the age of sail or swords-for-hire in the
medieval period. Eventually, civilized men will have to crush them, but
for now cities and towns will have to make due. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/02/us/freddie-gray-autopsy-report-given-to-baltimore-prosecutors.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Baltimore has decided to hang six cops
today.</a>

*The state’s attorney of Baltimore, in an unexpected announcement, said
Friday that she had probable cause to file homicide, manslaughter and
misconduct charges against the police officers in the death of Freddie
Gray, who died after sustaining a spinal cord injury while in police
custody.*

*In a news conference Friday, the state’s attorney, Marilyn J. Mosby,
said that the death of Mr. Gray had been ruled a homicide and that the
police had been negligent in his death.*

*“We have probable cause to file criminal charges,” Ms. Mosby said. As
she spoke outside the War Memorial here, dozens of police officers
dressed in riot gear stood nearby.*

*Ms. Mosby described repeated mistreatment of Mr. Gray. She said that
time and again police officers had mistreated him . She said they had
arrested him with no grounds, violating police procedure by putting him
in cuffs and leg cuffs in the van without seat belting him and then
repeatedly failing to get him medical attention.*

*She said that when he was removed from the wagon, “Mr. Gray was no
longer breathing at all.”*

*The death, Ms. Mosby said, is believed to be the result of a fatal
injury to Mr. Gray while he was riding in the van without a seatbelt.*

*The announcement came a day after the Police Department completed its
initial investigation into Mr. Gray’s death and also handed its findings
to Ms Mosby’s office.*

*The Police Department completed its initial investigation into Mr.
Gray’s death and also handed its findings to Ms Mosby’s office, on
Thursday. Prosecutors added the police work to their own investigation,
and Commissioner Anthony W. Batts said his department will now take
direction from them about what leads to pursue.*

The people in charge of the city clearly think this will get the Soros
Army off their back. If the cops are white then it give the megaphone
holders something to rant about for while thus shifting the focus from
the chaos on the streets. With the tourist trade at grave risk, the city
has to try something so they are going with a human sacrifice.

The trouble, of course, is that the cops are probably innocent. When
they are not convicted, then the whole things starts over and they will
be right back to having the National Guard on the streets. That’s been
the lesson of Ferguson. You can only buy off the besieging hordes for so
long. At some point you have to destroy them.

At some point, someone is going to realize that only when the head of
George Soros is on a stake will this madness come to end.
