---
title: "The Tyranny of Youth"
date: "2015-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3817"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3817"
---

I’m an old man and that means I get cranky when the kids walk on my
lawn, if I had a lawn. Like all old people, I was young once. That’s
what gives old farts an edge over young pups. We remember what it was
like to be them, but they have no way of knowing what it is like to be
us. That, alas, is the only benefit of being old. Well, that and the
willingness to say things in public that you’re afraid to say when
you’re young. Otherwise, I fully admit to agreeing with <a
href="http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/86126-children-should-neither-be-seen-nor-heard-from-ever"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">W.C. Fields</a> when it comes to young
people.

I’m exaggerating a bit, but the tyranny of youth culture has gotten out
of hand. Mark Steyn has commented for years that male leads are getting
younger and more feminine. If I recall, he used the example of William
Shatner playing Kirk in the original Star Trek series. Shatner was in
his 30’s and playing a role as a middle-aged man. The current Star Trek
movies feature boys in their 20’s playing boys in their 20’s
inexplicably given command of a starship.

I’m not a big consumer of pop culture and maybe that’s why. Once I
reached 30, everyone in music, TV and movies started looking young and
silly to me. Even so, pop culture has always been juvenile and
repetitive. The Honeymooners, for example, has been a standard template
for TV for as long as I’ve been alive. I Love Lucy has been the template
for couple-based sitcoms for fifty years now. Eventually, it gets boring
for adults so it is left for kids, who are seeing it all for the first
time.

That’s no what this post is about, however. The whole youth culture
thing is now invading public affairs. The rulers feel it necessary to
have <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/video/2015/02/16/harf-we-cant-kill-our-way-out-of-war-against-isis/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">bimbos as spokeswomen</a>. Public affairs
programming is beginning to look like the cafeteria at your local
college. Rather than crabby old guys and gals with years of experience
talking about the news, we have <a
href="http://www.independentsentinel.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Beautiful-women-of-Fox-News.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hot looking airheads</a> repeating what
they heard from some other hot looking airhead.

It’s not just TV news either. The reason for this post is <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/398483/rand-pauls-fed-audit-dangerous-idea-jon-hartley"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">something I saw on National Review</a>
the other day. If you look at the picture of the writer, it’s clear he
is a child. He looks like he should be organizing the fraternity keg
party this weekend, not offering opinions on the Federal Reserve. As an
adult, I have no reason to care what this young fellow has to say about
anything so why in the world is he offered up as an expert?

So that I don’t sound like a terrible meanie, I’m sure Jon Hartley is a
fine young man with a world of promise.
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/pub/jon-hartley/14/994/185"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">His resume</a> says he graduated from U.
Chicago with a degree in economics. He held jobs doing statistical work
in public and private firms. He would make a great intern at a big bank
or possibly a PhD candidate at a university. He’s clearly ambitious and
one of his ambitions is to be famous. All of that is wonderful and I
wish him the best.

Regardless, he is unqualified to write opinions about current affairs.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3832" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">That pipe</a> I talked about the other day is already
packed full of nonsense. The tiny capillaries that remain open to the
transmission of sensible information cannot be clogged with the musings
of children hoping to be famous one day. Surely there are seasoned
adults with knowledge acquired through experience willing to write for
these sites. if not and all we are left with is the tyranny of baffled
young people it’s time to consider disbanding and going our separate
ways.
