---
title: "Charm City"
date: "2015-05-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4587"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4587"
---

 

<a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2913625/Billionaire-George-Soros-spent-33MILLION-bankrolling-Ferguson-demonstrators-create-echo-chamber-drive-national-protests.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">George Soros spent $33 million trying to
incinerate Ferguson Missouri</a>, but the little city is still there.
The problem is that he bet on a weak horse. While Ferguson is a vibrant
example of post-racial America in the era of Obama, it lacks the sort
richness and diversity of other cities. Try as they might, the locals
just can’t take down a city, even a small one.

Soros should have invested more heavily in Baltimore where the locals
really know how to put on a show. Since the police have went on an
unofficial strike after the Freddy-Poo Gray incident, the locals have
been celebrating diversity with a vengeance. This long weekend has seen
<a
href="http://baltimore.cbslocal.com/2015/05/25/police-26-shootings-9-fatal-over-memorial-day-weekend-in-baltimore/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">26 shootings and and 9 murders</a>.
Granted, it is a three day weekend, but it has been unseasonably mild of
late so the murdering season is late starting.

What no one wants to say, but everyone knows is that the cops are now in
their cop houses filling out paperwork and doing as little as possible.
They see no reason to risk prison for a city government that would
rather arrest cops than criminals. The gangsters know it is open season
so they are doing what they do and that means taking over the streets,
without fear of the cops.

Fundamentally, this is the problem with race relations in microcosm.
Blacks did best when whites were completely intolerant of black culture.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Talented_Tenth" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The talented tenth</a> took the lead in keeping order in
the black community, but quietly welcomed help from white society. It
was not ideal, but black crime rates, literacy rates, illegitimacy rates
and addiction rates were their best in the years before the Civil Rights
movement.

Once those constraints were removed, all of the worst instincts of black
America were unleashed, mostly on other blacks. That’s what’s happening
in Baltimore right now. The cops were doing a good job keeping the
problem contained to the ghettos. They were having some success policing
the ghettos, lowering crime rates over the last decade. Now, the cage
door has been swung open and all hell is breaking loose.
