---
title: "Opposite Land"
date: "2015-07-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5070"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5070"
---

If you Google the phrase “opposite rule of liberalism” you will arrive
upon the world bestriding post from my favorite blogger. The rule
described is not really a rule, more like a general observation, like
Moore’s Law or the Peter Principle. These are useful guides to
understanding some phenomenon, but are not iron laws of nature, like the
speed of light.

The simple version of the “opposite rule of liberalism” is to take
whatever Progressives are saying about a subject, conjure the opposite
and you are at a good starting point for understanding the topic at
hand. It’s not always simple as many things don’t have an obvious
opposite, but it gets you at a good starting point. It is also a good
way to clear the mind of the Progressive cant that defines our age.

A good example of what I mean by “clearing the mind” is in the Iran deal
Obama is pushing through Congress. Everyone has been conditioned to
think that “conservatives” are motivated by money and “liberals” are
motivated by idealism. Bush invades Iraq and it is about oil. Obama
makes a deal with Iran and it is about foolishly trusting the mullahs.
The debate then ensues within what is an entirely backward framework.

The Bush people did not invade Iraq for oil. They talked endlessly about
their <a
href="http://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/infocus/freedomagenda/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Freedom Agenda</a> and how Iraq could be
a model for other Arab countries. The plan was to topple Saddam, install
a representative democracy and watch an Athenian democracy take root and
bloom in the birth place of civilization. The people pushing the
invasion of Iraq were not in it for money; they were true believers.

Yet from about 2002 through the end of the Bush years, fanatics were in
the streets chanting “no blood for oil.” If you took the opposite of
that and assumed the invasion was not for cynical reasons and instead
went looking for ideological motivations, you would have quickly
discovered that neo-cons had been championing democracy as a palliative
to Arab fanaticism since the first Gulf War.

Similarly, that’s what’s happening with Iran. This deal has nothing to
do with idealism or naivete. It is a money grab. Iran has massive
untapped energy reserves. It also has other natural resources in high
demand on world markets. It’s location is also valuable as it can be a
stable transport link between the massive oil and gas fields in the
south and the European markets to the north.

For over a year, US energy companies have been negotiating with Iran
over development deals. I have friends in the region and they have been
watching CEO’s from US energy and logistics firms come through Dubai,
where negotiations take place. The initial batch of deals is estimated
to be <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/07/24/us-iran-nuclear-industry-idUSKCN0PX0XQ20150724"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">$185 billion</a> and that’s just the
starting point. The revenues from oil and gas will be pumped into
infrastructure and military projects, on contracts to Western firms.

It’s not just oil and gas. Firms like Halliburton will get contracts to
build roads, dams, electric plants, you name it. They will, of course,
hire people who have the diplomatic connections to help smooth the way
to making these deals happen. This is going to be the greatest jobs
program for the political class since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
That’s not even counting the armaments deals that will follow on in the
coming decades.

In opposite land, no one bothers to make this argument. Instead the GOP
field carps about how this deal is bad for Israel or terrorism. The
Democrats and the media celebrate it as “diplomacy over war.” Executives
from ExxonMobile could be walking out of the White House with bags of
cash and no one would notice. Everyone is trapped in the opposite land
narrative.

It’s tempting to think it is deliberate, but it’s just a byproduct of
being ruled by a religious minority. Progressives have been in charge of
America for as long as anyone has been alive, so their narrative
transcends all public debate. They frame all pubic discussion and define
all the terms. Their version of reality is everyone’s version of
reality, whether they like it or not.

That’s why we live in opposite land. Progressives, unlike Christians or
Jews, have no self-awareness. Instead, they focus entirely on their
enemies, real or imagined, as that’s how the Progressive defines
himself. They project onto the undifferentiated other all of the things
they hate about themselves. After all, one does not join a mass movement
or cult to be self-absorbed and independent.

That means extreme right-wing extremists of the most extreme kind are
greedy, selfish and callous, even though Progressives are <a
href="https://philanthropy.com/interactives/how-america-gives#advanced"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the least charitable people on earth</a>,
according to people who track these things. It means normal people are
<a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3014666/Christian-baker-sued-refusal-make-gay-marriage-cake.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">intolerant bigots</a> that must be sued
into penury for not following party orders with regards to homosexuals,
all in the name of tolerance.
