---
title: "Looking Up From The Ghetto"
date: "2015-03-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3988"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3988"
---

I used to think that the fraying of American society was due to the
elites letting down on their responsibilities as elites. For instance,
rich people used to discourage divorce through the law and through
public morality. The rich, of course, could afford to get divorced, but
they did not promote it. Divorce was seen a failure for a man, which is
why FDR stuck with his lesbian wife, rather than divorce her. It was a
burden elites were expected to bear in order maintain order amongst the
lower classes.

The 1960’s is when things changed. Elites not only stopped enforcing the
old codes, they actively promoted every sort of deviancy they practiced
in private. Divorce was now a moral imperative of a liberated woman.
Black men were encouraged to take drugs, abandon their families and live
like animals in the streets. The resulting anarchy was both predictable
and sudden. Whole cities collapsed as the poor went bonkers and the
middle-classes fled in terror.

I never throught of it as intentional. It just seemed to me that it was
the confluence of two trends in America. One is the spread of Frankfurt
School philosophy that has enraptured the intellectual class of America.
The people in charge swapped out Christianity for Cultural Marxism, as
their organizing creed. The other trend was a rapid advance in the
nation’s material wealth following the war. America was suddenly crazy
rich and like lottery winners, we indulged in all our worst fantasies.

I was at the market today, my Sunday ritual. I do my shopping at the
rich man’s grocer, rather than the stores serving the ghetto. I cook my
own meals and therefore prefer fresh meats and produce. Ghetto Lion, for
example, has mostly prepared foods that are popular with ghetto
dwellers. Anyway, at the checkout, a dough-faced fat girl with a pin in
her nose address me with “wassup.”

I’m led to believe that the pin in her nose signals her availability to
black men. Almost always, the pram-faced girls in the ghetto have
caramel colored kids, along with the nose pin. Perhaps it is a
coincidence. Her sing-songy language told me she was a ghetto girl.
White people talking black always sound odd to me. It’s like hearing a
Chinese guy speak Spanish. There’s something unnatural about it. I speak
some ghetto so we got along fine enough as she rang up my purchases.

it got me thinking about how it is this lower-class white girl has
decided to adopt this way of life. We’re told that racism is for the
lower classes. Only rubes engage in it. All decent people avoid ever
saying or doing anything that could offend a black person. It’s fair to
say it is a national obsession. Yet, the greatest mixing of race in
America occurs in the ghetto, not the country club. The poor have become
truly multicultural.

I used to think that the collapse of the working class into an
underclass was mostly due to the welfare state and maybe just general
degeneracy. Thinking about pram-face on the way home, I think the poor
are no different today than in another era. They are aping what they see
the rich and famous do on TV. In another era. lace curtain Irish aped
the ways of the Brahman class. That meant putting on airs and acting
like the rich people they saw in their community. There was a pulling up
by the upper classes.

Today, the elites preach one thing, but live another. On television they
preach about the evils of racism and the need to worship black culture.
In private life they live like a blend of Victorians and the Ku Klux
Klan. In public they rail about Ferguson. In private they engage in
ethnic cleansing to make NYC and San Fran whites only enclaves for
liberal elites. The lower classes never see the reality, just the show,
and they act accordingly.

This being the 50 anniversary of yet another Civil Rights event, the
NYTimes has been sending out hundreds of tweets about it. Obama has made
a trip to Selma Alabama, [a once thriving community now decimated after
the Civil Rights
Movement](http://stuffblackpeopledontlike.blogspot.com/2015/03/what-is-it-they-want-only-article-youll.html).
Millionaire former soldier, Colin Powell, [is on television moaning
about
racism](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/415063/colin-powell-i-still-see-dark-vein-intolerance-republican-party-katherine-connell)
on TV this weekend, despite never having experienced meaningful
prejudice in his life. If you are the 85 IQ checkout girl at my market,
you can be forgiven for thinking that worshiping black people is what
the beautiful people do.

We’re all hypocrites, of course, but not all hypocrites are the same.
The private prude that preaches public lasciviousness, is consciously
doing harm. The public scold who engages in private vice harms only
himself. Post-reality America is society run by the former. A ruling
elite that makes war on that which allows it be an elite has a short
future.
