---
title: "Reconsidering the Death Tax"
date: "2015-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3755"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3755"
---

I took some grief for [my position on death
taxes](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3683). I am not surprised. The
tax debate in America has been so cluttered with group-think there’s
simply no way to stake out a position on taxes that does not get someone
fired up. Liberals are supposed to be for high rates, progressivity,
social engineering and fairness, whatever the hell that means.
Conservatives are supposed to be for lower taxes, business incentives
and different types of social engineering. Libertarians are supposed to
be for no taxes and free weed.

The trouble here is none of those positions make any sense. The point of
taxation is to fund government. The point of government is to address
“common burdens”. In the Anglo-Saxon tradition, that meant military
service, fortress work, and bridge repair. As human societies have
become more complex and interdependent, the number of things considered
“common burdens” has increased. Roads, schools, hospitals, parks and
other things have all be put in that basket, requiring greater
government and greater taxation.

The point here is there can be but one position on this aspect of
taxation. That is, the tax rates must be sufficient to pay for the cost
of government. Once you uncouple taxes from government services, taxes
become theft. They may be lawful and commonly accepted theft, but they
are theft nonetheless. That means the amount of tax is irrelevant. All
that matters is *what* to tax in order to fund government.

How I come at it this is to ask which taxes have the least impact on the
natural functioning of society? Road taxes, for example, are an attempt
to peg taxes to usage. The more you use, the more you pay. That links
the value of the road to the cost of the road. Ideally, taxes will have
zero impact on the economic decisions of the people. That’s not always
possible, but it should be the goal of tax policy. Otherwise, the impact
of the tax could very well exceed the value of the tax.

An example of the latter is [George Bush’s luxury tax on expensive
toys](http://www.nytimes.com/1992/02/07/business/falling-tax-would-lift-all-yachts.html).
Rich people are not infinitely rich. The guy that could swing a yacht
before the tax was priced out of it after the tax so he bought something
else that was not subject to the tax, like stocks or real estate. Thus
the tax was never paid, all the yacht workers lost their jobs and
stopped paying income taxes.

That brings me back to the death tax. No matter how high the tax, there
will never be a change in the mortality rate. It has been stubbornly
fixed at 100% for years now. Experts predict it will remain 100% long
into the future. That means confiscating all of the goods from the dead
will not do much to change human behavior, at least in regard to dying.

Now, **Joseph K** makes what I think is the best argument against death
taxes:

*The estate tax is the single biggest cause of the rise and dominance of
Progressivism in the 20th century. The formation by business magnates of
massive charitable foundations in order to save their fortunes from
government depredation created a massive slush fund for the financial
support and promulgation of every lunatic Progressive idea in existence.
Without the Ford, Rockefeller, MacArthur and other foundations,
Progressive lunacy as we know it would not exist. Heck, PBS and Sesame
Street, which poisoned the minds of innocent children with liberal dreck
for generations, would not exist.*

*Taxation, particularly the estate tax, wrecked the landed aristocracy
that ruled England for centuries, and which ruled half the earth for the
better at its height, leaving a battered welfare state carcass currently
being picked clean by the feral children of former colonial lands. One
cannot call this progress.*

There are a few things here. The first being that the rich will do crazy
things with their money in order to avoid the tax. I’ll concede that
point, even though I doubt that’s really what’s going on with these
foundations. These are monuments to their own lives, in the same vein as
monuments or great public buildings in antiquity. The royalty returning
with booty from France in The 100 Years War built castles in honor of
themselves, not to avoid taxes.

That said, the death tax *could* cause all sorts of behavior in an
attempt to keep the fortune alive after the death of the plutocrat.
That’s why I specifically avoided any discussion of exemptions. If
you’re going to have a death tax,
*<span style="text-decoration: underline;">it must be 100% and universal
– no exceptions</span>*. The use of insurance to mitigate the tax for
businesses and family farms is not an exemption; it is private
mitigation. Setting up foundations and trusts would not be exempt
either. The money would have to be given away in life.

The other piece of his argument is that destroying the wealth of the
rich has unintended downstream consequences. Toppling over the landed
aristocracy, for example, opened the door for socialist lunatics to
seize power. I’m not entirely sure about that timeline, but I’ll concede
the greater point. Wiping out the rich through taxes is not consequence
free and those consequences are not always known.

That’s why I specifically said the rich can give away their wealth
before death. To quote myself,

*“There’s nothing to prevent Bill Gates from giving his fortune away. He
would just have to do it while he is alive. If he wants to set his kid
up with a billion dollar gift, that’s his choice. That option exists
now. Whatever is left upon his death will go to the government.”*

The trouble with everything I’m saying here is summed up by
**juice.qr**.

*“what gets me is you make several points about how ‘if it such and such
was implemented’ , ‘if it was done this way’ … problem is none of your
brilliant fixes have been implemented, or are likely to be.”*

That, I think, bookends Joseph K’s argument very well. Even if the
defects of the death tax can be addressed, the people doing the
addressing have insurmountable defects, primarily the fact that they are
crooks, liars and lunatics. The death tax gives them the tools to
inflict much wickedness on the people.

To sum up, I’m convinced that the death tax can never be done well and
I’m open to the argument that a not done well death tax is way worse
than other taxes not done well.

 
