---
title: "True Believers at War"
date: "2015-01-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3539"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3539"
---

[Razib Khan has a post
up](http://www.unz.com/gnxp/taboos-against-blasphemy-are-normal/)
responding to something Ezra Klein posted regarding the [Paris
incident](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/08/world/europe/charlie-hebdo-paris-shooting.html?hp&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=span-ab-top-region&region=top-news&WT.nav=top-news&_r=0).
First here’s [the Ezra Klein
piece](http://www.vox.com/2015/1/7/7509265/charlie-hebdo-cartoons). This
is the bit that got Razib exorcised:

*These murders can’t be explained by a close read of an editorial
product, and they needn’t be condemned on free speech grounds. They can
only be explained by the madness of the perpetrators, who did something
horrible and evil that almost no human beings anywhere ever do, and the
condemnation doesn’t need to be any more complex than saying unprovoked
mass slaughter is wrong.*

*This is a tragedy. It is a crime. It is not a statement, or a
controversy.*

Razib first wonders if Klein had some sort of aneurism while writing
that bit. Maybe he is unfamiliar with Klein’s work, but that piece was
probably one of the better ones from the Vox project. I have no idea
what sort of traffic the site gets, but no one ever mentions it, unless
it is to mock Ezra Klein. Even the mockery has faded, for the most
part. Anyway, Razib goes on to make an excellent point:

*This co-mingling of religious and communal identity is not an
aberration, but the human norm over most of history. In much of the
world it still is the norm. Dishonoring the gods of barbarians and
unbelievers has long been a matter of course. Churches were built over
temples and mosques over churches for a reason. To show the power of one
communal identity and the eclipse of another. Gods and people were
interchangeable in the psyche. When the Assyrians sacked Babylon they
dragged away the statue of the god Marduk in chains. But individuals
dishonoring the gods of their own people was always a matter of serious
concern, violating public order, and potentially undermining social
harmony (often, innovation in religious practice prefigured rebellion).
It doesn’t take much to imagine that there might be functional reason
for societies to establish taboos of what is inviolate and sacred, and
sanction those who trespass.*

It is incorrectly assumed that religions must have an invisible man in
the sky component. Dividing theology from ideology by the presence or
absence of the super natural is convenient, but leads to the false
assumption that ideologies are devoid of magical thinking. That’s not
the case.

The most obvious example is PETA, the cult that claims to be the
guardians of non-human mammal rights. The adherents of that cult imagine
all sorts of things about animals that are laughably untrue. They also
proselytize about the killing of animals, while running abattoirs all
over the country.

Ezra Klein is a conventional liberal and of middling intelligence. He is
not a blockhead, but he has a narrow mindedness that suggests a lack of
curiosity about the world. He’s also overstocked with religiosity. It’s
why his posts often sound like the journal entries of a rabbinical
student or the private musings of a novice monk. He is forever wrestling
with his faith.

Luckily for him, the prevailing religion of modern America is cultural
Marxism so he has found a comfortable place to cast himself as a
post-modern Tertullian. He has organized his life around proselytizing
over the Internet. As a novice he worked his way up to a major media
organ, but that was not enough. He went off to build his own Mosque
called Vox where he can pray and train others to believe like him. It’s
not a coincidence that cultural Marxism has many of the same structures
as Islam.

Of course, Ezra really does not believe the things he preaches in the
sense that he knows them to be true. I know two plus two is four for all
known values of two. There’s no need for me to argue it or prove it. The
reason for proselytizing is to convince yourself by convincing others.
Misery loves company and so do the believers. Vox in explanatory
journalism in the same sense that Shia is explanatory Islam.

One fascinating thing about the Paris attack is watching how the Left
reacts to it. At some level, it seems they get that they are at war with
a complimentary religion. As Razib points out, every religion has its
taboos. Much of what modern liberalism preaches is taboo in Islam. What
is sacred in Islam is considered barbaric by liberals.

The trouble is the Left can’t bring itself to condemn Islam. That’s
simply against the core of their faith. Islam does not suffer from such
a defect. They get that they are a religion at war with another
religion. Hilariously, even when Islam makes that point, liberals are
forced to call them liars and inauthentic Muslims.

Added to the crazy stew is the fact that western liberals have a
technological edge and are killing Muslims wholesale. Muslims have to
settle for retail killing, like the Paris attack. The simple solution is
to expel all Muslims for Western lands, but again, they bump into their
own dogma prohibiting such things. [The result is a surge in Muslim
immigrants](http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/Muslim-immigrants-security-threat/2014/09/24/id/596742/),
hell bent on killing the decadent West.

This will not end well.
