---
title: "The Bowtied Boob"
date: "2015-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5308"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5308"
---

I think it was Bill Buckley who said you can know a man’s politics based
on his opinion of Israel and abortion. It may not have been Buckley, but
that’s my recollection. His point was not that you had to agree with him
on either of these topics. It was that your reasoning would reveal
things about you that were definitive. I’ve always liked that type of
litmus test and I have expanded that list for my own tastes.

One on my list is the topic of euthanasia, which [George Will writes
about in his latest
column.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/distinctions-in-end-of-life-decisions/2015/08/28/b34b8f6a-4ce7-11e5-902f-39e9219e574b_story.html)
I’ll say up front that I oppose government efforts to punish people who
commit suicide. I’m also against charging people who try and fail as
that’s pretty much the definition of kicking a man while he is down. In
almost all cases, suicide attempts are a symptom of serious
psychological problems. These people need help, not punishment.

Society has a responsibility to take control of those who lack agency or
whose behavior is a danger to themselves or others. Someone trying to
kill themselves is someone who is a danger to themselves or others, so
we take control of them by force if necessary. If the reasons for their
suicidal actions can be addressed, then you let them loose or turn them
over to the care of their loved ones. If not, you take reasonable
measures to guard them from themselves.

Proponents of assisted suicide dance around all of these issues as we
see in the Will column. They also avoid the problems that arise from
giving doctors a right to kill people who request it. Nowhere else in
the law do we make exceptions in the law in favor of a two party
agreement. That’s what a verbal agreement is between a doctor and a
patient. It is a verbal contract.

Common law has always held that a contract is unenforceable when the
result of fulfilling the contract violates the law. The classic example
in contract law is the contract for murder. No court will compel a
hit-man fulfill a murder contract. It also means the contract does not
provide a shield to those who break the law in order to fulfill a
contract.

To carve out an exception so a doctor can put a pillow over granny’s
face without being charged with murder is just about impossible. The one
exception we allow for homicide is self-preservation. Taking a life to
defend life is permitted because self-preservation trumps everything in
the hierarchy of limiting principles. That means you can kill a burglar
or kill in war time. It even extends to capital punishment, which is in
defense of society.

Convenience and practicality are not principles that trump life.
Sympathy is certainly not the basis for an exception either. If we let
the doctor kill granny out of a sense of mercy, then you have to let her
family kill her too. After all, who could possibly have a greater sense
of mercy for poor old granny than her family?

The way around it is to limit the power to kill granny to state agents.
That brings us back to the death panels and technocrats plugging your
vitals into spreadsheets to determine your fate. But the state can only
have powers given to it by the people and the people do not have the
right to kill granny because she’s sick and ready to check out. The
state can kill in self-defense, but that’s it.

This is why I think this is a good litmus test issue. George Will can
meander around to supporting what he used to say made the Soviets evil,
but only by avoiding anything resembling critical thinking. That either
makes him dishonest or stupid, maybe both. Either way, it’s the sort of
thing that lets me know he is not a serious person.

In the event you think I’m being pedantic; I have no problem with
doctors giving people morphine or even crack if it will relieve their
pain in their final days. Letting a doctor prescribe powerful pain
medications that gives the dying person comfort is easy. In fact, we
don’t even need laws to permit it, just laws to prevent scumbags from
suing over it. This has been something doctors and patients have handled
on their own since forever.

And yes, there will be times when the doc gives granny a script for
enough pain killers to kill a horse, which she will use to take herself
out at home. This is the vast gray area where the law must end, and the
hidden rules take over. In other words, the doctor is trained where the
lines are so he can write the script and let granny decide for herself
but do so without endorsing murder or violating his oath.

A conservative understands this. George Will does not.
