---
title: "Trolling Kevin Williamson"
date: "2015-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4311"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4311"
---

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/417101/jobs-and-jobs-kevin-d-williamson"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The other day Kevin Williamson posted
this over at NRO</a> and I took the opportunity to troll him a bit, as
the cool kids would say. What I did was bait him into responding to my
comment about Uber and its fan boys in the libertarian cult. In fact, I
was deliberately provoking him and his fan base into thinking about
something more than their normal red team/blue team myopia.

Uber is all the rage with liberals and libertarian types these days. It
seems as if they can’t stop yapping about it. Managerial class types and
their attendants, particularly the attendants, have an obsession with
cabs. The foot soldiers of the people in charge spend a lot of time in
cabs and they consider it one of their worst indignities so maybe that’s
why  they obsess of Uber.

This newfangled car service is not better or cheaper. By “better” I mean
that in the purely utilitarian sense. Carrying someone from one spot to
another via motorized transport is not all that involved. You either get
there or not, within an acceptable time window. Uber adds nothing to
this. My bet is Uber is slower, on average. From what I gather, it is
not cheaper.

What Uber offers is an aesthetic. Instead of climbing into a grimy cab
like the other servants, Uber offers a normal car. That way, the
customer can pretend they are the one with the attendants. If you are
working in a NYC office, you’re either in charge or working for someone
in charge. Obviously, most are just servants and that reality is
manifest every single day. In the egalitarian paradise, this is tough to
take.

There’s also the prospect of shooing away the riff-raff. In a prior age,
the house servants were highly intolerant of the field workers,
gardeners, tradesman, etc. They considered themselves better than the
servants who toiled outside. There’s a fair bit of that here too. The
office drone with his state college diploma looks down on the
horny-handed sons of toil working the cabs. They would just as soon not
see them at all. Too much of a reminder.

A big part of gentrification, after all, is removing from sight the
unpleasant aspects of reality. Crime is certainly a big part of the mix,
but there’s a reason why <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3042347/George-Lucas-unveils-plans-build-biggest-affordable-housing-complex-county-s-irked-neighbors-it.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the affluent work so hard to keep the
servants quarters as far from them as possible</a>. Replacing those
proletarian cabs with the nondescript sedans of Uber drivers just looks
so much nicer.

That was the bait. Somewhere in the comment’s Kevin responded and
confirmed all of this.

*Uber drivers do not necessarily earn less money. Consider the NYC
situation, in which 1 in 5 taxis (at least) is driven by an unlicensed
illegal immigrant, mostly making chump change while the
medallion-holding cartel members do well. Uber isn’t any less expensive
when going from downtown to JFK, but even if it were more expensive, I’d
use it, because it is convenient, because NYC taxi drivers are mostly
horrible, and because I do not like doing business with
politician-enabled cartels.*

I don’t have an issue with taste or even snobbery being the reason
behind liking Uber. I wear nothing but Polo dress shirts because it
signals good taste. The fact that they fit well is important, but if
some off-brand fit just as well, I’d probably still buy the Polo brand.
This is a normal part of human relations and is another example of why
libertarianism is nonsense.
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homo_economicus" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Economic man</a> does not exist.

Uber’s popularity with libertarians is two-fold. One is they hate taxis
cartels. This is a safe target for them because liberals are no fans of
taxi cartels either (See above). This allows libertarians to indulge in
all of their favorite rants, without incurring the wrath of the Cult.
With the legalization of weed, libertarians need a new windmill.

They also hold it up as an example of how free markets work to improve
the quality of life. They are generally right about this of course.
Markets allows society to set preferences based on price thus satisfying
as many people along the demand curve as possible. While this is not the
natural order, it is the preferred order if you wish to have prosperity.

But, that’s not what’s going on with Uber. They are operating like
privateers. The Crown has licensed people to engage in a particular type
of commerce. That always attracts privateers who see to profit from the
cartel, by undercutting it at the fringes. This was true when trade was
conducted on foot and true in the age of sail.

This is where Uber comes in. They help privateers avoid the rules set
forth by the state for cab drivers. Those rules have a cost so the Uber
driver can therefore provide a better service at the same price or even
lower. They can also pay Uber a cut. That sounds great if you are
convinced those regulations on taxis have no utility. Uber is just
finding a way around the highwaymen of the taxi service.

Fair enough, but we don’t know if those regulations are worthless. They
did not spring from nothing. Laws and regulations are intended to solve
a problem. You may not think the problem is worth solving. You may think
it is best served privately. You may hate the solution with the
intensity of a thousand <s>sons</s> suns. I get that so there’s no need
to hassle me over it. None of it matters. Laws and regulations are not
passed by chance.

Now, the reason for those rules may no longer be operative. Those rules
may be corrupted or have become corrupted. We can’t know that Until we
think about why the rules exist. This is where liberals and
libertarians  hit the rocks. They get their panties in a wad and reach
for the sledgehammer. Kevin thinks Uber will bust up the taxi cartel so
that’s enough for him. What comes after does not enter his thoughts.

This is the crux of conservatism. I’m perfectly happy to replace taxi
cartels with something or even nothing, as long as I know what the
something or nothing means. That starts by understanding why every city
of earth has sought to regulate livery service. What are these issues
the cartel system is supposed to address? What is the cost of not
addressing it? What are the proposed replacement? Will it address the
old problems and will it create new problems?

Much of what plagues us today is due to Progressives swinging the
wrecking ball on the assumption a perfect replacement will spring
magically from the rubble. Libertarians have this same defect. They
never stop and wonder why the thousand generation that have come before
them chose something other than their preferred option. There’s a reason
for it. The conservative seeks to know that answer first. Everyone else
just wants to swing the wrecking ball.
