---
title: "The Nature of the People"
date: "2015-06-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4630"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4630"
---

This comment from ErisGuy raises an interesting question.

*It’s more than strong- vs weak-horse. The character of the people has
changed. They are overly deferential to their rulers, eager to learn how
to behave and what to think from movie stars and to be guided by
politicians. They no longer wish to make their own decisions, and desire
only that others supply peace of mind.*

*Islam means submission. In their hearts they have submitted.
Christianity means salvation. They know longer know “from what.”*

Has the character of Western people changed in the last fifty years?
Science tells us that large scale shifts in culture are going to take
multiple generations. Those changes in culture will change the people in
some way, but the sluggishness of the biological process puts a natural
brake on things. The national character of Britain in 1959, for example,
was not all that different from that of 1859.

But, it is hard to get around the fact that 80% of people in the
Anglosphere went to Mass on Sunday just a few generations ago. Today,
80% would be hard pressed to name the nearest church. America is more
Christian than Britain, but <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2015/05/post-christian-america.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">that’s changing quickly</a>, it seems.
Along with that change is a whole basket of <a
href="http://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2015/06/caitlyn-jenner-bruce-cover-annie-leibovitz"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">social customs that were considered
deranged a generation ago</a>.

Of course, fifty years ago it was hard to broadcast propaganda to the
whole nation. Not impossible, but not easy. Television was too new and
even the power of radio was not fully understood. Governments were still
using the old mass rally approach to propaganda, but adapting it to the
new technology. It is only within the last thirty years or so that the
ruling class has become skilled at the use of mass media.

It is said that Kennedy was the first politician to take advantage of
TV, but his edge was accidental. He was good looking and his opponents
were mugs. Nixon looked old even when he was young. Those who followed
Kennedy did not build on his narrow use of TV. It was not until Reagan
that we saw a politician employ the lessons of Hollywood and Madison
Avenue to sell a candidate.

Team Clinton explicitly used Hollywood producers for the first time in a
campaign. The highly polished campaign video is standard stuff now, but
it was new in 1992. They also developed the idea of spin, whereby
operatives would flood onto current affairs shows and monopolize the
time chanting the campaign slogans. The idea of spin is common today,
but it was Team Clinton that perfected it.

Has there been a more <span class="st">Riefenstahl-esque campaign than
the selling of Obama? From beginning to end his was a use of mass media
that the world had never seen. TV, radio, Internet, print, news shows,
everything was saturated with the Obama message. They even had campaign
videos automatically downloading to people’s DVR’s. I recall being in a
party store and seeing Obama themed party supplies. Goebbels would have
been gobsmacked by the efficient use of mass media by Team Obama.</span>

What’s changed is not the character of the people, but the character of
their rulers and their use of the institutions of social control. 200
years ago the state simply lacked the technological ability to monitor
the daily lives of citizens. Instead, it had to be delegated. That put
leadership down at the street level in every village and every block.

Compare Soviet Russia with modern China. In the Soviet Union, the party
needed police on every corner to keep the population under control. That
requires an enormous investment in bureaucracy, which ultimately
bankrupted the system. China, in contrast, controls mass media and the
currency. Both of which are possible in the modern technological age.

The Western managerial state is made possible through mass media. A
single message can be broadcast to the whole public from a single
source. More important is the ability to coordinate across platforms.
Fifty years ago government had to politely ask Hollywood to support a
war or social cause.

Today they seamlessly coordinate their efforts. The selling of ObamaCare
is an obvious example as it was explicit. The White House had public
ceremonies where they brought in Hollywood big shots and charged them
with selling the program. At a more clandestine level, modern
telecommunications makes coordination easy and seamless.

Of course, the fact that the <a
href="http://qz.com/416416/we-now-spend-more-than-eight-hours-a-day-consuming-media/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">great bulk of the public is plugged into
the matrix most of their day</a> makes it even easier to control public
opinion. The people in charge wage multifaceted propaganda campaigns
using TV, radio, social media, the interwebs and mobile devices. In a
strange turn, all of us pay hundreds each month so the people in charge
can give us instructions through our TV, the phone or the computer.

The question, of course, is whether the managerial state can survive
mass media. The communications revolution may have let it flourish, but
that does not mean it can arrest the mathematics. The crashing fertility
rates in the West are what biologists would focus in on as a symptom of
ecosystem decay. But, that’s over the horizon and I’ll be long gone by
the time that question is answered.
