---
title: "The Conjured Backlash™"
date: "2015-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5953"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5953"
---

I’ve jokingly referred to The Backlash™ as if it were a creature from a
Japanese monster movie, but it does function similarly. People go to
horror movies to be scared, even though they know it is all made up
nonsense. The experience taps into a primal fear of the unknown, but
also confirms deeply held beliefs.

Since The Backlash™ is just made up and does not exist, Progressives
either pretend really hard that it is lurking in the shadows or they
just pretend it made an appearance and run around interviewing
“witnesses.” They often sound like the girl from
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f4zyjLyBp64" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this scene in Ferris Bueller</a>. “My best friend’s
uncle’s aunt was walking down the street and heard someone say they
heard The Backlash™ said mean things to people at the mall.”

I<a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/after-paris-and-california-attacks-us-muslims-feel-intense-backlash/2015/12/03/bcf8e480-9a09-11e5-94f0-9eeaff906ef3_story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">t is in the The Backlash™ sightings</a>
we see just how choreographed the “news” is in modern America.

*Rabia Chaudry kept her 7-year-old daughter home from her private
Islamic school in Maryland on Thursday, fearing anti-Muslim backlash
from Wednesday’s massacre nearly 3,000 miles away in San Bernardino,
Calif.*

*“I think we are all feeling exhausted and very vulnerable,” said
Chaudry, a lawyer and national security fellow at the New America
Foundation. “I’m angry at those people who did this attack. And I’m
angry at how this is being politicized. Everything boils down to, ‘We
should fear Muslims. And they shouldn’t be here.’ ”*

Rabia Chaudry is not just some random Muslim the Post found for this
story.
S<a href="http://time.com/3641263/serial-adnan-sarah-koenig-murder/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">he is a professional nuisance</a> who has
been an agitator for some time. My bet is she is neighbors with one of
the Post writers so they just waddled down the block, knowing that she
is familiar with the drill. They pretend she is just a regular gal who
happens to be a Muslim and she pretends to be afraid of normal Americans
more than gun-toting Muslim fanatics.

*Many Muslims said fear of Islam is being fueled by the heated rhetoric
of Republican presidential candidates, particularly businessman Donald
Trump, who has called for surveillance of some mosques and requiring
Muslims to register with the government.*

*That may be smart electoral politics: A 2014 survey by the Pew Research
Center showed that 82 percent of Republicans said they were “very
concerned” about the rise of Islamic extremism in the world, compared
with 51 percent of Democrats.*

*“Islamophobia is the accepted form of racism in America,” Iftikhar
said. “Leaders like Donald Trump show us that you can take a potshot at
Muslims and get away with it.”*

Of course, this being the Post, they have to signal to the other side of
the bipartisan fusion party that Muslims are now sacred people, along
with blacks and single women. Failure to be enthusiastic for them is the
same as being a fan of Hitler. Like all cults, Progressives will not
accept indifference. You are either rabidly in favor of their cause or
you are evil.

The demented part of the Progressive faith is what you see in that last
bit. Ishtar has declared Islam a race because Ishtar knows that racism
is a magic word, making your enemies disappear. Ishtar may not be
terribly bright, but he has figured out who holds the whip in this
country and what they call it.

The curious thing to me about the groups the Progressives have assembled
for their coalition is that they are mostly fuck-ups. Muslims could
quietly colonize America if they would just shut the fuck up and stop
shooting people, but they can’t so we notice. Similarly, if blacks
stopped keeping it realz and behaved themselves instead, they would be
the Alawites of America and white people would be the Sunnis.

Anyway, one of my themes is that no society has a fixed set of values
that are non-negotiable. Culture, like everything else in nature, adapts
and evolves. The lesson learned from the 16th and 17th century was that
official religions don’t work for large nation states so they were
abandoned in favor of religious tolerance. America has that baked into
the organizing documents.

The great challenge to the West over the next century is the population
boom on the frontier. Managing it and defending against the consequences
will be the all consuming issue of the West. Progressives are fighting
the wars of the last century by running around attacking white
Christians. The coming war is the war with Islam. The coalition of
weirdos and fuck-ups the Left has assembled is not the right tool for
that job. If you’re looking for a reason to be cheerful, it’s right
there.
