---
title: "Shrieking at Nature"
date: "2015-06-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4678"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4678"
---

First wave feminism was about giving women legal rights to reflect the
changing nature of social life in the industrial era. Obviously, giving
women the vote was a tragic mistake, but it is an understandable one. In
the industrial age, there were a lot of unattached adult women that had
to work and participate in the economy. They needed the same rights and
privileges as men in order to do that.

In some respects, second wave feminism was just a mopping up action to
address things not adequately addressed in the first wave. But, it was
mostly focused on crotch issues like birth control and abortion. This is
where feminism began to lurch into madness, claiming that biology was
just a social construct. For example, women could be as sexually
profligate as men, as long as men invented and provided adequate birth
control and abortion services.

Third wave feminism, what is behind the social justice warrior
phenomenon, arose partially as a response to the perceived failures of
1960’s feminist causes. It turned out that biology was not a social
construct after all. Freeing males from the responsibility of fatherhood
and the proper treatment of women, women suddenly found themselves
living with cats and wondering why that guy in the office never asked
them out for a beer.

The result is a movement that has been reduced to a temper tantrum,
where feminist womyn scream at anyone that foolishly notices boys and
girls are not the same. <a
href="http://www.cyclingweekly.co.uk/news/latest-news/twitter-reacts-to-manufacturers-sexist-blurb-on-female-mountain-bike-range-175003"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here is an example</a> a friend sent me
the other day.

*Czech Republic-based bike manufacturer Superior has incurred the wrath
of cyclists worldwide after making a host of [seriously sexist remarks
in its blurb](http://superiorbikes.eu/en/collection/mtb-lady/) for its
new women’s mountain bike.*

*Superior claim that female cyclists ‘do not generally need to push
their limits’ and that they ‘just want to enjoy the time spent in
nature’ when they ride downhill trails.*

*The blurb reads: “Female cyclists do not generally need to push their
limits, race against time and increase their adrenaline when riding
rough downhill trails.*

*“They just want to enjoy the time spent in nature on the bike, and
their expectations from the bike are completely diff erent than men’s.
They look mainly for safe, easy and, of course, stylish bikes that have
good and natural handling.”*

*Unsurprisingly, and justifiably, this hasn’t gone down too well, with
cyclists taking to Twitter to share their surprise and distaste for the
context of the blurb.*

The only thing unsurprising here is that the pussified editors of
Cycling Weekly would turn themselves into pretzels condemning what they
and everyone knows is true. Women are just not that into physical
competitions, nor are they very interested in pushing themselves to
extremes. That’s much more of a male thing. Companies that sell athletic
gear know this and they make their products accordingly.

There are exceptions, of course, as there are exceptions to most rules
of human behavior. I know plenty of men who were soft and afraid of
competition in their prime years. I know a few gals I ride with on
occasion who love pushing themselves physically. Most men my age are fat
slobs sitting on the couch waiting for grim death. I’m an exception. The
rules, however, still stand and cover most people.

I think that’s what is at the core of the histrionic response to nature
by the social justice warriors. These are women marinated in feminism
from the cradle through college, just like many of their mothers. Unlike
their mothers, third wave feminists truly believed what they were told.
They got into the world only to find that reality is not going to yield
to their 32-page senior thesis on gender as a tool of the patriarchy.

The novel element in all of this is feminism, like most Progressive
causes, used to rely on the turtlenecked liberal arts types in the
social science departments to call their thing science! Real science has
moved the field into the lab, in the hands the numerate. The result is a
staggering volume of data contradicting most of what feminism has been
arguing for the last fifty years.

Faced with disconfirmation, the true believer will seek the comfort of
coreligionists for support in the face of what they cannot possibly
accept. The group then responds to the disconfirmatory evidence by
proselytizing against it. The social justice warrior business is just
the age old response of religious cults, updated to use the tools of
modern communications. If
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Dorothy Martin</a> were alive today, she
would be all over twitter.
