---
title: "Our Fascist Age"
date: "2015-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5016"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5016"
---

One the stranger things about the Nazis was their opposition to chain
and department stores. Anti-capitalist elements of the party pushed
through special taxes on department stores and organized boycotts
against the larger retail stores. It was not just Jewish business which
came in for these assaults. Large industrial concerns were also attacked
by elements in the party who wanted a return to the guild system of
their imaginary past.

The Nazis had a lot of nutty ideas about all sorts of things, but they
figured out that letting the populists run wild would result in economic
chaos so they eventually adopted the ideas of other fascists, namely
corporatism. The Nazis were never an intellectually rigorous bunch so it
is no surprise that they were not very coherent when it came to
economics, but they eventually fell into corporatism, which had been
kicking around Europe since the 19<sup>th</sup> century.

The interesting thing is the Nazis had a romantic view of small business
that was integral to their worldview. Yet, once they embraced
corporatism, they turned on small business quickly. In 1936 they closed
36,000 small businesses and in 1937 they closed another 63,000. The
reason was simply that they thought there were too many small businesses
and that complicated their larger economic plans. In other words, the
corporate state transcended everything, even ideology.

It’s something to keep in mind as America embraces the corporate state,
combining it with the technological state. [This interesting piece in
538](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/corporate-america-hasnt-been-disrupted/)
a while back provides some useful numbers to understand how this is
unfolding.

*Talk to anyone in Silicon Valley these days, and it’s hard to go more
than two minutes without hearing about “disruption.” Uber is disrupting
the taxi business. Airbnb is disrupting the hotel business. Apple’s
iTunes disrupted the music industry, but now risks being disrupted by
Spotify. Listen long enough, and it’s hard not to conclude that existing
companies, no matter how big and powerful, are all but doomed, marking
time until their inevitable overthrow by hoodie-wearing innovators.*

*In fact, the opposite is true. By a wide range of measures, the
advantages of incumbency in corporate America have never been greater.
“The business sector of the United States,” economists Ian Hathaway and
Robert Litan wrote in a recent <a
href="http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/research/files/papers/2014/07/aging%20america%20increasing%20dominance%20older%20firms%20litan/other_aging_america_dominance_older_firms_hathaway_litan.pdf%27"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Brookings Institution paper</a>, “appears
to be getting ‘old and fat.’”<a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/corporate-america-hasnt-been-disrupted/#fn-1"
class="footnote-link" data-expandable="entry-footnotes"
data-footnote-id="1"><sup>1</sup></a>*

*Hathaway and Litan say the trend is worrisome, and other economists who
have studied the issue agree. Entrepreneurship is a critical source of
jobs in the economy. Perhaps even more importantly, it is a <a
href="http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/chad.syverson/research/productivitysurvey.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">major driver of productivity growth</a>.
New companies, after all, often arise from an idea about how to do
something better, whether it’s making cars or brewing coffee. Many of
those ideas fail to pan out, but the ones that work can change entire
industries — can be, in other words, “disruptive.”<a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/corporate-america-hasnt-been-disrupted/#fn-2"
class="footnote-link" data-expandable="entry-footnotes"
data-footnote-id="2"><sup>2</sup></a>*

*But recent research suggests that established businesses have less and
less to fear from would-be disruptors. This is partly because, as I <a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-slow-death-of-american-entrepreneurship/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">noted this spring</a>, fewer Americans
are launching businesses. In the late 1970s, according to data from the
Census Bureau, 15 percent of all U.S. businesses were startups, meaning
they had been founded in the past year. In 2011, the latest data
available, the so-called startup rate had fallen to 8 percent. Measured
in terms of employment, the drop has been even steeper.*

*But the issue isn’t just that there are fewer startups. It’s also that
fewer of them are succeeding. In 2011, more than 27 percent of new
companies went out of business in their first year, up from about 20
percent two decades earlier.<a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/corporate-america-hasnt-been-disrupted/#fn-3"
class="footnote-link" data-expandable="entry-footnotes"
data-footnote-id="3"><sup>3</sup></a> Even companies that do make it to
their first birthday are failing at higher rates than in the past,
though that trend is more recent and hasn’t been as steady. The only
groups of companies that haven’t seen their failure rate rise
meaningfully, Hathaway and Litan found, were ones that had been in
business more than 15 years.*

Part of what’s happening is driven by ultra-low interest rates. Big
companies can raise enormous amounts of cheap capital. That lowers risk
so big business can be hyper aggressive with pricing to wipe out small
competitors. It also means they can buy up small competitors. When money
costs 10 points you have to buy companies at below market. When money
costs two points you can buy above market.

There’s also the matter of access. Not far from where I live WalMart
opened a giant store near a busy retail area. The state widened the
road, put in some lights and added an extra lane for traffic entering
the store parking area. A few clicks down the road a local business has
been fighting zoning battles for a year trying to expand into the vacant
lot next door. So far it has taken him more time to fight the zoning
board than it took Walmart to built their store.

WalMart has an army of lawyers and lobbyists. They can grease all the
palms that need to be greased and do so with a sophistication the local
guy cannot match. The local guy pays more in taxes than WalMart, but he
can’t offer no show jobs and other perks pols can hand out to their
people. In the corporate state, the small business man is a nuisance,
not an asset.

Something new to our time is the technological revolution. In Nazi
Germany and Soviet Russia, surveillance meant following people around
and wiretapping their apartments. Today, the government has their
corporate partners archive your e-mail, cell phone calls and internet
habits. One can’t help but wonder if the erratic behavior of GOP
legislators and judges of late has something to do with what the White
House knows about their personal lives.

The sad irony of modern America is the technological revolution was
kicked off at the same time the culture began to reminisce about the
“greatest generation” and how they whipped the Nazis. Just as that
generation is fading away, we are adopting the economics of the people
they defeated in the war. Even more ironic is the fact that if you
believe the things that generation believed, you are called a Nazi.
