---
title: "Lying Is Not A “Mistake”"
date: "2015-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3748"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3748"
---

In modern times, famous people get a free pass on their crimes by
pretending it was a “mistake” or possible an “error in judgement.” A
mistake is when you put the wrong gas in your car because you were not
paying attention. An error in judgement is when you hire the woman
because she is hot over the more qualified fat guy. Telling people you
had a near death experience in Iraq, <a
href="http://www.truthrevolt.org/news/brian-williams-misleads-viewers-his-apology-misleading-viewers"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">when nothing of the sort happened</a>, is
none of those things.

*NBC Nightly News anchor Brian Williams admitted Wednesday he was not
aboard a helicopter hit and forced down by RPG fire during the invasion
of Iraq in 2003, a false claim that has been repeated by the network for
years.*

*Williams repeated the claim Friday during NBC’s coverage of a public
tribute at a New York Rangers hockey game for a retired soldier that had
provided ground security for the grounded helicopters, a game to which
Williams accompanied him. In an interview with Stars and Stripes, he
said he had misremembered the events and was sorry.*

*The admission came after crew members on the 159th Aviation Regiment’s
Chinook that was hit by two rockets and small arms fire told Stars and
Stripes that the NBC anchor was nowhere near that aircraft or two other
Chinooks flying in the formation that took fire. Williams arrived in the
area about an hour later on another helicopter after the other three had
made an emergency landing, the crew members said.*

*“I would not have chosen to make this mistake,” Williams said. “I don’t
know what screwed up in my mind that caused me to conflate one aircraft
with another.”*

What the bleep does that mean? Are we to believe he was forced to lie
about what happened? Is there some new medical malady that compels
people to spin tales of daring that never happened?

*Williams told his Nightly News audience that the erroneous claim was
part of a “bungled attempt” to thank soldiers who helped protect him in
Iraq in 2003. “I made a mistake in recalling the events of 12 years
ago,” Williams said. “I want to apologize.”*

*Williams made the claim about the incident while presenting NBC
coverage of the tribute to the retired command sergeant major at the
Rangers game Friday. Fans gave the soldier a standing ovation.*

*“The story actually started with a terrible moment a dozen years back
during the invasion of Iraq when the helicopter we were traveling in was
forced down after being hit by an RPG,” Williams said on the broadcast.
“Our traveling NBC News team was rescued, surrounded and kept alive by
an armor mechanized platoon from the U.S. Army 3rd Infantry.”*

*Williams and his camera crew were actually aboard a Chinook in a
formation that was about an hour behind the three helicopters that came
under fire, according to crew member interviews.*

This is not about getting a fact wrong or misremembering a name or
place. He made up this whopper so he could get adulation he did not earn
for deeds he did not do. In other words, like every other coward, he
wants glories for courage he has never been able to muster. That’s a sin
in itself, but to then profit from it by dragging others into the lie
(his support crew, co-workers, etc) is disqualifying.

A lot of what’s gone wrong traces back to the near total lack of shame
by our elites. They simply refuse to uphold their end of the bargain.
Williams should have admitted the lie, apologized to all concerned and
then resigned. In a better age, his superiors would have left him alone
in his office with a bottle of whiskey and a revolver. Instead, he
offers a fake apology and carries on as if nothing happened.
