---
title: "Patent Feudalism"
date: "2015-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4252"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4252"
---

Feudalism is defined thusly: “the dominant social system in medieval
Europe, in which the nobility held lands from the Crown in exchange for
military service, and vassals were in turn tenants of the nobles, while
the peasants (villeins or serfs) were obliged to live on their lord’s
land and give him homage, labor, and a share of the produce, notionally
in exchange for military protection.”

If you reason through it, such a system requires certain things to be
true. One is there is a finite amount of land and it has all been
claimed by someone. The other is the land must be useful to the
provision of food and shelter for humans. Feudalism in a desert would be
pointless. The other is the feudal society must have enough complexity
to support something greater than swidden farming. The peasants must
produce more than they can consume in order to support the
administrative apparatus overseeing them.

It’s not hard to see the vulnerabilities of such a system. A plague, for
example, could wipe out a wide swath of peasants, thus dropping their
productivity below what can sustain the feudal elite. A bad harvest
could do the same. Alternatively, conflict between rival lords could
escalate the cost of maintaining the system to the point of collapse.
The Thirty Years War, for example, can be viewed as the collapse of a
complex system of governance due to decreasing marginal returns.

<a
href="http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/c8ebe298-dca3-11e4-a6f7-00144feab7de.html#axzz3WjHqbhPF"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Reading this story in the Financial
Times</a>, got me thinking that the patent system has evolved into a
weird form of techno-feudalism, a system headed for a collapse of sorts.

*A US appeals court is set to hear a landmark patent case on Wednesday
that could change the way royalty rates are set for commonly used
intellectual property in the tech industry.*

*The case, pitting
<a href="http://markets.ft.com/tearsheets/performance.asp?s=us:MSFT"
class="wsodCompany" data-hover-chart="us:MSFT">Microsoft</a> against
<a href="http://markets.ft.com/tearsheets/performance.asp?s=us:GOOG"
class="wsodCompany" data-hover-chart="us:GOOG">Google</a>, has already
involved a lower court in setting patent rates for the first time, in a
move that critics warn will upend the balance of power between leading
tech companies.*

*Microsoft brought the case in 2010 against Motorola Mobility, the
handset maker later acquired by Google. The search company sold
Motorola’s operating business to Lenovo last year but kept its patents
and has now taken the case to the court of appeals.*

*The dispute centres on so-called [standard-essential
patents](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/74704b34-9bdd-11e4-b6cc-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3WWfywq4B "Apple and Ericsson launch legal battle over patents and licensing - FT.com"),
which cover technology that is included in industry-wide technology
standards. Since others have to use the technology if they want their
own products to meet an industry standard, the companies that submit
their patents for approval by standards bodies are required to license
them out on “reasonable and non-discriminatory”, or RAND, terms.*

*Microsoft sued Motorola after the handset maker asked for 2.25 per cent
of the final product price for use of several of its patents that are
included in standards for WiFi and video compression technology.
Microsoft said the demand would have cost it $4bn a year. Judge James
Robart, in a federal court in Seattle, laid out a different method for
calculating the royalties that would instead cost Microsoft less than
$2m a year.*

*If upheld, Judge Robart’s approach could tilt the balance of power in
negotiations away from companies that own large portfolios of commonly
used patents and instead favour those — like Microsoft or
[Apple](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/b651b790-dd60-11e3-8546-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3WWfywq4B "Apple and Google settle patents battle - FT.com")
— whose businesses are based more on implementing technology standards
in their products.*

*“It’s going to be very significant indeed. Nobody quite understands
what the term \[RAND\] means,” said Alexander Poltorak, chief executive
of General Patent Corp, a US intellectual property firm.*

*In its appeal brought in Motorola’s name, Google has argued that the
judge was wrong to take up Microsoft’s complaint in the first place,
since the Motorola royalty demand was only the opening shot in a
negotiation that should have been left to run its course. The court
could have ruled on Microsoft’s breach of contract complaint without
getting involved in the thorny issue of rate-setting, it claims.“The
litigation set bad policy by encouraging parties to run to court rather
than negotiate,” said David Balto, a former chief of competition policy
at the Federal Trade Commission.*

*Some in the tech industry also argue that, if the ruling stands,
companies will not be as willing to allow their technology to be
included in industry standards, since it would rob them of much of their
negotiating leverage.*

*The calculation method that Judge Robarts came up with “would
conceivably apply to lower the reasonable royalty available to every
single \[standard-essential patent\]”, the American Intellectual
Property Law Association wrote in an amicus brief to the court.*

*Companies who have joined the opposition to the ruling [include
Qualcomm](http://www.law360.com/articles/580211/qualcomm-aipla-rip-landmark-rand-ruling-in-9th-circ "Law 360: Qualcomm, AIPLA Rip Landmark RAND Ruling In 9th Circ."),
many of whose patents cover [mobile communications
technologies](http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/3/443f49be-b0fb-11e4-9331-00144feab7de.html#axzz3WWfywq4B "Qualcomm: Pyrrhic victory - FT.com")
that have been adopted in industry standards. The calculation method is
a “one-sided directive that advances only implementers’ interests in
obtaining licences at the lowest possible cost,” it said in a court
filing supporting Motorola’s position.*

We have technology companies racing to patent even the dumbest of ideas
in the same way settlers claimed land in the West after the Homestead
Act. Even crappy lands were claimed by someone in the hope of finding
some value in them. We have companies making claims on DNA and
mathematical calculations, things that exist independent of human
intervention.

As most of the useful patents have been claimed, the patent wars have
ensued in the court room. The cost of owning a patent is the cost of
defending it. Presumably, the cost is less than the revenue from it, but
escalating court battles drives up the cost of patent ownership. Thus,
there is an incentive for small patent holders to sell to corporate
giants with armies of lawyers.

Just as being a small lord became impossible, being a small patent
holder may become impossible. The result will be a flood of nonsense
patents by big companies intended to drive out smaller competitors. What
follows that is a lack of innovation as the cost of invention becomes a
barrier surmountable only by big firms. We already see this in medicine.
