---
title: "Gaia Worship"
date: "2015-03-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3934"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3934"
---

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/01/opinion/sunday/is-the-environment-a-moral-cause.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I found this rather odd essay linked
somewhere</a>. At first blush it looks like the typical preaching to the
choir you see from the broadsheets. Gaia is unhappy and must be appeased
with the blood of the deniers! Well, they are not that entertaining, but
you get the point. Instead, what we have here is a rare admission that
what they are up to has nothing to do with science, but is a religious
cause.

*ACCORDING to a recent poll, a large majority of Americans, and roughly
half of Republicans, say they support governmental action to address
global warming. The
[poll](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/31/us/politics/most-americans-support-government-action-on-climate-change-poll-finds.html),
conducted by The New York Times, Stanford and the research organization
Resources for the Future, stands in stark contrast to the vast partisan
gulf in political efforts to address climate change. How could it be
that so many Republicans view global warming as a problem, but so few on
the right are pressuring the government to take action to address it?*

*A paper that [Matthew
Feinberg](http://www.rotman.utoronto.ca/FacultyAndResearch/Faculty/FacultyBios/Feinberg.aspx),
a psychologist at the University of Toronto, and I published in the
journal Psychological Science in 2013 suggests one answer to this
puzzle: While the number of Republicans who say global warming is a
serious problem has reached high levels, there remains a very large gap
in moral engagement with the issue. We found that conservatives were
less likely than liberals to describe pro-environmental efforts in moral
terms, or to pass moral judgment on someone who behaved in an
environmentally unfriendly way, for example by not recycling. Where
liberals view environmental issues as matters of right and wrong,
conservatives generally do not.*

It is rare to see the masked dropped like this. Usually, the Left is
waving around graphs and data that they don’t understand, but are sure
proves their case, because you know, science! Here we have someone
saying that it’s really a moral issue.

*But why does this moral gap matter if most people now believe that
global warming is a real threat? Other research has shown that people
are generally reluctant to undertake costly political actions, even for
a cause they think will be beneficial. After all, there are so many
worthy causes competing for our time, effort and resources, and we can’t
contribute to every one.*

*People think quite differently, however, when they are morally engaged
with an issue. In such cases people are more likely to eschew a sober
cost-benefit analysis, opting instead to take action because it is the
right thing to do. Put simply, we’re more likely to contribute to a
cause when we feel ethically compelled to.*

*Still, why do liberals moralize environmental issues, while
conservatives do not? The answer is complex, owing in part to the
specific history of the American environmental movement. A quick review
of that history reveals that, while the environment has been politically
polarizing since the 1960s, there is nothing inevitably liberal about
environmental concern. After all, it was a Republican president, Richard
M. Nixon, who [founded](http://www2.epa.gov/aboutepa/origins-epa) the
Environmental Protection Agency in 1970.*

Here you see the hive mind at work. Utopians operate in a world of
“us-versus-them.” After all, there’s only one destination, the promised
land. Therefore, you are either heading forward to that promised land or
you are an obstacle to the tides of history. Nixon was no one’s idea of
a conservative. He proudly embraced liberal economics and social
engineering. In many respects, he was a proto-liberal. But, he was a
Republican so he is one of the undifferentiated other the Left sees as
the *them*.

*To win over more of the public, environmentalists must look beyond the
arguments that they themselves have found convincing. The next wave of
moral arguments for environmental reform will need to look very
different from the last, if they are to be maximally effective. Such
efforts to understand others’ moral perspectives might not only bring
both sides in line on this important issue, but also foster the sort of
sincerity and respect necessary to sustain a large-scale collective
effort.*

The fascinating thing about utopians is they never seem to listen to
their own words. They are just incantations that make them feel better,
but make little sense to a non-believer. The writer claims big
majorities are in favor of his preferred acts of piety to appease Gaia.
What need is there to convince the holdouts? If a majority want what he
wants, surely the elected officials, who all want what the author wants,
will go along with it.

That’s because it is not a rational thing. At some level, the author and
his coreligionists believe that the presence of even one non-believer
keeps them from reaching the promised land. Just as ISIS is focused on
purifying their lands by ridding it of every last infidel, the modern
liberal obsesses over the dwindling number of non-believers in the West.

The other fascinating thing is that these utopians never take yes for an
answer. That’s because they can’t. What animates their faith is the
struggle. The promised land is always just over the next hill or around
the next bend. Today they must valiantly struggle against the infidel so
that tomorrow they can live in paradise. The fact that the Left has been
triumphant for close to a century in America has brought them no closer
to their goal. The promised land remains just out of reach, no matter
how much ground they gain in the fight.

I used to be fond of asking these sorts of people a simple question.
What would have to happen for you to feel like you won? They never have
an answer. Instead, you get an answer to a question you did not ask.
That’s because there are no conditions in which they will be satisfied
and quit. It’s the struggle, not the victory. Environmentalism will be
with us in some fashion forever simply because it is a religion, not a
problem to be solved.
