---
title: "The Battle Cry of the Ruling Class"
date: "2015-12-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5988"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5988"
---

For a couple of decades now, Jonah Goldberg has fashioned a lucrative
career for himself as the man with two hats. One hat lets him be a man
of the managerial class, writing books and long winded articles on the
wonderfulness of the status quo, as well as the people in charge of it.

The other hat lets him be the proletarian every-man who likes bad movies
and throwing food at the screen when a ruling class type comes in the
scene. This act has got him a spot in elite conservative media, a perch
at a conservative think tank and a big house in one of the richest
counties on earth.

Way back when Jonah Goldberg was still working on the act, he used to do
mixers where he would show up at a bar and mix it up with the readers of
National Review Online. This was late 90’s early 2000’s or thereabouts.
At the time, Goldberg was still approachable, so I approached him and we
chatted a bit. I mentioned in passing something about VDare, I don’t
recall what anymore, but the reaction from Goldberg is what I do
remember clearly.

He went from being a jocular dufus to being a serious scold. His exact
words were “You should not talk about that or any of them. Trust me.
Don’t even read it.” The serious look of panic on his face has always
stuck with me. I’ve never been a VDare reader, then or now, I just knew
it from John Derbyshire and that was the context in which I mentioned
it. If Jonah’s fear had mass, a black hole would have opened up and
sucked everyone into it.

I bring up this incident as a bit of a follow up to [my post the other
day on the weaponization of race](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5946)
by the left side of the ruling coalition. Peter Brimelow and the people
that appear on his site have been declared un-persons due to their lack
of faith. Even associating with them is cause for expulsion. [Bob
Weisberg was ceremoniously
fired](http://www.nationalreview.com/phi-beta-cons/295729/regarding-robert-weissberg-rich-lowry)
for having been in proximity to these un-persons. You’ll note the extra
effort to signal to the left side that the official position of the
right side is no different from that of the left side.

It’s also a good lead-in to another topic, the Trumpaphobia that is
breaking out like hives on the flesh of the conservative media. [Jonah
Goldberg has this column up
today](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/428353/donald-trump-supporters-not-conservative-base),
which is a column length version of “This Is Not Who We Are”, the new
anthem of Conservative Inc. All week one version or another of “this is
not who we are” has been trumpeted by those brave heroes in conservative
media., who when wearing the proletarian hat, claim to be fighting the
good fight on our behalf.

At first blush, it appears Goldberg is just repeating the same chant we
have been hearing for a year now. “Donald Trump is no Conservative!” The
use of abracadabra words is not just a peculiar tick of Progressives.
The Professional Right does it too. Anyone who threatens their
comfortable lifestyles like Bob Weisberg mentioned above, gets
excommunicated from the Church of Modern Conservatism. Trump exposes the
conservative media racket for what it is, so they hate him for it.

That’s what is often missed. The way it is supposed to work is the GOP
works with National Review, Fox News, “grass roots” organizations that
have K Street offices and so on. That way, these folks can make some
money, get relatives jobs in the bureaucracy and look like players in
the “arena of ideas.” In return, these groups go to the megaphones and
rally the voters by declaring the GOP candidate the next Ronald Reagan.

Trump, obviously, is having none of that and he is winning. That’s a big
problem if you make your living selling GOP product in conservative
media. The folks at Fox News used to think they were the gatekeepers,
the king makers on the Right. Now they look like chumps because the guy
most likely to win the GOP nomination treats them like human footstools.
The ditsy blonde they sent out to whack Trump in the first debate came
back in a shoe box and they have never recovered from it.

The other thing Goldberg is up to here is signaling to the other side of
the managerial class that he remains a good thinker. He closes with
this:

*And I would argue that his “very conservative” followers aren’t
supporting Trump because he’s a conservative but because he’s a walking,
talking thumb in the eyes of “elites” in the media and both parties. The
claim that Trump is a committed conservative is not very believable.
Until recently, he was for higher taxes on the wealthy, taking in Syrian
refugees, and single-payer health care. He almost never talks about the
Constitution, faith, or liberty unless forced to. In 2012, Trump
condemned Mitt Romney for being too harsh on illegal immigration. In May
of this year, he attacked “publicity seekers” who needlessly provoked
Muslims.*

Put another way, Goldberg is telling his coevals in the media that
“real” conservatives just talk about stuff and never offer any
resistance to the status quo or the dominance of the American Left.
Anything that smacks of real resistance or an alternative to the moral
superstructure of the status quo is off-limits. These columns emanating
from conservative media are no about Trump, immigration or popular
Right. They are loyalty oaths.

If it comes down to it, if the choice is between the bad thinkers and
their racist, fascist Islamophobia, Jonah and all “good conservatives”
will lock shields with their Progressive brothers and defend the status
quo to the death if necessary. Egalitarianism, Multiculturalism and
Antiracism are the raison d’etre and cri de guerre of the ruling class.
