---
title: "Diluting the Stock"
date: "2015-09-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5573"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5573"
---

Imagine this blog is a business and you are a stock holder who got in
early when I was starting up. The blog is booming and that means the
value of the stock is booming. I figure I can capitalize on the boom and
start issuing more stock. That’s good for *me*, but there’s one problem.
That dilutes the value of *your* stock. That would be a crappy thing for
me to do to my stock holders, which is why companies tend to avoid doing
this.

But, let’s assume I don’t care about my stock holders and I start
issuing new stock. One thing that will happen is current stock holders
will begin dumping the stock. After all, the value of the stock will
most likely decline and the point of buying the stock in the first place
is to get something for it, as in a return on the investment. If I keep
issuing stock, the price will collapse and the stock will be worthless.

The same logic applies to citizenship. Being a Canadian has value. You
get cheap maple syrup, high alcohol beer and good hockey. There’s also
the protection of the Canadian government, law enforcement, economic
benefits and social welfare benefits. In return, the citizen serves on
juries, pays taxes and serves in the military when required. A country
is a lot like a company and the citizens are stock holders. It’s not a
perfect analogy, but a useful one.

What our rulers seek to do is dilute the value of citizenship by <a
href="http://www3.blogs.rollcall.com/218/congressman-expand-obamacare-to-undocumented/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">offering it to whoever staggers along</a>.

*Rep Luis V. Gutiérrez, one of Congress’ most outspoken advocates for
immigrants, on Wednesday called for expanding the Affordable Care Act to
cover all of the estimated 11 million undocumented migrants in the
United States.*

*“The goal is to make integration and inclusion real for millions of
families that are locked out under current law,” the Illinois
Democrat said in a floor speech introducing his proposed legislation.*

*“As it stands right now, undocumented immigrants are not subject to the
individual mandate and cannot buy into health insurance exchanges even
if they use their own money.  My legislation will change that.  It says
that we stand for inclusion.”*

*Citing last week’s papal address to Congress (<a
href="http://blogs.rollcall.com/white-house/pope-challenges-congress-to-act-on-climate-immigration-economy/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the pope repeatedly urged U.S.
lawmakers to follow “the Golden Rule”</a>), Gutiérrez said: “Doing unto
others as you would have them do unto you means moving forward with no
restrictions on which brother and sister and neighbor we think of as
‘eligible’ or ‘deserving.’”*

*The Gutiérrez legislation faces long odds in the House, where proposals
to overhaul immigration have been stymied by Republicans who insist the
federal government must first address holes in border security.*

If everyone on earth is eligible for the benefits of citizenship, as
long as they get to America, what point is there in being a citizen?
More important, why would anyone try to make the country better? The
whole point of investing in a company or a country is to make it better.
In the case of a country, better for your descendants. If the children
of foreigners are going to take from your kids the fruit of your labor,
why bother?

That would obviously spill into voting, as doing what’s best for the
country would lose all value. Instead, factions would vote in blocks, at
war with other factions, for the right to take what they can from
whomever they can. That’s assuming people both voting. The only solution
to that is authoritarianism where the national government uses force to
compel cooperation from and among the people.

That’s what our betters have failed to understand. At some point, people
will simply not respond to patriotic appeals or moral suasion. After
all, loyalty to the state will have no basis as there is no benefit to
citizenship. The relationship becomes purely transactional as both sides
try to beat the other in their dealings. The only result of open borders
is a Hobbesian world that looks more like the Middle East than Western
Civilization.
