---
title: "Another Wickerman"
date: "2015-07-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Progressives
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5038"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5038"
---

One of the aspects of our neo-Puritan age is that being right is never
enough if the Cult decides you have to be an example. Apologizing only
confirms to them that you are the right guy to burn at the stake. <a
href="http://espn.go.com/espn/story/_/id/13314040/colin-cowherd-no-longer-espn-air-comments-dominican-republic-players"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The lesson here from the most recent
public sacrifice is to never apologize and don’t bother defending
yourself with facts</a>.

*Radio host Colin Cowherd no longer will appear on ESPN following
comments he made questioning the intelligence of Dominican Republic
players related to baseball one day earlier, the company said in a
statement Friday.*

*“Colin Cowherd’s comments over the past two days do not reflect the
values of ESPN or our employees,” ESPN said in a statement. “Colin will
no longer appear on ESPN.”*

*Cowherd issued an apology later Friday via Twitter.*

*Cowherd had said Thursday that he didn’t believe baseball was complex,
saying a third of the sport was from the Dominican Republic, which had
“not been known, in my lifetime, as having, you know, world-class
academic abilities.”*

*Major League Baseball on Friday said Cowherd owes Dominican players an
apology for the remarks, and the MLB Players Association also condemned
his comments.*

*Earlier Friday, Cowherd addressed his remarks from Thursday during The
Herd.*

*“I could’ve made the point without using one country, and there’s all
sorts of smart people from the Dominican Republic,” Cowherd said. “I
could’ve said a third of baseball’s talent is being furnished from
countries with economic hardships, therefore educational hurdles. For
the record, I used the Dominican Republic because they’ve furnished
baseball with so many great players.”*

*Cowherd on Friday also cited reports and statistics to back up what he
said about the country’s ranking when it comes to primary education.*

The median IQ of the Dominican Republic is 82 according to Richard Lynn.
According to the people who study these things, <a
href="http://www.dw.com/en/dominican-republic-revamps-failing-education-system/a-17625149"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the DR has one of the worst education
systems on earth</a>, which is quite an accomplishment. But, it is a mix
of Latin corruption and African incompetence. The result is what you
would expect. Of course, if you have ever experienced the Caribbean, you
know this.

ESPN has been dominated by unhinged fanatics for years. They recently
were promoting the mentally disturbed drag queen, for example. Every
crackpot fad bubbling up from the fever swamps of the Cult of Modern
Liberalism has been promoted enthusiastically by ESPN. A non-believer
like Cowerd had always been on their list of potential wickermen.

At some point, people will figure out that there is no accommodating
these nuts. The answer when they come after you is to go right back at
them. Never apologize, never explain. Attack attack attack. You have
nothing to lose as there is no reasoning with lunatics. Cowerd should
have said he was the victim of a lynching by liberal crazies in ESPN.
That puts the focus on them. You’re getting fired anyway. Go out with a
bang.
