---
title: "The Prophet Algore Resurfaces"
date: "2015-03-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4065"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4065"
---

Way back in the 2000 election, I was pretty sure Algore was having a
nervous breakdown. His bizarre behavior in the debates suggested he was
losing his grip under the strain of the campaign. His Zelig act in the
second debate was one of the more disturbing things I’ve seen in
politics. We came very close to putting a madman in the White House.
Well, a different sort of madman than usual.

His Old testament prophet act following the election confirmed it for
me. He went off into the wilderness, grew a beard and gained fifty
pounds. Then, he came back with the good word, as it were, on global
warming. His whole act had the feel of a guy thinking he is on a mission
from God.

As his crusade grew more craven and ridiculous, he has faded from public
view. That and Chocolate Jesus in the White House made the Prophet Al a
redundancy. But, with Obama heading to the dustbin, <a
href="http://ecowatch.com/2015/03/16/al-gore-sxsw-punish-climate-deniers/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">it looks like the prophet is back with
the good word again</a>.

*The South by Southwest (SXSW) Festival is happening now in Austin,
Texas. Running from March 9 to 22, it’s a massive film, interactive and
music festival that is nearly 20 years old. The festival brings together
designers, developers, investors, entrepreneurs and politicians for
panels and discussions about technology and innovation*

*For the third time in the last few years, [Al
Gore](http://ecowatch.com/author/agore/), founder and chairman of the
<a href="http://climaterealityproject.org/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Climate Reality Project</a>, spoke at the festival on
Friday. Naturally, his interactive discussion focused on addressing the
[climate crisis](http://ecowatch.com/climate-change-news/). The former
vice president focused on the need to “[punish climate-change
deniers](https://ecowatch.com/2015/03/13/climate-change-fantasy-tournament/),
saying politicians should pay a price for rejecting ‘accepted science,’”
said the <a
href="http://www.chicagotribune.com/bluesky/originals/chi-sxsw-al-gore-penny-pritzker-bsi-20150313-story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Chicago Tribune</a>.*

*Gore said forward-thinking investors are moving away from companies
that invest in [fossil fuels](http://ecowatch.com/news/energy-news/) and
towards companies investing in [renewable
energy](http://ecowatch.com/business/renewables/). “We need to put a
price on carbon to accelerate these market trends,” Gore told the
Chicago Tribune, referring to a [proposed federal cap-and-trade
system](http://ecowatch.com/2014/11/19/whitehouse-carbon-tax-bill/) that
would penalize companies that exceeded their carbon-emission limits.
“And in order to do that, we need to put a price on denial in
politics.”*

*He called on the tech-minded SXSW crowd, which is dominated by
[Millenials](http://ecowatch.com/2014/11/12/millennials-climate-change/),
to harness technology to launch a grassroots movement to tackle climate
change and call out climate deniers. “We have this denial industry
cranked up constantly,” Gore said. “In addition to 99 percent of the
scientists and all the professional scientific organizations, now
[Mother Nature is weighing
in](http://ecowatch.com/2014/11/04/julia-roberts-mother-nature/).”*

*Years from now, Gore said the next generation will look back at us and
ask: “How did you change?,” <a
href="http://www.macworld.com/article/2896641/al-gore-challenges-sxsw-to-focus-online-actvism-on-climate-change.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">according to Macworld</a>. “Part of the
answer may well be that a group of people came to South by Southwest in
Austin, Texas in 2015 and helped to make a revolution,” Gore said.*

*Gore wanted these young, tech-savvy attendees to start a grassroots
movement using social media like they did when “net neutrality was
threatened or when the Stop Online Piracy Act threatened to blacklist
websites that offered so-called illegal content,” said Macworld. That
means signing petitions to fight climate change, utilizing social media
to call out climate deniers in Congress and streaming the [Live Earth
Road to Paris concert](http://liveearth.org/) on June 18, an event
designed to draw attention to the climate talks in Paris this December.*

*The former Veep even gave a nod to [Pope
Francis](http://ecowatch.com/2015/01/15/pope-francis-visits-philippines/)
during his talk, showing a slide of the pontiff and saying “How about
this Pope?” Pope Francis celebrated his two-year anniversary as Pope on
Friday, riding a wave of popularity “that has reinvigorated the Catholic
Church in ways not seen since the days of St. John Paul II,” said the
Chicago Tribune. Gore said he was looking forward to the Pope’s highly
anticipated encyclical on the environment which is due to be released in
June or July. “I’m not a Catholic,” Gore said, “but I could be persuaded
to become one.”*

I suspect he is seeing if there’s any interest in him as a presidential
candidate. With Cankles looking a bit rattled and nothing but a field of
midgets as an alternative, maybe the time is right for a wooden dufus
with a head full of nonsense. After all, if the Democrats want to beat a
Bush, who better than Al Gore!
