---
title: "Contra Derb"
date: "2015-01-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3557"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3557"
---

Way back in the mists of time I had an exchange on Marginal Revolution
with Steve Sailer, regarding the book *[The Son Also Rises: Surnames and
the History of Social
Mobility](http://www.amazon.com/The-Son-Also-Rises-Princeton/dp/0691162549)*.
I pointed out the phenomenon of surname drift as an obvious counter to
what Clark appeared to be arguing. Surname drift is how last names die
out and slowly the number of last names diminish. Given enough time an
isolated population would end up with everyone having the same last
name. It’s just simple math.

Sailer got cross with me as he is a bit of genetic determinist and
Clark’s book fits nicely into that belief. He’s not alone. John
Derbyshire is a determinist, as well. In all honesty, I’m far closer to
that view of human biology than most, but I think serendipity plays a
much larger role than most of these guys would allow. Bill Gates was the
son of bright parents. There were millions of coin flips by others,
whose outcome shaped his life, between conception and [his days stealing
code out of
dumpsters](http://patch.com/california/losaltos/microsoft-co-founder-paul-allen-recounts-his-days-of-7a8784789a).

I thought about that when reading this from Derb the other day. I
suspect we will hear a lot of sensible people discount the dynasty
complaints with regards to Jeb. Derb was born and raised into a monarchy
so I guess he can be forgiven with thinking such arrangements are
sensible. I suspect many Americans will accept these arguments and
dutifully vote for Bush in the primary and general election. I give Jeb
a better than 50% chance of winning the nomination. Derb’s argument
rests on this:

*I write with feeling there, as a person hopeless at practical politics.
If there is a PQ analogous to IQ, I’m down in the bottom decile. In my
years working at corporate offices, I never had a clue who was up and
who down. When X was suddenly fired or Y given a sudden dazzling
promotion, I was always flabbergasted: “I had no idea …!” My colleagues
would respond with a roll of the eyes: “Oh, Derb. Try to keep up, please
…”*

*It is reasonable to suppose that this skill, or lack of skill, is
rooted in the contours of the individual human personality. Now, most of
the features that define personality are heritable, often highly so.
(The paper at that link gives heritability for the “big five” core
personality traits as: Extraversion 0.86, Openness 0.92, Neuroticism
0.59, Agreeableness 0.85, Conscientiousness 0.81.) We should therefore
expect political skill to travel in families, like freckles or hairy
elbows.*

*Presumably nature gets some reinforcement from nurture, too. Evelyn
Waugh remarked somewhere that most men are best suited to the work their
fathers did.*

It seems to me that history argues against this line of thought. <a
href="http://www.hullwebs.co.uk/content/c-anglo-saxon/royals/#Bernicia"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The line of Ida</a> had a very good run,
but many in his line were inept, crazy or deranged. The Julio-Claudian
line was a train wreck. These are the two most successful family
dynasties in the Occident and we see it as hit and miss, as far as
hereditary leaders. Medieval Europe has a lot of hilariously insane
rulers who came to power merely by their having won the lucky sperm
contest, so the results can be quite dreadful.

The Founders certainly had a dim view of political dynasties. They had
that in mind when designing the national government. They wanted the
best and brightest to be attracted to state and local government, not
the national government. This was, in part, to make political dynasties
difficult to establish. A look through the biographies of the Founders
say they knew a thing or two about the children of powerful men turning
out to be nitwits, so they thought about it a lot.

There is an old time expression that goes, “shirt sleeves to shirt
sleeves in three generations.” The first generation builds the family
fortune, starting from the working class. The next generation does its
best to maintain it, but mostly lives off the fruits of the father. The
third generation blows through what’s left and ends up back in the same
level as the founding generation. The Kennedy family is a good example.

I think the children of the king probably do, on average, possess more
of the magic stuff that makes for a good king than most children. I also
think they have precisely the wrong environment to cultivate that magic
stuff. Poppy Bush served in WW2 and almost died in the Pacific. In other
words, as a young man he had to cultivate his leadership assets under
duress. His kids cultivated their assets getting drunk and chasing tail
at elite preparatory schools. Seeds amongst the stones.

That said, any argument against Jeb Bush will find a friendly reception
from me. If I were a religious man, I could be convinced that he is the
Anti-Christ, heralding the end times. But that’s just me.
