---
title: "Thoughts on Millennials"
date: "2015-03-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3947"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3947"
---

When I was a young man, we used to hunt the mammoth and pray to the sky
gods for guidance and forgiveness. When not doing that, we were trying
to find our way in the world. I was not much different from my coevals
in that I had no patience for the lectures of old men about how I should
live my life. That did not mean I thought they were mistaken. It’s just
that I wanted to drink liquor and chase women, even knowing that it
would lead to a bad end. Life is for living.

Of course, I was a knucklehead who thought he knew more than he did
about most things. Again, that just means I was like everyone else my
age. I always appreciated, however, when adults treated me as an equal.
I never liked to be patronized. As I grew older, I tried hard to never
patronize young adults. I figured if I hated it, I should not do it.
That’s worked pretty well. In the rare cases when a young person has
asked for advice, I was happy to offer what I could. Otherwise, I avoid
playing the old man card.

The point here is that I like to joke around about being the Clint
Eastwood character from Gran Torino, but I am pretty much the opposite
of that guy. I don’t look my age, I sure as hell don’t act my age and
most important, I don’t think anyone should act their age. Live your
life as you see fit and enjoy your time. It goes by quickly and you
never have enough of it. Letting others tell you how to live is a sure
way to not live and, life if for living.

That’s the Tao of Z.

That said, I do think the millennials are a departure from American
culture. They were raised in the communications revolution. They were
educated in schools awash in Cultural Marxism. They have never known
tough times as the economy has been relatively strong for thirty years.
Yeah, young people have record unemployment and many still live with
mom, but there’s zero pressure on them to get a job and move out of the
basement. As with so much else, that’s different with the millennials
versus everyone who came before them.

What got me thinking about [this is a post by Razib
Kahn](http://www.unz.com/gnxp/the-age-of-the-phone/) the other day that
had me laughing. Kahn is a super smart guy and very serious young man.
His choice of subject matter may be why I forget he is so young. But,
the sacramentalizing of the iPhone is one of those generational markers
that jumps out at me. If you think it was an inflection point in human
evolution, you’re a millennial. If you once owned a Palm, you’re not. If
you once owned a Merlin then you’re probably near death or should be or
whatever.

Anyway, it got me thinking about millennials a bit this week.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=1526" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Last summer I did a post on millennials</a>, but it is
not a subject I write about very much, beyond the wise crack here or
there. What sprung to mind reading Razib’s post is that millennials
appear to have adopted the Left’s non-linear sense of time. Some past
events are talked about as if they just happened, while other recent
events are treated as if they happened in the Middle Ages. In other
words, events are not sorted on a time line. Instead, positional
relevance on the time line is driven by emotional awareness. The iPhone
looms large so it just happened. The iPod is irrelevant so it was like a
million years ago.

It’s easy to write this off to solipsism, and there’s a fair bit of
that. This is a generation raised in front of a mirror, but it also the
first generation to be thoroughly immersed in Cultural Marxism. There we
see the non-liner timeline as an integral part of ideology. Vast parts
of the timeline and its events simply disappear, while other events,
those of importance to the movement, are talked about with the same
emotional zeal as if they happened yesterday. Events are positioned on
the time by emotional relevance. I wonder if millennials have
internalized this as a habit of mind.

Something else I see is a strange need for validation. Again, I suspect
this is a product of the schools. It’s easy to forget that schools
changed a great deal starting in the 70’s when the Boomers started
taking up spots in education. The modern school looks a lot like what
the Soviets or Chinese practiced. The teacher is elevated to the level
of moral and spiritual guide. In China, teachers are often treated as
minor deities. In the Soviet system, the teacher was also an ideological
guide to make sure the pupils were coming up in the orthodoxy.

The result is a student that is focused on the pat on the head and the
gold star. Learning the material for personal satisfaction is irrelevant
when everything is judged in relation to the teacher’s affection. I saw
this at Yale a few years back. The grad students looked at an old person
like me as someone to preen for in search of that pat on the head. It
was very weird and I just wrote it off to Ivy League social skills, but
I now think it is a generational thing. Millennials are a generation of
suck-ups.

The flip side of that is a fear of being judged. In fact, millennials
seem to obsess over judgements. In that Razib post there’s a comment
using the magic phrase “value-laden.” That’s an abracadabra phrase for
young people. Again, this goes to the immersion in Cultural Marxism.
Noticing differences is treated as a a mortal sin. Therefore, anything
that even hints at comparison causes sphincters to knot up, thus making
value-laden words and phrases taboo.

Finally and related to the allergy to comparison is the nasty response
to anything resembling a slight. This also touches on the validation
thing. In royal courts and petty dictatorships, like the classroom,
one’s rise to the top is really a rise to number two. No matter how
smart and capable, you are not going to be king. Similarly, the best
student will never be the teacher. Therefore, there are no winners, just
degrees of loser. The guy closest to the top is just less of a loser
than his rivals.

The result is a eery lack of empathy. Business people I know report that
dealing with millennials as a vendor is strange and often unpleasant.
You do a favor for them and they feel no obligation to return the favor.
At the same time, they expect you to do them favors. I know a few
business people who have dropped accounts because they find dealing with
a 30-year old sociopath intolerable. Anecdotes are not data, but that <a
href="http://www.scribd.com/doc/213511197/Keep-a-Weather-Eye-on-the-Horizon-A-Navy-Officer-Retention-Study"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Navy paper</a> alludes to this as well.
Transactional relationships are no way to build a society at least not
one that can maintain large scale organization.

That Navy paper suggests the institutions of America will have to adapt.
That’s probably true, but I wonder if it is entirely possible. A society
of ruthless attention seekers sounds pretty awful. A nation of
transactional people with little empathy for one another is going to
need something else to prevent it from descending into madness. What
that is, I don’t know, but that does not mean it does not exist. Maybe
the millennials are the first generation to usher in the new era of
humanity. The rest of us could be the Neanderthals of this age. Or,
things will get much worse in the coming decades.
