---
title: "The Liar"
date: "2015-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4257"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4257"
---

<a
href="http://www.redstate.com/2015/04/07/sabrina-rubin-erdelys-possibly-fake-rape-story/#pq=3ar0AQ"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Red State has a great article up on
Sabrina Rubin Erdely</a>, the fabulist who made up the rape hoax story
for Rolling Stone. I phrase it that way as the only other option is that
Erdely and her coevals at Rolling Stone had some sort of collective
psychotic episode. There’s simply no way people in possession of their
faculties did not know it was a fake story.

*It turns out, Erdely may have been guilty of the same journalistic
errors she committed in reporting the UVA rape story on at least one
other rape story that garnered national attention at the time. The story
in question was published in 2013 and was titled “[The Rape of Petty
Officer
Blumer](http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/the-rape-of-petty-officer-blumer-20130214).”*

*Erdely’s reporting of the Blumer story is eerily similar to her
reporting of the UVA story. In each case, Erdely uses a central figure
who has a similar tale to tell: she was a victim of a horrific rape, she
reported the rape to authorities, and her concerns were ignored and/or
used against her. The narrative in each case is used to advance the
theory that the institution in question (college administrators in the
UVA case, military command in the Blumer case) is indifferent to the
problem of systemic sexual assault occurring right under their noses. In
both cases, the stories read suspiciously as though Ms. Erdely arrived
at her conclusion before writing her story, and simply set out to find
the first person who would constitute a credible vehicle for the
narrative she wanted to create, without regard to the factual accuracy
of her story. Recall that during the initial investigation of the UVA
story it was uncovered that Erdely had sent emails indicating that she
was looking for a story that fit a particular fact pattern – it would be
no surprise to discover that similar emails existed in this case.*

*RedState has now spoken with multiple members of Navy command who were
either personally involved in the investigation of Ms. Blumer’s
allegations or who had firsthand knowledge of the facts of this case.
For obvious reasons, their names have been withheld to protect their
identities. However, it seems clear that, if Ms. Erdely’s story
concerning Petty Officer Blumer were subjected to the same scrutiny as
the UVA story, it might well come unraveled just as quickly.*

*The key fact from these conversations is this: Everyone I spoke to in
connection with this investigation was crystal clear that at no point
did Sabrina Erdely or Rolling Stone ever contact them whatsoever, even
to ask for background information. This is exactly the same lapse in
journalistic standards that doomed the UVA story and ultimately led to
its retraction. The fact that it occurred in this story is indication of
a systemic problem with Rolling Stone and Sabrina Erdely’s reporting,
not of a single lapse in judgment.*

Frankly, the writer at Red State is being far too kind. There’s a
pattern with these people that is well established. They steal a little
here and a little there as a short cut. They eventually figure out that
the editors are not checking their work that closely. That means they
start doing fake reporting and fake research rather than the real thing
as it is easier and tends to make for better copy.

The other thing we always see is it happens where the publication is
uniformly progressive. The faker starts writing tales they wish were
true, getting pats on the head from their coreligionists in management,
because they want to believe these stories too. The reason no one
upstream from Erdely questioned her work is the fake stories confirmed
what they were inclined to believe.

That’s the piece not getting enough discussion. Erdely and her enablers
either think this stuff is true, or they hate you so much they are
wiling to accuse you of horrific crimes. It is not hard to understand
why decent people volunteer to shove people into death camps. People
like Erdely are far willing to declare others as outside the human
family. That inevitably leads to monstrous acts.

Read the whole Red State piece. It is top notch stuff.
