---
title: "The Fallacy of Free Trade"
date: "2015-02-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3869"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3869"
---

Way back in the 80’s, I used to tell people we would rue the day we let
Congress give up its power to manage trade. Tariffs and restrictions
have well know costs and they don’t always serve the interest of the
people. I read Smith’s analysis of English corn laws and I fully agree
that tariffs rarely accomplish their stated goal. The world is richer
when countries allow the free flow of goods between them – generally
speaking. There are exceptions and they are big exceptions.

That’s the trade-off. Congress gets to play games with trade in exchange
for addressing those exceptions. Free trade with Canada, for example, is
a no-brainer. The free flow of goods and people between our two
countries is good for both of us. Free trade with Mexico, on the other
hand, is fraught with problems. Mexico is a failed state run by
narcotics traffickers. Here we are all these years later and maybe it is
starting to dawn on our rulers that trade is not a <a
href="http://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2015/02/16/as-free-trade-pacts-expand-u-s-trade-deficit-soars-why-add-one-more/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">set it and forget it</a> thing.

*President Barack Obama has called on Congress to grant him fast-track
trade authority for his Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade agreement.
The administration insists the authority, which would give Congress only
an up-or-down vote on the agreement, is needed to get the best possible
terms from its trade partners along the Pacific Rim.*

*During his 2008 presidential campaign, Obama promised to renegotiate
and improve the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). But it now
looks like what he really meant is to expand on that flawed trade model
and extend it to other countries.*

*Twenty-one years after NAFTA and four years after Obama’s 2011
U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement, there is abundant data
documenting how this trade model has been disastrous for most U.S.
businesses, farmers and workers.*

*Since the pacts were implemented, U.S. trade deficits, which drag down
economic growth, have soared more than 430 percent with our free-trade
partners. In the same period, they’ve declined 11 percent with countries
that are not free-trade partners. Since fast-track trade authority was
used to pass NAFTA and the U.S. entrance into the World Trade
Organization, the overall annual U.S. trade deficit in goods has more
than quadrupled, from $218 billion to $912 billion.*

*The United States now has an annual $177-billion trade deficit in goods
with its 20 free-trade partners. Over the past decade, however, U.S.
export growth to countries that are not free-trade partners exceeded the
growth of free-trade partners by 24 percent.*

The trouble has always been cultural. Canada can be relied upon to
follow the rules. The Canadian government will police itself and respond
to requests from our government when something is amiss. China, on the
other hand, is a bandit culture and the Chinese government sees America
as an adversary. Naturally, they cheat on every deal. Mexico is a failed
state and lacks the ability to police themselves, even if they wanted.
Free trade with these countries sets us up to be patsies, which has been
the case for decades now.

The thing with tariffs is we knew the costs up front. The cost of
protecting a domestic industry could be calculated. As a matter of
public policy, the people decide if the price is warranted. It’s not
always logical, but the costs are at least predictable. Unfettered trade
brought unknown unknowns that are just starting to be understood. Those
unknown unknowns have costs. The new global elite, for example, is
unconstrained by national governments. The result is a class of global
pirates seemingly beyond the reach of the state.

Public policy is always about trade-offs. Life may not be a zero sum
game, but it is close enough to think of it that way. That means a
policy that benefits one group will do so at the expense of another.
Limiting trade with Mexico may drive up the cost of lawn care, but it
also means you can go into an emergency room that does not look like a
bus station in Tijuana. Regulated trade with China may jack up the cost
of your iPad, but it also means keeping poisoned pet food from China off
US shelves.

These are trade-offs to be debated by the people’s representatives.
Turning them over to technocrats at the WTO is to make a mockery of
self-government and open us up to predation.
