---
title: "Justice Versus “Social” Justice"
date: "2015-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4365"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4365"
---

I saw <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/apr/23/male-columbia-student-mattress-girl-case-sues-univ/#ixzz3YETDSNlv"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a> posted on The Twitter:

*The Columbia University student targeted by a mattress-carrying
protester filed a lawsuit Thursday against the school, arguing that it
failed to shield him from harassment even though police and campus
authorities refused to pursue rape charges against him.*

*In a lawsuit filed in Manhattan federal court,[Jean-Paul
Nungesser](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/jean-paul-nungesser/)said
the school engaged in gender bias by allowing him to be subjected to a
hostile and intimidating learning environment.*

*The hostile environment was created, the lawsuit says, by the ongoing
protest of fellow student[Emma
Sulkowicz](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/emma-sulkowicz/), also
known as the “mattress girl.”*

*[Mr.
Nungesser](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/jean-paul-nungesser/),
a German citizen, said the ensuing publicity has hurt his chances of
remaining in the U.S., given that his job prospects have been hurt by
the publicity surrounding the case.*

*The students engaged in sexual activity in August 2012, but[Mr.
Nungesser](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/jean-paul-nungesser/)says
the encounter was consensual, while[Ms.
Sulkowicz](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/emma-sulkowicz/)says
she was raped.*

*A university tribunal ultimately found[Mr.
Nungesser](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/jean-paul-nungesser/)not
responsible, after which[Ms.
Sulkowicz](http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/emma-sulkowicz/)launched
her highly publicized protest.*

*She was invited by Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, New York Democrat, to
attend this year’s State of the Union address for her “Carry the Weight”
campaign, which has been emulated at other campuses nationwide.*

*A university spokesman declined comment, according to the Associated
Press.*

I am unfamiliar with the story, but straight away I am rooting for the
victim, the German student falsely accused of rape but this deranged
young women carrying the mattress around campus. Here we have a school
run by liberal fanatics and they could not find something to use against
the guy so we have to assume he is the most innocent man on earth.

Putting that aside, these schools are run by adults who refuse to do
their duty as adults in charge of young people. This woman with the
mattress should have been expelled. She was given every chance to make
her case and failed. To then make a mockery of the school with this
protest should have led the adults to step in and send Ms. Sulkowicz
packing.

I’m deeply intolerant of protests for exactly what we are seeing here.
This young woman is not protesting; she is harassing another student.
That’s the nature of protests in general. They are intended to harass
the citizenry in order to compel behavior that would not happen
otherwise. It’s just another form of mob rule.

Curious about the details, I googled “Jean-Paul Nungesser” and found <a
href="http://www.slate.com/blogs/xx_factor/2014/12/22/paul_nungesser_meet_the_accused_columbia_student_at_the_center_of_emma_sulkowicz.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a> at Slate, the journal of
the modern lunatic.

*This year, Columbia University student Emma Sulkowicz became an emblem
for how colleges mistreat victims of sexual assault on campus. After
Sulkowicz reported an alleged rape to the Columbia administration and
the college found the accused not responsible, she began hauling her
50-pound dorm mattress across campus as a powerful symbol of
an adjudication system she claims is confounding, ineffectual, and
unfair. The act has grown into Sulkowicz’s undergraduate art thesis
project and inspired a national
movement,<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>[Carry That
Weight](http://www.slate.com/blogs/xx_factor/2014/10/30/carry_that_weight_emma_sulkowicz_s_mattress_becomes_a_national_movement.html),
that advocates on behalf of campus sexual assault survivors. In the
shadow of her campaign stands Paul Nungesser, the student Sulkowicz says
raped her. Today, the<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>New
York Timespublished the first interview with Nungesser himself. It’s the
most intimate, high-profile portrait so far of a college student who was
accused of rape—one who says
that<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span><a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/22/nyregion/accusers-and-the-accused-crossing-paths-at-columbia.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the system has failed him</a>, too.*

*In his time at Columbia, three female students have accused Nungesser
of sexual misconduct. He’s denied each accusation, and has not been
formally disciplined by the university. When one student accused
Nungesser of groping her at a party, the university initially decided
against him, but he successfully appealed the ruling. After another
student accused him of intimate partner violence, the university dropped
the case when the alleged victim stopped cooperating with the
investigation. And when Sulkowicz accused Nungesser of raping her,
Columbia declined to find him responsible, citing lack of evidence.*

*In lieu of any formal finding, Nungesser had paid a social cost. “He
has gotten used to former friends crossing the street to avoid him,”
Ariel Kaminer reports in theTimes. “He has even gotten used to being
denounced as a rapist on fliers and in a rally in the university’s
quadrangle. … His name has been plastered on campus bathrooms and
published in easily searchable articles. His face is visible online,
too, in photos that detractors have posted as warnings to strangers.”
Because Columbia failed to discipline Nungesser, Columbia bloggers,
activists, and supporters have stepped in to exact their own punishment,
and national media has fanned the flames.*

***It’s hard not to feel sympathy for Nungesser here, even as the
opinions he airs on intimate partner violence—“Outside of a forced
marriage or kidnapping, it just seems very hard to believe that a person
would over and over again put themselves in a situation where they could
expect this kind of behavior to occur”—are odious. In a perfect world,
Nungesser would never feel compelled to pontificate on that particular
issue in the**<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>Times. As
Sulkowitz has emerged as a symbol of disenfranchised survivors,
Nungesser has come to symbolize all the entitled young men who take what
they want and never pay the consequences. That’s not quite fair. **No
matter what actually happened in Nungesser’s three cases, campus rape is
a systemic problem, and he’s just one man.** Forcing Nungesser to pay
personal consequences for the broken system is not going to fix it.
Sulkowicz’s mother, Sandra Leong, rightly (and very generously and
humanely) frames Nungesser’s experience as an unfortunate byproduct of
the university’s failure to appropriately adjudicate sexual assault
cases. “I think by sweeping it under the rug \[Columbia has\] subjected
him to a very painful, scarring experience,” she told
the<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>Times. “I don’t see it as
Emma’s fault because she just had to do what she had to do but I do see
it as the school’s fault.”*

I’ve never heard the phrase “intimate partner violence” because there’s
no reason to have this sterile, banal expression. It’s the sort of thing
the bureaucratic mind conjures rather than using the phrase “rough sex.”
The former says nothing while the latter is clear and leaves little room
for interpretation.

When you read <a
href="http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2015/02/03/columbia-student-i-didn-t-rape-her.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the story behind all of this</a>, it is
not hard to see what happened. Boy meets girl. Boy finally bags girl.
Boy gets bored and finds new girl. Girl gets pissed and seeks revenge.
That’s not a scenario social justice warriors like the Salon writer can
comprehend. Theirs is a world haunted solely by black hats and white
hats.

It’s why the Salon writer dismisses the witch hunt against this kid and
unilaterally declares that rape is a “systematic problem on campus” even
though statistics show the exact opposite. The college campus is one of
the safest places on earth, especially for women. Again, more men are
raped in prison than women are raped in the whole country.

Finally, note the perfect world imagined by Amanda Hess. In that world,
men would not be allowed to say things that Ms. Hess finds odious.
Perhaps she would simply have them killed or have their tongues ripped
out, I don’t know. What I do know is fanatical lunatics like Ms. Hess
are always on the business end of the murder machine, clearing the field
for the new utopia.
