---
title: "Robot Medicine"
date: "2015-05-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4567"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4567"
---

I had my annual physical this week. That means two hours of my life
wasted staring at the wall wearing an apron. I should not complain as
the process for me is efficient compared to what others must endure. I
get to the facility 15 minutes before my appointment and I’m sitting in
a room somewhere within 30 minutes. In that time, I have submitted my
urine sample and filled out some forms.

A pleasant black girl with neck tattoos took my blood pressure and had
me strip and put on one of those ridiculous hospital gowns. I’ve always
wondered why someone has not come up with a better hospital gown, but
there’s zero motivation on the part of the medical profession to demand
it. The medical business is not a business in the normal sense, where
the suppliers compete with one another for customers.

I don’t actually see a doctor. Instead it is a nurse practitioner.
Allegedly there is a doctor in charge of her and the other nurses, but
I’ve never met him. I’ve never seen him. I’m sure he exists, but if not
I would not be surprised either. The woman I see is nice, but a typical
clock puncher. She comes to work for a check, not because she enjoys her
work. To her, I’m just another meat stick on the schedule.

After twenty minutes of waiting, she arrived and commenced with the
examination. That means taking my blood pressure, looking at my eyes and
ears and feeling around for something weird. Most of the time she is in
the room is spent asking me questions as she typed the answers into the
computer system. Most of the questions seemed like they were for
marketing purposes rather than anything to do with my health.

The point of this boring recitation of my annual physical is that very
little of it requires me to interact with a human. Taking blood pressure
can be done by a machine. I have one at home. Blood work is done by a
machine. The clinic I use does their own blood work, allegedly, but
there are huge national chains that do blood work for humans and
animals.

As far as interpreting the results, the nurse I see is not bringing much
to the table. She thinks my cholesterol is getting a little high, but
Dr. Google and everyone I know has much higher LDL levels. I suspect
there is a commission check in it for them when they prescribe these
popular medications for cholesterol. Regardless, interpreting blood work
is better done by a robot anyway. The same is true of the urine sample.

It seems to me that one place where the robot future should be a reality
is in basic medical care. Instead of paying an arm and a leg for
disinterested humans to act as a go between, let the patients talk to
the robots direct. A mall kiosk could be used for blood pressure, urine
and blood work. While you’re there you answer questions on a
touchscreen. A week later the robot e-mails you the results and any
recommendations.

Of course, the robot would also have access to your DNA. As we march
into the humanless future, DNA will become the touchstone of medical
science. Connecting the dots between genes and a wide range of diseases
is a data problem, in most cases. Cheap collection devices in public
places means masses of data to sort of collate.

Robot care would inevitably be cheaper and that means more people would
get regular checkups by their local neighborhood robot doctor. If this
sort of service were $50 a shot, most people would do it twice a year.
Extend the services to things like flu shots, and nuisance things like
colds and allergies and most of your basic care could be done on the
cheap by the machines.

Another benefit is the payola schemes run by the pharmaceutical
companies would be tamped down as robots are not easily bribed. During
my visit, two sets of sharpies arrived peddling their wares. They were
dressed in the best Men’s Warehouse has to offer and had arms full of
freebies for the nurses.

It’s the same payola game the music industry used to play in the old
days. It’s not technically bribery, but give a doctor free stuff and he
is probably going to move your product. The medical profession denies
it, but big pharma is not giving away tens of millions in trips, gifts
and schmoozing because they are stupid. They do it because it works.

Of course, none of this is going to happen because the medical rackets
are neatly aligned with the ruling liberal democrats. America does not
have a government run system like Britain; it’s more of a partnership
between the industry and the state. That way, we get the worst of both
worlds. On the one hand there’s the avaricious private suppliers and on
the other the mindless idiocy of government.

I’m fond of pointing out that we have all around us one of the greatest
health care system on earth. American veterinarian medicine is better
than what most humans enjoy on earth. It’s also cheap and plentiful.
That’s because it is largely government free and parasitic lawyer free.
Maybe when the robots take over, they can just kill all the lawyers and
bureaucrats. Then maybe medicine will because a normal business again.
