---
title: "The Doctor Shortage"
date: "2015-03-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3955"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3955"
---

Imagine you are presented a few career options early in your life. The
first option is one that will require years of study and a high IQ. You
possess a high IQ, but there is some risk that yours is not high enough.
You cannot know until you get far along in the process. The eventual end
point of the process is a career that may be spiritually fulfilling, but
has decreasing social status and only an above average salary. In other
words, by mid-life you can have a big house, the sports car and the
trophy wife, but you’re going to spend more than a decade slaving away
in poverty.

That’s option \#1.

The next option is one that requires about half the study time as the
first option and far less of an apprenticeship. You have to be smart,
but not genius level smart. Standard test scores will tell you if you
have what it takes to make it in this path. By the time you have
established yourself, you will surely make an upper-middle class income
and could easily be making much more. It’s a high status job and a lot
of fun, but not spiritually fulfilling. It just lets you live a 2%
lifestyle and get going at it by the time you’re in your middle
twenties..

That’s option \#2.

Now, we have the final choice. This is path that does not necessarily
require a high IQ, but it helps. There’s really no way to wash out so
you go as far as your skills will take you. It is never going to be high
paying or high status, but you can have a nice middle class income.
There will be times when you have to scrimp and save. You will have to
do without some things. But, the spiritual and psychic rewards are
limitless. This career will be your sanctuary from the world and bring
you a lifetime of happiness.

This is option \#3.

In medieval times, these options would have been the choice between a
high ranking clergyman, an aristocratic soldier and a monk. That’s if
you were born with magic blood. Nobles had these choices, but even then
the choices were often made for you by the patriarch or by circumstance.
If you were born a commoner, then you spent your life
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dOOTKA0aGI0" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">harvesting filth and complaining about the violence
inherent in the system</a>. But, we live in an era in which there is
still some effort to try and scoop up the talented from the lower
orders.

That means young men and women take standardized tests so colleges and
universities can begin to sort out who is and who is not managerial
class potential. We’ve not yet reached the point where career paths are
assigned and that may never happen as it is contradicts the interests of
the managerial class, who pride themselves on being a self-selected
meritocracy. Choosing your own path is a big part of their class
identity so that is something that will likely remain a feature of their
ideology.

The question then, getting back to where we started, is which of the
three choices would most people choose. In modern times, physician is
clearly option \#1. Advancing far in the medical rackets requires a high
IQ, a long time in school and a very long and unpleasant apprenticeship.
The reward at the end is pretty good, but no better than option \#2. In
fact, bankers and banker’s lawyers usually make vastly more than
comparable doctors. It is only at the low-end do we see doctors and
nurse practitioners compete economically with lawyers and brokers. At
the high end, no doctor can compete with a VP at Goldman.

The final option is the lifestyle option. You’re a smart guy from a good
family, but you like smoking weed and surfing so you open a surf shop.
Alternatively, you have what it takes for the first two options, but
have a passion for some new business that is many years from taking off,
but you’re going to be on the cutting edge, even if it means a long
struggle. Think Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream or custom bike frame makers.
There are, of course, trust fund types who have the money to be as weird
as they like. <a
href="http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2004-08-20/features/0408190448_1_teresa-heinz-answering-plane-crash"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">John Heinz IV is a blacksmith and
Buddhist</a>.

That brings us back to those first two options. We have made becoming a
doctor impossibly difficult. Worse yet, we have made it unrewarding.
Socialized medicine has this habit. The result is the native talent opts
for the second option. Being a hotshot lawyer is just an all-around
better  life than being a doctor. It’s why share holder meetings are
packed with attorneys now. In the fifties, they were packed with
doctors. In Britain, <a
href="http://www.theguardian.com/society/2014/jan/26/nhs-foreign-nationals-immigration-health-service"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a quarter of physicians are
foreigners</a>. Not foreign born, but foreigners.

<a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/to-your-health/wp/2015/03/03/u-s-faces-90000-doctor-shortage-by-2025-medical-school-association-warns/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The same is happening in the US</a>.

*The United States faces [a shortage of as many as 90,000
physicians](https://www.aamc.org/download/426242/data/ihsreportdownload.pdf)
by 2025, including a critical need for specialists to treat an aging
population that will increasingly live with chronic disease, the
association that represents [medical schools and teaching
hospitals](https://www.aamc.org/) reported Tuesday.*

*The nation’s shortage of primary care physicians has received
considerable attention in recent years, but the Association of American
Medical Colleges report predicts that the greatest shortfall, on a
percentage basis, will be in the demand for surgeons — especially those
who treat diseases more common to older people, such as cancer.*

*In addition to the growing and aging population, full implementation of
the Affordable Care Act in all 50 states would increase demand for
doctors as more people are covered by insurance. But Obamacare’s impact
will be small — just 2 percent of the projected growth in demand, the
organization said. The supply of doctors also will grow but not nearly
as quickly as the need, officials said.*

*“An increasingly older, sicker population, as well as people living
longer with chronic diseases, such as cancer, is the reason for the
increased demand,” Darrell G. Kirch, the AAMC’s president and chief
executive, told reporters during a telephone news briefing.*

In the study of collapse, there are few fixed rules. The one thing on
which everyone seems to agree is the ruling classes are no longer able
to cope and adjust to changing circumstances. Why this happens is tough
to fathom, but simply being wrong is a good starting point. The
Athenians were wildly wrong about the Syracuse campaign, despite
warnings from respectable members of society. Wrongness has inertia.

With regard to health care the majority of the managerial class is
locked into 19th century ideas about how to micromanage an economy. No
one in charge can imagine anything other than a micromanaged system so
they deploy all available resources in the effort to perfect their
system. The more they try to fix the system, the worse it gets. We’ve
reached a point where the inputs result in unexpected outputs. A few
more cycles and the inputs have no result. The system seizes up and then
it collapses.

 
