---
title: "Rambling About Immigration"
date: "2015-01-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3590"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3590"
---

I’ve always been fairly open to immigration. I have a lot of immigrant
friends and acquaintances. They are hardworking, mostly honest and good
additions to America. Not all immigrants are the same and we should be
cautious about who we let in to the country. Muslims, as much as
possible, should be barred from entry. That seems obvious. Koreans,
Chinese and Japanese are very successful immigrants with very strong
support networks so we can be liberal with them. A country our size can
easily absorb and assimilate half a million new citizens each year,
maybe a little more in good times.

Now, if we shut off all immigration, as we have in the past, that’s fine
too. We have roughly 40 million foreign born in the US. That’s a big
number and the people would be justified in wanting a halt, in order to
let the current immigrants get settled. It is only fair. Inviting these
people in and then screwing them by gutting the labor market with more
immigrants is pretty close to evil. If we are going to have immigration,
we should make sure the immigrants succeed, as much as possible.

The problem is that immigration stopped being a public policy issue and
became a rentier racket for the ruling class. Big companies like cheap
labor from indentured servants. Small business likes cash labor so they
can avoid paying taxes and insurance. Then we have an army of human
traffickers that make money getting migrants into America. These brokers
operate on both sides of the border. Of course, foreign governments have
figured out to make money off this racket as well.

[This story on
VDare](http://www.vdare.com/articles/memo-from-middle-america-musings-on-my-christmastime-trip-to-mexico-along-with-millions-of-visiting-mexicans)
explain how the way the Mexican government, for example, profits from
illegal immigration. Billions flow from America to Mexico through
illegal immigration. Of course, the drug trade is intimately tangled up
in the immigration rackets and with the Mexican government. All of this
is [facilitated by a banking
system](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2015-01-16/one-thing-gangs-smuggling-latin-migrants-over-the-border-can-t-do-without-big-u-s-banks.html)
that operates beyond the reach of any government’s laws. If you go to a
convenience store near where migrants live, you’ll find a wire transfer
machine/check cashing machine located in the back. Western Union seems
to own most of them.

The human brokers are probably the most offensive to the morality of a
sane people. [This
story](http://www.upc-online.org/wpost/991201/workers.html) I stumbled
upon from a long ago is a great example. The areas where these poultry
plants operate are not suffering from labor shortages. In fact, light
manufacturing locates to these areas because of the abundance of cheap
land and cheap local labor. It is a hassle dealing with rural rednecks
and rural blacks. They demand things like sick time and holiday pay.
Slaves from Korea tend not to cause much trouble. They are much less
likely to fall into a machine or blow the place up by accident.

The economics of immigration policy are easy to understand once you look
into it. As the above shows, there are a lot of people making big money
by flouting the laws. Getting easier laws to flout, presumably, opens up
greater avenues for these parasites to profit. That’s the thing to
remember. The cheap labor may mean cheap landscaping, but the American
put out of work by the illegal migrant is on welfare, which drives up
your taxes and social costs. In effect, these immigration privateers are
taxing all of us by shifting costs to the tax payer.

On every other issue, we find politicians on both sides. Raising or
lowering business taxes, for example, will get friends of business out
in support of the proposals, but it also gets pols out who are
emotionally opposed to profit making business. In other words, you can’t
bribe Nancy Pelosi into supporting tax cuts. Immigration is the
exception. Only a handful of pols dare speak out against the moneyed
interests. Even pols who have nothing to gain and represent strong
anti-immigrant constituencies are silent. It’s as if a madness has taken
hold of the ruling elite, where any criticism of immigration is heresy.

The increasingly clownish Marco Rubio is back with a [new scheme to
flood the STEM
fields](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/01/13/hatch-rubio-flake-co-sponsor-bill-to-increase-h-1b-guest-worker-visas/)
with indentured servants. Keep in mind that his political prospects took
a nosedive after he backed the last immigration scheme. Unless he is
retarded, the guy has to know that the public is overwhelmingly against
this. Yet, here he is throwing his career away for this cause. Even
assuming he is getting bribed, why take the risk? Rubio is a young man
who could be president one day. Why risk it all just for a few bucks and
the pat on the head from the ruling elites?

That’s the key question. Simple bribery is never enough on other issues
so why would immigration be the exception?

The answer is the secular religion we call liberalism, progressivism,
multiculturalism, etc. A core tenet of this belief set is that all
humans are the same. Economics and circumstance are what makes for
different results. Ireland is the way it is not because it is full of
Irish, but because of the accident of history. Put a bunch of Bantus on
the island and before long you get black Irish who are remarkably good
at track and field. It’s not just that race is a myth; ethnicity is a
myth, a leftover from a bygone era.

When applied to immigration, the only morally consistent policy is open
borders. After all, letting in one group over another means one group is
better, innately better, than the other group. That blows apart the
whole thing. It’s why [Steve Sailer has it all
wrong](http://www.unz.com/isteve/marine-le-pen-in-the-nyt/) about how
France can walk back from their immigration policies. Even saying that
“we have reached our goal” on immigration admits that not all people are
the same and therefore it is good and proper to make judgments about
them based on culture. Admitting that culture is real and permanent is
inconceivable.
