---
title: "Thinking about the Post-National World"
date: "2015-06-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3757"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3757"
---

In other forums, I’ve gone around and around with people about the
future of extra-national entities like Europe or the North American
Union. Everyone alive has grown up in a world of countries and nations.
They think that’s the natural order and anything that runs counter to it
is doomed to fail.

People believe the nation is the natural end point of human societal
evolution. European history was taught this way in American schools when
we still taught history so maybe that’s the reason it is embedded in
people’s minds. More likely it is just the fact that we have known
nothing else. Even places where “country” is barely recognizable like
the Middle East, we insist on maintaining national boundaries.

My contention is that history shows a steady evolution toward larger and
larger organizing entities. Britain is a good example. When the Romans
arrived, the people were organized into tribes. When the Romans left,
the island was organized into small kingdoms. By the middle ages they
had the Heptarchy.  Eventually, all of Britain was unified under one
banner and one identity. In a few years, Britain will be absorbed in the
EU as a province of Brussels.

That seems to be the way to bet. Europe is becoming an amorphous blob of
people from all over creation. What was once thought of as countries are
becoming administrative districts. When the German district runs low on
people, they import more from Turkey or the Balkans. The French district
imports people from Algeria and Tunisia. Being a French citizen has the
same value to the local government as being a citizen of Swaziland or
Jupiter.

The TPP that Republicans are hell bent on passing for Barak Obama will
create an extra-national organization that will decide immigration,
trade, tariffs, taxes, environmental issues, etc. Just as with the EU,
this organization will absorb more and more of the duties national
governments used to manage. Over time, the US government will simply be
an enforcement arm of various world governing authorities.

That sounds like bad theater, but it is already happening in Europe. <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/london/2015/04/30/big-brother-is-watching-new-eu-rules-will-put-tracker-devices-in-all-cars/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The EU recently passed a rule requiring
cars to have tracking devices</a>. The responsibility for enforcing such
a rule will fall to what we used to call national governments. Those
government will, in turn, delegate some portion of their duties to
provincial and municipal governments. Those governments don’t get a say
in it. They just enforce it on whoever happens to be coming through
their administrative zone.

You can vote yourself silly in local and national elections, but all you
will be doing is picking the people responsible for enforcing the rules.
You will have no say in the writing of laws and formulation of policy,
because the people for whom you are voting will have no power to write
laws. That’s on display in Greece right now. They can have an election
every week and the facts on the ground remain unchanged, because the
decisions are made in Brussels.

This means citizenship goes away, for all practical purposes. Citizens
participate in the management of their societies because they share a
language, customs and history with the people of their society. If you
no longer share these things and have no way to participate in the
management of your society, why have any loyalty to any of it? Why
bother calling yourself a citizen? You’re just someone who happens to
live in an administrative district named after what it used to be.

Of course, humans are not atomized, transactional creatures. We are
social animals. Even when we find ourselves randomly dispersed, we
coagulate into groups based on our natures. There’s a reason that in
every school cafeteria in America kids self-segregate by race, sex and
age. Kids have to be forcibly integrated, despite being marinated in
multiculturalism.

So, people will still group together and have in-group loyalties and
out-group hostilities. How the global elite figures on managing that is
anyone’s guess. It works now as most people remain patriotic and
participate in civic life thinking it makes a difference. Everyday,
however, <a
href="http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/gabrielle-cintorino/record-number-americans-renounced-their-us-citizenship-2015"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">more people come to the realization that
citizenship</a> is a suckers game. At some point, the legacy
institutions will be abandoned by even the most romantic and a new way
of controlling the population will be required.

The most likely solution is the soft authoritarianism you see in the
ghetto. The dependent class is kept in-line by a mix of the lash and the
leash. When you rely on the state to supply your house, your food, your
entertainments and your drugs, even the dumbest ghetto dweller figures
out how to play by the rules. Those who can’t behave are rounded up by
the cops, if they don’t shoot one another.

Maybe some new organizing ethos will fill the void, allowing people to
rally in support of their rulers like we had with patriotism and
tribalism. It’s hard to imagine what it could be, but maybe nationalism
was unfathomable before The Hundred Years War. Alternatively, maybe the
future is just a cleaner, more orderly version of the ghetto where
everyone is running a scam, loyal only to their circle of confidants.
