---
title: "Anarchy in the UK"
date: "2015-04-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4401"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4401"
---

Anarcho-Tyranny is when the managerial state either loses the will or
the capacity to control real criminals so they harass the citizenry. The
best example I can conjure is your car. In most American communities,
the cops don’t even bother to look for stolen cars. They take a report
and put the car in the system. The car could be on fire in front of the
station and they don’t bother to notice. Car theft is simply not their
concern. That’s the anarchy.

On the other hand, every street corner and intersection now has a camera
for spotting violations. In my two mile commute to the office, I pass
through a dozen cameras. Then there are the cops looking for broken
taillights, drivers not wearing seat belts and any of an endless list of
potential violations that have nothing to do with safety. That’s the
tyranny.

In Britain, the process is far more advanced than in the US. There, the
authorities truly are game keepers, policing every little thing about
the public. If I were located in Britain, this blog would have me
rotting in prison because I’m obviously a threat to the progress of
mankind.

If that sounds farfetched, <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/law-and-order/11570181/Former-Monty-Python-cameraman-arrested-over-satirical-posters.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">consider this from yesterday</a>.

*A former Monty Python cameraman has been arrested for harassment over a
series of homemade satirical posters mocking local councillors.*

*John Wellard, 71, said the episode was “completely pythonesque” and
told the six police officers who arrived at his home on Friday night: “I
wasn’t expecting the Spanish Inquisition.”*

*The pensioner was questioned by police for two hours after the police
received complaints that a series of light-hearted posters appearing in
Faversham, Kent, amounted to harassment of members of the town council.*

*Residents have been locked in an on-going dispute with councillors over
fears the town’s historic creek area will be developed into expensive
flats.*

*In the last few months, posters have been handed around local pubs and
posted through doors, along with brown envelopes stuffed with copies of
old Venezuelan banknotes bearing the note: “If you find this message
please return it to your councillor.”*

*One poster depicts a Tory councillor on a donkey riding through the
town, while another describes the town’s mayor and other local figures
as “a growing problem in the heart of Kent”.*

*Mr Wellard, who refuses to confirm or deny any involvement in the
posters, believes his name had been given to Kent Police because one of
the posters involved a joke from the 1979 Monty Python film Life of
Brian.*

*He told <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3059872/Six-officers-arrest-former-Monty-Python-cameraman-lampooning-politicians-Pensioner-71-quizzed-two-hours-satirical-posters-told-police-wasn-t-expecting-Spanish-Inquisition.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Mail</a>: “It was completely
Pythonesque. Lampoonery and satire have been part of British public life
for centuries.*

*“Why have six policemen threatened to go through my belongings just
because a few feathers have been ruffled? Freedom of speech is being
whittled away.”*

*Mr Wellard, who was interviewed under caution at the local police
station, chose to give a ‘no comment’ answer to every question.*

*“It’s irrelevant who’s done what because I do not believe any offence
has been committed,” he said.*

*“I refused to make any comment, not as a measure of my guilt but I
don’t believe that I, or anyone else concerned, have done anything
wrong.*

*“In politics people make criticisms and say all kinds of insulting
things – if they can’t take the joke they shouldn’t join.*

*“When the six police were about to search the house I joked that “I
wasn’t expecting the Spanish Inquisition”, but it fell a bit flat.*

Of course it fell flat. Authoritarianism is humorless and that’s the
heart of managerialism. From top to bottom the system is staffed with
the narrowest of narrow minded bureaucrats, who live for the chance to
fill out forms about the plenary session of the third department’s
planning session for the annual meeting to discuss the last annual
meeting.

Managerialism is rule by toll booth operator. Every soulless automaton
in the system has one job and they are charged to do it with a ruthless
efficiency. That’s how they are measured and that’s how they think.
Humor, by its nature, is coloring outside the lines and that becomes a
high crime in the managerial state

In Britain, Pakistani pimps are permitted to rape little English girls
because that is easier for the custodians than the alternatives. That’s
the anarchy. The people in the bureaucracy can never look up from their
screens long enough to consider the wider implications of their actions.
That risks stepping out of line and being noticed for something other
than ruthlessly adhering to the rules.

On the other hand, local cut-ups make sport of the mandarins threaten
order and that cannot be tolerated so they send out the cops, probably
walking right past some Pakistani pimps, to harass an old man over
posters. That’s the tyranny and it is coming to the US like a tsunami of
sewage.
