---
title: "They Always Start Young"
date: "2015-01-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3660"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3660"
---

For as long as I have been alive, the Left has had an obsession with
children. *Your* children. One of the first Progressive causes was
public education. The branch of the Left that descended from the
Anglo-American (WASP) tradition sent their kids to private schools, but
they had a keen interest in the public schools, nonetheless. Steve
Sailer would argue that this was within the English tradition of
plucking the best and brightest from the lower classes in order to
cultivate them into the upper classes. Perhaps that was true in the
beginning, but by the time the 20th century rolled around, it was about
indoctrination into the Left.

By the time we hit mid-century, most of the knowledge about human
relations had been banned from the schools and the public square.
Television, newspapers and movies excluded all of those retrograde ideas
about humanity and instead embraced the new thinking. The schools, of
course, were the best place to make sure the crime-think was squeezed
out of society. If the next generation is raised in the one true faith,
then you will not have to worry too much about policing them as adults,
at least when it comes to the crime-think.

The communications revolution has created a whole new set of challenges.
Crime-think is everywhere on-line. Kids can go on Twitter, Facebook and
so on and be exposed to crime-think. Worse yet, some of them are prone
to crime-think, maybe picking it up at home, which has been
frustratingly out of reach of the Left. That leads to crime-thinkers
ganging up on right-thinkers in what the Left calls cyber-bullying. This
is when crime-thinkers post unapproved things on-line.

Since everyone has been bullied as a child – whether you know it or not
– and bullies are the worst of the worst, the schools are getting the
task of tackling the cyber-bullying epidemic that has swept the country.
In Illinois, low level functionaries in the school system will be
scanning the Interwebs for cyber-bullying by public school students. If
one is found, <a
href="http://motherboard.vice.com/read/illinois-says-students-have-to-give-up-facebook-passwords-or-face-prosecution"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the school will demand the student turn
over his account information</a> so the school can look inside his
cranium via his social media accounts and scoop out the crime-think.

*School districts in Illinois are telling parents that a new law may
require school officials to demand the social media passwords of
students if they are suspected in cyberbullying cases or are otherwise
suspected of breaking school rules.*

*[The
law](http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/publicacts/98/PDF/098-0801.pdf),
which went into effect on January 1, defines cyberbullying and makes
harassment on Facebook, Twitter, or via other digital means a violation
of the state’s school code, even if the bullying happens outside of
school hours.*

*A letter sent out to parents in the [Triad Community Unit School
District
\#2](http://www.triadunit2.org/education/district/district.php?sectiondetailid=1&),
a district located just over the Missouri-Illinois line near St. Louis,
that was obtained by Motherboard says that school officials can demand
students give them their passwords. The full letter is embedded below.*

*“If your child has an account on a social networking website, e.g.,
Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, ask.fm, etc., please be aware that State
law requires school authorities to notify you that your child may be
asked to provide his or her password for these accounts to school
officials in certain circumstances,” the letter says.*

*“School authorities may require a student or his or her parent/guardian
to provide a password or other related account information in order to
gain access to his/her account or profile on a social networking website
if school authorities have reasonable cause to believe that a student’s
account on a social networking website contains evidence that a student
has violated a school disciplinary rule or procedure,” it continues.*

It’s not hard to see where this ends. A school lunatic will hear
something unapproved from a student and immediately demand the kid hand
over his passwords. Snooping around, they will learn that the kid got
his crime-think at home and use his social media data to launch child
abuse claims against the parents. It will end up in court, but the point
will have been made. That young person will come away knowing that they
are always being watched, even in private.  Compliance is not optional.

Like pedophiles, Progressives like ’em young.
