---
title: "IQ Is Not Real!!!"
date: "2015-12-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6061"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6061"
---

One of the more entertaining aspects of the genetic age is going to be
how the Left reconciles their claim to love of science with the fact
that science contradicts most of what they believe. Even funnier is how
the soft sciences are finding their authority laughed out of the room by
genetics. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/science-news/12061787/Intelligence-genes-discovered-by-scientists.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a>.

*Genes which make people intelligent have been discovered and scientists
believe they could be manipulated to boost brain power.*

*Researchers have believed for some time that <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/picturegalleries/4551138/Test-your-own-IQ-with-these-examples.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">intellect</a> is inherited with studies
suggesting that up to 75 per cent of IQ is genetic, and the rest down to
environmental factors such as schooling and friendship groups.*

*But until now, nobody has been able to pin-point exactly which genes
are responsible for better memory, attention, processing speed or
reasoning skills.*

*Now Imperial College London has found that two networks of genes
determine whether people are <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/wellbeing/mood-and-mind/7-everyday-ways-you-are-ruining-your-iq/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">intelligent</a> or not-so-bright.*

*They liken the gene network to a football team. When all the players
are in the right positions, the brain appears to function optimally,
leading to clarity of thought and what we think of as quickness or
cleverness.*

*However when the genes are mutated or in the wrong order, it can lead
to dullness of thinking, or even serious cognitive impairments.*

*Scientists believe that there must be a ‘master switch’ regulating the
networks and if they could find it, they could ‘switch on’ intelligence
for everyone.*

I doubt you can find anyone in science claiming that only 75% of
intelligence is inherited. The general consensus is 90% and there are
many who argue it is closer to 98%. But, you have to leave room for the
one true faith so we’ll pretend education and parenting have some
significant role.

Of course, even if we accept the lower number it means that 90% of
education theory is just nonsense. If little Johnny has a native IQ of
85, he’s never going to be college material. The configuration of the
school and the efforts of the teacher will not change that enough to
make the effort worthwhile.

It also means that all sorts of other cognitive traits are heritable,
which is considered heresy by the Cult. Then we have the R word and ,
well, only Hitler talks about that so science better be careful about
how they handle that one. You don’t want to be branded a scientific
racist, do you?

All joking aside, much of what we are forced to believe about humanity
is under assault by genetics. On the other hand, much of what we used to
know is being proved by genetics. People are not blank slates. They are
the product of many generations. At some point, it is going to be
impossible to be both a Progressive and a scientist.

Even more amusing is that at some point, Progressives will be forced to
oppose abortion. After all, if IQ is genetic, so is sex and color and
sexual preference. Once parents can test for homosexuality and abort the
gay fetus, how long before the Cult moves to stop it? Maybe we will live
to see Progressive hipsters picketing Planned Unparenthood.

 
