---
title: "Team Moonbat and Cankles"
date: "2015-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4619"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4619"
---

It is my contention that the Left is fine with throwing the 2016
election if only to be done with Hillary Clinton. If a true believer
were to step into the race, like say Elizabeth Warren, then we would see
the Left and its enablers make a full court press to keep the White
House in the hands of the Cult. After all, there could be several
Supreme Court openings.

But, that’s not happening so for now the liberal media will subtly point
to <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/31/us/politics/democrats-seek-a-richer-roster-to-match-gop-in-2016-election.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the failings of Clinton and her
campaign</a>.

*Over the last few months, Harold M. Ickes, a longtime ally of <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/04/13/us/elections/hillary-clinton.html?inline=nyt-per"
class="meta-per"
title="More articles about Hillary Rodham Clinton.">Hillary Rodham
Clinton</a>, has helped organize private meetings around the country
with union leaders, Clinton backers and Democratic strategists. The
pressing topic: Who will step up to be the Democrats’ megadonors in the
2016 presidential race?*

*Republican contenders have already secured hundreds of millions of
dollars in commitments from a stable of billionaires, including a Wall
Street hedge fund executive, a Las Vegas casino magnate, a Florida auto
dealer, a Wyoming investor and, of course, the Kansas-born billionaires
David H. and Charles G. Koch. But none of the biggest Democratic donors
from past elections — for example, the Chicago investor Fred Eychaner,
the climate-change activist Tom Steyer and the entertainment mogul
Jeffrey Katzenberg — have committed to supporting Mrs. Clinton on nearly
the same scale.*

*“No one has stepped forward as the savior,” said Matt Bennett, a
longtime Democratic consultant in Washington.*

A big part of the Progressive mythology is to believe that a secret
cabal of billionaires is working to thwart Progressives.
<a href="https://www.opensecrets.org/overview/topindivs.php"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">When you look at the figures</a>, you see
that about 60% of the rich guy money is going to Democrats. Most of the
rich guy money going to the GOP is for globalist, open borders stuff
that no sane person would call “conservative.”

But, the take away here is that the big donors of the Left are keeping
their powder dry for now. The excuse is hilarious:

*In planning sessions and one-on-one meetings with donors, Mr. Ickes,
who is a Priorities USA board member, and other Clinton supporters are
discussing how to raise as much as $300 million for Democratic outside
groups. That is almost twice as much as Democratic super PACs and other
outside groups spent to help re-elect President Obama in 2012, when
conservative super PACs far outspent liberal ones.*

*This ambitious goal will require the emergence of a new class of at
least 20 Democratic donors who can give $5 million or even $10 million
each. Mr. Ickes said recruiting them would not be easy.*

*“**Our side isn’t used to being asked for that kind of money,” Mr.
Ickes said. “If you asked them to put up $100 million for a hospital
wing, they’d be the first in line.**”*

It’s things like this that should remind normal people that the Left is
not stocked with reasonable people with bad information. These people
are nuts. They truly believe the lunacy they spout and no amount of
reasoning is going to change their beliefs.

*The hurdles begin with the candidate. While Mrs. Clinton has committed
to meeting personally with potential super PAC donors, people close to
her say she has not yet grappled with the kind of big-donor courting
that has framed the early months of the Republican race.*

*She is also navigating the intricate rules on what a candidate may do
to help super PACs, which, since the Supreme Court’s Citizens United
decision in 2010, can raise unlimited funds from individuals and
corporations but may not “coordinate” with candidates. Fearful of
violating the rules, Mrs. Clinton plans to limit her direct appeals to
donors.*

Yeah, the people who have spent the last twenty years breaking every
Federal law regarding campaign financing are now suddenly scrupulous
about the minor details of fundraising. The only way someone can write
that paragraph is as satire or severe mental illness. My goodness. Just
the other day it was revealed that Clinton sold off 20% of the nation’s
uranium supply for cash to her “foundation” which is a giant slush fund
for Clinton Inc.

This is the way theocracies operate. Objective reality is hammered and
shaped to fit dogma, to the point of absurdity. If a normal person were
in the room when this article was discussed and they made mention of the
scandals, everyone would leave the room. Before long someone from HR
would call the normal in and poof! They’re a non-person at the NYTimes.

That’s not to say the agit-prop organs of the Cult of Modern Liberalism
will fully support Clinton. Theirs is a more subtle game. They will
avoid outright denunciation because Clinton is not a heretic. She’s just
a crook and a loser. Instead, they will talk about how the true
believers, for some reason, are just not that enthused about Hillary.
That way they can let events take their course, while still waving the
flag of Team Moonbat.
