---
title: "Three Cheers for Death Taxes?"
date: "2015-01-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-01-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3683"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3683"
---

[I saw this the other day on Maggie’s
Farm](http://maggiesfarm.anotherdotcom.com/archives/25582-Three-Cheers-for-Death-Taxes.html).
I can’t recall how many times I have had debates with people over death
taxes. Everyone is always shocked by my position on the issue. I guess
it is just assumed that Progressives like inheritance taxes so
anti-Progressives must be against them. That’s generally the assumption
on all taxes and tax policy. Once again, we see how the Left’s hive
mindedness shapes public discussion.

Taxes are necessary if you wish to have a government. Government is
necessary if you wish to have a state. Even libertarians get this. The
question is, what do you tax in order to fund government? The amount of
taxing should always track the amount of spending. The great disaster of
late 20<sup>th</sup> century American conservatism is the uncoupling of
taxes from spending. The modern Right is just a different brand of
liberal, offering a free lunch in exchange for a vote.

It seems to me that taxing the dead is a great way to fund the state.
After all, the dead have few spending needs. They have no rights and no
claims on the living. Taking the property of the dead is well within the
traditions of western people so it’s not like we are breaking new
ground. Throughout history, failure to properly name an heir meant your
property was awarded to the state upon your death. To date, the dead
have never petitioned their government for redress of death taxes.

The only snag is when it comes to property held in association with
others, like a business or jointly held lands. If your business partner
dies and the state takes ownership of his shares in the business, you
now find yourself in partnership with the government against your will.
Worse yet, the state could auction off that ownership stake and you end
up out of business entirely. But, key-man polices have been around a
long time so there’s a remedy.

A key-man policy is a type of insurance policy. If one partner dies, the
policy pays off so that the other partner can acquire the shares of his
partner from his estate. Putting that into law so that the state gets
the insurance money rather than the company stock is not terribly
difficult. It would protect the rights of the living without giving
rights to the dead.

The thornier problem is property or a business *sort of* owned by a
family. The patriarch builds up a company and has his kids join in the
business. Before they are ready to gain a share of the business, the old
man gets hit by a bus. There’s no insurance policy to cover the business
so the tax obligations would wipe out the family business. Again, this
could be addressed with minor changes in the law such that life
insurance could cover this sort of calamity.

The only sensible objection, it seems to me is one of equity. The guy
who works hard, saves his money and builds up a fortune ends up paying a
greater tax than the bum who never bothered to save. Bill Gates,
according to some, should have the right to give his great fortune to
his children if he chooses. It should not be confiscated by the state.

There’s nothing to prevent Bill Gates from giving his fortune away. He
would just have to do it while he is alive. If he wants to set his kid
up with a billion dollar gift, that’s his choice. That option exists
now. Whatever is left upon his death will go to the government. People
have been doing this sort of planning for generations.

The counter to this is the modest, middle-class family cannot take
advantage of these laws. The folks who have their wealth in their
primary home, maybe a vacation spot and the family business cannot be
expected to liquidate before death and give away their money. As a
practical matter, it must be done at the time of death. At the risk of
sounding callous, life is unfair like that sometimes. No tax is without
its unfairness.

That’s the thing I come back to when it comes to the death tax. No one
likes paying taxes. There is no tax scheme that makes everyone happy or
everyone equally miserable. Every tax irks someone more than others. The
dead have bigger problems than the disposition of their property so
taxing them strikes me as the least harmful of the possible taxes.

Unlike most other taxes, death taxes have the benefit of breaking up
large fortunes. Concentration of wealth is the number one enemy of
civilization. There’s nothing wrong with someone getting fabulously rich
through his own initiative. There’s an assumed link between the fortune
and the talent. Inheriting a fortune and the power that comes with it is
hitting the lottery. Worse yet, it subjects the rest of us to
[sortition](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sortition#Historical), thus
pegging the fate of society to the mating choices of the long since
dead.

In conclusion, taxes are about paying for the current operations of
government. The best taxes are those that retard the normal functioning
of society the least. No one escapes death so taxing it will not get
less of it. It’s not perfect, but no tax is perfect. It is the only tax
that has any plausible social benefit.

 
