---
title: "It’s About To Get Uglier"
date: "2015-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4413"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4413"
---

Baltimore has always been full of tension, by nature of the historical
arrangements that evolved following the Civil Rights Movement. The
uneasy coexistence after Reconstruction between blacks and whites south
of the Mason-Dixon Line was held together via legal and private
discrimination. Whites stayed in their areas and blacks stayed in their
areas. Both sides policed their side of the line, figuratively if not
always literally.

The Civil Rights Movement swung a wrecking ball through that
arrangement. After all, the northern whites were sure their way of
handling blacks was superior. In the north they herded blacks into urban
ghettos. That way they could pretend to treat blacks as their equals
because they were never within eyesight of them.

So, the northern whites swung the wrecking ball through the Southern way
of dealing with blacks, by banning public and private discrimination. In
Baltimore, this resulted in a thing called “block busting.” Jewish
neighborhoods would suddenly sellout to blacks or their intended
landlords. The surrounding blocks would be quick to sell at a discount
and whole areas of the city went from white to black.

Since the old covenants against selling to blacks or renting to blacks
were no longer enforceable, there was no way for these old neighborhoods
to hang tough against the onslaught so they fled to the county. To this
day state regulators in Maryland try to trap real estate agents into
making discriminatory statements. They now say these things in code.

That’s how things evolved in the Baltimore area. The phrase “good
schools” means few blacks. The word “diversity” means lots of blacks.
Those with anything on the ball have fled the city and moved to the
county. There are sections of Baltimore county that are very black, but
very safe and middle class. There are areas that are very white, as
well.

The city has become an urban reservation, for the most part. There are
parts that managed to remain white, but they are upper middle class
areas where home prices prevented block busting. There are very wealthy
areas as well, and the small gentrified areas near the tourist traps.
Otherwise, the city is a holding pen for people no one wants in their
neighborhood.

This has worked fairly well for the area. The cops keep the tourist
areas running which brings money into the city. That also keeps the
state involved, hoping to avoid the fate of Detroit. Having massive
Federal spending in the state due to proximity to the Imperial Capital
has financed these arrangements. West Baltimore operates as a giant
reservation system, holding the pre- and post-convict population of the
city.

Now, the Soros Army is at the city walls demanding the whole system be
dismantled. They have no replacement for the current arrangements. They
are here for the mayhem. These incidents are just billionaires playing
human chess with the hoi polloi. Imagine Soros betting the Koch Bothers
a dollar over whether he can burn Baltimore to the ground.

Unlike Ferguson, Baltimore is not a small town with small town police
and small town criminals. Baltimore is a big city with big time
criminals. The city is called Bodymore Murderville for a reason. The
locals are proud of that label for a reason too. More important, there
are rich people with assets in the city they want protected – by the
police.

<a
href="http://www.buzzfeed.com/albertsamaha/baltimore-sergeant-warns-superiors-its-about-to-get-ugly#.bdnj9y50D"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The cops are already reporting that
things are getting hot on the streets</a>, following the announcement
that the six cops will be hanged in accordance with the demands of the
Soros Army. The rational thing here is for the cops to simply withdraw,
letting the animals kill as many libertarians and anarchists as they can
find. That would do us all a favor, but that will not happen.

*“I have been to five calls today and three of those five calls for
service; I have been challenged to a fight. Some of them I blew off but
one of them almost got ugly. I don’t want anybody to say that I did not
tell them what is going on. This is no intel this is really what’s going
on the street. This is my formal notification. It is about to get
ugly.”*

Here’s something the news will not report. That’s a cop patrolling a
mostly white area and he is a white cop. The whites in the city are
frightened out of their minds right now and the white cops are now
paralyzed. White cops will be banging out sick, taking vacation and  
applying for jobs outside the city.

Things are going to get very ugly.
