---
title: "The Ghetto Welcomes You"
date: "2015-04-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4372"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4372"
---

Baltimore calls itself “Charm City” because they used to have a sense of
humor. The city is one of the least charming places on earth and it used
to be a lot worse. At its peak, Baltimore was a gray, dumpy industrial
town. Today, it’s Detroit on the Chesapeake with a better tourist area.
Otherwise, Baltimore is an unrelenting shithole that should probably be
given the Dresden treatment.

That tourist area is a big draw, particularly the ballpark. I’ve been to
most of the ballparks in the US and Camden Yards is right up their near
the top of the list. The park is a great place to watch a game and the
surrounding blocks offer some great places to eat and drink. The Federal
architecture is some of the best you will see.

Beyond that, and much closer than the tourists realize, are
<a href="http://weblogs.baltimoresun.com/news/crime/blog/waiting.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">my people</a>. Most Americans just don’t
know what’s lurking in many of our cities. They stay off of streets
named Martin Luther King and Malcolm X. Everyone knows where to avoid,
even if they don’t exactly know why. It’s as if their mental map has
these places labeled “here be monsters.”

But, urban reservations are not a great way to keep the blacks under
control unless you are willing to enforce the borders. If you let the
wildlings break free of their areas and get into the tourist areas, you
get scenes <a
href="http://www.wbaltv.com/news/crowds-start-to-march-in-west-baltimore/32570292"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">like last night</a>. The hoodlums and
corner boys will join in the fun and start doing what they do best,
cause mayhem.

Baltimore is a good example of what happened when Progressives are
allowed to rule unchecked. West Baltimore is a scary black ghetto and
the main hub for narcotics trafficking in the region. If you ever want
to understand why I think libertarians are fools, go to West Baltimore,
but do it in the morning hours when the locals are asleep.

The rest of the city is a mix of gentrified hipsterville, old industrial
and un-workingclass whites. The poor white areas are just poor white
areas. Modest crime, mostly drugs, but otherwise no trouble to anyone.
The hipster areas are the tax base and the future of the city, it is
hoped, but they are bounded by the more rugged areas of the city.

Unlike New York or Washington, Baltimore can’t ship their problem blacks
out to the suburbs. Whites fled Baltimore in the 60’s and 70’s and they
are wise to this tactic. Some of it has been done Ferguson style by
preying on the poorer white suburbs just outside the city, but it is
hard to relocate 300,000 blacks without people noticing. The result is
they remain in the urban reservation system built up fifty or more years
ago.

In years past, Baltimore has tried to import Hispanics into the city
hoping they would drive out the blacks. The last white Mayor and current
presidential candidate spent years begging Hispanics to move to
Baltimore. This worked in DC, but there was a close suburb able to take
the refugees. Prince Georges County absorbed the blacks from DC on
Section 8 vouchers. This mostly happened in the housing boom, which is
why <a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/sf/investigative/2015/01/24/the-american-dream-shatters-in-prince-georges-county/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PG County was one of the hardest hit by
the foreclosure crisis.</a>

But, Baltimore is not built for this type of ethnic cleansing. Hispanics
prefer the safety of the surrounding counties where there are jobs and
fewer black guys with guns. The result in Baltimore is sort of frozen in
place. On the one hand you have the promise of the gentrified areas, but
those areas are surrounded by a <a
href="http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/bal-black-guerrilla-family-tavon-white-prison-corruption-20130425-htmlstory.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">city run by the Black Guerrilla
Family</a>.

Drive around Baltimore and you can’t help but feel a little sad. There’s
a lot of potential, but it is a city that seems to look for the wrong
answer at every turn. Then again, the right answer, the one everyone
sort of knows, can never be said, much less implemented. Frankly,
shuffling these people from place to place like a bizarre game of Old
Maid means someone gets stuck with the dysfunctional population. That’s
Baltimore.

 
