---
title: "The Mysteries of Life"
date: "2015-03-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4156"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4156"
---

<a
href="http://www.dnainfo.com/new-york/20150325/east-williamsburg/pit-bull-owner-punches-man-williamsburg-for-having-p---y-dog-nypd"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is interesting.</a>.

*EAST WILLIAMSBURG — A young man punched a 65-year-old on Grand Street
after saying that the victim’s dog was “a p—y” compared to his pit
bulls, police said.*

*The victim was walking on Grand Street near Graham Avenue on Tuesday,
March 17 around 12:10 a.m. when the suspect tried to pet his dog, police
said.*

*The suspect, who was about 20 years old, said, “I got two pit bulls and
your dog is a p—y” before hitting the victim in the face, causing
swelling, redness and a bloody nose, police said.*

*It was unclear what kind of dog the victim owned.*

*The victim went to Woodhull Hospital for his injuries. The suspect was
described as being 5-foot-6, 160 pounds and wearing a black jacket.*

*No one has been arrested for the incident.*

The people of New York are on the lookout for a man wearing a black
jacket. How hard could it be to find this strange person wearing a black
jacket?

*At least five robberies or attempted robberies with the threat of gun
violence happened in Williamsburg in the last week.*

*In one incident, the victim, who did not give his age, was walking on
Ten Eyck Street near Union Avenue on Tuesday, March 17 around 12:40 a.m.
when three men stopped him, police said.*

*One displayed a black firearm and said, “Give me your wallet and phone,
and don’t yell or I’ll shoot you,” police said.*

*The victim handed over $870 worth of property, including an iPhone 6, a
Baruch college ID, a MetroCard, credit cards and $20.*

*One of the men then hit the victim in his face, causing pain, swelling,
bleeding and bruising, saying, “We know where you live so don’t call the
police.”*

*The men then fled on Ten Eyck Street.*

*One man was described as being 20 years old, 6-foot-10 and 180 pounds.
Another man was also 20, 5-foot-6 and 150 pounds. The third man was
about 6 feet tall.*

Again, we have perfectly accurate descriptions of the men. One was very
tall. Another was short and the third was medium height. What other data
point could the police need to apprehend these criminals?!

*On Wednesday, March 18 around 11:50 p.m. on Meserole Street near Graham
Avenue, Dontay Cooper, 18, approached a 25-year-old woman and said
“Don’t scream, I have a gun, give me your money,” police and the
Brooklyn District Attorney’s office said.*

*He took $40, MetroCards, IDs and credit cards, according to a criminal
complaint.*

*Cooper was also charged with two other robberies in the area.*

*On Monday, March 16 around 5:10 p.m., he threatened a woman with a gun
on Kingsland Avenue near Driggs Avenue, police said, taking cash, credit
cards and an iPhone.*

*He was also charged with threatening a woman with a gun on Maspeth
Avenue near Conselyea Street on Tuesday, March 17 at 11:11 p.m., the
criminal complaint said, also taking cash and credit cards.*

*His bail is set at $100,000, and his next court date is on Wednesday,
March 25.*

Dontay? Must be Italian.

Many outside the Left attribute this sort of not-noticing to a sort of
group evolutionary strategy. It is an effort to promote their cause or
protect their shibboleths. I don’t think that is the case. That suggests
a psychological reductionism. The wide-spread phenomenon of not
reporting the race, but including the other facts that allow one to
figure it out seems like an unconscious tick.

Human beings have been human beings for about 200,000 years. For about
190,000 of those years, we roamed around in small family bands, hunting
and gathering as necessary. We also murdered one another with a high
frequency. Roughly 15% of humans died at the hands of other humans in
this period. You had to have a thick psychological shell in order to
make it under those conditions.

Even in settlement, violence, death and mayhem were common. We take our
peaceful, secure lives for granted, complaining about all sorts of
trivia. For most of human civilization, death, pain and agony were
always ready to lay their icy hands on your shoulder. Watching half your
children die from the runs is not an easy thing. So, humans, I suspect,
figured out how to not think about it.

My hunch is this hilarious not-noticing we see from members of the cult
is a coping strategy gone haywire. The world as they imagine it collides
with the world as it is so they simply filter out the dis-conformation.
I bet if you asked the authoress of that piece why she neglected to list
the races, she would dismiss the question and change the subject. Or, if
you pressed, shift the focus to your bigotry and race obsession.
