---
title: "Compulsory Diversity"
date: "2015-03-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3910"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3910"
---

One of my hobbyhorse issues is the erosion of the right of association.
For as long as I’ve been alive, the right of association has been under
steady and subtle assault. The ObamaCare legislation, for example, has
all sorts of rules that make life more difficult for the religious to be
religious by limiting association.

Businesses, for example, are required to pay for things that are against
the religious beliefs of the owners. In effect, the owner is now
required to hire people that hate him and he has to subsidize their
efforts to destroy his religion. In a sane world he would simply refuse
to hire people his religion found unacceptable.

But, it’s not just the crowding out of liberty that is the inevitable
result of limits on association. We accept all sorts of limits on
liberty as long as the trade-off is acceptable. Prohibitions on speech,
for example, are welcomed by fee societies in order to buttress public
morality. We don’t allow men to copulate with their sisters because we
don’t want a bunch of pinheads running around. Public policy is about
trade-offs and we often trade away a little freedom for something we
find beneficial.

The big issue for me is the irrationality of ceding our right of
association to a central authority. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/26/us/in-a-case-of-religious-dress-justices-explore-the-obligations-of-employers.html?hp&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;module=photo-spot-region&amp;region=top-news&amp;WT.nav=top-news"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This case before the court is a good
example</a>.

*Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. on Wednesday warned that “this is going to
sound like a joke,” and then posed an unusual question about four
hypothetical job applicants. If a Sikh man wears a turban, a Hasidic man
wears a hat, a Muslim woman wears a hijab and a Catholic nun wears a
habit, must employers recognize that their garb connotes faith — or
should they assume, Justice Alito asked, that it is “a fashion
statement”?*

*The question arose in a vigorous Supreme Court argument that explored
religious stereotypes, employment discrimination and the symbolism of
the Muslim head scarf known as the hijab, all arising from a 2008
encounter at Woodland Hills Mall in Tulsa, Okla.*

*Samantha Elauf, then 17, sought a job in a children’s clothing store
owned by Abercrombie & Fitch. She wore a black head scarf but did not
say why.*

*The company declined to hire her, saying her scarf clashed with the
company’s dress code, which called for a “classic East Coast collegiate
style.” The desired look, Justice Alito said, was that of “the mythical
preppy.”*

*Ms. Elauf recalled the experience in a statement issued after the
argument.*

*“When I applied for a position with Abercrombie Kids, I was a teenager
who loved fashion,” she said. “I had worked in two other retail stores
and was excited to work at the Abercrombie store. No one had ever told
me that I could not wear a head scarf and sell clothing.”*

*“Then I learned I was not hired by Abercrombie because I wear a head
scarf, which is a symbol of modesty in my Muslim faith,” she added.
“This was shocking to me.”*

Putting aside the fact this Muslim woman is a liar, why in the world
should anyone be required to accommodate her religious beliefs? More
important, why should this be a court matter? The court is wholly
unequipped to adjudicate these matters. The judges are not businessmen
and they have no way of knowing if this company’s dress code is good
business. They have no way of knowing if this woman is just a nut
causing trouble.

*Ms. Elauf, now 24, works at an Urban Outfitters store in Tulsa. A
spokeswoman for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which sued
Abercrombie on her behalf, said Ms. Elauf was declining interview
requests.*

*A spokesman for Abercrombie & Fitch, Michael Scheiner, said the company
“has a longstanding commitment to diversity and inclusion, and
consistent with the law has granted numerous religious accommodations
when requested, including hijabs.”*

*The Supreme Court on Wednesday seemed sympathetic to Ms. Elauf’s
position, which is that she should not have been required to make a
specific request for a religious accommodation to wear a hijab. The
company’s position is that it should not have been made to guess that
Ms. Elauf wore a head scarf for religious reasons.*

*In response to Justice Alito’s question about the four hypothetical
applicants, Shay Dvoretzky, a lawyer for the company, conceded that some
kinds of religious dress presented harder questions, but he said the
court should require applicants to raise the issue of religious
accommodations.*

*Several justices suggested that an employer should simply describe its
dress code and ask if it posed a problem. That would shift the burden to
the applicant, they said. If the applicant then raised a religious
objection, the employer would be required to offer an accommodation so
long as it did not place an undue burden on the business.*

This is the problem created by the state’s encroachment on our freedom
of association. It turns all of us into lying weasels. Most American
companies know that is not a great idea to hire Muslims to deal with the
public. They should be able to not hire Muslims or Hindus or Gingers or
whomever. Ms. Elauf would be faced with a choice. She can assimilate or
head back to the home country. In other words, she would retain her
freedom of association and the business would retain its right to hire
as it sees fit.

Instead, the state tries to craft more and more laws to meet every
possible condition. Assortativity, the natural inclination of human
beings, therefore requires everyone to come up with clever ways to dodge
the rules. In response, the state comes up with ever more rules that are
often in conflict with other rules. We now live in a country where a
Christian store owner is prohibited from exercising his religious
inclinations, but must allow his employees to advertise their religious
affiliations in his place of business. That’s simply madness.

That’s ultimately the problem with all of this. It is fundamentally at
odds with human nature and it is riddled with internal contradictions.
Worse yet, it fosters a subtle hostility between people, forced together
against their will by rules that make no sense. As the saying goes,
things that cannot last eventually end. In the case of crackpot social
engineering schemes, the end tends to be very messy.
