---
title: "The Bloodless Materialism of Elon Musk"
date: "2015-03-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4092"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4092"
---

The remarkable thing about Elon Musk, the only remarkable thing, is that
sensible people take this silly man seriously. Judging from the news
accounts and the cultural megaphones blasting away at us, Musk is
regarded as some sort of seer, a man with a detailed working knowledge
of the future. For reasons known only to him, he lets us in on it once
in a while, usually at some big event where he is pitching all things
Elon Musk.

According to Musk, Elon Musk is is a South-African–born,
Canadian-American entrepreneur, engineer, inventor and investor. He is
the CEO and CTO of SpaceX, CEO and chief product architect of Tesla
Motors, and chairman of SolarCity. He is the founder of SpaceX and a
cofounder of PayPal, Tesla Motors, and Zip2. He has also envisioned a
conceptual high-speed transportation system known as the Hyperloop.

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elon_Musk" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">That’s copied from his Wikipedia page</a>, which I’m
going to assume has been approved by Team Musk, as it were. Famous
people today carefully manicure their Wiki pages. Rich famous people
also have the power to sue Wiki into the stone age so they get to sign
off on their Wiki entries.

The thing with Musk, like most of the Internet billionaires, is he never
really invented anything. His first company was a service he cleverly
sold to Compaq. Both are long gone. His second act was PayPal, but he
did not “invent” that service. He bought the company and then cleverly
sold it to eBay. SpaxeX and Tesla are both parasites, cleverly living
off tax payer subsidies.

Musk is a clever and gifted pitch man, for sure. He is the P. T. Barnum
of the Internet age, blazing new ground in the field of suckering the
rubes, but that’s about it. I’m not even sure calling him an
entrepreneur is the right way of putting things. His companies were all
built to be sold, preferably to a greater fool with loads of cash. Mark
Cuban got rich like this, too.

None of this is to say I have anything against the man. From what I can
tell he made his money legally and did so without causing harm to
others. It’s just that I have no interest in what he has to say about
anything, unless he is giving tips on how to flip properties to rich
suckers. That I might find interesting.

That makes me the weirdo as it seems the media falls all over itself to
report on his every utterance.
<a href="http://mashable.com/2015/03/17/elon-musk-nvidia/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">His latest is the claim that driverless
cars will not just rule the future</a>, they will make driving illegal.
This is not the first time I’ve heard this claim. It and similar sorts
of logic are popular with the Ray Kurzweil types. The robots will take
over and humans will, well, no one really knows. Maybe live like Eloi
tended to by robots.

For some reason, the futurists of today always remind of
<a href="http://whittakerchambers.org/articles/nr/bigsister/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Whittaker Chamber’s take down of Ayn
Rand</a>. Chambers knew the authoritarian mind and he knew that man-made
systems of human organization must always have coercion at their heart.
The reason for this is that humans are not moist robots.

*It is when a system of materialist ideas presumes to give positive
answers to real problems of our real life that mischief starts. In an
age like ours, in which a highly complex technological society is
everywhere in a high state of instability, such answers, however
philosophic, translate quickly into political realities. And in the
degree to which problems of complexity and instability are most
bewildering to masses of men, a temptation sets in to let some species
of **Big Brother** solve and supervise them.*

That’s the central issue with libertarianism in general and
techno-libertarianism in particular. The only way it can work is if a
benevolent dictator makes sure the people don’t do something stupid like
vote for state provision of public goods. Guys like Musk imagine himself
as the watch maker. His creations, the self-driving cars and personal
robots, will implement his perfect society – or else.

*Nor has the author, apparently, brooded on the degree to which, in a
wicked world, a materialism of the Right and a materialism of the Left
first surprisingly resemble, then, in action, tend to blend each with
each, because, while differing at the top in avowed purpose, and
possibly in conflict there, at bottom they are much the same thing. The
embarrassing similarities between **Hitler**‘s National Socialism and
Stalin’s brand of Communism are familiar. For the world, as seen in
materialist view from the Right, scarcely differs from the same world
seen in materialist view from the Left. The question becomes chiefly:
who is to run that world in whose interests, or perhaps, at best, **who
can run it more efficiently?***

There’s that magic word that comes to mind whenever these technologist
cross my view. It sounds so reasonable. The managerial elite love to use
the word “efficiency” when discussing their latest ideas for how to
manage your affairs. How hard is it to imagine Elon Musk saying that it
would be more “efficient” to recycle the old for their phosphorous? Turn
deformed babies into animal feed?

After all, that would be more efficient.
