---
title: "The Yankee Crackup"
date: "2015-09-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5360"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5360"
---

Back in the 80’s, Reagan was hailed as a brilliant politician for
winning over working and middle-class ethnics, the so-called Reagan
Democrats. The Archie Bunkers who voted Democrat out of instinct
suddenly switched parties and voted Republican. Only old timers talk
about the Catholic vote or white ethnics anymore, but within living
memory, they existed and mattered.

That was a big development primarily because it signaled a radical
change in the party coalitions. The old Democrat coalition of working
class northern whites, southern whites, blacks and the old Yankee ruling
elite was no more. The South was going Republican and the white working
class appeared to be following suit. It’s why so many swing state
Democrat pols changed sides. They followed their voters to the new
party.

Something happened in the 1990’s that arrested what should have been a
long running ruling majority coalition. The old Yankee elites started
jumping to the GOP side, joining the Rockefeller Republicans to take
control of the party. The party of Reagan became the party of Bush.They
made all the noises the Reagan coalition expected, but they were Bush
men through and through. Just look at the
<a href="http://conginst.org/house-republican-leadership/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">House leadership</a> and you don’t see a
bunch of Evangelical Southerners.

Where we have been for the last two decades is a country with a ruling
class largely based in the traditionally dominant region of the nation,
the Northeast. The areas settled by old Yankees, along with the Midland
areas dominate both parties and they take turns cobbling together ruling
majorities from the other bits of the country. The Yankee-Midland
coalition came out in force for Obama, while the Midland-Southern
coalition came out strong in the midterms. The reverse occurred in the
Bush years.

What seems to be happening is the Yankee-Midland coalition is blowing
apart. I thought about this while in Massachusetts recently. In a
Waltham restaurant, the TV’s started showing Trump’s visit to Norwood
Mass. The whole place turned its attention to the show. I heard more
than a few people cheering Trump. Friends I was with were all very
interested in the Trump phenomenon.

That does not make much sense as we are given to believe that it is
those xenophobic racists in the Deep South propelling his campaign. Just
the other day, <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/423628/if-donald-trump-george-wallace-who-will-be-richard-nixon-reihan-salam"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">National Review ran a piece about how
Trump is George Wallace</a>. To Southerners, George Wallace no longer
resonates. Most people in the South don’t remember the guy, probably
confusing him with
<a href="http://www.georgewallace.net/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the black comic</a>.

To political types from the Northeast, George Wallace is right up their
with Bull Connor and the Confederate Flag. He’s a symbol of bad whites
throughout time and place. In other words, this comparison is not for
the benefit or detriment of bad whites. It is a one group of good whites
signalling to other good whites that they are playing with fire. The
hysterical response by Conservative Inc to Trump is not because he is a
fringe xenophobe. It’s because he speaks for a wing of the coalition
that appears to be going heretic.

Before Trump came along, there were rumblings from the other side of the
Conservative ruling junta that things were not well.
<a href="http://conservativereform.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Reform Conservatives</a> are warmed over Rockefeller
Republicans from the pre-Reagan era. They have been agitating for a new
direction where they shed the yahoos, with their boom-sticks, sky gods
and limited government nonsense. <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/08/upshot/is-trump-the-candidate-reform-conservatives-are-seeking.html?ref=topics&amp;_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They see Trump as a chance to wrench
control</a> of the movement and the GOP.

The thing that never gets discussed is this. Trump is a New Yorker. He
has lived his life in a city that is majority non-white. Lumping him in
with the racist crackers from the south is laughable. When he speaks,
lots of regular people in the northeast hear one of their own. In
contrast to the acrylic robots they see running both parties, Trump is a
regular guy, just with a few billion dollars and a super model wife.
He’s a guy a large number of people look up to as a good example.

To extend this out further, the inspiration for Trump on immigration is
none other than Ann Coulter, a WASP princess from Connecticut. She was
enthusiastic about Romney, simply because he was making the right noises
on immigration. The great undiscussed truth of modern times is it is
Yankee New England that is the most hostile to immigration. They are
fine with the Hindu chemist or the Syrian engineer, but they have zero
interest in the little brown guys you see loitering at the local Home
Depot.

It’s hard to know how this plays out. The action has been on the GOP
side, but the Democrats are having a nervous breakdown of their own. <a
href="https://www.atr.org/taxpayers-fleeing-democrat-run-states-republican-ones"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The old Yankee strongholds are
experiencing another exodus</a>, similar to what happened in the late
70’s and 80’s. Taxes are an easy culprit, but it could be culture. The
middle class in these areas have simply grown disgusted with their
ruling elites, the same ones they are revolting against today by
supporting Sanders and Trump.

Maybe it something else, but it appears Yankeedom is heading for a
crackup and taking the political class with them.
