---
title: "The White Man’s Lead Burden"
date: "2015-05-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - IQ
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4571"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4571"
---

One of the more ridiculous claims floating around the Cult of Modern
Liberalism is the claim that lead makes black people stupid and violent.
<a
href="http://www.motherjones.com/environment/2013/01/lead-crime-link-gasoline"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kevin Drum has been peddling</a> the idea
on lunatic websites for years. The claim is that lead poisoning makes
people stupid and violent, particularly when exposed as children. Poor
people are most likely to live where lead content is high, thus
explaining why they have higher crime rates and lower IQ’s, if IQ was a
real thing, which it is not.

The theory resonates with the Cult because it has an almost mystical
quality to it, much in the same way climate change has an unsaid
supernatural element. Gaia is vexed about your lawnmower so she is
causing floods in Texas. It can’t be proved, but it can’t be disproved
either. In the case of lead, it also solves the problem as to why black
crime rates are off the charts. Racist whites have packed blacks into
lead saturated ghettos.

The theory suffers from a number of problems. No one can explain why
this effect is race specific, without dragging in a bunch of things that
could be better explanations for the data than lead. Then there is the
failure to replicate any of the studies purporting to show a link of any
sort. Even taking Drum’s assertions at face value, lead is responsible
for at most *20% of the increase in crime*.

Think of it this way. If the ghetto in question has a murder rate of ten
per month prior to the invention of crack by the CIA and a murder rate
of 20 after crack, only two of those murders are due to lead. The other
eight are, presumably, due to crack. But, that also means those two lead
murders needed another element, in this case crack. In other words, lead
alone is not a cause.

That does not stop the Cult from trotting out science! to make the case
for environmental factors explaining away what everyone knows, but no
one is allowed to say. <a
href="http://nypost.com/2015/05/26/new-yorks-pollution-and-poverty-are-killing-kids-iq-study/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">America’s newspaper of record has a
story</a> on a new study that purports to prove that air pollution makes
poor minority people stupid.

*The city’s air is polluting children’s brains.*

*Big Apple kids exposed to high levels of airborne filth and economic
hardship have lower IQs that will haunt them into adulthood, according
to an exhaustive, [first-of-its-kind study by Columbia
University.](http://www.mailman.columbia.edu/news/toxic-combination-air-pollution-and-poverty-lowers-child-iq)*

Or maybe their parents being low-IQ people end up living in crappy areas
that have high levels of airborne filth and economic hardship.The one
thing no one ever mentions is that the poor are clean freaks. The reason
is they tend to be dirty.

*“The findings are a concern because, as has been shown with lead
\[poisoning\], even a modest decrease in IQ can impact lifetime
earnings,” warns the report published in the medical journal
Neurotoxicology and Teratology.*

*Researchers reached the alarming conclusion by tracking the development
of 276 minority children from Harlem, Washington Heights and the South
Bronx for seven years — starting while their moms were pregnant.*

*The kids who were exposed to the most pollutants and came from the
poorest families scored 6.6 points lower on the overall IQ test than
others in the group.*

*The average score on an IQ test is 100.*

What does not appear to be in the study is the IQ of the parents.
Tracking down the fathers would be impossible, but testing the IQ of the
mothers would not be hard. But, that would lead to uncomfortable
subjects so better to leave that alone.

*In addition, the kids scored 8 points lower for “working memory,” which
is what people use to plan and carry out behavior, and 5.7 points lower
for “perceptual reasoning,” which allows people to visualize solutions
to non-verbal problems.*

*Following their births, researchers examined blood from each baby’s
umbilical cord for biological markers that reveal exposure to polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), toxic chemicals created by the burning of
gas, diesel, heating oil and other products.*

This is why these results are never replicated. Within the underclass,
the slightly brighter lights will perform better in life’s little tasks
like not inhaling diesel fumes. You can control for that by making sure
the cohort of mothers represents a representative range of IQ’s, but
that could lead to trouble so lets not go down that road.

*The moms also carried air monitors in backpacks during their third
trimesters, and were later interviewed repeatedly about their ability to
adequately feed, clothe and house their kids. The groundbreaking study
stemmed from ongoing research that has shown how prenatal exposure to
PAH is tied to a host of childhood ills, including developmental delays,
reduced verbal skills and symptoms of anxiety and depression.*

*The latest study concluded that the effects of PAH were exacerbated by
poverty, calling it the latest evidence of how “socioeconomic
disadvantage can increase the adverse effects of toxic physical
‘stressors’ like air pollutants.”*

*“This report adds to the growing literature on the vulnerability of the
developing fetus and young child to the toxic effects of environmental
pollutants,” the study says.*

One of the fascinating aspects of modern times is the two tracks on
which social science is discussed. The one track, the dominant track, is
all about environment. Any discussion of heritability is ruled out of
bounds. Even the most slapdash study that “proves” the environmental
model of human behavior is waved around by the press. Those minority
kids are victims of the white man’s pollutants!

Then there is the other track where real science is conducted. The
massive amount of genetic data coming out is reshaping anthropology,
biology and history. Every day something new comes out changing our
understanding of nature and human history. But, little of it reaches the
mainstream. If you want to know about this stuff you have to read hate
thinkers on obscure websites.

At some point, the fantasy version of human relations will have to be
brought back into line with reality. Whether it happens by force or by
choice is unknown to me. I suspect the way to bet is the former. The new
religion is based on the belief that man is a blank slate and people
tend not to give up their religious convictions without a fight.
