---
title: "Hi-Tech Colonialism"
date: "2015-02-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3835"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3835"
---

At the start of the industrial revolution, lots of people got rich by
getting around existing rules that governed other the world. That’s the
nature of technology. The guy who invented the first plow found a way to
get around the limitations of the hoe. The next guy who added a draft
animal to the mix got around the limits of the human body. The
Industrial Revolution, at the simplest level, was the application of
science to the physical limits of the human being.

That’s the romantic view. The more realistic view is that great
technological leaps are accompanied by, and maybe spurred by, a desire
to get around laws, customs and moral codes. Web development in the
1990’s, for instance, was driven by the pornography business. The
technology to display images and video on-line was primarily due to
pornographers. Jeff Bezos became a billionaire avoiding sales taxes by
selling on-line and gaming local tax laws. Uber right now is gaming the
laws to undermine taxi cartels.

The push for open borders by Silicon Valley, for example, is about
getting around labor laws and nothing more. Mark Zuckerburglar loves the
idea of paying the rates they pay in Tamil Nadu India for technical
work. He just hates the idea of having to *go to* Tamil Nadu India to
get them. Instead, he would like to import those people to live in camps
here and work at rates otherwise against the law here. He’s even willing
to let them use indoor toilets, thus showing he is a warm and generous
man!

The Robber Barons can’t put it that way so they lie about shortages of
labor in their industry. <a
href="http://techcrunch.com/2015/02/15/facing-up-to-the-tech-immigration-challenge/?ncid=rss&amp;utm_source=feedburner&amp;utm_medium=feed&amp;utm_campaign=Feed%3A+Techcrunch+%28TechCrunch%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s a good example</a>.

*President Obama’s legislation on immigration has been one of <a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/gop-at-impasse-over-bill-aimed-at-1423873221"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the most hotly contested political
reforms</a> for a generation. The Immigration Order, along with Ron
Paul’s subsequent bill attempting to overturn the reform, put
immigration firmly at the forefront of the political agenda.*

*The outcry in the US reflects a similar sentiment sweeping across
Europe. <a href="http://www.cnbc.com/id/102305504" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The rise of numerous right wing parties</a> of varying
extremes across European countries has led to immigration being actively
curtailed. Anti-EU sentiment also is fueling a desire for homegrown
talent in business in this highly charged atmosphere.*

You see what’s happening? Those who oppose mass immigration are Nazis.
They are bad people that can be dismissed, or worse, because they are
not really human. They are *extremists*!

However, as arguments on both sides escalate, the technology sector has
emerged as one of the few voices of reason. Digital companies are used
to operating globally, and innovation is driven by attracting and
retaining the best talent from around the world.

In San Francisco, **the battle for talent has seen tech companies doing
everything they can to win the best recruits**. Hairdressers, free food
and doctors are all expected as competition continues to soar. The
distance between this environment and the national debate around
restricting immigration is extraordinary.

The “everything they can” also includes <a
href="http://pando.com/2014/03/22/revealed-apple-and-googles-wage-fixing-cartel-involved-dozens-more-companies-over-one-million-employees/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">colluding with one another</a> to depress
wages and prevent employees from jumping companies. For people allegedly
trying everything to attract talent, they seem oddly willing to engage
in what should result in lengthy prison terms in order to *not* attract
talent.

The fact is there’s <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2014/05/20/report-u-s-has-surplus-not-shortage-of-high-tech-workers/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">no shortage of technology workers</a> in
America or Europe. There’s a shortage of owners willing to abide by the
laws and pay market rates. Instead they seek to game the system to
enrich themselves at the expense of their countrymen. It’s a form of
colonialism, except this time the colonists are exploiting their own
ethnic group. I’d call it feudalism, except feudal lords provided a
service in exchange for food rents.

The argument from libertarians in these matters is that the market will
sort it all out. Tyler Cowen’s flunky always says it is unfair to punish
people because of the accident of birth. National borders are immoral.
That’s insane, but let’s think it through. No borders means no country.
No country means no citizens and that means no government, at least no
legitimate government. Order will simply be imposed by those with force
to do so.

In such a world, the entire economics department of George Mason would
be on a chain gang somewhere as chattel labor in a few weeks after the
new system is in place.

The hard cold truth is that much of the tech sector is just another
ruling class scam these days. Credentialed grifters get a license from
the state to rip-off the public. The costs are socialized so they are
not as obvious, while the profits are privatized. Flooding the country
with cheap labor from abroad, living here as indentured servants, has a
cost. Silicon Valley thinks you should bear that cost so they can enjoy
the profits.
