---
title: "The End of Things"
date: "2015-12-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6099"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6099"
---

After the American Civil War, the big issues, with regards to politics
in the country, were decided. The vanquished portions of the nation
would have a say in the running of the country, but only within the
constraints of the settled upon political system. America would be a
country with a strong central government that would dominate the federal
system conceived by the Founders. The debate would be about how much it
controls and how quickly.

The idea, for example, that the restraints on the national government
listed in the Bill of Rights should now apply to state and local
government would have seemed odd to the Founders. States, for example,
had official religions. As late as the 1830s Massachusetts provided tax
money to local Congregational churches. The 14th Amendment applied the
Bill of Rights to states, thus altering the fundamental relationship
between the states and the Federal government.

From the Civil War forward, politics in America was largely a
domestic dispute between the factions within the victorious coalition.
You see this in the choice of presidents. The First “southerner” to win
on his own after the Civil War was Wilson in 1912 and he remains the
greatest of outliers in American politics. Both Johnsons and Truman got
there by virtue of death. The next true southerner to win was Carter and
again we see very strange conditions.

You can probably argue that the post-Civil War arrangements would have
collapsed in the 20th century except for the great wars of Europe and
then the Cold War. The crisis in global capitalism leading up to The
Great War and then the war itself, placed enormous power in the hands of
the federal government. The rise of America as global hegemon after the
Second War made Washington DC the capital of the world throughout the
Cold War.

Then something happened, something no one seems to discuss much these
days. That is, the collapse of the Soviet Union and along with it the
end of ideological socialism. Up until the 1990, the world was defined
as capitalism on one side and Marxism on the other. Suddenly, one end of
the scale collapsed, at least in terms of economics and morality. In the
blink of an eye, being a Marxist went from avant-garde to ridiculous.

The 1992 election was cast at the time as the point where the Baby
Boomers took over and that was true to a point. It was also the point
where the Democrats threw in the towel on socialism. They embraced
global capitalism with the enthusiasm of a convert. It’s not an accident
that the great banking “reforms” happened in the Clinton years, embraced
by both parties.

The trouble for both parties is they lost their reason to exist when
ideological Marxism collapsed. It is always argued that this has been
worse for the GOP than for the Democrats, but the opposite is true. In
the Clinton years the Democrats went from being the majority party to
the minority party. From 1994 onward, the party was in a steady retreat
politically and ideologically.

The 2000 presidential election felt like a pivotal one because you had a
vestigial Southern Democrat versus a Yankee heretic. The main source of
hatred toward Bush from the Cult was his apparent rejection of the
culture of Yankeedom for the culture of Hooterville. The venomous hatred
of Bush was what you see from the betrayed. The Left was the shrewish
ex-wife and Bush was the philandering husband.

That anger was put to good use. By 2006 the New Left had a sales pitch,
even if they had nothing to pitch. Voters will pick energy over lethargy
and the Democrats in the mid-2000’s had plenty of energy. Then they
found Black Jesus and could run as moral crusaders, even though they
could not articulate the point of the crusade. They had to search around
the fringes for victims to champion and wrongs to be righted.

Homosexual marriage, tranny rights, ghetto rage, micro-aggressions and
faux rape culture are all the result of grasping around at the edges of
life looking for something, anything, which can be made into a banner.
Each grasp deeper into the darkness returns something even more
preposterous. Liberalism, and by extension the Democratic Party, has
become a roadside freak of self-beclownment.

So-called serious progressivism today is mostly just nostalgia. Lefty
plutocrats like Rahm Emmanuel, a man who made millions in a no-show job
on Wall Street, vacations in Cuba while Chicago descends into a race
war. George Soros, the great benefactor of modern progressivism, is a
billionaire global *capitalist*.

The Left and by extension the Democrats, now embrace the same economics
as the so-called Right. Both sides lust after riches in the financial
markets. Both sides embrace global corporatism. The Left champions the
liquidation of labor rights through advocacy of open borders. Think
about that. There’s a reason it is hard to see the difference between
the parties. There isn’t one.

Much is made of the circus going on in the GOP primary but look at the
Democratic side. The party that used to brag about its youth and
creativity is offering a worn out old grifter and a ridiculous commie
that looks like he strolled out of a 1940’s movie on communism. The two
of them are out campaigning in mobility scooters. The one young guy in
the race can’t draw flies.

The great reordering that is under way is due to the collapse of the
<span class="st">raison d’être</span> of the American ruling class. What
animated politics in America for the last several generations has been
the interplay between Progressives and the defenders of the status quo,
played out in the shadow of the Cold War.

The Left collapsed as an intellectual movement when the Cold War ended,
but the Right collapsed as a pragmatic alternative. You can’t have one
without the other. In a single generation, the Left has adopted the
economics of the Right and the Right has adopted the politics of the
Left. Neither side has a reason to exist outside of naked greed.
