---
title: "The Break Up"
date: "2015-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5663"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5663"
---

Americans, probably like everyone in the West, just assume that the
shape of our countries will remain the same forever. Conquest is
something you read about, but that’s all in the past so the map will
stay the same forever. Similarly, we tend to think that revolution is no
longer a part of civilized life. The savages have revolts maybe, but the
civilized countries have elections to sort out problems.

Of course, maps are not written in stone. There’s no reason to think
that France will stay the same shape forever. The people of Normandy
could decide they have had enough of being French and break off to form
their own country. <a
href="http://www.businessinsider.com/ap-thousands-turn-up-at-court-to-support-catalan-president-2015-10"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The people of Catalan</a> are trying to
do just that by voting for independence and then going to court over it.

But, those Spanish are hot blooded and all that. The English speaking
countries don’t have those problems, other than in Scotland, Wales and
Quebec. Even so, these are more symbolic than anything else. There are
protests, votes, court cases, more votes, but that’s it. No tanks in the
streets or men with guns preparing for the revolution, because violent
revolts are things of the past.

What if they’re not? What if the Scots and English can’t resolve their
differences peacefully? What then?

On the other hand, what if the people in charge keep going down the road
they are going and the people finally get fed up enough to do something
about it? In the US we have protests at the Mall, but never anything
serious, at least not for a long time. But what if we’re just overdue
and things are slowly coming to a head and revolution is just around the
corner?

<a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Shattered-Consensus-Decline-America%C2%92s-Political/dp/1594036713"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">There’s a new book</a> that argues the US
is long overdue for a revolt and the current consensus is breaking
apart, suggesting the revolt is right around the corner.
<a href="http://www.manhattan-institute.org/html/piereson.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">James Piereson</a> is a think tank guy at
a fancy think tank called the Manhattan Institute. His book is one of
those “theory of the world” sort of things where he has this theory that
explains parts of the past. He then uses it to make some predictions
about what’s coming next.

I’ve never written a book review and I have no intention of starting
now, so you can read <a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/americas-next-revolution-1436918113"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one</a> or you can read <a
href="http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/aug/18/book-review-shattered-consensus-the-rise-and-decli/?page=all"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one</a>. There’s also <a
href="https://ricochet.com/podcasts/shattered-consensus-the-rise-and-decline-of-americas-postwar-political-order/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a podcast here</a> with the author. As an
aside, I suspect the future of book selling is going to be podcasts. A
thirty minute discussion of a book is a great way to sell books.

Anyway, I’m not entirely sold on the thesis. My own view of US history
is as an extension of the English Civil War. For instance, Piereson
argues that a consensus emerged in 1800, but the New England states were
ready to split from the Union up until the outbreak of war with Britain.
Similarly, those same states would have signed off on the slave states
seceding if not for the foolish assault on Fort Sumter.

Putting that aside, one can’t help but wonder if we are headed for a
crackup of some sort. If you look at
<a href="http://www.270towin.com/2012_Election/interactive_map"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the map of recent presidential
elections</a> something jumps out. That is, very few states are actually
in play now. In 2016, the fight will be over Ohio, Florida, Virginia,
Colorado and Nevada. The rest are firmly in the Roundhead or Cavalier
camps. For the candidates, the only reason to campaign in most states is
to raise money and put on a show for the folks in the toss-up states.

The chaos in the GOP primary is mostly due to the fact that no one
really represents the sensibilities of the regions that support the GOP.
Bush is from Florida, but he may as well be from Boston. Rubio is from
Florida, but the part wholly unlike the rest of Florida. The only two
candidates that represent the GOP regions are Kasich and Huckabee and
both have too many other problems to be serious candidates. Trump is
from New York and it has never been in the Roundhead or Cavalier camp.
Otherwise, the people running are foreigners to their voters.

Having the country divided into camps is one thing. Having one camp
ramming through stuff just to spite the other is where things get dicey.
The crazy ObamaCare bill was mostly spite. Homo marriage was entirely
spite. The revolt brewing on the Right is really a revolt among the
troops over their leaders refusal to fight. Students of the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crisis_of_the_Third_Century"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Crisis of the Third Century</a> are
familiar with this phenomenon. At some point, there will be a fight,
whether it is with these leaders or new, more rambunctious ones.

The thing few notice because the people in charge tend to keep it quiet
is the Roundheads would not mind it if the other part of the country
seceded. <a
href="http://www.forwardprogressives.com/can-please-stop-allowing-southern-states-ruin-country/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Progressives hate the South and
southerners with the intensity of a thousand suns</a>. For a long time
now, Progressives have been thinking, if you will, that it is <a
href="http://www.examiner.com/article/liberal-author-chuck-thompson-suggests-the-south-should-secede"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">time for the South to leave the Union</a>.
For obvious reasons this does not get promoted by the people in charge,
but a lot of them hold this opinion.

The assumption, an incorrect one, is that the Old Confederacy along with
Texas and Oklahoma would be cut loose, while the rest of the states
would make up the slimmer and trimmer United States. Reality is probably
something else. Look at that map and the lands of the Roundhead are
mostly Yankeedom. The few other blue states would mostly likely go with
the red states for practical reasons.

But, maybe the southern states will insist on marching from Worcester
Mass to Boston, burning everything along the way, just for old time
sake.
