---
title: "More Greek Trouble"
date: "2015-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3767"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3767"
---

Politics is about choosing between available options. In stable social
democracies like America, the choices are not all that important most of
time. The parties haggle over trivial issues in order pretend there are
real differences, but it is all theater. When the choices have real
consequences, there’s always one option that offers the least risk to
the ruling class. Politicians always seek the path of least resistance
so the choice is easy. That’s why I don’t write about politics often.
It’s boring. Not Canadian boring, but pretty close.

There are times when it is not boring and that’s when the choices are
hard and the consequences are not clear. The Greek showdown with the EU
is one of those times. The options available to both sides are all
unpleasant and the consequences are mostly unknown. The new Greek
government has three choices. One is they follow through on their
campaign promises and refuse to accept the terms of the bailout. That
could lead to a breech with the rest of Europe and a disorganized exit
from the EU. How that plays out is unknown.

Basically, they have to comply with EU demands in order to keep getting
loans at artificially low interest rates, along with a certain amount of
debt forgiveness. Additionally, their banks get support from the ECB as
long as Greece is in compliance. Take that away and Greece faces the
open market for borrowing and those conditions are much tougher than the
ones from the EU. Most important, Greek banks run out of cash and close
down. Greece, at least for a while, becomes a barter society. How long
is unknown.

The other option is they buckle and accept the terms offered by Europe.
That would eliminate their credibility as a party and probably lead to
wide-scale riots in Athens, maybe even a revolution. The people, after
all, voted them in on the promise they would end austerity. If they
don’t deliver something, their support will evaporate and who knows how
that unfolds. The same mobs celebrating a month ago could very well be
rioting a month from now. Golden Dawn, whose polices are almost
identical to Syriza, by the way, is standing their ready for their shot.
That’s an important bit here.

Then there’s some sort of compromise that let’s the Greek government
save face, but also let’s the EU pretend they held the line. <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/02/06/eurozone-greece-idUSL6N0VG3ZS20150206"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The on-going negotiations</a> are aimed
at finding that magical solution, but so far no one has found one that
works for all concerned. They have about two weeks to find one before
events begin to get away from the politicians. Debt has to be rolled
over, banks have to be re-capitalized and the bank run has to be
stemmed.

For the Greeks, those are all bad options with unknowable consequences.
The Europeans have similar problems. The ECB holds about 85% of Greek
debt. The one option available to all debtors is default. Having that
much debt suddenly go bad would not sink the ECB, but it would create
serious problems for the bank. It would trigger all sorts of political
problems as the EU taxpayers are ultimately on the hook for that bad
debt. Private banks hold the rest of the debt so that offers up the
possibility of further  impairment to the EU financial system.

That means there’s a limit to how far the EU can push the Greeks.
Assuming they choose not to go that route, the other option is to accept
some amount of debt forgiveness. This would be fairly easy, but they
have to maintain the austerity rules and the Greeks refuse to accept
those conditions. For the EU to back off opens the flood gates for the
rest of the periphery to make the same demands. You can be sure that the
Clown Party in Italy is watching this closely, for example.

Of course, there’s the unknown unknowns. I pointed out on NRO the other
day that the belligerents in the Civil War could not imagine the
consequences of war. The First World War is another example. In both
case, the belligerents could not accept the available options so they
kept moving forward, waiting for the other side to blink. Brussels is
not going to send tanks into Athens, but that does not mean there’s not
something similarly awful lurking around the corner.

<a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/398152/mentioning-war-andrew-stuttaford"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Andrew Stuttaford points out another
wrinkle</a> that could lead all of them over the cliff. The Greek voters
getting froggy could very well lead the rest of Europe to follow the
same route. The German and French voters my look at the Greeks and
wonder why they should not be making similar demands. The whole point of
the European project was to obliterate nationalism. If all of a sudden
Germans start thinking about Germany, instead of Europe, keeping the
project going loses its rationale. A union of countries that puts their
own interests first is not much of a union.

My sense here is that the way to bet is on Syriza. The reason is the way
radicals view crisis. It is the one thing they are good at, going back
to the French Revolution. In a crisis, they look to pair their preferred
option with one that is monstrous for the other side. They want the
other side to think they have  choice between going along with the
radicals or facing a bloody mess. It’s how Hitler rose to power and it
is how Syriza is trying to bully the Germans.

They keep bringing up the Nazis, not to shame or embarrass the Germans.
That’s not the point. They are letting the Germans know that the choice
here before them is to deal with Syriza or eventually deal with Golden
Dawn. Tsipras is betting that the German elites are tormented by the
idea of a photo-op with Golden Dawn leaders sporting black outfits.
Given the political culture of modern Germany, Tsipras is probably
right. Merkel would rather face her angry voters than be seen on the
cover of Der Spiegel next to a Greek Nazi.

 
