---
title: "Shape Shifting"
date: "2015-06-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4787"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4787"
---

One of my recurring themes here is how political liberalism operates
more like a religious cult than a well thought out set of public policy
opinions. In the latter, people sort through the available data updating
and adjusting their opinions in order to arrive at a solution for a
problem. Those opinions may be built on a set of beliefs about how
society should be structured, but they say nothing about the people that
hold them or the people who oppose them.

For example, the Weekly Standard crowd has a well defined set of
positions, with regards to what we think of as the Middle East and North
Africa. For twenty years they have insisted on heavy US involvement in
these countries in order to impose Western liberal democracy and
consumerism. They don’t think Obama is evil for not accepting their
opinions. They don’t think Rand Paul is evil for rejecting their
opinions. They are convinced these people are wrong.

Modern liberalism does not work this way. Obama and the Left were
convinced Bush was *evil* for embarking on polices in the Middle East
with which the Left disagreed. There was nothing that could dissuade
them from this opinion. It was so strong that when Obama gained office,
he reversed the Bush polices by evacuating from Iraq and ratcheting up
the war in Afghanistan. The logic behind these decisions was simply a
reaction to what they believed to be the polices of evil men. Doing the
opposite of evil men, in their thinking, must be good.

Cults are always obsessed with the borders. The line between those
inside the cult and those outside the cult is what defines the cult and
therefore the people in it. People do not join mass movements in order
to celebrate their individuality. People are attracted to mass movements
out of self-loathing. They seek to exchange their identity, which they
despise, with that of the group, which they believe is good or noble.
Therefore, knowing that line between those who are inside and those who
are outside is paramount.

This bright line between the good people inside and bad people outside
frees the good people to think all sorts of things about the bad people
on the other side of the walls. It’s why Progressives use words like
“conservative, Republican, right-wing and extremist” as synonyms. These
are all words that mean “outsider” which is just another word for bad.
When I did not have a television I was often accused by liberal friends
of getting my information from Fox News. They knew I did not have a TV,
but they said it anyway.

People in a cult see those outside as an undifferentiated other. They
are just eyes peeping out at them from the void surrounding the light of
their movement. It’s why liberals will throw guys like Kevin Williamson,
Nick Gillespie and Steve Sailer into the same bucket, despite the fact
those three men disagree more than they agree. I’m regularly called a
conservative, even though I agree with very little of what is labeled
conservative these days. These distinctions do not register with
Progressives.

This is on display with the Left’s reaction to the shooting in South
Carolina. Progressives did not wait for the bodies to drop before
pointing a finger at their enemies. They insist that the bad people are
celebrating this shooting because that’s what bad people do.
Progressives are largely silent on the victims and instead have invested
all their time insisting this lunatic is just another member of the
people outside the wall.

[Small caliber opinion writers on what passes for the
Right](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/420049/dylann-roof-racist-charleston-shooting-universally-condemned)
struggle with this, insisting that the debate is over facts and reason.
Predictably, they spend all of their time rustling facts to disprove the
claims of the Left, believing this is how one counters these attacks. I
say predictably because this is another feature of how cults operate. As
a defense mechanism, they look for ways to keep the people outside the
walls focused on something other than the walls. It is not a conscious
thing; it is an *instinctual* thing. People avoiding themselves
naturally want to avoid notice.

Think of it this way. Imagine a herd of zebra on the plain. No single
zebra wants to be an individual. They all struggle with one another to
avoid the edge of the herd. The worst thing that can happen to a zebra
is to be noticed by the lions. The individual instincts of each zebra
become the herd’s natural group instincts. The defense mechanism of the
herd is to be an amorphous blob. Just as the zebra uses stripes to fool
the lion, herds of zebra uses shapelessness to fool the lions.

Modern Liberalism works in a similar way. The people who join these
things, as I said before, do so in order to swap their identity with
that of the group. The worst thing you can do to a Progressive is ask
them questions targeting their opinions. They will try everything they
can to shift the focus away from them onto something else, usually some
defect they imagine in their questioner. The worst imaginable thing for
a Progressive is be standing alone facing their true nature.

As an example, consider any discussion of homosexual marriage you have
had with a liberal. The first bullet out of their gun is to demand why
you are denying gays the same rights as straights. You see? They are not
making an affirmative argument in favor of their new policy. They are
not even saying their position is new. Instead, they are shifting the
focus onto you, demanding you explain yourself to their satisfaction. By
the time you give them the history of marriage the conversation is over
and they have successfully avoided exposure.

This scales up by assigning any terrible event to the people on the
other side of the wall. A lunatic shoots up a church and it is the NRA.
A Muslim tries to set off a bomb in Times Square and it is probably an
ObamaCare opponent. Blacks riot in Ferguson and it is white racism. The
result here is the people outside the Left invest all of their time
explaining why they are not to blame. That’s where the focus lies and
therefore the Left avoids having the spotlight on them. It’s why they
are so good at this tactic. It is integral to how mass movements
function in the minority.
