---
title: "Arx-holes"
date: "2015-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5295"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5295"
---

Way back during L’affaire Cecil, I was struck by something I saw from
friends and foes and that is they set their opinion based on the opinion
of others, rather than their own reading of things. John Derbyshire [did
a few segments on the issue in his
broadcasts](http://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2015-08-01.html).
The “reaction” from the right was anticipatory as Progressives were slow
out of the gate. Once the SJW’s joined the party, there was an echo
reaction on the Right. [Derb’s revisiting the
topic](http://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2015-08-15.html)
two weeks after his initial reaction is a good example.

My reaction to the reaction was [this
post](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5085) where I sort of laid out my
views on the lion murderer. I still got a few responses pointing out
that I was on the side of the fat angry lesbians who stalk bad thinkers
on-line. Some people simply can’t find themselves on the same side of an
issue with the black hats, not matter what the facts may dictate.

I’ve been thinking about that for a while now. There’s something about
it that bugs me. It’s the same vibe I get when reading the
neo-reactionary guys. Just the term “neo-reactionary” bugs me. The term
“reactionary” has been an epithet used by the Left since the
18<sup>th</sup> century. It implies an irrational response, not a
logical one and certainly not a dispassionate one.

My opinion on the lion murderer was neither passionate nor irrational.
It certainly was not reactionary as I held those same opinions before I
ever heard of the lion murderer or his victim. If someone had asked me
ten years ago about what I thought about big game hunting, I’d have said
most of the same things. I would have said the same thing about a
theoretical someone who boasted of killing animals in order to
scandalize people. In other words, I came to those opinions without
regard to who was on which side.

I have no interest in re-litigating the Cecil issue, as the cool kids
would say. It’s just a handy reference point. I’m an anti-reactionary.
By that I mean my opinions about the world are independent of
alternative views. I think what I think about the Cult of Modern
Liberalism based on what I know about it and what I know about human
nature. If the Cult of Modern Liberalism did not exist, I’d still hold
the same opinions about humanity.

The fundamental flaw of the modern Right, and certainly of the
neo-reactionaries, is to give the Cult of Modern Liberalism what amounts
to a heckler’s veto over their mental landscape. If the Left is deciding
where the Overton Window is, for example, they control the debate. Any
reaction must take place within that window and that’s a loser on every
level.

You see this with the recent spree shootings. The deranged white kid
shoots up a black church and the entire debate is about whether or not
it is emblematic of white racism. A black lunatic shoots a couple of
white coworkers, and the debate is about whether racism drove him to do
it. Ideologies built on a reaction to the Left are forever locked into
debating issues chosen by the left on the terms of the Left.

It’s why the Left has marched steadily through the culture for the last
fifty years. They have been handed the agenda, knowing their opposition
will only react to whatever they are doing. The most obvious example of
that is the Muslim Wars in the Bush Years. The Left rallied its anti-war
elements, locking the Conservatives into a pro-war position that was
irrational and self-defeating.

The anti-reactionary alternative is on display with Trump in the GOP
primary. For all his faults, Trump is his own man, and he has his own
opinions about how to do things. In contrast, the 17 other candidates
have built their entire political resumes in opposition to the Cult of
Modern Liberalism. Their positions, career choices and priorities are
all about what they think the Left will think of them. They are not men;
they are shadows.

It’s not an alpha male versus beta male thing, although that’s a related
topic. What plagues the modern Right is that they have no reason to
exist other than as the Left’s nagging old lady. Some new fad sweeps the
fever swamps of the Left and conservatives are right there to lecture
everyone about the foolishness of it. That’s fine, but Osama bin Laden
was right people. Given the choice between the strong horse and the weak
horse, people pick the strong horse. Given the choice between the cad
and his nagging old lady, people take the cad.

We live at an unusual crossroads culturally. The Left’s internal
contradictions may very well be tearing it to pieces. Its solution to
being at odds with human nature is a cultivated paranoia that encourages
escalating internal warfare. This time black women take the mic away
from Bernie Sanders. The next time they take away Bernie. A mass
movement based on revenge has to end in disaster.

The logical alternative, however, is not an alternative. The Modern
Right defines itself in opposition to the Left. As the Left collapses,
it will take all its reactionary dance partners with it. What will fill
the void will be the strongest anti-reactionary movement left standing.
Whether that is the Gucci populism of Donald Trump or something else, I
don’t know, but something will fill the void.
