---
title: "Självmord"
date: "2015-02-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3762"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3762"
---

Biologists have been puzzling over extinction events since forever.
Trying to figure out why some species went away is a natural curiosity
for those who enjoy solving puzzles and it has some bearing on our own
existence. It’s why old western towns remain tourist attractions or why
people visit ancient ruins. Stand in the Valley of the Kings and you
can’t help but wonder how it all happened. Why were these people here?
Why did they do what they did? Why did it all fall apart?

The social sciences gloss over this by asserting that the people in the
age of decline did not really think they were in decline. I’ve never
accepted that argument. I think they knew, just as we know now. We can
look at <a
href="http://swedishsurveyor.com/2015/02/06/secret-government-group-preparing-sweden-for-400-000-asylum-seekers/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story</a> and see it for what it is
– cultural suicide.

*One of Swedens financial newspapers recently uncovered a secret group
of bureaucrats who go under the name “Mottagande” (Reception). They are
preparing Sweden for 400,000 asylum seekers of which 130,000 children
over the next 5 years. The new Swedes will stem mainly from Syria, Iraq,
Afghanistan and Somalia. The government hopes they will bolster the
economy.*

*There are at least 4 non-elected bureaucrats who are running the group
and preparing Sweden for its new population.*

*1. Max Elger, works for [Minister of Finance, Magdalena
Andersson](http://sverigesradio.se/sida/artikel.aspx?programid=2054&artikel=5989372)*

*2. Lars Westbratt, works for [Minister of Justice, Morgan “only 1%”
Johansson](http://swedishsurveyor.wordpress.com/2014/11/13/morgan-only-1-johansson/)*

*3. Erik Nilsson, works for former communist and current [Minister of
Employment, Ylva
Johansson](http://swedishsurveyor.com/2015/02/05/new-legislation-will-force-all-municipalities-to-accomodate-asylum-seekers/)*

*4. Annelie Roswall Ljungren, works for former illegal immigrant and
current [Minister of Public Administration, Ardalan
Shekarabi](http://speisa.com/modules/articles/index.php/item.441/illegal-immigrant-becomes-minister-in-sweden.html)*

*Reactions to the news were primarily negative and notorious
anti-establishment tweeter
[@SinglaSlant](https://twitter.com/SinglaSlant) was quick to act and
criticized the individuals for choosing to live far away from the
multicultural Sweden they are working full time to create.*

Sweden is a country with roughly 9.5 million people. According to their
government, 1.5 million are foreign born. Adding another half million
breeding age foreigners not only raises the foreign population to 20% of
the whole, it puts the nation on track to be majority non-Swedish in a
couple of generations. The people in charge of Sweden are trying to wipe
out the Swedes.

Why would anyone do that? What possible reason could they have?
Self-loathing is the only thing that is plausible. How can a people
collectively decide to eradicate their kind?

One day in the future people will stand on Swedish ruins and wonder what
happened to the people who build those things. They will wonder why they
went away. The answer is they simply gave up.
