---
title: "Airports"
date: "2015-10-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5627"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5627"
---

I’ve spent a lot of time in airports. I’ve slept in them, hung out in
them and I even worked in one for a while. I was not an airport
employee, but my company rented an office at the airport for some
reason. As a frequent traveler, I’ve had the pleasure of being in a lot
of airports in various places. I don’t really know a lot about them, but
I have noticed a lot about them.

What interests me is not the airports themselves as they are mostly the
same as far as the bigger concepts. When you think about it, an airport
is just a big bus stop. No, what I find interesting in airports and the
air travel system is it is a great example of how societies evolve
solutions to near term problems. Those solutions often turn out to be
long term liabilities and you clearly see that with our air travel
system. In some cases, they are crippling
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malinvestment" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">malinvestments</a>.

If you were going to design an air travel system for North America, you
would not replicate what’s in place. It does not make any sense and it
is expensive. Instead you would look to maximize geography and
technology. For instance, there’s no great technological hurdles to
super sonic passenger planes. The Concorde started flying in the 70’s.
The issue has always been that airports can’t handle it. The noise and
the runways were the problem, not the plane.

Imagine a few large airports on the East Coast built for massive super
sonic passenger planes that could ferry 500 or more people to Europe in
three hours. If you are in Kansas, you would take a domestic flight to
the nearest international airport. But, when we started designing and
building airports and the air traffic system, no one imagined super
sonic air travel or the volume of air travel we now have.

That’s the thing you see all over the air travel system. We have layer
upon layer of solutions to old problems that often make solving new
problems more difficult or even impossible. It’s not that the people of
1950 were morons and designed bad airports. They just saw what they
could see and did the best they could to unriddle those problems they
knew about and could imagine. Within living memory, the idea of a Muslim
from Saudi Arabia boarding a plane in the US was laughable.

Security is where you see the cul-de-sac. American airports were never
designed to filter out Muslim lunatics, luggage bombs and other Muslim
problems. When I left the Imperial Capital, I had a 5:00 AM flight, but
I still needed 40 minutes to pass through security. Leaving America to
return back home, security took over an hour, even though there were few
people in line.

It’s why I like airports as an example to explain the impossibility of
public policy in our current age. We have this massive overhang of
evolved solutions that are largely useless for the current age. Food
stamp programs are an obvious example. Even poor countries are full of
fat people. There’s no need to be handing out food to the poor. But like
all those zany rules at the airport, everything has a constituency, even
if it has no purpose.

Compared to the labyrinth of rules in the welfare system, airports are
simple. Yet, we cannot make small changes at airports to eliminate the
cost of old solutions so that we can efficiently add new technology and
solutions. Instead, it is just more and more layers. To solve the
problem of Muslim fanatics, they bolted on new layers of stuff between
you and the point the airport, which is to get on an airplane.

Airports also make good examples for explaining the law of unintended
consequences. In the 1950’s, you could walk on a plane with your
sidearm. Then we started getting hijackings in the 60’s so the
“solution” was to ban firearms from people and carry-on luggage. That
meant metal detectors and guards to look for guns on passengers. Before
long, anything that could be used as a weapon was prohibited.

The “solution” for the terrorists was to put bombs in the luggage. Then
the “solution” was to smuggle knives on the plane, knowing that everyone
was unarmed on the plane. Air travel is a big complicated system that
few truly understand well. Make some small changes at one end and what
pops out the other end is often a surprise. No one in the 70’s imagined
the Lockerbie bombing or 9/11.

Finally, if you have libertarian tendencies, a trip to the airport
should disabuse you of those ideas. people do not self-organize very
well. You have to have someone in charge who can say “no” to the
percentage of humans who do not naturally follow the rules. You need
someone to tell the self-absorbed d-bag that he has to check his
gigantic backpack. It’s “ordered liberty” not just “liberty” and that
means someone has to be giving orders. Otherwise, airports would be
impossible.
