---
title: "My Fridge is Spying on Me"
date: "2015-02-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3807"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3807"
---

On my last trip out of the ghetto, I rented a car at Logan Airport. It
was a nondescript sedan as you would expect from a rental car company.
It may have been a Hyundai or possibly a Toyota. All of our cars look
the same nowadays so I suppose it does not matter. At some point I
stopped to fiddle with the radio, hoping that maybe the satellite radio
was working. I don’t have a Sirius subscription, but I would if I spent
a lot of time in the car. It’s a great service. Fiddling around, I noted
that the car was Bluetooth enabled meaning I could (maybe) play music
from my phone, but I had things to do so I went on my way, leaving it
for later.

At some point as I was tooling around Cambridge, a friend called and
suddenly the radio stopped. Then the phone ringer was coming through the
car speakers. When I answered the phone I was hearing the call through
the car’s speakers and speaking through a hidden microphone somewhere.
It was a little disorienting at first as I was not expecting it. Later
in the day I had time to fiddle with the radio again and I noticed my
phone had synced with the car automatically. I left the Bluetooth
enabled on my phone by mistake. Thus, my phone and this strange car were
able to conspire without my knowing.

I noticed that a lot of phone data from previous renters had been loaded
into the car’s radio. Who knows if they knew it. I deleted my phone from
the list and shutoff my Bluetooth. I keep nothing on phone of any value,
but my phone is willing to partner with just about anyone, it seems, so
who knows what mischief it could drag me into. My phone has now become
another sentient thing I have to look after or beware of, as the case
may be.

It’s going to get much worse as our rulers insist on wiring up more of
our stuff so they can keep better track of us. <a
href="http://h30499.www3.hp.com/t5/Fortify-Application-Security/IoT-is-the-Frankenbeast-of-Information-Security/ba-p/6705017#.VOYpUS4k-me"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Internet of Things trend promises to
let all sorts of people keep tabs on us in our homes</a>. The same
people who are always getting hacked and losing our credit card data
will now be in charge of making sure the fridge does not tell tales out
of school about us. I’m sure that will work out just fine. What could
possible go wrong?

Of course, these services will be offered “free” but you will consent to
having the electric company turn off your lights at night, the gas
company monitoring your heat usage, the diet police watching your beer
consumption. At first it will just be friendly e-mails and texts about
your wastefulness. I get these now from the power company telling me I
use more electric than my neighbors. They include a little graph, I’m
always in red, and “hints” about how I can be a better steward of the
environment. What comes after the “hints” is probably a knock on the
door.

Increasingly, the private space of life is contracting. The government
gets to <a
href="http://yoder.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/bipartisan-group-introduces-bill-to-protect-online-privacy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">read your private correspondence without
notice</a>. They can listen to your mobile phone chatter. They analyze
your financial data looking for trouble. Now they have our health care
data and will surely be using that in ways that only paranoids from a
prior era imagined. If you complain about it at home, within earshot of
the television, that could be a problem.
<a href="http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-31296188" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Your TV is no longer a trusted member of the home</a>.

All of it is for your own good and mostly welcome by the public. The
thing about the custodial state is the inmates quickly get used to the
walls, the gates, the guards, the instructions. Even the worst police
states on earth have a cooperative and docile population. North Korea is
arguably the worst place on earth. They regularly <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/9630509/North-Korean-army-minister-executed-with-mortar-round.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">make the uncooperative hold a mortar
shell until it goes off</a>. The people have been on the edge of
starvation for decades, yet they peacefully submit. Most Americans will
have no trouble submitting to Big Google as long as the flow of goodies
does not stop.

A world without privacy or volition is not entirely alien to the human
animal. Early man surely lived in close proximity with his clan, sharing
all of the intimate details of life with the clan. Well into settlement,
privacy was a rarity. Heck, well into the 20th century, outhouses for
two were common in rural America. If you can share a <a
href="http://images.fineartamerica.com/images-medium-large/the-two-holer-paul-mashburn.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">two-holer</a> with another member of the
family, there’s not much you are going to think is private. I suspect
communal living amongst the Vikings is why some <a
href="http://no-pasaran.blogspot.com/2015/02/its-scientific-fact-danes-are-most.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Scandinavians are so shameless</a>.

In <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2015/02/09/obama-hints-immigration-will-drown-conservatism/http://dailycaller.com/2015/02/09/obama-hints-immigration-will-drown-conservatism/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the “hodgepodge” society</a> our rulers
are planning for us, privacy will not exist. Everything you do will be
monitored by someone and therefore made public at some point. In such a
world, there’s no need to for any sense of shame. There would be no
point. In prisons and basic training, the near total lack of privacy
fundamentally alters human relations. Our rulers with their dreams of
<a href="http://socialistreview.org.uk/393/revolution-trenches"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">trench socialism</a>, are sure the
hodgepodge will be like boot camp or an army base. History says it will
be more like San Quentin or North Korea.

In a world where even your fridge is spying on you, there can be no
trust. We have plenty of experience with low trust societies like those
in sub-Saharan Africa or the Middle East. North Korea or Albania back in
the Soviet says were examples of *extremely* low trust surveillance
societies, but they were homogeneous. A heterogeneous, zero trust
society sounds a lot like Angola State Prison, but our rulers are
convinced otherwise. I’ll be dead before reach that point, but that’s
where we are heading.
