---
title: "Hari Seldon Has Spoken"
date: "2015-12-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-12-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6068"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6068"
---

Back in the summer, I predicted that The Weekly Standard crowd would
head back over to the Democrats if Trump won the nomination. Privately
Bill Kristol has been sounding out party big shots about how best to
stop Trump. He has hinted at his own plan to bolt the party if Trump won
the nomination.  Now the <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2015/12/21/bill-kristol-well-start-new-party-trump-wins-nomination/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Hari Seldon</a> of neo-conservatism has
made it official.

*On Monday, Weekly Standard editor-in-chief Bill Kristol tweeted out
what the rest of the Republican establishment is thinking: better
Hillary than Donald. Here’s the tweet:*

*Crowd-sourcing: Name of the new party we’ll have to start if Trump wins
the GOP nomination? Suggestions welcome at
<span class="apbct-email-encoder"
original-string="e4jExdXoaOimFlYOZ/Tveg==cb72mUvjZ7lMITX28UhYqZkyaMl5OIYEqtcQh0HaJ7xIJM="
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">ed<span class="apbct-blur">\*\*\*\*</span>@<span class="apbct-blur">\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*</span>rd.com</span>*

*— Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) December 20, 2015*

*Kristol isn’t alone. As I wrote at Daily Wire today, Politico’s Jeff
Greenfield says, “If the operatives I talked with are right, Trump
running as a Republican could well face a third-party run – from the
Republicans themselves.” That follows last Thursday’s Politico column
from former New Jersey governor Christine Todd Whitman, who compared
Trump to Hitler and called him “evil,” and last Wednesday’s Politico
column reporting that Jeb Bush’s aides “began looking into the
possibility of making a clear break with Trump – potentially with the
candidate stating that, if Trump were the nominee, Bush would not
support him.”*

*Last week, MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough said that former Mississippi
governor Haley Barbour “and a lot of the Republican leaders would much
rather Hillary Clinton be President of the United States than have
Donald Trump represent them as a Republican.” And in November, The Hill
reported that “GOP establishment donors have confided to The Hill that
for the first time in recent memory, they find themselves contemplating
not supporting a Republican nominee for president.”*

*I’m old enough to remember when it was scandalous for Trump not to
pledge his allegiance to the eventual Republican nominee. Now, day after
day, reports from party leaders leak, stating that should Trump gain
control over the party apparatus, they will simply smash the machinery.*

Four months ago the same characters now planning to bolt the party made
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_Wallace" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Thanks Dad</a> and
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Megyn_Kelly" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Tart</a> hold a loyalty oath on TV, allegedly to
show that Trump was an unreliable splitter and deviationist. For months
National Review On-Line has been running daily columns claiming that
Trump was not a real Republican because he could bolt the party at
anytime. I’m looking forward to Rich Lowry lecturing Bill Kristol about
his lack of loyalty.

Despite all the cheerleading for Team GOP and conservatism, these guys
were never on our side. Neo-conservatism was always a Progressive
heresy, not a conservative one. That’s where the paleocons got it wrong.
They saw guys like Bill Kristol as newly minted converts trying to get
control of the movement. The reality is the neo-cons were trying to kill
the conservative movement and they largely succeeded.

The trouble is, reality has always been on the side of conservatism. A
sober (somber?) acceptance of the human condition is the the core of
conservatism. The crackpot theories of the invade the word/invite the
word crowd we call neocons were always going to break on the wheel of
reality. The public will only tolerate so many Farouks shooting up their
offices and they will only volunteer so many sons to foreign wars. We’ve
reached the limit of both.

I was at a luncheon today with some old school lefties and what struck
me was their weariness with their cult. They are sick of the weirdos and
grievance mongers. They want to get back to bread and butter issues like
defending the working classes against the predatory class and fixing up
the country for Americans. They still think government is great, but I
could tell they are edging close to ditching the Democrats and the
social justice warriors.

This growing schism gets no airing as the cult controls the media, but
liberals gotta eat too. You can be the most doctrinaire lefty in town,
but when your health insurance jumps 30%, you get pissed at the people
who caused it. The on-going crisis of national sovereignty and
neo-feudal economics is eroding the old order. Old lefties and old
righties have more in common with each other than they have with their
so-called leaders.

There’s a long road between now and the time when we lock shelds against
the cloud people. When the Hari Seldon of neo-conservatism is
threatening to destroy one of the parties, it means the great
realignment is not going to happen without a fight. Given that he
and the Encyclopedists are the guys in charge, betting against them is
probably foolish. But, that’s the fun part of realignments. You never
know how they will turn out.
