---
title: "Little Green Men"
date: "2015-07-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4852"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4852"
---

Over the last week or so I have been going back and forth with a friend
about the timeline in the Terminator movies. With the new one coming
out, the old ones have been on cable. I either forgot or I was unaware
that they had made a fourth movie, based around the John Connor
character, so I watched it the other day. That film tries to address the
timeline issue, which is what spawned the discussion.

The trouble with time travel, of course, is the paradox. In this case,
sending Kyle Reese back in time could alter the timeline in such a way
that the future no longer includes the possibility of sending that same
guy back in time. That’s the paradox. It is the old bit about going back
in time to kill your parents. It’s a logical impossibility.

Therefore, the only way the movies can make any sense is if the future
guy is *destined* to be a part of the natural timeline. Your attempt to
go back and kill your parents always fails, but in the attempt, events
are shaped in such a way that you one day decide to go back in time to
kill your parents. Lather. Rinse. Repeat.

In the movie four they try to tidy up this bit of the plot, so they make
it clear that John Connor knows how this works. He knows he sends his
father back in time to save his mother. The trouble with that is he
could roll the dice and decide to just shoot the man destined to be his
father, thus scrambling the whole thing, but then that would mean
someone else was his father.

The point here is that time travel as a plot devise is fine as long as
you don’t think about it too much. The only way to make it work
logically is to either accept determinism or the multiverse. The former
naturally appeals to humans, while the latter is incomprehensible to
most people, so Hollywood preaches a weird form of fatalism in these
movies.

There’s a similar problem with space aliens. Logic say that <a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/forget-little-green-men--aliens-will-look-like-humans-says-cambridge-university-evolution-expert-10358164.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">intelligent life evolving on another
planet is most likely going to look a lot like us</a>.

*They are often portrayed on screen as little green men with elongated
limbs and saucer-like eyes.*

*From E.T to the X-Files, aliens from outer space have captured our
imagination for decades.*

*Yet a new book from a leading evolutionary biologist argues that if
they exist and we ever encountered them, they would look very similar to
us.*

*Professor Simon Conway Morris said extra-terrestrials that resemble
human beings should have evolved on at least some of the many Earth-like
planets that have been discovered by astronomers.*

This is most certainly true, to a point. A planet the size of earth
orbiting a sun similar to ours would probably be very similar to earth.
In order to support carbon based life of any complexity it will need to
look very much like earth. An intelligent species evolving on an earth
like planet will therefore come out pretty close to humans. Maybe all
the smart people are black instead of Chinese, but otherwise things
would be pretty close.

*“An area of biology which is becoming popular, perhaps too popular,
that the possibility evolution is becoming much more predictable than
people thought,” he told The Independent. “The book is really trying to
persuade the world that evolutionary convergence is completely
ubiquitous. Wherever you look you see it.*

*“The theme is to try and drive the reader, gently of course, into the
possibility that the things which we regard as most important, ie
cognitive sophistication, large brains, intelligence, tool making, are
also convergent. Therefore, in principle, other Earth-like planets
should very much end up with the same sort of arrangement.”*

*Professor Conway Morris, a Fellow at St John’s College, said it follows
that plant and animal life on other planets able to support life would
also look similar to Earth’s.*

*He said: “Certainly it’s not the case that every Earth-like planet will
have life let alone humanoids. But if you want a sophisticated plant it
will look awfully like a flower. If you want a fly there’s only a few
ways you can do that. If you want to swim, like a shark, there’s only a
few ways you can do that. If you want to invent warm-bloodedness, like
birds and mammals, there’s only a few ways to do that.*

The missing bit here is we don’t know what we will look like 10,000
years from now. We know, for example, that humans as a whole are about
ten points dumber now than in the Victorian era. The main reason for
that is stupidity is not as lethal as it was then. Similarly, we are
physically weaker as a whole, due to the fact we do far less physical
labor.

An intelligent life form on another planet that is able to traverse the
stars to reach earth will be vastly more advanced than us and therefore
further down the timeline of evolution. If the artificial intelligence
people are right, they will have long ago figured out how to upload
their consciousness into the machine and will no longer be organic, as
we currently understand it.

Of course, a species with the ability to traverse the stars will surely
have the ability to cloak their presence from us anyway. Therefore, the
only way we will ever encounter space aliens is when we evolve to the
point where we can traverse the stars and meet them halfway.
Alternatively, we will see the humanoids of another planet when we
visit, but they will look like retarded apes to us as we will have
evolved well beyond our current meat stick form.

In other words, there are no little green men and even if there were,
they would not reveal themselves to us anyway.
