---
title: "Forever Young"
date: "2015-03-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4015"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4015"
---

My plan to live forever was pretty simple. I sat for a painting of
myself and then set off on a life of hedonism. It looks like I was not
the only guy working on this. <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-03-09/google-ventures-bill-maris-investing-in-idea-of-living-to-500"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Google is pouring money in the quest to
defeat death</a>.

*Here’s where you really figure out who Bill Maris is: on his bookshelf.
There’s a fat text called Molecular Biotechnology: Principles and
Applications of Recombinant DNA. There’s a well-read copy of
Biotechnology: Applying the Genetic Revolution. And a collection of
illustrations by Fritz Kahn, a German physician who was among the first
to depict the human body as a machine. Wedged among these is a book that
particularly stands out to anyone interested in living to 500. The
Singularity Is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology, published in 2005,
is the seminal work by futurist Ray Kurzweil. He famously predicted that
in 2045, humankind will have its Terminator moment: The rise of
computers will outpace our ability to control them. To keep up, we will
radically transform our biology via nanobots and other machines that
will enhance our anatomy and our DNA, changing everything about how we
live and die.*

*“It will liberate us from our own limitations,” says Maris, who studied
neuroscience at Middlebury College and once worked in a biomedical lab
at Duke University. Kurzweil is a friend. Google hired him to help Maris
and other Googlers understand a world in which machines surpass human
biology. This might be a terrifying, dystopian future to some. To Maris,
it’s business.*

*This is where he hopes to find, and fund, the next generation of
companies that will change the world, or possibly save it. “We actually
have the tools in the life sciences to achieve anything that you have
the audacity to envision,” he says. “I just hope to live long enough not
to die.”*

Unsurprisingly, I’m skeptical. Since the great leap forward in medicine
and diet, particularly for the treatment of infections, life expectancy
has crept up slowly. In 1930, the typical white male lived to 62. Today
the typical white male lives to 79. That’s a nice increase, but it has
been a slow steady increase. It suggest the big increases in health and
longevity have been realized.

That’s not to say there’s not some great leaps coming soon. Genetics
offers up some opportunities to understand aging. There may be some ways
to slow the process and extend lifespan. Cancer treatments, oddly
enough, are adding greatly to our understanding of how cells age and
die. Some cancer drugs are slowing aging in mice so there may be some
quality of life things coming shortly.

Of course, this is being driven by the Boomer generation. Twenty years
ago the rush was on to fix baldness and limp noodles. Now the rush is on
to fix decrepitude. It’s not just Google pouring money into it. All of
the big pharma companies are rushing to find the next big drug and that
drug will be to ameliorate the effects of aging. If you were thinking
the boomers were about to start dying off, you may be disappointed.

I’m not sure how I feel about living to 500. Men in my family live into
their 90’s and in good shape until the end. I don’t recall any of them
wishing they had more time, but I have no way of knowing what they
thought in their last blinks. I suspect they missed their friends who
had all gone before them.

That’s a big part of it. If I was going to live to 500, I don’t want to
be the only 500 year old. That could have some advantages, but it would
also be lonely. I find talking to someone half my age a chore and that’s
decades. Imagine have a few centuries of experience on everyone else.
I’d probably be the world’s biggest asshole.
