---
title: "Crime & Society"
date: "2015-10-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-10-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5637"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5637"
---

The big hobbyhorse issue for libertarians is America’s incarceration
rate. They love the issue because they get to prattle on about weed,
while sucking up to the Left, who are always looking for an excuse to
release felons into your neighborhood. In other words, they get to sound
tough about small government in a way that is entirely safe from the
wrath of their Progressive masters.

While I think our prison system is a mess, my response to libertarians
over the issue is always the same. “How many current inmates would you
like released into your neighborhood? On which corner of your block
should we put the halfway house?” It’s a fun bit because no has yet
provide an answer. Just as it is easy to be generous with other people’s
money, it’s easy to be kind to convicts from a great distance.

It’s even easier if you are insane. <a
href="http://boingboing.net/2015/10/12/the-hockey-stick-from-hell-us.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> I saw posted on twitter
was getting passed around by the usual suspects, suggesting that maybe
I’m too soft on libertarians.

*What Lind doesn’t talk about is the way that the vast, vastly
profitable private prison industry [created and lobbied
for](http://boingboing.net/2010/10/28/privatized-prisons-i.html)
legislation that criminalized more conduct and set out longer sentences
for violations, operating in [opaque
secrecy](http://boingboing.net/2015/09/08/help-crowdfund-a-relentless-ts.html),
[running forced-labor
camps](http://boingboing.net/2015/08/04/privatized-for-profit-immigra.html),
[profiteering from
prisoners](http://boingboing.net/2013/10/05/prison-profiteers-extracting.html)
and their families, [bribing judges to send black kids to
jail](http://boingboing.net/2013/08/06/judge-who-accepted-private-pri.html),
and [producing a
system](http://boingboing.net/2014/06/02/matt-taibbis-the-divide-inc.html)
where the rich can launder billions for drug cartels without a single
criminal prosecution, but poor people caught with minute amounts of weed
go to jail for long stretches.*

*In other words: that hockey-stick growth isn’t an accident.*

If you follow the links, you find the Alex Jones type paranoia that has
always been a part of the modern Left. Instead of secret government
agencies in league with space aliens, you have secret corporate agents
in league with aliens. It’s The Deep State™ run out of a corporate
boardroom instead of Langley.

Putting all of that aside, it does raise an important question and that
is how were we able to have relatively low crime rates, adjusting for
race, age and sex, while having a stable prison population. Something
changed in the 50’s and 60’s that led to the sudden upward turn in
crime. <img
src="http://thepublicintellectual.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/Homicides-1900-2010-2.jpg"
class="alignnone" decoding="async" width="707" height="558" />

The obvious candidate for what changed preceding the spike in murder
rates is the Civil Rights Movement. The greatly diminished status of
blacks would have suppressed crime rates in two ways. First, the fear of
white retaliation would have resulted in high levels of self-policing
among blacks. Second, white indifference to black life would have
artificially reduced the crime stats.

The trouble with this explanation is that white murder rates did tick up
in the 60’s, just off a much smaller base so it was less obvious.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Black-White-Homicide-Victims-1950-2010.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-5640" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 527px) 100vw, 527px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Black-White-Homicide-Victims-1950-2010.png 527w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Black-White-Homicide-Victims-1950-2010-300x200.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Black-White-Homicide-Victims-1950-2010-449x300.png 449w"
width="527" height="352" alt="Black-White-Homicide-Victims-1950-2010" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Black-White-Homicide-Victims-1950-2010.png)

The trouble here is getting good data of crime rates by race from before
1980 is surprisingly difficult. I’ve been searching and
<a href="http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/hus/2012/034.pdf" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this is the best I was able to find</a>. Crime rates by
race are slowly becoming forbidden knowledge. Even so, it’s hard to
honestly tie the spike in black crime to the Civil Rights Movement
without better data showing a bigger spike than we saw in white crime
rates.

The more politically correct answer is the proliferation of street drugs
and the drug trade. Libertarians love this one, but so does the Left
because it conveniently avoids talking about race. The trouble with this
explanation is that it assumes people suddenly went insane and started
taking massive amounts of street drugs. This is one step away from
blaming evil spirits.

The Old Right answer is that general assault on traditional culture that
started in the late 50’s and accelerated into the 70’s eventually broke
down the traditional ways of controlling crime and other social
pathologies like drug taking. The result was a rise in social anarchy.
Eventually, we evolved a new way to deal with the problem, which was
mass incarceration.

The crime issue is a good example of how public policy is always about
trade-offs, Swing the wrecking ball through a social institution and
something replaces it. It’s also an example showing how American
Liberalism will inevitably end in authoritarianism. As traditional
institutions are destroyed, the state flows into the void. The existing
organic institutions grow weaker relative to the state, making them
easier to knock over.
