---
title: "Nixon in a Pantsuit"
date: "2015-04-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4297"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4297"
---

When Nixon decided to run for president in 1968, he was a long shot.
After all, he had failed in his bid eight years prior and he had lost
the California governors race. After that last defeat he uttered the
famous line, “You won’t have Nixon to kick around anymore because,
gentlemen, this is my last press conference.” He then left public life
and joined a law firm in New York.

By the time he was running again, the country was a different place than
in 1960. The media, dominated by the Left, still hated him over Alger
Hiss. His brand of politics seemed painfully old fashioned. His appeal
to normal people struck the chattering classes as absurd. More
important, Nixon had a bad brand, as the cool kids today are fond of
saying. There was simply no way to sell old Tricky Dick to the public.

Five years later a young woman named Hillary Rodham was working as a
low-level staffer on one of the House committees investigating
Watergate. Jerry Zeifman, a counsel and chief of staff of the House
Judiciary Committee, later wrote that she was a liar and a fanatical
Nixon hater. He claims to have fired her. This claim is hotly disputed
by Clinton supporters, because it looks bad for Clinton and it could
possibly be true. Even so, Mrs. Clinton is strangely linked to old
Tricky Dick.

I say that because here we are 40 years later and a well past ripe
Hillary Clinton is trying one last shot at winning the presidency. Like
Nixon, she is doing this as the latest Great Liberal Awakening reaches a
denouement. As was true then, the current Democratic coalition is
falling to pieces. The internal contradictions are ripping it apart.
Similarly, there are looming economic and international problems facing
the country.

The biggest point of comparison, of course, is personality. Like Nixon,
Hillary has a well defined brand. That brand is not a flattering one.
Even the most stalwart of Clinton supporters acknowledges that she is
physically incapable of telling the truth. They laugh about it and
treated as a quirk, but it says something when your best friends think
you are a sociopath. Nixon people used to joke about their boss’s
reputation for skullduggery, but it was never a compliment.

The differences are there too. Nixon was a very smart man, maybe one of
the smartest presidents in the modern era. Nixon was also a foe of
liberalism at a cultural level. This was as much personal as anything
else, but he really hated the hippies. He could plausibly run as an
antidote to the excesses of the Progressives. Clinton is in a very
different position as sort of an old school lefty throwback and a member
of the Democrat Party.

Even so, you can see how she intends to run as sort of an antidote to
the last eight years. She will be Obama without the hatred for whitey.
Her initial roll-out features nothing but white people. It is heavy on
the homosexuals, young women and mothers. Hillary wants to position
herself as a the wise old granny who could possibly be a lesbian, but is
not making a big deal out of it.

Long term, the plan is to follow the Nixon model and be the champion of
the downtrodden. Her trip to Chipotle is just one of many stunts
intended to picture her as a regular person. Politicians often do this,
but it is in contrast to Obama’s unrestrained elitism. Obama would show
up at an ice cream shop to be flattered by his subject. Hillary shows up
at a taco shop to mix with *her* people.

Whether it will work is hard to know. The Progressives hold all the high
ground in American culture. Liberalism is the one true faith and Hillary
is a member. If the choice is between her and some raging heretic, all
the resources of the political class will swing her way. If the
alternative is some accommodating trimmer like Jeb Bush, then I suspect
Clinton 2016 looks like a parody of Dole 1996. Perhaps she will take a
header of a stage as well.

Another departure from Nixon is that Tricky Dick went into his race
fully aware of his reputation. Clinton, so far, appears to believe the
bullshit being fed to her by the consultants. That goofy looking logo
and campaign video has been the butt of jokes on social media all week.
A lot of people hated Nixon, but no one laughed at him.

I think the biggest thing with Nixon is he could plausibly argue that he
was right all along. In 1964 Goldwater ran on the slogan, “In your heart
you know he right.” By 1968 most people had figured that out and could
see it on their TV. Nixon did not have to make the same pitch because it
was manifest. Voting for Nixon was, to a small degree, about normal
people regaining control of their country.

Hillary, in contrast, has always been wrong. The one and only thing she
has gotten right in 40 years is that Obama was not ready for the job.
That’s the one thing she can’t say in this campaign. If anything, she is
a reminder that the last 25 years have been a disaster and the country
went down the wrong path when electing the vulgarians known as The
Clintons. Symbolically, a vote against Hillary is a vote for closing the
books on a run of very bad choices.
