---
title: "We’re Revolting"
date: "2015-09-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5411"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5411"
---

The other day, C-list conservative chat-bot Quin Hillyer made a comment
in National Review Online stating that the publication has been on the
forefront of immigration restriction. He made it in the comments of <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/423817/bobby-jindal-trump-speech"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">his article</a> in which he tries to
ball-gargle Bobby Jindal. Hillyer is one of those guys who hangs around
the local Fox studio on weekends, on the off chance Fox needs a talking
head for one of their segments, so there’s no reason to pay attention to
him.

What got my attention though was the assertion that NR has been anything
but stone silent on the issue of immigration. They used to run Steyn and
Derbyshire, who have written eloquently on the details of the topic.
Mark Krikorian is given space in their on-line blog to post immigration
numbers. Otherwise, the official position of the magazine has been to
give it a good leaving alone.

John Derbyshire has often talked about editorial meetings at NR when he
was employed there. He was the only person to ever raise the topic and
when he did, everyone would slide their chairs away from him, like he
had just farted. To be seen sitting next to a bad thinker can only be
remedied by looking horribly uncomfortable whilst doing it. That way,
the other good thinkers know you are a good thinker just stuck in the
same room with a bad thinker.

It’s why I call it the “I” word. Immigration has been sacralized on the
Right as a magic talisman that wards off the charge of racism. After
all, how can you call these good thinkers racist when they are forever
championing the people of the world to come to America? Open borders has
become the anti-venom that lets them tangle with the Progressive snake
handlers on the chat shows and on-line.

You see that in <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/423607/donald-trump-conservative-movement-jonah-goldberg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this Jonah Goldberg column</a> from last
week.

*If I sound dismayed, it’s only because I am. Conservatives have spent
more than 60 years arguing that ideas and character matter. That is the
conservative movement I joined and dedicated my professional life to.
And now, in a moment of passion, many of my comrades-in-arms are
throwing it all away in a fit of pique. Because “Trump fights!”*

That’s a very revealing comment. You note there’s no mention of winning.
The point of political movements is to win political fights and move the
polices and presumably the country, closer to what the movement imagines
is best. What Jonah reveals, unintentionally I suspect, is that his game
and the that of his coevals does not include winning, at least not
winning political fights.

Instead it is an intellectual and spiritual exercise. As the Left runs
up and down the field, the Right is supposed to stand aside,
congratulating themselves on being men of ideas and character, unlike
the the uncouth lefties winning all the battles. In other words, the end
game of conservatism, according to Goldberg, is to be a good sport and
losing with dignity. Conservatism is a form of assisted suicide where
the adherent accepts defeat as a condition of joining the movement.

Of course, what radiates from these columns is the class issue. Jonah
Goldberg, despite being a big hulking guy, spent his youth in NYC in
fear of the street toughs. Those crude sounding bullies of his youth
have suddenly risen up in the form of Donald Trump, threatening to take
his lunch money away all over again. The refined men of taste who
thought they outran the reality of the street are horrified at the
prospect of a proletarian bully moving in on their movement.

All of this reminds me of the scene from Brave Heart where Longshanks
confronts his feminine son and his “assistant” after Wallace sacked
York.

The Professional Right has a revolt on their hands because they have
failed. Their response to the revolt has been a hissy fit that confirms,
in the minds of the revolting, that they are right to replace these men
of no action. It’s not that the replacement is better or more likely to
win. The first step in every revolution is to first exact revenge on
those responsible for the current conditions.

That’s why we are revolting.
