---
title: "Bitter is the New Black"
date: "2015-06-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4777"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4777"
---

[I saw this linked on
Drudge](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/wp/2015/06/18/charleston-racism-and-the-myth-of-tolerant-millennials/?hpid=z3)
the other day and it caught my eye because he labeled it “Millennials
Are More Racist.” That struck me as at odds with my own experience so I
got curious. Generation Snowflake is afraid of everything especially
race.

It was in the section with the stories about the South Carolina
shooting, which I would normally skip, as I’m not into race porn. This
is the modern phenomenon where dandies from the leisure classes wallow
in misery over some racist act, real or imagined, past or present, for
the entertainment of others.

The link takes you to an essay by a woman named Karen Attiah. According
to [her resume posted
on-line](https://www.linkedin.com/pub/karen-attiah/a/155/261), she is a
graduate of Northwestern and Columbia, receiving a bachelors in
communications from the former and a human rights degree from the
latter. Putting aside the fact that communications is a click less
rigorous than a physical education degree, both schools are training
centers for members of the elite and their attendants. Graduates of
those schools wait on the movers and shakers in the cultural and
political elite.

Further, it says she has killed time between schooling at elite
organizations like the World Bank and Duke University. She is now
starting a career in media at the Washington Post as a contract worker
of some sort. Even though she is pushing 30 and has yet to settle into a
paying career, she sports the type of credentials one sees these days in
the managerial class. Life in America has been very good to Miss Attiah
and promises to be much better, assuming she avoids costly errors in
judgement.

Now, her article:

*America should be shaken to its very core by what happened in
Charleston.*

*The gruesome massacre of nine people at Emanuel African Methodist
Episcopal Church, a historically black church in Charleston, S.C., may
amount to the worst racially motivated terror attack of our generation
and a deeply violent reminder that racism and white supremacy continue
to course through America’s veins. One cannot help but draw comparisons
to the firebombing of a black church in Birmingham, Ala., almost 52
years ago.*

Shaken to its core? This is a particularly ghastly crime, shooting
people in a church, but is it really so heinous that we have to question
the very existence of our country?

One would expect that a graduate of elite colleges would know the word
for something that happens every fifty years. That word is “rare.” In
fact, “unusually rare” would be accurate. That’s opposed to something
that happens every day, like black kids shooting innocent people of all
races, but mostly other black people. That’s what we call “common.” So
common, in fact, that hardly anyone bothers to notice.

*The shooting suspect in Charleston has been identified as Dylann Roof,
a white 21-year-old. He was arrested (peacefully, one should add) at a
traffic stop. Many will argue about what words we will use to describe
Roof, whether he should be described as a mentally disturbed kid (a
description rarely applied when the alleged perpetrator isn’t a white
male) or a rational adult responsible for his alleged actions. His age
matters, but not for the reasons you may think.*

Here’s where the bitterness shows its teeth. We see this with Obama,
Holder, Jarrett, Lynch and the rest of the mulatto mafia in the White
House. We see it all over the country. Blacks who have done
spectacularly well, by any standard, in America run around bitter and
resentful of the country that has raised them up to high status.

When Obama was born, the safe bet was to assume his mother had ruined
her life and condemned her son to a life of despair. Instead, the
culture changed so much and so fast that he rose rather easily to the
ranks of the elite. Instead of being thankful, he is bitter.

We see it here with Miss Attiah. Her writing suggests she is qualified
to cover high school softball games for the Podunk Free Press, not
writing essays for the Washington Post. Given her resume and pictures
on-line, it’s a safe bet that she is working the system with things
other than her intellect. I don’t hold that against her, but she should
be grateful she lives in a country where that is possible. In a
post-racial meritocracy, she’s cleaning floors for a living.

*Roof, who was born in 1994, violently shatters one particularly
entrenched myth that society holds about racism — that today’s
millennials are more tolerant than their parents, and that racism will
magically die out as previous generations pass on. We think that
millennials should be lauded for aspiring to be “colorblind.” There is
the belief that tolerant young people will intermarry and create a
post-racial, brown society and that it will be “beautiful.”*

*But the truth is that the kids are not all right when it comes to
racial equality. Studies have shown that millennials are just about as
racist as previous generations*

I’m quoting this section in case you think I’m being unfair to Miss
Attiah. Here we have one white lunatic out of tens of millions and his
actions are treated as emblematic, despite being a glaring one-off. Even
third rate minds can sort through this stuff. The numbers here
contradict the point she is claiming. Again, things that are rare are
things that don’t often occur. Miss Attiah appears to be confused by the
words, “rare”, “few” “many” and “often.” How is that possible?

Of course, this sort of spaghetti-minded reasoning gets published
because the editors at the Post don’t need the hassle of spiking a piece
by one of the chosen people. If the editor is an old white guy and he
sends this back pointing out the logical errors, his next meeting is
with the human resources people to discuss his termination. So, Miss
Attiah floats through life unmolested, writing nonsense others are too
polite or too afraid to correct.

Way back in the olden thymes, one argument against affirmative action
was that it diminished the work of those with real talent. A black guy
who was smart and worked hard would look over at the black guys who got
there on affirmative action and resent the people who allowed it. At the
same time, blacks promoted into areas beyond their ability would resent
it because they would live a life of frustration. At some level, Miss
Attiah has always known she is in way over her head.

Those warnings turned out to have been prophetic. In modern America,
blacks are close to being an object of worship. In another generation we
will paint the Washington Monument black and make it a shrine. If you
are a reasonably well behaved black person with anything on the ball, an
army of white people is ready to carry you to the heights of society.
Yet, those blacks on those litters resent the people carrying them and
the country that permits it to happen.

Bitter is the new black.
