---
title: "Electric Cars"
date: "2015-07-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4956"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4956"
---

There’s a fine line between enthusiasm and lunacy. There’s a reason
someone coined the term “fan” to describe over the top supporters of
sports teams. Some percentage of people become untethered from reality
over interest in a subject, like a sports team or even a whole sport.
I’ve met college football fans in the South who will talk of nothing but
college football.

I’ve always suspected that the same trait responsible for intense
religiosity is responsible for intense enthusiasm or devotion to a
narrow topic. I have no way of proving it, but that is my hunch. A lot
of die hard Communists 100 years ago came from deeply religious
families. It’s why Jews were over represented in Leftist causes. People
immersed in hobbies often come from parents who were deeply committed to
some cause or religion.

Those thoughts always come to mind when I run into electric car
enthusiasts. They have the passion of a zealot for something that most
people find uninteresting. 90% of people would be fine if a team of
midgets were in the engine bay of their car, providing the propulsion.
They just want to drive it where they need to go.

The electric car freaks and to a lesser extent the magic energy crowd,
obsess over electric motors in the same way crazy old men in another era
obsessed over steam engines. They lose themselves in minutiae and spend
their free time re-reading details of the future electric car.
<a href="http://blog.geoffralston.com/the-electric-car" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">They also write blog posts</a> so other electric car
fans can read and comment about their thoughts on electric cars.

One of the hallmarks of a cult is the adherents are convinced that the
promised land is just over the next hill or around the next bend. The
prophesies are inevitable and there’s nothing that will alter the future
so they spend their time documenting the events leading to the ultimate
event. Zero Hedge is a pretty good example. Greece did not blow up the
world so they onto other “three key charts before the crash!!” postings.

From that post about electric cars:

*Elon Musk has ushered in the age of the electric car, and whether or
not it, too, was inevitable, it has certainly begun. **The Tesla Model S
has sold so well** because, compared to old-fashioned gasoline cars:*

I’ve omitted the list and want to focus on the highlighted words. I
looked up the sales figured for the Tesla S.
<a href="http://insideevs.com/monthly-plug-in-sales-scorecard/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">In 2015 they have sold 11,600</a>, which
sounds pretty good, until you look at the <a
href="http://www.best-selling-cars.com/international/2015-jan-to-april-international-worldwide-car-sales/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">market sales data</a>. So far in the US
5.3 million cars have been sold this year. Tesla has sold well, compared
to previous attempts to market electric cars, but that’s hardly an
accomplishment.

The Tesla Model S is a toy for a rich guy. It’s a $75,000 car that costs
a lot to own, due to the infrastructure needed to charge it. If you live
in Marin or Greenwich, it’s a cool status symbol and a fun toy for the
weekend. When you blow $20K on a ski weekend, $75K for an electric car
is just more grace on the cheap.

The rest of the post has that unhinged vibe that makes you wonder if it
is not a put on. This item from his list of great benefits is hilarious
to me: “It comes with an app that allows you to manage the car from your
phone.” I’m pretty sure I’ve poked fun at people a few times using a
line similar to that. “You can control your ice maker from your iPhone!”

The great hurdle for the electric car has been the same for 100 years.
That is, how to quickly  and safely store chemical energy in a small
container that can be quickly converted to kinetic energy. Gasoline and
Diesel are really good for this. Batteries are not very good for this.
Right now, the Tesla figures say it takes about ten hours to fully
charge their car if it has the twin charger option.

That’s not useful for most people. Driving to work and back is fine, but
if you have to go more than 100 miles from home, you’re out of luck.
Given that material science has hit a wall in terms of battery design
for these things, you can’t assume those charge times will drop quickly.
Massive investment has yielded little progress. So much so, Elon Musk
has dropped the search for a breakthrough and has invested big in
conventional battery production. He’s betting against the breakthrough.

But, there may be a future for electric bikes and scooters. There are
firms offering scooters that are fine for tooling around a city or
campus and they can be charged quickly. The battery is removable so you
can plug it in at school or work. A motorcycle with a 500 mile range and
a few hours of charge time is another option that is within the
possible.

All of those limits to electric cars have been known for years. The same
is true with solar power, by the way. The science moves forward at a
snails pace, pushing the day we are free from hydrocarbons further into
the future. But, that never stops the fanatics. They are sure that
electric cars powered by sunshine are just around the corner. All they
need is a few trillion more dollars from the taxpayers…
