---
title: "The Quest for the Chocolate Savior"
date: "2015-04-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3179"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3179"
---

Way back in the mists of time, Obama was running for president and the
lunatics were fainting in the aisles at the mere mention of his name. I
recall being in a party store prior to the election and people were
buying all sorts of Obama gear for their Obama election party. I was
wondering what sort of nut decides to have a party for Obama’s election
and then I thought about my liberal friends. The reason this was all
news to me was due to not being invited to the parties. Such is the life
of the outsider.

Back then, a big part of the attraction was the otherness. Obama was an
exotic weirdo from a distant land with a Muslim name. He was the
antithesis of the great evil plaguing the land, the great evil of the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bW7Op86ox9g" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pale Penis People</a>.  I’m pretty sure that Obama is
the perfect opposite of the typical white American male and that’s why
the Left fell in love. He was their chocolate savior.

It is a strange form of cuckoldry that has gripped the nation. The
lunatics went first, but that’s always the case. Conservative Inc
followed on, which is also the norm. Just recall how they gushed over JC
Watts from Oklahoma. Nice guy, but he did nothing important other than
be a black guy in the GOP. Colin Powell played the race card to a
spectacular career in the GOP, finally stabbing everyone in the back on
the way to retirement.

After eight years of Obama, the GOP is convinced they must have a
non-white at the top of their ticket. So much so Jeb Bush is ready to
change his name to Juan Eduardo Arbusto. Since that’s not likely to fly,
the GOP has Marco Rubio warming in the bullpen, ready to step in as
their man for the nomination. Rubio has the added benefit of the
immigrant’s back story. He’s a meat head, but charming with a good
narrative to sell.

That’s the thing with Rubio. He’s basically a Cuban Sarah Palin. He’s
not stupid, but he is not sitting around working physics problems in his
free time either. He’s also a man of pedestrian tastes and
sensibilities. Unlike Palin, he has the brown force field around him so
no one dare call him stupid or even hint at it, for fear of being called
a racist.

While Rubio has a blank resume, at least he has won an election. That
says he has some idea how the game is played. That cannot be said of Dr.
Ben Carson who is famous in political circles for reasons that elude me.
I think he gave a speech somewhere that sounded good. That and he is
black and not just black, but a black surgeon! As far as I can tell,
that is his only reason to be running for president – he’s black.

Now, I have nothing against any of these people. I don’t think they
should be president, but we’re a country that has had a vulgar
degenerate, a blockhead and a dimwit in the White House. The last 25
years seem to prove that we could just do away with the office entirely.
After all, if the last three idiots could not bring down the nation, the
office must hold no power at all, relative to the rest of the country.

What I don’t get is the weird obsession with the foreign, exotic and
unconventional. What’s the attraction? Sure, its good to see minorities
succeed. The hope is they will be an example for their people to follow.
Whether or not that has any impact on their people is open to debate,
but the sentiment is at least understandable. If it does work, a
successful black guy will drag his people up.

That’s not what we’re seeing. There’s a sacramental quality to the
worship of non-whites and foreigners. I hear this from otherwise
sensible people regarding Hispanics in California. They believe the
state will turn around when a suitably conservative Hispanic wins the
governorship. To my ears, this sounds a lot like  ancients believing the
right sacrifices could result in a good harvest. It’s magical thinking.

In the case of Americans, my sense is many white people think that their
sins can only be scrubbed from their soul if they fully and complete
submit to those who their ancestors harmed. Racism has taken up the
place of original sin. Christians believe you must completely submit to
God. The anti-racists think they can only be cleansed by submitting
completely to non-whites.

This madness has a
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Dorothy Martin</a> vibe to it. Electing
Obama was supposed to usher in the perfect era of race relations.
Instead, things are worse. Sensible people would look at this experiment
and suspect the prophesies may not have been right. To the true
believers, the response is to become even more fanatical.

It’s tempting to think that the futile search for the chocolate savior
will eventually be overwhelmed by reality. Charles Murray has argued
that this impulse will turn 180 degrees and in a generation Progressives
will be embracing tribalism. I have no way of knowing if that is true
and I will not be around to see it. I do know that this spiritual
impulse to right the wrongs of racism has only grown stronger in my
life. Failure to please the gods of race is the fuel that drives the
quest to please those gods
