---
title: "TED: Social Gospel"
date: "2015-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4142"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4142"
---

I used to think TED Talks were just to provide me with material. When I
first started this blog, I was riffing on these things once a week for a
while. But, that’s not why they exist. They are the modern equivalent of
the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circuit_rider_%28religious%29"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">preaching circuit</a>. Instead of
educated men of the faith heading out into the boonies to convert the
heathens, we have educated men of the faith telling their coevals in the
managerial elite that they are special little snowflakes.

This one got my attention for a couple of reasons.

Since you probably don’t want to sit through it, here’s the transcript
of interest:

*<span class="talk-transcript__para__text"> <span id="t-620"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="620">When we think about mapping
cities,</span> <span id="t-2395" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="2395">we tend to think about roads and streets and
buildings,</span> <span id="t-5200" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="5200">and the settlement narrative that led to their
creation,</span> <span id="t-8000" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="8000">or you might think about the bold vision of an urban
designer,</span> <span id="t-10984" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="10984">but there’s other ways to think about mapping cities</span>
<span id="t-13487" class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="13487">and
how they got to be made.</span> <span id="t-15653"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="15653">Today, I want to show you
a new kind of map.</span> <span id="t-17746"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="17746">This is not a geographic
map.</span> <span id="t-19242" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="19242">This is a map of the relationships between people in my
hometown</span> <span id="t-22373" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="22373">of Baltimore, Maryland,</span> <span id="t-23713"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="23713">and what you can see here
is that each dot represents a person,</span> <span id="t-28130"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="28130">each line represents a
relationship between those people,</span> <span id="t-31424"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="31424">and each color represents
a community within the network.</span> </span>*

*<span class="talk-transcript__para__text"><span id="t-34870"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="34870">Now, I’m here on the
green side, down on the far right where the geeks are,</span>
<span id="t-39732" class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="39732">and
TEDx also is down on the far right. (Laughter)</span> <span id="t-43580"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="43580">Now, on the other side of
the network,</span> <span id="t-46157" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="46157">you tend to have primarily African-American and Latino
folks</span> <span id="t-49117" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="49117">who are really concerned about somewhat different things
than the geeks are,</span> <span id="t-52707"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="52707">but just to give some
sense,</span> <span id="t-54148" class="talk-transcript__fragment"
time="54148">the green part of the network we call Smalltimore,</span>
<span id="t-56554" class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="56554">for
those of us that inhabit it,</span> <span id="t-58099"
class="talk-transcript__fragment" time="58099">because it seems as
though we’re living in a very small town.</span></span>*

Managerial class types love the phrase “big data” and they really love
these weird splatter graphs they claim are derived from the big data.
These presentations often look like a Jackson Pollock work. Unlike the
artist, the folks who do these today know their audience is uninterested
in ambiguity. They want to see how they’re the best and it better be
clear. The result is big bold blobs of goodness in friendly colors like
green and blue.

In this case, the Ted Talker puts himself and by extension the audience
in the friendly green blob he calls “geek” which is a favorite term of
the managerial class. Every liberal arts major with a self-actualizing
job now says they are a “nerd” or a “geek.” The whole point of this
graphic is to make the audience feel good, but also feel bad, in a good
way. That distance from the blacks is to work the old guilt complex.

The other thing I think worth mentioning is the great divide in Western
intellectual life. It feels like we have reached a place similar to the
late medieval period when science was just getting going. On the one
hand you have members of the ruling elite heading off into the Church,
which has reached its peak scholastically. On the other hand you have
others heading into new, secular intellectual worlds like law,
philosophy and science.

The Ted talkers are having a spiritual experience. Instead of eating
mushrooms and looking into the stars, they are dressing up and hearing a
preacher tell them they are the brightest starts in the heavens. They
don’t think of it as a mystical experience, but that’s the draw. They
are an elect, invited to
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thing_of_all_Swedes"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Thing of all SWPL’s</a>. No one goes
to these things to learn stuff. They go to experience them.

Compare that to the people doing real science and speculating about the
nature of the world.
<a href="http://www.unz.com/gnxp/patriarchy-came-with-cain-and-abel/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Look at this</a> from Razib Khan’s blog
and imagine the Ted Talk types confronting those graphics. Everything
about human sciences, our understanding of people, history and culture
is now being reexamined in light of new information coming from
genetics. The revolution in scientific understanding going on right now
dwarfs what happened in the Renaissance.

Even so, vast swaths of the managerial class are both intellectually
incapable of mastering the new material and ideologically disinclined to
accept it. To borrow an idea from Marine Le Pen, the cultural elite of
our age are using software designed for the industrial age. The new
knowledge pouring in from genetics and neuroscience simply does not fit
their mental model of the world.

Ironically, the cultural elites of today are still fond of mocking
Christians about Galileo. Yet, the roles are clearly reversed. The
science deniers are the sort of people watching Ted Talks with tears in
their eyes. History says the clerical class does no fold up easily and
they will try to keep the new dangerous knowledge about humanity from
getting into the public domain. That’s why we get all the shrieking
about HBD.

If history is any guide, the clerisy will try to co-opt the new
knowledge. That’s what happened with the Church and science 500 years
ago. How the Church of Modern Liberalism incorporates IQ and population
genetics is a mystery to me. Maybe they just start burning heretics
instead. Islam, when faced with challenges from science has chosen to
kill the science. Maybe that’s where we’re heading. I don’t know.
