---
title: "The Messiah and David Brooks"
date: "2015-05-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4434"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4434"
---

I wrote the other day of the religious aspects of Cultural Marxism. In
fact, I find it more difficult to the use the term “Cultural Marxism”
the more I think about the outlook of our cultural elites. Cultural
Marxism assumes a consciousness of purpose, an end in mind, when I don’t
see evidence of that in these people. What I see is a grasping in the
dark for what, no one can seem to describe.

<a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/01/opinion/david-brooks-the-nature-of-poverty.html?hp&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;module=c-column-top-span-region&amp;region=c-column-top-span-region&amp;WT.nav=c-column-top-span-region&amp;_r=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This David Brooks column</a> is what I
mean.

*Lately it seems as though every few months there’s another urban riot
and the nation turns its attention to urban poverty. And in the midst of
every storm, there are people crying out that we should finally get
serious about this issue. This time it was [Jon Stewart who spoke for
many when he
said](http://thedailyshow.cc.com/extended-interviews/69wmkr/exclusive-george-stephanopoulos-extended-interview):
“And you just wonder sometimes if we’re spending a trillion dollars to
rebuild Afghanistan’s schools, like, we can’t build a little taste down
Baltimore way. Like is that what’s really going on?”*

*The audience applauded loudly, and it’s a nice sentiment, but it’s not
really relevant.*

*The problem is not lack of attention, and it’s not mainly lack of
money. Since 1980 federal antipoverty spending has exploded. [As Robert
Samuelson of The Washington Post has pointed
out](http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/robert-j-samuelson-how-we-won--and-lost--the-war-on-poverty/2014/01/12/9bf4696e-7a24-11e3-b1c5-739e63e9c9a7_story.html),
in 2013 the federal government spent nearly $14,000 per poor person. If
you simply took that money and handed it to the poor, a family of four
would have a household income roughly twice the poverty rate.*

*Yet over the last 30 years the poverty rate has scarcely changed.*

To be perfectly honest, I think Brooks is a gold plated phony. By that I
mean he has carefully cultivated a persona that satisfies the sort of
people who run the NYTimes, PBS and tax-dollar funded think tanks. He
makes a living flattering people who have the money to keep him in the
lifestyle to which he has become accustomed.

That said, he can write and that lets him break the bad news to his
patrons in a way that allows them to accept it. In this case, it has to
do with the multi-generational war on biological reality, otherwise
known as the War on Poverty. This project has largely been a Baby Boomer
project to rebuild America into an egalitarian utopia.

As Brooks notes, it has been mostly a failure. I think he overstates the
success, but there’s an argument that it has done some good. All of
those government employees would be living in squalor if not for the
trillions in social welfare transfers. The same can be said of the vast
war machine we have financed for seventy years. I know families that are
now third generation defense contractor.

The sadness in the tone of his piece is what is worth noting. As the
Boomers begin falling into the abyss, they have to look around and
wonder if it was worth it. If you were born in 1950, for example, you
grew up in America that is vastly different than today. It’s one your
grandchildren will never enjoy. The trillions spent knocking down what
you inherited could maybe have been spent more wisely.

I don’t think Brooks and his coevals in the managerial class are just
looking at the material side of the ledger. They are looking at the
spiritual side. They have spent their whole lives waiting for the
prophesies to come true and we are no closer to the egalitarian paradise
than fifty years ago when much of this madness began.

*In [a fantastic interview that David Simon of “The Wire” gave to Bill
Keller for The Marshall
Project](https://www.themarshallproject.org/2015/04/29/david-simon-on-baltimore-s-anguish),
he describes that, even in poorest Baltimore, there once were informal
rules of behavior governing how cops interacted with citizens — when
they’d drag them in and when they wouldn’t, what curse words you could
say to a cop and what you couldn’t. But then the code dissolved. The
informal guardrails of life were gone, and all was arbitrary harshness.*

*That’s happened across many social spheres — in schools, families and
among neighbors. Individuals are left without the norms that
middle-class people take for granted. It is phenomenally hard for young
people in such circumstances to guide themselves.*

*Yes, jobs are necessary, but if you live in a neighborhood, as Gray
did, where half the high school students don’t bother to show up for
school on a given day, then the problems go deeper.*

*The world is waiting for a thinker who can describe poverty through the
lens of social psychology. Until the invisible bonds of relationships
are repaired, life for too many will be nasty, brutish, solitary and
short.*

Put another way, the organic ways in which society managed the
unproductive classes were blasted to bits by a bunch of people convinced
they knew better than the dozens of generations that came before them.
The proposed replacement for those ways have utterly failed, meaning
everything guys like Brooks grew up believing was nonsense after all.
Meathead is learning that Archie was mostly right.

I have to chuckle at the last paragraph. Brooks and his coevals are in
the pumpkin patch waiting for the “thinker who can describe poverty
through the lens of social psychology” because it will take a super
genius to unriddle this problem! After all, if the credentialed members
of the managerial elite are stumped, well, no mortal can solve this
problem.

Steve Sailer is working from the premise that we are going through a
replay of the late sixties and early seventies. The coalition of fringes
is once again blowing apart and taking a bunch of us with it. There’s
some truth to that, but history only sort of repeats itself.

Forty years ago as the optimism of the sixties devolved into the
cynicism of the seventies, the faithful still had communism, socialism
and Cultural Marxism to keep them going. The spiritual side was still
there, even if the material side was a bust. Today, there is a spiritual
exhaustion to go along with the material disasters.

No one knows what to do next. So they wait for the messiah.
