---
title: "Nero Bush"
date: "2015-02-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3771"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3771"
---

When reading about the Julio-Claudian dynasty, I’m always struck by the
juxtaposition of Nero and Augustus. Nero seems to have hated the very
*idea* of Rome and everything associated with it. Every description of
his time as emperor brings to mind someone obsessed with debasing
everything around him, including his own position. Shocking the
sensibilities of the nobles and offending the people appears to be all
that mattered to him.

Augustus, it seems to me, loved the *idea* of Rome. For instance, he
carried on many of the Republican traditions, despite the fact he was
the emperor. There was certainly a political motive to pretending the
old system was still in place, but he had to have a fair amount of
respect for the *idea* of Rome to see the value in maintaining the
customs. Of course, Suetonius claims he said, “I found Rome a city of
bricks and left it a city of marble.” That’s the mind of man in love
with his city and what it represents.

I’m surely over simplifying, but this is not a post about Rome. I just
find Roman history a great starting place when trying to noodle through
events of today. One thousand years of history provides a lot of useful
examples and lessons. Add in some of the great historians and
chroniclers and you get a great source of material for a blog post by a
random idiot.

Anyway, I was thinking about that when <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2015/02/is-jeb-bush-a-republican-obama/385168/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reading this the other day</a>.

*Margaret Thatcher famously said that her greatest success as a
politician was the rise of Tony Blair to lead a party he called New
Labour: “We forced our opponents to change their minds.” As yet, Barack
Obama can make no similar boast. Just the opposite: He radicalized his
Republican opponents, and empowered most those who agreed with him
least. With the presidential campaign of Jeb Bush, Obama can finally
glimpse Thatcher-style success. Here, at last, is an opponent in his own
image.*

*What can the son and brother of a president, grandson of a senator, and
great grandson of the founder of the Walker Cup have in common with the
son of a failed Kenyan politician? Look beyond the biography to the
psychology.*

The first part is nonsense on stilts, but this is David Frum and most of
what he says is nonsense. He does have solid connections to the
neo-conservatives so it is often worth weeding through the nonsense to
learn what’s going on with the Cult of Leo Strauss. The last bit is what
got my attention. Obama is a bitter weirdo whose presidency looks like a
revenge fantasy from someone with a deep antipathy for America. Making
this comparison to Jeb Bush is no small thing.

This bit he quotes from Bush is stunning to me:

*I’m bicultural—maybe that’s more important than bilingual. For those
who have those kinds of marriages, appreciating the culture of your
spouse is the most powerful part of the relationship. Being able to
share that culture and live in it has been one of the great joys of my
life. We chose Miami to live because it is a bicultural city. It’s as
American as any, but it has a flair to it that is related to this
bicultural feeling. I wanted my children to grow up in a bicultural
way.*

You cannot be bicultural. To quote my ancestors, a man who chases two
rabbits catches none. You can be an American with an appreciation of or
even a fondness for another culture. You can be a Mexican with an
appreciation of America. On the other hand, you can be an American who
moves to another land and adopts the culture of that land, just as
millions of Mexicans have adopted American culture. You cannot be on
both sides of the fence. Claims as such suggest to me that Jeb Bush
really does not like America all that much.

*As Jeb Bush himself notes, there is a Bush family tradition of moving
away from the culture into which one is born, to plunge into another.
George H.W. Bush, born to a family of Northeastern grandees, reinvented
himself as Sunbelt conservative. George W. Bush, born in New Haven,
Connecticut, was the only member of the next generation of Bush brothers
not born in Texas, and yet became the most Texan of them all. Jeb Bush
moved away first from Texas, and then from his family’s patrician
identity as White Anglo-Saxon Protestants.*

By itself, this can be easily seen as a tick of successful families. The
sons want to distinguish themselves from the father so they go another
way. It’s one thing for one son to embrace the earthy side of the
family. It is quite another for the other son to go so far as to embrace
another country’s culture entirely.

*Bush seems to have something more in mind than just the familiar (if
overstated) claim that immigration can counter the aging of the
population. He seems to think that there is some quality in the
immigrants themselves that is more enterprising—more dynamic to use his
favorite term—than native-born Americans. This is not only a positive
judgment on the immigrants themselves. It is also a negative judgment on
native-born Americans.*

I used to wonder how anyone could think it wise to put a guy like Obama
in the White House. You have a better chance of getting struck by
lightning and hitting the lottery on the same day than meeting a man
with Obama’s bio. He is the very definition of un-American. At least his
supporters could claim he embraced America and loved his countryman.
It’s an implausible claim, but not an impossible one.

Jeb Bush hates his country and his countrymen. That’s clear in all of
his utterances. Putting this man in the White House is akin to handing
the purple to Nero, after knowing what Nero intended to do as emperor.
At least the Romans had the fall back policy of assassinating their
intolerable leaders. We have to hope there’s a Sirhan Sirhan out there
and he is able to slip past the Praetorian Guard. That’s not much of a
fall back plan.

It’s also no way for a sane people to manage their affairs. I’m not
prone to doomsday thoughts, but this may be the critical moment in the
history of the nation. If this self-loathing lunatic is put in the White
House, the country is finished. Even if the people rise up and stymie
this guy’s drive to gut the country, the consequences of that will be
almost as bad. The senate murdering Julius Caesar may have stopped
Julius Caesar, but it also put an end to the Republic.

Nero Bush must be stopped.

 
