---
title: "The “Tip” of the Iceberg"
date: "2015-03-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4082"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4082"
---

<a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/travel/2015/03/17/ritz-carlton-accused-adding-black-surcharge-during-basketball-tournament/?intcmp=HPBucket"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is an interesting story</a>:

*Late last February, the Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association
(CIAA)— a conference comprised of historically African-American colleges
and universities in the U.S.—held its annual basketball tournament in 
Charlotte, N.C.*

*Conference participants stayed at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel but many hotel
guests were shocked to find an automatic “CIAA Service” surcharge of 15
percent added to their bills at the lobby bar during the annual event.*

*“When she \[a Ritz-Carlton server\] brought the receipt, there was a
CIAA surcharge that was included,” diner Patrice Wright told
[WBTV](http://www.wbtv.com/story/28244221/customers-upset-with-ritz-lobby-lounge-ciaa-service-charge).
“And we thought that’s interesting because we have frequented the
establishment several times and never had any surcharge that was
associated with any organization that was in town.”*

*Wright and her husband –who were not affiliated with the CIAA–contacted
the Ritz-Carlton to understand why the hotel was permitted to charge a
fee related to the basketball tournament to non-participants.*

*“Due to the size of the CIAA event, we instituted a modest 15% service
charge for our lobby beverage servers, on whom the event places
significant demands throughout the weekend,” said the hotel.*

Years back, I was in New Orleans for a Patriots football game. The game
was on the same weekend as the annual football game between Southern and
Grambling. The locals call it the *Soul Bowl*. I got in on a Friday and
I was the only white person in my hotel. My friends arrives and we
increased the diversity of the place infinitely.

Out in town, we noticed a few things. One was the French Quarter was all
black, no whites other than us and some other Patriot fans who
apparently did not know about the Soul Bowl. It was like being on the
streets of Lagos. It was teaming with black people and white faces stood
out like the sun.

The other thing we noticed was the lack of cabs. We did not see any cabs
and just assumed it was a local thing. Later we learned that the cabbies
stay away during the Soul Bowl. When the game was over on Saturday and
those fans left, the place was full of cabs. That confirmed what we were
told.

Finally, the French Quarter proprietors were strangely racist, even the
black ones. At one place, a black doorman waved us ahead of the black
people waiting in line. We were a little puzzled by what happened so we
asked the waitress, who was black. She flat out said whites tip better
and spend more than the people in line.

That last bit is something I hear black people say all the time. I have
black friends who proudly say they do not tip at all. I’m not entirely
sure why and I’m not alone. T<a
href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2015/01/21/whats-behind-racial-differences-in-restaurant-tipping/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">his recent WaPo story</a> seems equally
puzzled. If your are a French Quarter business, the Soul Bowl turns out
to be terrible for business, which is why many of them close. It’s why
the cabbies take off during that event.

The hotel in the story at the top may simply have instituted a mandatory
tip policy for events. That’s not uncommon either. The thing they know
that most people don’t is big events draw lots of deadbeats. The
attendees are often there because they got free tickets or as part of a
discount package. This becomes their cheap-o-vacation. That means no
tips and stealing the towels is an issue. This “tax” is to cover those
costs.

Of course, we live in a lunatic asylum so everyone jumps to the worst
possible explanation by default. The irony of calling the hotel racist
for charging a blacks-only event a premium is lost on everyone. If they
hosted an AmRen event, they would excoriated for *not charging* a
premium. But, that’s what happens when you let lunatics take over your
country.

 
