---
title: "The New Religion"
date: "2015-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4744"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4744"
---

<a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3121061/Local-NAACP-leader-professor-African-studies-outed-WHITE-parents-convincing-community-black-years.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Rachel Dolezal story</a> is hilarious
for a boatload of reasons. There’s the obvious comparison to people who
insist we pretend they are of another sex. If you can pretend to be the
opposite sex, why not another race? More precisely, if sex is a social
construct, then why is race not a social construct? Of course, for
decades the war on white people has been based on the assertion that
race *is* a social construct.

It used to be that we need not worry about such things. Biology was real
and people accepted it. Those who did not were deemed mentally ill and
treated accordingly. Rachel Dolezal was not fooling anyone, I suspect.
People are not that stupid. They are that polite, however, and no one
wants to get in a spat over race, even if it involves someone
fraudulently using race to game the system. Elizabeth Warren pulled the
same stunt and got away with it for the same reasons.

It’s fun to make sport of the internal contradictions, but it is even
more fun to watch the Cult attack itself over something like this.
Rachel Dolezal believes all the right things and has literally committed
her life to them, but in doing so she has made a mockery of the one true
faith. But, condemning someone for not being black enough sounds a lot
like the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paper_bag_party" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">paper bag test</a> or the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-drop_rule" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">one drop rule</a>.

Aside from the humor, it does reveal the basics of the New Religion, at
least at this stage of its development. The New Religion is based on
three principles: egalitarianism, multiculturalism and anti-racism.The
order is important as the first two principles are the oldest and most
important. Egalitarianism goes back to Rousseau and is at the root of
all radical movements since the French Revolution.

If all men are the same, logically all cultures are the same.
Multiculturalism is not logically possible without accepting
egalitarianism. On the other hand, like Marxism, multiculturalism is a
solution to the obvious problem that people will notice that not all
cultures are the same and not all people seem to be equal. By ennobling
the embrace of all cultures and condemning ethnocentrism, noticing
becomes a defect in the noticer, rather than in the noticed.

If everyone is the same and no cultures are better than any other,
inequity must be due to something other than biology and culture. Since
white societies are the richest and most dominant, they must doing
something to upset the natural order. That’s where anti-racism comes
into the mix. The sin of racism is what allows whites in particular and
white society in general, to rule over the rest of the world.

Therefore, white people of the New Religion jostle with one another for
who can be the most ethno-masochist. The ultimate expression of that is
to change ones race from white to black. We can all agree that Rachel
Dolezal is nuts, but her choice here is not entirely irrational from the
perspective of the true believer. Some white women marry black men, but
she went even further and converted to blackness!

You see the same thing happening with trannies and homosexuals. In the
mythology of the New Religion, women have been oppressed by white men
almost as bad as blacks. This cult is, after all, a female cult. That
makes white men the ultimate evil. How better to address that than
proving maleness is a choice. If Bruce Jenner can choose to be female,
then all of those terrible white men are choosing to be terrible white
men.

All religions work backwards. By that I mean they begin with an endpoint
and layout what must be done to reach that endpoint. For Christians,
getting into heaven is about following certain rules and “living a
Christian life.” For members of the New Religion, the goal is the
earthly utopia where everyone lives in a paradise of equality.
Therefore, the anointed are those who work to achieve it, through any
means necessary.

Religions also always have a certain amount of hypocrisy and
irrationality, too. They are human institutions, after all. The New
Religion will ignore Elizabeth Warren’s trans-racialism because she is
in the elite. Rachel Dolezal is just a provincial in flyover country.
That means the good folks at NPR and the NYTimes can make sport of
Rachel Dolezal, while celebrating Elizabet Warren.

It’s why cases like this will not have a lasting impact on the evolution
of the New Religion. Hypocrisy, it turns out, is a great adaptation. It
solves a lot of problems for human religion. Whether it is Catholic
Bishops living like royalty while railing against earthly pleasures or
Progressive pundits championing Bruce Jenner while condemning Rachel
Dolezal, hypocrisy lets the faithful get past the internal
contradictions and outright lunacy of their faith.
