---
title: "Mokita"
date: "2015-05-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-05-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4458"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4458"
---

A recurring theme outside the fever swamps is the growing collection of
things that everyone knows, but we’re not allowed to discuss. I think a
lot of it is simply due to the emerging religion of the post-national
West trying to work out the orthodoxy. It’s hard to hail the triumph of
egalitarianism when clearly most people are not equal. While that’s
being hammered out, you’ll not notice it – or else.

On the other hand, every human society has things it carefully places in
its blind spot. Reality is simply too big and complicated to be anything
other than messy for self-aware mammals. Religion used to solve this by
blaming the gods, but now we just politely refuse to talk about those
intractable or inconvenient aspects of human existence. Just for fun I
thought I’d make a post of some of them.

**Black people commit a lot of crime:** The recent unrest in American
ghettos has been great material for the TV news channels. The only thing
better than burning buildings is seeing people loot the building first
then set it ablaze. If they are doing it during the day it is even
better as you can then get great closeups of the rioters.

The trouble is all the people doing this are black. In America, everyone
knows black people commit an outlandish amount of crime. If you see
black males on the street, everyone, *including black people*, assume
they are up to no good. It is something everyone knows, but we choose
not to discuss. When we are forced to talk about it, some other
unrelated issue is brought into the discussion so we can talk about
that, rather than the crime figures.

**No one wants their kid to be gay.** All parents say they are just
happy if their kids are healthy. That’s mostly true, but no parent wants
their kid to turn out to be a happy healthy homosexual. All of those
pious Progressives haranguing us about the gays privately hope they
never have to be in the same room with a gay, much less have one in the
family. There’s a reason for all of the gay ghettos in places like New
York, Boston and San Francisco.

**Gay men are mostly assholes.** Life for homosexuals is not a lot of
fun. Unlike everyone else, their pool of potential mates is
infinitesimally small. A normal man makes a pass at a women and it is
not big deal if she is offended. A man makes a pass at a man and it is
big trouble if the other guy is not into dudes. Life for gay people is
not a lot of fun and that’s what makes them so unpleasant. We all know
this, but what’s the point of saying anything about it? They are what
they are and that’s punishment enough.

**Lesbians are surly and unattractive.** The pornography industry has
convinced a lot of men that lesbians are hot super models or the girls
down the hall, if you can just get them drunk. Of course, lesbians in
the press avoid the normal kit as they know how TV works. Viewers want
to see attractive people. That means lantern-jawed men and model quality
women.

In real life, lesbians look like the guy who paved your driveway. They
have bad haircuts and wear men’s clothes. For some reason, they like
wearing men’s jeans and flannel shirts. Younger ones will have a face
full of fishing tackle and tattoos. To add to the unpleasant visage,
they are surly and miserable people. I’ve trod this earth a long time
and I have yet to meet a sunny, bubbly lesbian.

**The apple does not fall far from the tree.** Education policy and all
of our debates about crime, poverty and the underclass are all based on
something we know is nonsense. That thing is the belief that the kid
will grow up to be something different than his parents. The fact we all
know is that almost all kids turn out to be, more or less, like their
parents.

Public policy is based on the belief that the right teacher, the right
program, the right social worker will magically overcome biology. We all
know this is nonsense, but we go along with it because it beats the
alternatives. The rare exception of the kid overcoming bad parents makes
us feel good so we go along with the lie, even though everyone suspect
it is a mistake.

**Men are not all that interested in what women have to say.** Here’s
another biology issue. Males are programmed to seek mating
opportunities. We fight one another, fight strangers, perform in public
and do all sorts of things to increase out chances of mating. Whatever
it takes to bag a female we will do. That includes pretending to care
about what a woman has to say on most subjects.

The hard cold truth is women are bred for having and raising children.
Men are bred for battling other males for the chance to reproduce. It’s
why we used to say that men will trade money for sex and women will
trade sex for money. The biological ends of men and women are the same,
but the means are vastly different and neither side can offer much in
the way of advise to the other, with regards to the means.

My guess is women don’t care what men have to say either, but most men
assume that anyway. Women seem to think we are supposed to care what
they have to say so we have all of these rituals where men pretend to
care what the hot women in the office is saying about sales, but he is
really just thinking about banging her.

**The most bigoted people in America are black.** In fact, blacks are
actively encouraged to wear their prejudices on their sleeve. Every
black comic does bits on white people. Famous black people put a lot of
effort into “keeping it real” so they can be clear that they are not
down with the blue-eyed devil. How many times have you heard a black guy
say something like, “It is a black thing, you wouldn’t understand”?

What makes this most absurd is we also pretend that blacks are
biologically incapable of being racist or prejudiced. No one, for
example, ever says that Al Sharpton is a racist, because that’s not
permitted. We all know that he is a hate-filled carbuncle of a man, but
he’s black so we don’t say he is a racist.

**Jews do run things**. If you look around, it is not hard to notice
that men of the tribe occupy a disproportionate amount of the nation’s
high ground. Hollywood is run by Jews. The media is all run by Jews.
Finance, obviously. Look at the list of richest 1000 and you see that
30% are Jews. It’s not a conspiracy or part of some master plan run from
a secret location in Israel. Jews are just a wildly successful people.

Western societies reward intelligence and Jews are the smartest group of
humans on earth. That means more of them will be equipped to succeed in
a modern society, relative to their numbers, than we’ll see with other
groups. Having smart people in charge of your country is a good idea so
everyone goes along with it and never mentions it. The last time people
noticed the Jews were in charge, a lot of bad things followed so we
pretend not to notice.

**Most people should not be allowed to vote.** Paying attention to
public affairs is tough stuff. First off, it’s boring. Thinking about
the big game is a lot more fun than thinking about tax policy or
abortion policy. Even if you have an interest in it, there’s so much
bravo sierra in the media it is hard to keep track of things. Even smart
people fall into lazy habits of rooting for Red Team or Blue Team
without thinking about it.

Most people are not smart. In fact, most people are average to below
average. We’re a country that lets retarded people vote. We all know
this is a terrible idea, but we go along with it anyway. We hope that
when it matters the serious people who know the right answers will also
have the ability to convince the dumb people to pull the right lever.
But, most of us suspect it would be better to just let the smart people
vote, but we keep that to ourselves.
