---
title: "The Government Screw-Up Fraction"
date: "2015-07-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-07-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4970"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4970"
---

Most people out on the fringe, which is getting rather crowded of late,
are more than a bit angry and bitter. It’s hard to be a sunny optimist
when you sense that the world is going to shit and there’s nothing that
can stop it. Turn on the TV looking for sports, only to see them <a
href="http://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/caitlyn-jenner-receives-espy-award-courage-n392911"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">parading around a mentally disturbed man
in drag</a> and you have to wonder if blowing it all up is not what’s
best.

The truth is mass media makes the weird seem common, but it is no more
common than in previous eras. When I was a teenager back in the last
Maunder minimum, a friend dated a girl who lived with her father as her
mother had died when she was a child. Dad had no woman in his life, but
he had a closet full of women’s clothes. As long as he kept it out of
the streets, people politely ignored it. Today he would be on display by
the mass media.

Similarly, the corruption we see with monied interests and the governing
elites is nothing new. Kings granted lands and titles to their favorites
who just happened to fill their coffers with gold.  A century ago
bankers and monopolists controlled western governments, buying
politicians at every level. Government has always been for sale and it
always will be for sale as long as humans are in charge. No man is so
virtuous that he will refuse the highest bidder.

The real trouble we face, the true crisis of the age, is the mounting
incompetence at all levels of government. We can joke around about
failing up, but it is a real problem when it involves necessary work not
getting done. In a prior age, there was a limit to the corruption
because things had to get done. In the “post-scarcity” world, the people
in charge operate as if there’s never any cost to their failures.

And they can for forgiven for thinking this. Take a look at the career
of
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marilyn_Tavenner" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Marilyn Tavenner</a>. She has been in government and
quasi-government her whole life. No, public hospitals in America are not
private enterprise. Her career before getting to DC is impossible to
judge from where I sit, but her Washington career has been nothing but a
string of disasters. Now, <a
href="http://www.politico.com/story/2015/07/marilyn-tavenner-to-ahip-120152.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">she is cashing in to be lobbyist</a>.

*Former Medicare chief Marilyn Tavenner has been hired as the new CEO of
America’s Health Insurance Plans, representing an industry that she
helped regulate during the turbulent launch of Obamacare.*

*The powerful K Street lobbying group’s announcement Wednesday comes
months after Tavenner, a nurse and former hospital CEO, stepped down as
the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. At
the agency, she was responsible for writing many of Obamacare’s rules
and oversaw the troubled rollout — and repair — of the HealthCare.gov
enrollment website.*

If you are an aspiring screw-up, you have to look at this as a great
inspiration. If you are good at polishing the right apples and know how
to toady to the right people, you too can get fabulously rich off the
taxpayers, even you are a colossal screw-up. In this case, Mx. Tavenner
is hired because she is on good terms with all the other screw-ups in
the bureaucracy.

Smart fraction theory asserts that a nation’s per capita GDP is
determined by the population fraction with IQ greater than or equal to
some threshold IQ. Consistent with the data of Lynn and Vanhanen, that
threshold IQ is 108. The more people you have in that fraction, the more
stupid people they can carry up the economic ladder. Detroit has few
people with an IQ over 108, while San Francisco has many.

You have to wonder if something similar is going on with government.The
Iron Triangle of government consists of interest groups, members of
congressional subcommittees, and agency bureaucrats. Interest groups
lobby politicians through their staffers (bribes) who pass laws for
agency bureaucrats to implement. Since agency bureaucrats are not very
bright, they rely on interest groups to write the implementing
regulations.

That is not as bad as it sounds as industry works as a brake on the
incompetence of the bureaucrats and the lunacy of the political leg. The
trouble is the government has grown so large and complex, industry needs
insiders to work the system on their behalf.  This is where screw-ups
from the agency bureaucrat pool get into the blood stream of government.

The inept bureaucrat gets a job in the industry they regulate, but they
are a screw-up so the industry finds a home for them back in the
bureaucracy or on the staff of a politician, usually at a higher level
than they started. In time, these staffers cycle back into the
bureaucracy, replaced by some other screw-up that was plucked from the
bureaucracy by the special interests.

In this process, the number of competent people remains fixed while the
number of screw-ups multiply. There’s a point where agencies are so
loaded down with stupid people and screw-ups they no longer function in
a predictable manner. Most of what gets done is pointless, the rest is
mischief.
