---
title: "Fake Crime"
date: "2015-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5519"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5519"
---

The late great Sam Francis, explaining the concept anarcho-tyranny said,
“we refuse to control real criminals (that’s the anarchy) so we control
the innocent (that’s the tyranny).” By “we” he meant society as a whole,
which was then, and is now, dominated by the managerial class. This
process has accelerated, as anyone who owns a car surely knows. If your
car is stolen, the cops don’t bother to look for it. If you run a red
light they send a SWAT team after you.

The new wrinkle in the late empire phase of America is to import the
idea of thought crimes from Europe. Instead of policing the ghetto, for
example, they would rather <a
href="http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2015/09/23/midtown-east-anti-gay-attack-sketches/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">chase after a couple of drunks because
some people think the drunks had prohibited thoughts</a>.

*Police late Wednesday released sketches of the three suspects who
apparently mistook a woman and her mother for a couple and assaulted
them in an anti-gay bias attack in Midtown East.*

*Around 1 a.m. Saturday, Sept. 12, Tiffany Santiago and her mother went
to the BarKogi restaurant at Second Avenue and 51st Street for a quick
late-night bite, when they were attacked by a group at a nearby table
who started yelling anti-gay slurs and throwing things, Santiago told
CBS2 exclusively.*

*“Me and my mom look very similar in age, and so I think me with the
short hair, and my mom’s really tall – she’s like five-eight; she’s a
big lady,” Santiago said. “I think they thought we were on a date.”*

*Santiago said the fighting escalated from shouting into shoving, and
then an all-out brawl.*

*“He threw me across the restaurant,” Santiago said. “I don’t even know
how far I went, but I went through tables, chairs, glasses.”*

*She said her attackers were drunk, and said the restaurant owner – who
also appeared drunk – did little to help.*

*When asked for comment, the owner would not speak to CBS2.*

*The second suspect is described by police as a white woman in her
mid-30s, about 5 feet 7 inches tall, 130 pounds with dirty blonde hair.
She was last seen wearing light-colored shirt, black pants and
light-colored high heel boots.*

*The third suspect is also described as a white woman in her mid-30s,
about 5 feet 7 inches tall, 120 pounds with long wavy black hair. She
was last seen wearing a white tank top, black pants and black high heel
boots.*

*Police have also released surveillance video of the suspects.*

*The NYPD Hate Crimes Task Force is investigating.*

The fact that such a thing as a Hate Crime Task Force exists is proof
enough that we have descended into madness. Putting people in jail for
unclean thoughts is exactly what you would expect in a theocracy, which
is what we have now. Instead of a sensible Christian sect running
things, it is neo-Puritan lunatics from Yankeedom.

Public Protestantism used to be about converting the savages on the
other side of the horizon. Having given up on dominating the Americas,
the heirs of Jonathan Edwards first went to convert the Indians and then
set sail for wherever the heathen savages need ministering. Sadly, in
this last century, they are back to purging the sins from the locals.

The insanity of thought crime laws is that it untethers the state from
principle. No one can know what is in the mind of a criminal or the
victim. We can only know their deeds. Giving the state the right to
police thought can only work if the rulers are clairvoyant psychics.
Otherwise, they are left to guess and that means the law becomes
arbitrary, at best, and capricious at worse.

In this case, if it were two straight white guys attacked by three
blacks, there would be no manhunt and no hate crime task force. It would
not merit a police report. The cops would have told the victims to shake
it off and go home. But since this one has all the narrative elements,
it’s front page news and the mayor is giving pressers about it.
