---
title: "¿El Presidente?"
date: "2015-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4749"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4749"
---

<a href="http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-33137582"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">News brings word</a> that Juan Eduardo
Bush is officially running for <s>Emperor</s> President of the
<s>Western Administrative District</s> United States.

*Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush has officially launched his US
presidential campaign, promising to “run with heart” and “take nothing
and no one for granted”.*

*Mr Bush, the son and brother of two former presidents, spoke in his
hometown of Miami, Florida.*

*Recently released campaign branding leaves behind his surname, which
some see as a political liability.*

*Polling suggests he has yet to dominate a wide field of Republican
candidates.*

*Speaking in both English and Spanish, Mr Bush used his speech to appeal
to a broad swath of the US electorate – of which minorities have become
increasingly more important – not just the Republican’s conservative
base.*

*“In any language,” Mr Bush said, “my message will be an optimistic one
because I am certain that we can make the decades just ahead in America
the greatest time ever to be alive in this world.”*

Not mentioned in the news is that Bush promises to legalize the tens of
millions here illegally, as well as open the southern border to all
comers. He doesn’t say it that way, but he has made that clear for a
long time now. His constant yapping in Spanish is what more
sophisticated observers would call signalling. “Vote for me and your
village can join you here in America.”

Listening to his speech today, it occurred to me that there are three
possibilities with regards to the Bush campaign. It’s pretty clear that
Jeb has been plotting this campaign for a long time and he is not just
winging it. He is a political animal from a political family. Legend has
it he was the Bush son groomed for the presidency, not his brother. The
cards just fell the right way for W and not for Jeb.

Regardless of how I feel about another Bush in the White House, there is
a strong possibility he is right. He thinks American wants a
multicultural, bilingual globalist as an antidote for the malaise that
has gripped the nation for close to a decade. The Republican voters,
sensing a winner, will rally to his message, despite the fact they don’t
speak his language, and he will win the nomination and the presidency.

That’s one possibility. The other is he is right about the country, but
the GOP is, as usual, late to the party and not ready to nominate a
citizen of the world. Back in 2008 this was exactly what all the experts
claimed was Obama’s advantage. The country was moving away from the old
fashioned provincialism toward a worldly cosmopolitanism. That would
mean a Democrat win in the general as the GOP would nominate a yesterday
man of some sort.

The final possibility is that Jeb is simply out of touch with reality.
He does sort of sound like a Contract With America Republican when he
talks about being optimistic and inclusive. All that big tent happy talk
was popular in the Clinton years as the GOP searched for a way to
recycle the Reagan material, without all the mean stuff about liberals.
You just know that Jeb wants to use “compassionate conservatism” in his
pitch.

My hope, of course, is that the nation rises up as one and smashes his
campaign, chases off his supporters and bans the use of the Bush name
within our borders. Barring that, then my hope is Jeb is simply out of
touch with reality having spent the last decade removed from politics.
That at leaves some hope for the country. In the fullness of time,
people will be able to drag their leaders back to reality and put things
right.

I’m too much of a pessimist these days to think that is the case.
Instead it is one of the first two options. <a
href="http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/pols-and-polls-say-the-same-thing-jeb-bush-is-a-weak-front-runner/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The polling suggests it is probably the
second choice.</a> The nation is ready to embrace the post-nation state,
but the GOP is lagging behind. Of course, history says GOP voters are
desperate to catch up with the Democrats so maybe Bush is just a little
ahead of his time, but not so far ahead that he cannot win the
nomination.

Either way, it is hard to be optimistic about the coming elections.
