---
title: "The Yankee Scold"
date: "2015-11-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5672"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5672"
---

In another age, David Brooks would have been a guy standing against the
wall at the town hall meeting, where the fate of Esther was being
debated. Some would argue that a good dunking was enough. Others would
argue that burning at the stake was the only way to make sure the devil
was not living in the village. Later, David would make clever and witty
observations about the night’s events to his coevals.

Poor Esther, however, would have spent that night looking for David to
come to her aid believing he would explain to the townspeople that she
was not a witch or possessed by the devil. After all, the well regarded
Mr. Brooks had counseled her to trust in the good judgement of the
townsfolk and trust in God to carry her through this ordeal. A whole lot
of Esthers have gone to the gallows waiting for their David to rise and
speak on their behalf.

David Brooks is pitched as a conservative voice at the New York Times,
but I can’t think of single right winger who would consider him a fellow
traveler. Brooks is what the Left imagines a good and sensible
conservative should be, as opposed to those malignant Morlocks on the
other side of the wall. For Progressives, Brooks is a good person with
some contrary ideas about how best to run society.

As is always the case with the Left, reality is something different.
Brooks is a Public Protestant. That is, he is not overly concerned with
private morality. He was, for instance, one of the first to dismiss the
indecency charges against Bill Clinton. Instead, men like Brooks imagine
themselves as anointed by God to carry out God’s work and try to make
the world a more perfect and less sinful place.

When men like Brooks think and write about morality, it is not in the
context of his relationship to the Almighty. It is about *your*
relationship with the Almighty, which happens to be the managerial
class, of which Brooks is a member in good standing. <a
href="http://www.cjr.org/the_profile/the_transformation_of_david_brooks.php"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This profile</a> of Brooks provides an
example of what I mean.

*In general, Brooks contends, journalists balk at sharing moral
viewpoints, and readers bristle upon receiving them. His critics find
him an insufferable scold, a pompous sermonizer. “I think there is some
allergy our culture has toward moral judgment of any kind,” he reflects.
“There is a big relativistic strain through our society that if it feels
good for you, then who am I to judge? I think that is fundamentally
wrong, and I’d rather take the hits for being a moralizer than to have a
public square where there’s no moral thought going on.”*

Therein lies the difference between the Public and Private Protestant.
The Born Again Christian would prefer it if the public square was family
friendly, but that has nothing to do with their relationship with God.
It’s why we see these folks retreating from politics again. Their
salvation is a personal matter, not a political one. Once there is no
room in politics to debate issues like abortion and marriage, there’s no
point in participating.

For Public Protestants like Brooks, the public square is all consuming.
The anointed are not judged by their private relationship with the
Almighty. They are judged, along with the society they maintain, on the
general morality of society. It’s why they are endlessly meddling in the
lives of the people. If they let you fall into a degraded state, it
reflects on them so they believe they are obligated to prevent that from
happening, whether you like it or not.

The trouble that is brewing in the Republican Party is directly tied to
this divide over morality. David Brooks is considered a conservative at
the New York Times because he resists the current fads roiling the
ruling class and instead adheres to old Yankee sense of public
obligation and public authority. The Progressives really don’t disagree
with him on these points. They just think he is old fashioned, which is
closely associated in their mind with *reactionary*.

Outside of this ecosystem, where the bulk of GOP voters reside, this
dynamic just looks like two sides of the same coin. Paul Ryan hugging
Barak Obama as they agree on how much of your money to spend on their
public improvement projects strikes many GOP voters as a betrayal. In
the room where these two men are hugging, it feels like they are
adversaries. Outside the room it looks like they are partners.

That’s because outside the room, most American are Private Protestants.
I’m using the term as a non-sectarian, *cultural* label. Lots of
atheists, Catholics and Hindus reject the serve-the-world/save-the-world
ethos of the ruling class. These voters are looking from Republican to
Democrat, and from Democrat to Republican, and from Republican to
Democrat again; but it is impossible to say which is which.

Since the 19th century, America has been dominated by the old Roundhead
culture that dates to the founding. The south has been too weak
economically and culturally to push back. The middle has thrown in with
the winners out of necessity. The choices before the voters since the
middle of the 20th century has been between the hair-on-fire fanatic and
the prudent scold, with guys like Brooks filling the role of the latter.

Politics is about numbers and the numbers no longer favor the Roundhead
coalition and that’s what leaves guys like David Brooks sleepless at
night. His role as the sensible antidote to the fanaticism of his
coreligionists is of no value when there is a more cavalier coalition to
counter the Roundheads. That’s what we are seeing signs of in the Trump
coalition.

The space for the Yankee scold to operate is getting small. Perhaps
that’s why David Brooks is suddenly struggling with his relationship
with the Almighty. He keeps working on that sermon, making weekly
improvements, but the number of people in the pews gets smaller and
smaller. Pretty soon, all the Yankee scolds will be left searching for a
congregation.
