---
title: "My Theory of Everything: Part I"
date: "2015-11-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-11-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Theory of Everything
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5666"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5666"
---

Somewhere in the Clinton years I began to sour on official conservatism.
Part of it was the odious carbuncle Newt Gingrich becoming the leader of
the Right. If that loathsome human toothache was the Right, I was going
to be something else. Part of it was the general incoherence of the
official Right. How can you be in favor of small government, but in
favor of an exotic tax code designed to alter behavior?

The other thing that bugged me was the hoard of B-school and J-school
strivers taking up positions in the official Right. Naturally, they set
about making culture into science! and loading up their language with
meaningless jargon. Hearing a guy like Paul Ryan say, “proactively
leverage other’s high standards in infrastructures” generates warm
thoughts of Gavrilo Princip.

Anyway, I slowly concluded that the whole Right-Left dynamic was just a
myth. One of things about working in Washington, even briefly, is you
learn quickly that politics is nothing like you see on TV. Two people on
a show ripping one another apart will be at the bar after the show
laughing it up like old pals. That’s because they are old pals. The
Right-Left narrative has simply become a convenient framework for the
reality show called politics. This has been true since the 80’s.

Once you free your mind, if you will, of that framework through which
you are expected to see your world, you have to make sense of what you
see. If the Right-Left construct is just a version of good cop/bad cop
where the people in the media hustle the rest of us so they can live
above their utility, then what’s really going on in the world? How do
things really work?

One way to understand the world is to think about the primary modes of
thought that dominate the age. If you want to understand the Mongol
Empire, for example, you have to learn something about the Mongol
worldview, how they organized themselves and why they believed that was
the correct way to do things. Just knowing *what* they did is not going
to tell you *why* they did them.

In America, there are two dominant modes of thought that are not exactly
in conflict, but they are incompatible. The primary mode of thought is
best illustrated by an example from business. Every company in America
of any size has some sort of quality initiative or business process
improvement program. Big companies have whole departments to improve
performance throughout the organization.

The basis for this is the belief that the human errors can be mitigated
by arranging things in just the right way. For instance, you can stop
Jose from putting the wrong stuff in a box by implementing software
systems that physically prevent Jose from making that error. Jose’s
machine supervisor stops him before he can sin against the firm by
making a shipping error. Ideally, Jose gets eliminated completely and a
robot does the job.

Everything and everyone in the company gets this treatment. If you read
through the literature of the Six Sigma Cult that was popular at General
Electric, it sounds like a pagan purification ritual. The financial
incentives for reducing errors quickly give way to spiritual incentives.
Being right 99% of the time is less fulfilling than being right 99.9% of
the time. The last time I checked, salvation in Six Sigma comes at
99.999999% accuracy.

This scales up to social advocacy. Progressives, for example, are
obsessed with the people they see as failures or victims, the human
error rate. The former are people that, through poor choices, fail to
have self-actualizing careers, achieving their full humanity. The latter
are people who are prevented from fulfilling their potential due to
structural impediments like racism, sexism, interstellar conspiracy,
etc.

This is the crux of the dominant mode of thought and it even has a name,
Positive Liberty. In politics, you see this with Obama’s health care
plan. They fully believe that abundance can be had if they arrange the
parts of the public health system a certain way. It’s also on display
with the myriad of Conservative tax schemes. Arrange the incentives the
right way and people will make the “correct” choices. The tax code
becomes the enterprise software of the economy.

As an aside, what fuels the semi-sexual fantasies of the robot future
types is the belief that the robots will remove human error and
therefore human sin. Once the robots are in charge, there can be no more
human error. The Christian conception of God and Heaven is perfection.
You see how that works? Perfect the human condition, and you have
created Eden. Alternatively, the robots slaughter everyone and the human
stain is removed from creation.

There are few people in public life that reject this mode of thinking.
Almost all of the so-called conservatives accept this as a premise.
Progressives not only believe it, but they also view anyone who does not
accept this world view as a mortal threat to civilization. The debate,
therefore, in modern American politics is over how the central planners
arrange things and whether or not to punish the refuseniks.

The revealing character trait of people who subscribe to this mode of
thought is the refusal to ask why things are as they find them. If they
talk about the “why” of anything, it is as a jumping off point to debate
their preferred “solution” that they believe will solve some aspect of
the human condition. “Why are the prisons full of blacks? Racism! Now,
let’s talk about how we fix that.”

Thus, concludes Part I.
