---
title: "The Only Good Billionaire"
date: "2015-02-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3794"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3794"
---

For most of human history, leaders had to focus on staying alive. First,
they had to fend of family members who wanted the job. Then they had to
make sure
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sztf4hcGrB4" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the people were not revolting</a>. That was not always
enough as there were always external threats so they needed the people
willing to contribute to the common burdens like supplying men for war.
It was not always easy to keep the people happy. Being the boss was
fraught with danger, which is why it often ended poorly.

A great example of what I mean can be found in Rome. The Julio-Claudian
line had five emperors. Augustus lived a long life and died of old age.
Tiberius spent most of his life too paranoid to do much of anything and
was smothered in his sleep. Caligula was murdered. Claudius lived a long
life and died of old age, but Nero ended poorly, committing suicide
rather than face being killed. That’s two good ends, two horrible ends
and one debatable end, Tiberius.

Keep in mind that this was the most civilized society to have existed up
until the late Middle Ages. Outside of Rome, the life of a ruler almost
always ended violently. I think you can argue that European civilization
turned the corner once they got a handle on how to both constrain the
ruling class and address those who were trouble, without resorting to
riots, uprisings and conspiracies. The orderly maintenance and transfer
of civil authority is the great leap forward in human affairs.

I’m fond of saying that post-modernism is when a people forgets all of
the lessons of the past with regards to human relations and sets about
painfully relearning them. The care and feeding of the ruling class is
one such example. America has lost control of its billionaires.
Untethered from any sense of obligation to their host country, the
billionaire class is now functioning as a colonial class. Along with
their managerial class attendants, they are ruling over us like the
Brits in India.

A survey of the news on any given day paints a gloomy picture of where
it is all headed. But, a flicker of hope from the Far East should pick
up your spirits. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/11399732/China-executes-Ferrari-loving-billionaire-gangster.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">China just executed one of its
billionaires</a>.

*A **[Chinese](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/)**
billionaire famed for his love of casinos, cigars and luxury cars was
executed on Monday in one of the most dramatic episodes yet in president
Xi Jinping’s war on corruption.*

*Liu Han, a 49-year-old mining tycoon once worth at least £4.2 billion,
was one of five alleged mafia kingpins to receive the death penalty
after being convicted of offences including gun-running and murder.*

*The part-time God Father “tyrannised local people and seriously harmed
the local economic and social order,” Xinhua, China’s official news
agency, said in a brief dispatch announcing the execution.*

*Prior to his death Liu was allowed a final “meeting” with his family,
Xinhua added.*

*Liu Han made his money in construction and went on to become the
chairman of the Hanlong Group, a Chengdu-based mining firm with
interests in Australia, Africa and the United States.*

*Worth an estimated 40 billion yuan (£4.2 billion) at his peak, the
tycoon was a vocal and extravagant regular in the business pages,
boasting of his diamond watches and fleet of Bentleys, Ferraris and
Rolls-Royces.*

*In a 2010 interview with the**<a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424127887324296604578178693593527394"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Wall Street Journal</a>**, Liu bragged of
plans to buy a billion tons of uranium. “Liu Han always wins. Liu Han
never loses,” said the billionaire, who was reportedly wearing a
knee-length mink jacket.*

*Yet for all his business acumen, Liu’s parallel life as an “evil
gangster” proved his undoing.*

Well, it’s a start. According to the people who count these things, the
world has 1,645  billionaires. Make that 1,644. Which brings me to this.

*The people can not be all, and always, well informed. The part which is
wrong will be discontented in proportion to the importance of the facts
they misconceive. If they remain quiet under such misconceptions it is a
lethargy, the forerunner of death to the public liberty. We have had 13.
states independant 11. years. There has been one rebellion. That comes
to one rebellion in a century and a half for each state. What country
ever existed a century and a half without a rebellion? **And what
country can preserve it’s liberties if their rulers are not warned from
time to time that their people preserve the spirit of resistance?** Let
them take arms. The remedy is to set them right as to facts, pardon and
pacify them. What signify a few lives lost in a century or two? The tree
of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of
patriots and tyrants. It is it’s natural manure.*

*From Thomas Jefferson to William Smith, 1787*
