---
title: "The Red Pill Revolution"
date: "2015-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5215"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5215"
---

I’ve been fond of the red pill-blue pill formulation to describe what is
happening with non-liberals in America. It’s popular with the hobbits of
the Dark Enlightenment so I never use the terminology, but it is a good
way to describe what is happening. It’s not disillusionment. That’s just
a precursor to a healthy cynicism. What we’re seeing today is more of an
awakening,
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJC4R1uXDaE" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">where people suddenly confront a truth they used to
think was nonsense.</a>

It’s popular to compare the Trump surge with the Perot surge, blaming it
on populist anger, which is another way of saying the losers are making
a racket. That’s the George Will and Charles Krapphammer view of things.
Both have been ranting and raving about this on Fox for a few months
now. That’s an easy temptation and even easier when you get paid to mail
in bite sized commentary for an hour each night. As Buchanan used to
say, they have gone native.

Anyway, the thing people forget about Perot is he started as a third
party guy, even though he had a special hatred of Bush. His campaign was
never a fight within the GOP. That fight happened with the Buchanan
challenge of Bush in the primary. Trump is starting as a Republican and
while not making his campaign about challenging the GOP power structure,
that’s how people are responding to it. If Trump were running as a third
party candidate right now, no one would care.

Another big difference in this cycle is the Democrats are not desperate
to win like they were in 1992. They were also going through a reform
effort of their own in the Bush years. The DLC emerged as the “New
Democrats” promising to drag the party to the center. That’s how Bill
Clinton grifted his way to the nomination. The desperate could overlook
his vulgarity and the reformers could overlook his near total lack of a
moral compass. Everyone in the Democrat side just wanted to win.

It’s tempting to credit the Sanders surge as merely a late reaction to
Clinton, who is about as appealing as rectal cancer. Even her friends
describe her as a moral nullity so there’s room for a not-Clinton in the
primary. That’s not what’s going on though, as Sanders has tapped into
some of the things we’re seeing on the GOP side. One is immigration and
the other is economic nationalism.

Sanders is pretty good on the national question, to the horror of
liberal elites. He’s also an economic nationalist, a reminder to many
Democratic voters that the party used to be about the working man.
Within living memory, Democrats championed the middle and working
classes, while today’s liberal is the champion of deadbeats, weirdos and
corporatist plutocrats. A lot of Democrat voters are pissed at what has
happened with their party and they are flocking to Sanders.

I think the biggest difference here is the role of the media. The
primaries were over by the time Perot started talking about a run. It
was the summer of 1992 when he became a story and started building a
campaign. The press filled the summer promoting Perot because they
wanted an interesting story. He was treated like a rock star, just about
living on CNN. Eventually, Perot’s nuttiness was the better story and
the press started making sport of him.

In contrast, the media has been hostile to Trump from the start. The
Conservative media has been a mix of mocking, insulting and incredulous.
[This
column](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/a-counterfeit-republican/2015/08/12/c28c2968-4052-11e5-bfe3-ff1d8549bfd2_story.html)
by George Will is revelatory:

*He is an affront to anyone devoted to the project William F. Buckley
began six decades ago with the founding in 1955 of the National Review —
making conservatism intellectually respectable and politically
palatable. Buckley’s legacy is being betrayed by invertebrate
conservatives now saying that although Trump “goes too far,” he has
“tapped into something,” and therefore. . . .*

Will starts out by asserting that conservatism was not always
“intellectually respectable and politically palatable” and then he calls
anyone not scandalized by Trump a subhuman. At least he did not demand
they be shoved into ovens. He later goes on to say that a political
party has a duty to defend its borders. This from a man who is an open
borders fanatic. If you are a normal person who considers themselves a
patriotic conservative, how can you not root for Trump over a man
calling you a scumbag?

This where the red pill – blue pill concept comes in. Fox and the
conservative media have been walking around thinking they are the
authentic tribunes of the people. They truly thought they would be
heroes to the cause by taking out Trump in the debate. Instead of their
viewers throwing rotten cabbages at Trump, they were chucking them at
Fox. Watching these folks, it’s clear they are off-balance and they
don’t know what’s happening to them.

Unlike the Perot phenomenon, the Trump wave is as much about the general
disgust with Conservative Inc. and the mainstream media as it is about
populist outrage. A lot of people have started to figure out that Fox is
there to move product and sell GOP Inc. to the gullible people on the
Right. These are people who signed onto the Tea Party, but have been
radicalized by the GOP’s efforts to marginalize them.

The reformer wants to save things. The revolutionary wants to destroy.
Perot was leading a reform movement. Trump is leading a revolution,
whether he knows it or not. Maybe that’s why guys like George Will are
suddenly incontinent over Trump. Maybe they sense the danger. It’s hard
to know, but the antics of guys like Erick Erickson are just throwing
logs on the fire. Once you take the red pill, you cannot untake it so
things will never be the same now that revolution is in the air.
