---
title: "The Trouble With Mob Justice"
date: "2015-04-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4213"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4213"
---

*I hope I am over wary; but if I am not, there is, even now, something
of ill-omen, amongst us. I mean the increasing disregard for law which
pervades the country; the growing disposition to substitute the wild and
furious passions, in lieu of the sober judgment of Courts; and the worse
than savage mobs, for the executive ministers of justice. This
disposition is awfully fearful in any community; and that it now exists
in ours, though grating to our feelings to admit, it would be a
violation of truth, and an insult to our intelligence, to deny. Accounts
of outrages committed by mobs, form the every-day news of the times.*

*–Lincoln at Lyceum*

In their ongoing obsession with destroying the Pale Penis People, the
Left has been tub thumping about domestic violence. I keep seeing these
bizarre commercials featuring athletes warning that at any minute, you
could be a wife beater. Of course, every sports team and college now
races to get ahead of the mob when they have an incident.

Like the proliferation of rape hoaxes, these <a
href="http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2014-09-19/how-many-rape-reports-are-false"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">mob frenzies encourage the worst
behavior</a>. Young women have been stalking famous men since Grog got
famous for besting Trog in the poo flinging contest. In modern times,
every hotel hosting a team is littered with girls trying to bag an
athlete. Giving them the right to cry rape with impunity is just asking
for trouble. Giving them <a
href="http://www.cbssports.com/collegefootball/eye-on-college-football/25131459/accuser-in-jonathan-taylor-case-recants-statement-to-police-arrested"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the right to cry “domestic violence” is
even worse</a>.

*The Tuscaloosa (Ala.) Police Department announced Wednesday that the
24-year-old woman who told police <a
href="http://www.al.com/alabamafootball/index.ssf/2015/04/jonathan_taylor_victim_recants.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">she had been assaulted Saturday by
now-former Alabama defensive tackle Jonathan Taylor has recanted her
statements</a> and subsequently been arrested herself.*

*The woman initially told police an argument with Taylor had become
physical
<a href="https://twitter.com/CecilHurt/status/582023242635829248"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">with officers observing “minor
injuries”</a> to her neck that the woman said were a result of the
altercation. Taylor was arrested and <a
href="http://www.cbssports.com/collegefootball/eye-on-college-football/25127494/alabama-dt-jonathan-taylor-arrested-for-domestic-violence-again"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">charged with domestic violence
third-degree assault</a> and domestic violence third-degree criminal
mischief. Nick Saban later announced that Taylor, who had already been
dismissed from Georgia following still-pending domestic violence
charges, <a
href="http://www.cbssports.com/collegefootball/eye-on-college-football/25127879/alabama-dismisses-dt-jonathan-taylor-after-domestic-violence-arrest"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">was removed from the Alabama football
program</a>.*

*Per al.com, a TPD statement says <a
href="http://www.al.com/alabamafootball/index.ssf/2015/04/jonathan_taylor_victim_recants.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the woman contacted police Monday to
recant her earlier statements</a>, telling officers Taylor had not
harmed her. She was interviewed by officers Tuesday and again said she
had lied about being injured by Taylor. The woman was arrested and
charged with false reporting to law enforcement before posting bond and
being released.*

*The TPD statement indicates
<a href="https://twitter.com/TNews_Steph/status/583267218051313664"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the charges against Taylor will be
reviewed</a>. An Alabama spokesperson told al.com Wednesday he was
“unsure” if the development might allow Taylor a chance to rejoin the
Crimson Tide.*

Look, we can’t know what happened here. What we do know is you should
not be punishing people before you know if they are guilty. Mobs don’t
accept that and that’s how you end up with the wrong guy swinging from
the tree. It’s worse than that, of course. It threatens the very idea of
civilization.

*<span style="font-family: arial; font-size: small;">When men take it in
their heads to day, to hang gamblers, or burn murderers, they should
recollect, that, in the confusion usually attending such transactions,
they will be as likely to hang or burn some one who is neither a gambler
nor a murderer as one who is; and that, acting upon the example they
set, the mob of to-morrow, may, and probably will, hang or burn some of
them by the very same mistake. And not only so; the innocent, those who
have ever set their faces against violations of law in every shape,
alike with the guilty, fall victims to the ravages of mob law; and thus
it goes on, step by step, till all the walls erected for the defense of
the persons and property of individuals, are trodden down, and
disregarded. But all this even, is not the full extent of the evil.–By
such examples, by instances of the perpetrators of such acts going
unpunished, the lawless in spirit, are encouraged to become lawless in
practice; and having been used to no restraint, but dread of punishment,
they thus become, absolutely unrestrained.–Having ever regarded
Government as their deadliest bane, they make a jubilee of the
suspension of its operations; and pray for nothing so much, as its total
annihilation. While, on the other hand, good men, men who love
tranquility, who desire to abide by the laws, and enjoy their benefits,
who would gladly spill their blood in the defense of their country;
seeing their property destroyed; their families insulted, and their
lives endangered; their persons injured; and seeing nothing in prospect
that forebodes a change for the better; become tired of, and disgusted
with, a Government that offers them no protection; and are not much
averse to a change in which they imagine they have nothing to lose.
Thus, then, by the operation of this mobocractic spirit, which all must
admit, is now abroad in the land, the strongest bulwark of any
Government, and particularly of those constituted like ours, may
effectually be broken down and destroyed–I mean the attachment of the
People. Whenever this effect shall be produced among us; whenever the
vicious portion of population shall be permitted to gather in bands of
hundreds and thousands, and burn churches, ravage and rob
provision-stores, throw printing presses into rivers, shoot editors, and
hang and burn obnoxious persons at pleasure, and with impunity; depend
on it, this Government cannot last. By such things, the feelings of the
best citizens will become more or less alienated from it; and thus it
will be left without friends, or with too few, and those few too weak,
to make their friendship effectual. At such a time and under such
circumstances, men of sufficient talent and ambition will not be wanting
to seize the opportunity, strike the blow, and overturn that fair
fabric, which for the last half century, has been the fondest hope, of
the lovers of freedom, throughout the world.</span>*

I’m not a huge fan of Lincoln, but he knew the risks of letting fanatics
gain the upper hand.
