---
title: "The Undoing of the Political Class"
date: "2015-03-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-03-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3957"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3957"
---

I’m fond of pointing out that the Roman Republic began to crumble when
the Roman elite stopped enforcing their own rules. It’s the broken
windows theory of policing applied to the over-class. When the ruling
elite is punctilious about its rules, customs and prerogatives, the
system has low amounts of corruption. Once they start to let little
things slide, then it is bigger things and before long it is a
free-for-all, until the strong man crosses the Rubicon and imposes
order.

Way back in the 90’s, we saw the erosion of the rules begin to gain
momentum. The Clintons, exemplars of their generation, seemed to love
lying and double dealing. Nothing is ever on the level with them and no
deal is too small. The failure to crack down on their behavior has
encouraged much more of it. The Obama administration makes Nixon look
like a boy scout troop. Now we see <a
href="http://m.apnews.com/ap/db_289563/contentdetail.htm?contentguid=Fwk8oDHY"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">that Hillary Clinton did</a> on a grand
scale what is about to send <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/04/us/petraeus-plea-deal-over-giving-classified-data-to-lover.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">General Petraeus</a> in prison.

*The computer server that transmitted and received Hillary Rodham
Clinton’s emails – on a private account she used exclusively for
official business when she was secretary of state – traced back to an
Internet service registered to her family’s home in Chappaqua, New York,
according to Internet records reviewed by The Associated Press.*

*The highly unusual practice of a Cabinet-level official physically
running her own email would have given Clinton, the presumptive
Democratic presidential candidate, impressive control over limiting
access to her message archives. It also would distinguish Clinton’s
secretive email practices as far more sophisticated than some
politicians, including Mitt Romney and Sarah Palin, who were caught
conducting official business using free email services operated by
Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo Inc.*

You see here why this will end badly for the country. The AP is a
lunatic propaganda organ so they are looking to run interference for one
of their own, even if they are not sure Clinton is one of them. What
Clinton did is not “highly unusual.” It’s never happened in the history
of the nation. This is an outlandish breech of the law and of custom.
Further, Palin and Romney were never “caught conducting official
business using free email services.” Their private accounts were
illegally accessed liberal fanatics while they were private citizens.
Comparing the two is an obvious attempt to explain away a crime.

*Most Internet users rely on professional outside companies, such as
Google Inc. or their own employers, for the behind-the-scenes
complexities of managing their email communications. Government
employees generally use servers run by federal agencies where they
work.*

*In most cases, individuals who operate their own email servers are
technical experts or users so concerned about issues of privacy and
surveillance they take matters into their own hands. It was not
immediately clear exactly where Clinton ran that computer system.*

*Clinton has not described her motivation for using a private email
account – <span class="apbct-email-encoder"
original-string="lHUaLvI4aYwpK/NEgCgpeA==cb7GVxy8gokTy67N4oRjLlxroe+cyaoAyODZQmuU4IVWuo="
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">hd<span class="apbct-blur">\*\*\*</span>@<span class="apbct-blur">\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*</span>il.com</span>,
which traced back to her own private email server registered under an
apparent pseudonym – for official State Department business.*

*Operating her own server would have afforded Clinton additional legal
opportunities to block government or private subpoenas in criminal,
administrative or civil cases because her lawyers could object in court
before being forced to turn over any emails. And since the Secret
Service was guarding Clinton’s home, an email server there would have
been well protected from theft or a physical hacking.*

The professional Right is trying hard to explain this away, but there’s
no getting around the obvious. Clinton was at the head of a conspiracy
to circumvent disclosure laws, record keeping laws and Congressional
oversight. The unwillingness of the political class to police their own
will be their undoing. If Clinton gets away with this, what’s next? An
off-the-books army? Banking system?

This will not end well.
