---
title: "Bigot Watch: Jake Flanagin"
date: "2015-04-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-04-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4316"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4316"
---

I’m sure you’re wondering who is Jake Flanagin and why would anyone care
if he is a racist. Up until five minutes ago, I would have wondered that
myself. Here’s the answer.
<a href="http://qz.com/author/jakeqz/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Mr. Flanagin is a writer</a> who works the Progressive
side of the street producing de rigueur filler material for a small
fever swamp publication called Quartz. Looking at
<a href="https://twitter.com/jakeflanagin" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">his twitter page,</a> I’m going to further assume he is
a homosexual.

Quartz is a site owned and developed by Atlantic Media, the people who
own The Atlantic. It’s supposed to be a business site aimed at the
global elite. As is the case with all agit-prop organs of the Cult of
Modern Liberalism, it is mostly sermons extolling the faithful to be
true to the gods of Progressivism.

What got my attention was <a
href="http://qz.com/384403/white-people-created-the-conditions-for-anti-immigrant-riots-in-south-africa/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this piece I saw on twitter</a>. I
followed the link only because it must be a joke of some sort and I like
jokes. South Africa is 82% black and 9% white. The number of whites
continues to decline in the face of the outlandish levels of violence by
blacks on non-blacks. Rape is so common, housing and communities are now
organized around preventing it.

To give you a sense of the rape culture that is South Africa, it is the
only country that has a special Wikipedia site just for its rape
culture. This is from that entry:

*According to the report by the United Nations Office on Crimes and
Drugs for the period 1998–2000, [South
Africa](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Africa "South Africa") was
ranked first for rapes per
capita.<sup>[\[3\]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexual_violence_in_South_Africa#cite_note-3)</sup>
In 1998, one in three of the 4,000 women questioned in
[Johannesburg](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johannesburg "Johannesburg")
was raped, according to Community Information, Empowerment and
Transparency (CIET)
Africa.<sup>[\[4\]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexual_violence_in_South_Africa#cite_note-bbc1-4)</sup>
While women’s groups in South Africa estimate that a woman is raped
every 26 seconds, the South African police estimates that a woman is
raped every 36
seconds.<sup>[\[5\]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexual_violence_in_South_Africa#cite_note-Itano-5)</sup>*

*More than 25% of a sample of 1,738 South African men from the
[KwaZulu-Natal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KwaZulu-Natal "KwaZulu-Natal")
and [Eastern
Cape](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_Cape "Eastern Cape")
Provinces admitted to raping someone when anonymously questioned; of
these, nearly half said they had raped more than one person, according
to a non-peer reviewed policy brief issued by the Medical Research
Council (MRC).*

The idea of whites being responsible for a <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2015/04/17/africa/south-africa-xenophobia-attacks/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">crime wave against foreigners</a> is so
ludicrous I just assumed it was satire. I like satire, but apparently
Mr. Flanagin does not. He is serious when he claims:

<span class="anno-span"><a
href="http://qz.com/383778/the-economic-charts-underlying-the-xenophobic-attacks-on-other-africans-in-south-africa/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank"><em>High unemployment and other economic
woes</em></a> *appear to be the driving force behind anti-immigrant
violence and nativist rhetoric. Zulu nationalism—a longtime presence in
South African politics—has likely also played a significant hand. But
the muscular ethnocentrism behind Goodwill Zwelithini’s statements did
not develop in a vacuum. Competition between Zulus and other native
South Africans against non-native, non-white laborers has deep roots in
colonial history, dating back to the very foundation of the South
African state.*</span>

He then goes onto describe how white settlers were mean to the natives
for 100 years. The Zulus enjoy special victim status because they have a
cool name and the writer is a fan of
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0058777/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Michael Caine movies</a>. He fails to mention that the
native population exploded after the PPP arrived, due to better
agriculture, sanitation, medicine and social organization.

What I find stunning about these narcissistic lefties who write this
nonsense is they are blissfully unaware of their own staggering racism
and bigotry. Obviously, he casually paints all whites as sinners in the
hands of the anti-racists gods. That can be written off has juvenile
self-loathing. The writer hates himself and everyone like himself.

It is the object of his affection, the Zulu warrior, that comes in for
the crudest of bigotry. The underlying assumption on the part of the
writer is these people are savage morons lacking agency of their own.
They are unable to think for themselves. Instead, they are tossed about
like corks on the sea, completely lacking free will. The Zulu Mr.
Flanagin imagines is an unthinking wild animal.

Even the most hardcore of genetic determinist would not go this far. Men
are not just moist robots. Only a sociopath thinks of people in the same
way they think of furniture. Most of what we are is in our genes, but it
is not all of what we are and that’s why we hold men responsible for
their actions.

Mediocrities like Mr. Flanigan can never understand these things so he
falls back on simple stereotypes taught to him by his coreligionists. He
repeats them and waits for the pat on the head.
