---
title: "Post-Country Greece"
date: "2015-09-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-09-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5358"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5358"
---

The Greek crisis of the summer made plain that the future is not
intended to include the public having a say in the management of their
affairs. The Greeks went to the polls, first to back an anti-austerity
party and then to reject the austerity plan proposed to them by Europe.
The result was a systematic collapsing of their economy by Europe until
Tsipras capitulated.

Whether or not it makes sense for the Greeks to default or go along with
the latest bailout is debatable. I’m firmly in the camp that says we
invented bankruptcy for a reason, but it’s not really what’s important
to me. What matters is who decides. When the people, through their
traditional institutions, decide what’s best for them, we have
sovereignty. When decisions are made by an outside force, regardless of
makeup, you have subjugation.

Greece is now just a territory of Europe where the people insist on
using a funny alphabet, but are otherwise subjects of the Euro ruling
elite.

That’s fine and maybe it is for the best. Greeks have never got the hang
of the country thing. They had a decent run of city-states a long time
ago, but that was <a
href="http://www.unz.com/article/what-race-were-the-greeks-and-romans/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">when Greeks had red hair and blue
eyes</a>. The more swarthy version of the Greeks seem to have trouble
organizing much of anything.

The end of countries, however, is not without other consequences. One is
that we now need new labels, as seen in <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/11844657/Alexis-Tsipras-faces-shock-election-defeat-as-voters-on-course-to-punish-Syriza-at-the-ballot-box.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this Telegraph story</a> on the looming
Greek elections.

*Greek voters are set to punish the government of prime minister Alexis
Tsipras after polls show his **hard-Left Syriza party** is on course for
a shock defeat in a general election later this month.*  
*Mr Tsipras, who called a snap vote on August 20, has seen his party’s
comfortable 15 point lead evaporate in just six weeks, putting the
centre-right New Democracy in pole position to lead Greece’s fifth
government in just four years.**The ascendant conservatives – who
support the bail-out and will keep the country in the euro at all
costs** – edged ahead of Syriza for the first time since May 2014 in two
polls this week.*  
*A survey carried out by Metron analysis put ND in the lead with 24pc of
the vote, compared to 23.4pc for the incumbent Leftists. A previous poll
for Mega TV put them on course for 25.3pc of the vote ahead of Syriza’s
25pc.With opposition forces gathering steam, Mr Tsipras is facing a
fierce popular backlash having capitulated to onerous bail-out
conditions to keep the country in the euro for the next three years.*

*However, pre-election polls suggest no single party will win enough
support to form a majority government after the September 20 ballot.*

*Analysts now expect the **pro bail-out conservatives, who oversaw the
last international rescue and dominated Greek politics before Syriza’s
landmark election in January, to form a more stable coalition,
dramatically reducing the risks of a future eurozone exit.***

***Smaller pro-euro forces such as Socialists PASOK and the centrist To
Potami party are also more inclined to join a unity coalition** headed
by ND’s interim leader Evangelos Meimarakis, rather than the tainted Mr
Tsipras.*

The single biggest issue in Greek politics is membership in the Euro,
followed by the <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/greece/11846923/Riot-police-clash-with-refugees-in-Lesbos.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">invasion by Arabs</a>, who are promising
to destroy what’s left of Greece on their way to Germany. Yet, the
socialist and the conservative are in lock step on both issues. The
“hard left” is the outsider, because they signed off on the same bailout
as the Right and Left support.

How does this make any sense?

It does not and maybe that’s the point. If elections are now rituals for
the hoi polloi to blow off steam, what difference does it make that the
commies are in league with anarcho-capitalists? Democracy is not just
another sporting event in Greece. You buy a team jersey, got somewhere
to drink outside and cheer for the guys wearing your jersey. When it’s
over, you sing some songs, get drunk and fall asleep.
