---
title: "The End of This Great Awakening"
date: "2015-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=3812"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3812"
---

Jon Stewart is retiring. No one will notice after the first week, but
the usual suspects will make a big deal of it in the run-up. For a long
time now, Stewart has been the source of confirmation for the American
Left. I’m fond of pointing out that the Left took over the American
Protestant movement in the 19th century and has followed their rhythms
ever since. The
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Awakening" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Great Awakenings</a> are now Progressive Awakenings.
It’s not an accident that Jon Stewart got famous in the early 1990’s,
when this Progressive Awakening began.

Similarly, it is not an accident that he is leaving the stage as this
Great Awakening draws to a close. It’s not hard to see that things are
fizzling out with the Left. Their party is a mess, run by broken down
old people left over from the 1960’s. Their savior is on his last legs,
ready to stagger out of office without  bringing about the promised
Utopia. At last check the seas are right where he found them six years
ago. Stewart is a smart guy and he knows when to leave the stage.

Another reason to leave is he has an army of imitators now. The reason
for that is his shtick is easy. Dave Letterman worked out the
exaggerated irony-face bit in the 80’s. Comics have always used cues to
let the audience know it is OK to laugh. Letterman, a journeyman comic,
got very good at this as a guest host for Johnny Carson. He latter
combined it with liberal politics to titillate the typical NYC audience.

Stewart’s innovation was to take Letterman’s act and base it on a fake
news show. That way he was free to pound away at liberal themes in a way
that made the audience feel special and privileged. They got the jokes
so they must be smart. His act is flatire, satire intended to flatter
the audience. Greg Gutfeld call it the mirror that laughed.

Now there are a bunch of guys doing it and some doing it even better.
John Oliver, who is just Jon Stewart with an accent, hits the younger
crowd because he can freely curse in his act. Steve Colbert has found he
can keep his liberal base, but attract the less crazy too. In a way,
exaggerated irony-face is a commodity. The bit has been perfected and it
is now a low cost comedy option. The value in Jon Stewart is now heading
down and he is wise to leave before he becomes a hack.

The strange thing about Jon Stewart is he was never all that funny. More
important, he was never all that hip and groovy. That was just the
bullshit middle-aged cosmopolitans and wannabe beautiful people sold
themselves. <a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/myth-jon-stewart-s-millennial-following_848151.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Weekly Standard has a piece</a> on
the real numbers behind Stewart’s show.

*As a “millennial” (roughly speaking, someone between the ages of 18 and
29), I’ve grown used to being tarred with fallacious accusations. We
millennials are spoiled and mollycoddled!
([Nope](http://www.cnbc.com/id/102413554).) We’re tech-obsessives who
would never even think of picking up something as fuddy duddy as a book!
([Wrong
again.)](http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/misreading-millenials_738040.html)
We’re irredeemable narcissists! [(‘Fraid
not](http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/millennial-mongers_805310.html).)*

*Today’s meme is that we millennials are utterly devastated by Jon
Stewart’s announcement that he will be leaving The Daily Show next year.
“What Walter Cronkite was to an earlier generation — an utterly trusted
voice — Stewart has been to millennials,”
[writes](https://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/2015/02/11/jon-stewart-stepping-down-after-shaping-cultural-attitudes-generation/m4NdlXWtJCBuRMqqalprpN/story.html)
Don Aucoin of the Boston Globe.  Stewart has “hordes of millennial
fans,”
[reports](http://www.cnn.com/2015/02/10/politics/how-jon-stewart-changed-politics/)
CNN. “For people under 30,”
[says](https://twitter.com/ktumulty/status/565304572655443969) the
Washington Post’s Karen Tumulty, “Jon Stewart leaving the Daily Show is
the equivalent of the Beatles breaking up.” (And Tumulty should know –
she was born in 1955.)*

*Now one thing we millennials supposedly love is “data journalism.” So
let’s back up and see whether there exists any data to back up Tumulty
et al.’s claims that we millennials have just suffered a loss on par
with the demise of the Lennon-McCartney partnership.*

*As of 2013, TheDaily Show was [bringing
in](http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/live-feed/tv-ratings-jon-stewart-lifts-620871)
approximately 2 million nightly viewers. And according to an [exhaustive
Pew
Survey](http://www.people-press.org/2012/09/27/section-4-demographics-and-political-views-of-news-audiences/)
from 2012, 39 percent of TheDaily Show’s regular viewers are between the
ages of 18 and 29. That means that approximately 780,000 millennials are
regular Daily Show watchers. In the United States, [there are 53
million](http://www.marketingcharts.com/traditional/so-how-many-millennials-are-there-in-the-us-anyway-30401/)
people between the ages of 18 and 29. That means that a whopping 1.5
percent of millennials watch the Daily Show regularly! Let’s be generous
and assume that, say, 5 million people watch The Daily Show even
occasionally. That would still mean a paltry 1.95 million out of 53
million millennials are Stewart fans.*

*That’s not all. [According to Bill
Carter](http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/31/business/media/31ratings.html?src=busln),
then of the New York Times, <span style="color: #ff0000;">**the average
Daily Show viewer is 41 years old**</span>. Considering other cable
shows alone, It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia, Archer, American Horror
Story, and Louie all have [significantly younger
audiences](http://uproxx.com/tv/2012/08/what-is-the-average-age-of-the-audience-for-your-favorite-cable-show/)
than does Stewart. And here’s my favorite nugget: 9 percent of the
regular viewers of the nightly evening news – long derided as the news
source of the geriatric set – are between the ages of 18 and 29. About
[22 million
people](http://www.stateofthemedia.org/2012/network-news-the-pace-of-change-accelerates/network-by-the-numbers/)
watch the nightly news. Thus, nearly 2 million millennials are regular
viewers of the nightly evening news. **That’s right: more than twice as
many millennials watch Brian Williams, Scott Pelley, et al, than watch**
**The Daily Show.***

*In other words, the great millennial following of The Daily Show is a
total myth.*

Reality, of course, is not of much interest to the Cult of Modern
Liberalism. <a
href="http://www.salon.com/2015/02/11/jon_stewart_became_our_opiate_time_to_confront_tea_party_1_percent_without_punchlines/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This piece in the Moonbat Review</a> is
what we’ll be hearing until Stewart finally quits. Again, the tone and
choice of language is what you would expect from a religious cult.
Calling a TV comic a “prophet” is not the sort of thing rational people
tend to do. The Christian overtones are unmistakable, for those who know
their history and Bible. Steve Almond sounds like one of the disciples
sorting through his options after
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ascension_of_Jesus" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the Ascension</a>.

This is consistent with end cycle Progressive Awakenings. Unlike UFO
cults or apocalyptic cults, American Progressives handle disconfirmation
by going dormant for a period. The New Left went dormant in the mid-70’s
and remained so until the early-90’s. Look back at those dormant years
and the movies, music and television were big on reminiscence of the
60’s. There was a certain sadness to it all in the early years until it
became full-blown nostalgia in the late 80’s.

Steve Almond is speaking to that growing ennui on the Left that the
party is over, for now.
