---
title: "ISIS in America"
date: "2015-06-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-06-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4817"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4817"
---

The Left has a lot in common with Islam. Progressives and Muslims have
different traditions and a different vision of their desired future. The
point of the comparison is not to prove they are the same. It is simply
to explain by comparison. Multiculturalism has made comparison a taboo,
but it is a useful way to understand things. It used to be the main way
we studied cultures, but that was a long time ago in another country.

Anyway, consider [this story the other day from the heart of
Islam](http://www.cnn.com/2015/06/24/middleeast/syria-isis-palmyra-shrines/):

*ISIS fighters have destroyed two ancient Muslim shrines in the oasis
city of Palmyra, the Syrian government confirmed Wednesday, the latest
act of cultural vandalism by the Sunni extremists.*

*ISIS seized control of Palmyra, a UNESCO World Heritage Site dating
back 2,000 years, last month, prompting fears for the site’s survival.*

*An email sent on behalf of Syria’s antiquities chief, Maamoun
Abdulkarim, head of the Directorate-General of Antiquities and Museums,
said the body had heard four days ago from people in Palmyra of the
shrines’ destruction.*

*“ISIS has blown up two ancient Muslim shrines in Palmyra, and has
published photos of this awful crime against the Syrian cultural
heritage on Facebook,” the statement said.*

*One of the tombs destroyed is that of Mohammed bin Ali, a descendent of
Ali bin Abi Taleb, the Prophet Mohammed’s cousin, the website DGAM said.
It’s in a hilly area 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) north of Palmyra.*

Now, consider [this story from the heart of
Liberalism](http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/arts/culture/la-et-cm-thomas-jefferson-confederate-statues-20150624-story.html):

*The Thomas Jefferson Memorial, which has stood near the banks of the
Potomac River in Washington for more than 70 years, is a classical
tribute to the author of the Declaration of Independence and the third
U.S. president.*

*This week, the Jefferson Memorial was drawn into the national debate
about race following the shooting deaths of nine people in a
predominantly black church in South Carolina last week. It joins other
public statues depicting Southern or Confederate figures, including
Jefferson Davis and Robert E. Lee, that some are arguing represent the
country’s racist past and should be removed.*

*CNN anchor Ashleigh Banfield this week questioned whether the Jefferson
Memorial should be taken down because Jefferson owned slaves. “There is
a monument to him in the capital city of the United States. No one ever
asks for that to come down,” Banfield said.*

*Fellow anchor Don Lemon responded by saying Jefferson represented “the
entire United States, not just the South.” But he added: “There may come
a day when we want to rethink Jefferson. I don’t know if we should do
that.”*

Now, it is easy to dismiss the chattering skulls on CNN because no one
watches CNN and these are two idiots with the IQ of goldfish. They are
not demanding we blow up the Jefferson Memorial because it is blasphemy.

I’ll just point out that twenty years ago fringe idiots on TV were
talking about men marrying men. It sounded absurd then, but now you can
have your property taken if you laugh at gay marriage. Twenty years from
ululating liberals could very well be blowing up the Jefferson Memorial
because it offends the one true faith.

 
