---
title: "Ramblings on Race, Racism and Race Realism"
date: "2015-08-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2015-08-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Race
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=5213"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5213"
---

If you live around a lot of diversity, you learn how to recognize others
who live around a lot of diversity. It’s like the difference between the
world traveler and the provincial who never left home. The change in
perspective results in a change in demeanor. I’m comfortable in alien
places because I’ve been around a lot of people not like me on a daily
basis for a long time. I just don’t think it is strange to be the guy
who sticks out like a sore thumb.

One of the things you learn when you spend a lot of time around
non-whites is that not all white people are the same. That sounds odd,
but it works like this. You get to know a lot of “Hispanics” for example
and you quickly see that they are not a singular race and they often
don’t speak the same language. Guatemalans are a different breed of cat
from Cubans or Dominicans or Mexicans from El Norte. Lumping all these
people into the bucket called “Hispanic” is mostly worthless.

That revelation leads to rethinking what it means to be white, black or
Asian. Italians and Spaniards are called white, but they are not Germans
or Swedes. Travel around America and you see that a place like Indiana
is part Yankee New England and part Appalachian hick. The term
“Hoosier”, by the way, was an insult for Virginia hillbillies. Head a
few clicks north and you are into a different population of honkies
altogether.

From an anthropological perspective, the old categories of race are
falling apart. If you read Nick Wade’s book [A Troublesome
Inheritance](http://www.amazon.com/Troublesome-Inheritance-Genes-Human-History/dp/1594204462/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1399834729&sr=8-1&keywords=nicholas+wade),
it becomes rather clear that race classifications based on skin tone
don’t hold up. It’s better to think of people as belonging to large
extended families. There’s lots of cross pollination between these large
extended families, but at the edges where they interface. Swedes share a
lot with Germans, but very little with Bantus.

The fact is, skin, eye and hair color are just one part of it. There are
character differences that are just as rooted in biology as skin color.
Those character and personality traits impact culture, which in turn has
impacted biology. [This article by Peter
Frost](http://www.unz.com/pfrost/the-puzzle-of-european-hair-eye-and-skin-color-2/)
is a great explanation of how biology, culture and environment work on
one another simultaneously. Swedes are built for a culture built for the
environment of Sweden, which is different from the Bantus, who were
built for a culture built for flourishing in Africa.

The trouble with discussing any of this is that there’s a another part
of the puzzle. Humans are built to distrust those who are not their
kind. While it is as natural as left handedness, our culture eschews
anything that even hints at racism. This is not illogical as we in the
West live in multi-ethnic societies. Keeping the peace means suppressing
the instinct to not like the “other” or the foreign. The argument from
race realists is that you can take this too far and when you do the
results are worse than naked racism.

I have no way of knowing if that is true, but I think it is probably
time for people calling themselves “race realists” to simply drop the
term in favor of something more biologically correct and less
provocative. I’ll refer to myself as a biological realist, for example,
because I think you cannot overcome biology with wishful thinking. This
has the added benefit of handling the feminist lunacies.

“Fixing the schools” is a waste of time because 80% of education is the
IQ and character of the student. Another 10% is family life and the rest
is the community in which the school exists. Maybe the school has 2% of
an impact and I may be generous here. Put the ghetto boys into a nice
prep school, but somehow maintain the ghetto home and community life,
and you get the same result as you get from the local public school.
Maybe one or two end up better than otherwise.

Similarly, the people who left the Borderlands of England for the New
World ended up in Appalachia. They recreated their culture from home,
without the interference of the Crown. When those people migrated into
the Midwest, they recreated their mountain culture in the new lands.
Southern Illinois is not like West Virginia by accident. There’s a
strong Scandinavian flavor to the upper Midwest for a reason.

It’s why America can never be a land dominated by a central government
imposing a universal culture on the whole nation. The differences are
simply too big between the people of Vermont and the people of Texas. No
amount of hooting and bellowing from Progressive loons will change
biology and culture. It’s another area where biological realism could
gain some traction. You can shame the Yankee busy-body out of trying to
impose his values on the world. Mention race and he loses the ability to
feel shame.

That’s why HBD and race realist people need to free themselves from the
plain old racists. The people attracted to your movement for the racism
are mostly idiots who will cause you nothing but trouble. That and white
nationalism is about the dumbest thing going, given the ethnic and
cultural diversity among people who call Europe their ancestral home.
The crackers from the hills have as much in common with the German
low-landers as they do with Arabs.

That said, it’s probably easier said than done. Saying you don’t like
black culture is fine, but most people will call you a racist, even if
you are married to a black person or are actually black. Racism used to
be an action. Then it became words, then thoughts and is quickly
becoming a lack of enthusiasm. If you are not enthusiastic enough in
your praise for non-whites, you’re called a bigot.

Thinking about it, the image that comes to mind is of a train slamming
into a mountain. Whatever distance and uniqueness there is between the
cars, the collision eliminates it, leaving a pile of twisted metal.
That’s what has happened with public discussion of anything that relates
to ethnicity. It’s slammed into the wall of Cultural Marxism and you can
no longer tell the racist crackpots from the Progressive loons.
