---
title: "Voting in the Ghetto"
date: "2016-04-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7268"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7268"
---

For years now I have been threatening to drop off the voting rolls, but
I always find some excuse to vote every election. I have skipped some
minor elections and I skipped 2012, but in the latter case it was mostly
out of disgust. Standing in line knowing my vote counted for nothing and
knowing I was expected to vote for the rabid pussies ticket was just too
much. Maybe if the line had been shorter, I would have stuck it out and
voted, but I bolted and skipped the whole election.

When you live in a one party state, voting really is a waste of time.
The best you can hope to do is make some trouble. I vote against all of
the ballot measures, for example. They tend to fail so I suspect I am
not the only one who does it. In the primary, I will vote for the most
deranged Democrat on the ballot. Again, this is out of pure spite. As a
white man, the Democrat Party has nothing to offer me, but I can throw
sand in their gears.

Voting in the ghetto has the added feature of seeing aspects of the
underclass you do not often see. Even in the poorest neighborhoods,
there are civic minded people. There is a nice black woman I see around
town who works the polls every year. In the ghetto, the polling places
are always run by black women. It makes sense. They are the people
responsible for raising the children until they are old enough to go off
to prison.

The other aspect of this is they love seeing honkies voting. I walked
into the polling place and the nice black ladies lit up like I was a
long lost relative. At some level, they sense that the presence of the
honky is a good sign. We are the canary in the coal mine. When the honky
leaves, your neighborhood is forever lost. Seeing me in the neighborhood
and taking the time to vote means there is still some hope for the
place.

I did not see any Hispanics voting yesterday. In past elections, I would
see an organizer from the party ushering in the local illegals to vote
for the party candidates. That is something our rulers never can grasp.
They think all of these foreign imports will vote, but that is not how
it works. People vote if they have a stake in the society and think
voting matters. More important, they vote for one of their own so he can
represent them.

All elections are theater and American elections are theater for white
people mostly. Blacks participate, but solely as furniture for the good
whites. All the signaling and language is aimed at whites and blacks.
Neither party has the slightest idea how to do anything but the
white-man overbite in front of these “diverse communities” during
election season. Pandering and free stuff is just not going to get Jose
interested in voting.

The funny thing I did see at the polling station was a couple of black
ladies holding Trump signs. I have never seen anyone promoting a
Republican in this neighborhood so that was a first. Trump being treated
like ghetto trash by the party big shots is not missed by the black
ladies. Black people are vastly more in tune with the subtleties of
respect than the typical honky. Black people see what is happening with
Trump and they relate.

That does not mean Trump will win many black votes. It just means they
have no reason to fear him. That is why I suspect Hillary is in deep
trouble. Blacks will vote for her over an old Jew, but they are not
turning out in big numbers for her unless the Republicans run someone
scary. Trump does not scare black people. In fact, blacks seem to
respect him and appreciate his showmanship. It is a small thing but
politics is a game of small things.

One of the goofier things yesterday is we are now back to paper ballots.
[The Left has been trying to shake down Diebold and ES&S for
years](http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2004/03/diebolds-political-machine).
These are the firms that make the computer voting gear. Since they
cannot get these companies to rig the machines in favor of the party,
the party has made war on the companies. At least in Maryland, the
campaign has worked so we are back to paper ballots. I guess if the
paper company is found to be run by a conservative, I will be voting
with colored rocks next time.

The other silly bit was how the party nominates delegates to the
convention. I picked from a slate of women and a slate of men. By rule,
the seven delegates voted to the convention must be four biological
women and three biological men. You just know where this is headed. A
few more turns of the wheel and there will be a list for the one tranny,
the one left handed gay ginger and so on. The Democrats are the party of
lunatics and black people now.

As to the results, it is pretty clear that the public has grown tired of
the primary drama and has settled on Trump and Clinton. Sanders will
stagger on for another month as he has the money and nothing better to
do with his time. Cruz and Kasich will be looking to drop out in a week.
The Trump sweep will give him momentum for next week’s Indiana primary,
which is the last stand for the Cult of Never Trump.
