---
title: "In The Cloud, You Never Have To Say You’re Sorry"
date: "2016-07-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8040"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8040"
---

After the Brexit vote, Prime Minister David Cameron announced he was
stepping down from his position and leaving Parliament. He was on the
losing end of the vote so he took the traditional approach and stepped
aside. He did not have to do it as it was a referendum, not a
parliamentary election. He also had plenty of support in his party for
sticking around after the election. Instead, he chose to follow protocol
and retire from politics. It is an acknowledgement that no man is
indispensable and that there must be consequences to losing.

America used to have a similar tradition. When one party lost an
election, they changed their leadership and maybe put new people in
charge of the party. That is not the case anymore. Nancy Pelosi presided
over a historic defeat for her party, but she refused to resign and
remains as leader of her party in the House. Similarly, Harry Reid
remains the leader of his party in the Senate despite leading them to
disaster. Of course, losing an election is no longer a reason to retire
from politics. Instead, it is a reason to make millions on Wall Street
preparing for another run.

A big part of what ails America is the near total lack of accountability
in the managerial elite. President Obama made a long list of claims
about his health care bill, all of which proved to be false. There’s
strong evidence that he lied about much of it. Yet, nothing happened. No
one resigned from his team. They just laughed, shrugged and went onto
other things.** **Jonathan Gruber, the man credited with designing the
thing, laughs about lying to the public about how the program would work
and what was expected. He got to keep [his perch at
MIT](http://economics.mit.edu/faculty/gruberj).

It is not just Democrats who never have to say they are sorry. Paul Ryan
was the most embarrassingly incompetent running mate since Admiral
Stockdale. Yet, he was rewarded for this by rising all the way to be
Speaker of the House. Reince Priebus took the reigns of the GOP after
the 2010 election and presided over the stunning defeat in 2012, only to
stick around as head of the party. He is responsible for [this battle
plan](http://goproject.gop.com/rnc_growth_opportunity_book_2013.pdf)
crafted after the 2012 election. Everything in that document has proven
to be wrong. Trump is the nominee because he did the opposite of that
plan.

It is not just the politicians and party officials escaping
responsibility. David Frum was humping [this
story](http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/cover_story/2016/07/vladimir_putin_has_a_plan_for_destroying_the_west_and_it_looks_a_lot_like.html)
on Twitter the other day. The story is nonsense, but what got my
attention was the author. Franklin Foer used to be the editor of the New
Republic back in the Bush years. He was the guy signing off on
fabricated stories by a guy using the pen name “Scott Thomas”, claiming
to be deployed in Iraq. It turns out that the writer was not in Iraq at
all. It was also revealed that he was married to one of the fact
checkers. [The whole story is
here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scott_Thomas_Beauchamp_controversy)
if you have an interest in it.

Now, editors can get fooled by writers or by fake sources. Most
anonymous sources in modern journalism are made up anyway. These
fabricated stories were so outlandish, only a complete boob or a lunatic
could fall for them. Regardless of the reason, he embarrassed his
profession and his employers. In most lines of work, this means finding
a new line of work, but that’s not how things work in The Cloud. Foer
gets to write for big-foot publications and work at a think tank. Short
of getting caught on video beating a Girl Scout with a puppy, there is
no way to get fired in journalism.

Conservative Inc has a similar policy of shielding their worst elements
from responsibility. The publisher of The Federalist is a guy named [Ben
Domenech](http://thefederalist.com/author/bdomenech/). He also
co-founded the RedState group blog. He also worked for the Washington
Post until it was revealed he was a [serial
plagiarist](http://e%20also%20co-founded%20the%20RedState%20group%20blog).
When caught he lied repeatedly until it was impossible to maintain the
lies. He was also caught in [a payola
scam](https://www.buzzfeed.com/rosiegray/covert-malaysian-campaign-touched-a-wide-range-of-american-m?utm_term=.uu5aMVwQD#.dtQwvNjWk)
where he secretly accepted payments from agents of the Malaysian
government to write editorials promoting Malaysian interests. Like Foer,
Domenech could murder a nun on national TV and face no consequences.

The rest of The Cloud enjoys the same risk free existence. Look at all
the people who pushed the Iraq War. They remain in their positions as
experts at think tanks and government agencies. Karl Rove has grown rich
on Fox News being wrong about everything. Bill Kristol is a millionaire
based on being wrong for the last three decades. The Bush administration
nearly destroyed the Republican Party and yet all of the principles
escaped any consequence. Many have been recycled into new government
positions with others waiting to join the next administration.

One of my favorite idiots is [Jamie
Gorelick](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jamie_Gorelick), who has been a
colossal screw-up at everything she has touched. In every position she
has held, she managed to screw up in ways no one imagined. She was
instrumental in the mortgage meltdown and collapse of Fannie Mae but
walked away with close to $30 million. People thought it was impossible
to break Fannie Mae, but she managed to do it. She even managed to screw
up Duke’s handling of the phony rape scandal. It’s fair to say the woman
is as dumb as a post, yet s[he was close to being named FBI
Director](http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/former-clinton-official-paid-26-million-fannie-mae-taxpayer-bailout-now-obama-shortlist)
by President Obama in 2011.

We could spend days listing the people in economics and banking who were
disastrously wrong yet suffered no consequences. Being a Cloud Person
means never having to say you are sorry. It means never paying a price
for failure. That is the job of the Dirt People. They pay the price. The
result is our ruling class is packed to the brim with credentialed
fuckups who flit from one disaster to the next, usually because they
created them. It is why Obama was able to rise through the ranks so
quickly. Merit no longer has any meaning in The Cloud.

The fact is we are ruled over by irresponsibly reckless idiots paid for
by a global elite that has no concern for the governance of our
countries. They are global pirates riding a sea of credit money, as they
sack the Western middle class. They have no interest in good governance
because competent people in government may do something about the
financial pirates like George Soros. Rule by hired moron means rich
guys can crater the mortgage markets and escape with billions. It means
you can lose two wars of choice and keep your sinecure.

That brings us back to where we started. David Cameron was on the wrong
side of the Brexit vote and resigned. That is what an honorable man is
supposed to do. Theresa May was on the Brexit vote and not only stayed
on, but she also fought to get the top job and will be the next Prime
Minister. The guy who was probably most critical to mustering support
for the Leave campaign, Boris Johnson, was not only passed over for the
job, but he was also shived in the yard by his fellow inmates in the
party. He is out of politics while the losers get to be in charge of the
country.

The common theme here is sex. In the wild, males fight males for
females. It is winner take all. the loser either dies or flees. Females
compete with one another for the attention of males, but it is not
winner take all. The loser simply hangs around hopping to lure the male
away at some later date. The Cloud is feminine, dominated by women and
the habits of women. The pirate class out there on the sea of credit
money is exclusively male. In effect, our national governments are
literally the kept women and common night walkers, for the global
billionaires.

[Aristophanes was right.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assemblywomen)
This will not end well.
