---
title: "Will To Irrelevance"
date: "2016-06-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7875"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7875"
---

George Will has [thrown
down](http://hotair.com/archives/2016/06/25/george-will-exits-the-gop/)
his pacifier and stomped off in a huff, breaking with the Republican
Party and officially becoming un-enrolled. Of course, Will lives in
Washington DC so being a Republican was pointless in the extreme. The
GOP rarely fields local candidates in the District and they do not get
to vote in national elections, except for President. The last Republican
to hold office in DC was Mathew Emory in 1870. His office was abolished
the following year. Being a Republican in Washington DC is an entirely
symbolic act.

It is also in keeping with Will’s long-time role as a conservative on
television. The bow-tie, the wig, the round spectacles and the
elaborate speaking style were all in furtherance of his job as
a domesticated conservative, who would not scare the horses. All of it
was a pose, a gesture, carefully choreographed so he could set the right
tone for conservatives at home, by endorsing the terms of the debate as
set forth by the Left. He was the candy coating for the liberal nut
inside every ABC chat show.

Like so many of the Official Right, Will earned his spot in the
mainstream media by attacking his own side. In his case, he was a rabid
Nixon hater. That made him useful to the Left and got him a job in the
Washington Post Writer’s Group and eventually a TV gig. He was also no
fan of Reagan, but once it became clear that Reagan was going to be
successful, Will shifted gears and became a Reaganite. Unlike Charles
Krapphammer, Will saw which way the wind was blowing before the ’84
election.

Of course, as is the case with everyone in the clown car that is
\#nevertrump, Will’s hatred of Trump is more about money than ideology.
Will’s old lady is Mari Maseng, who has worked for Republican
politicians like Bob Dole and Rick Perry. She was also an adviser to
Scott Walker. When not on the payroll, [her
company](http://www.masengcommunications.com/) provides consulting
services to Republican candidates. She also works for a [GOP political
action committee](http://www.cftr.org/). As we see throughout
“conservative” media, Republican politics has been a lucrative racket
for the Will family.

That said, I doubt anyone under fifty bothers to read George Will’s
column or listens to his commentary, but he is worth studying. Will is
the quintessential Yankee Conservative. I sometimes call it Buckley
Conservatism, or if I am in a foul mood, the Wuss Right. Southern
populists like Sam Francis called it Northern Conservatism. Yankee
Conservative is probably more accurate as it is essentially a reaction
to the Neo-Puritanism, we call liberalism today. It is not an accident
that National Review is located in New York instead of Richmond.

Yankee Conservatives are not particularly interested in conserving
anything. Their main issue is that the other team is in such a hurry
that they often look undignified as they sprint off toward utopia. The
Yankee Conservative places the greatest value on his dignity by putting
up a choreographed resistance only to acquiesce to whatever it is the
Progressives have in mind. It is why the Left has gone from triumph to
triumph, despite popular support for the “conservative” candidates. They
know the guys standing athwart history yelling “stop” do not really mean
it.

It is why guys like Will are so fond of attacking their fellow
conservatives. The point of their ideology is not to remain rooted in
the present or hearken to the past. It is to be gently pulled behind the
Left like a skier behind a boat. Anyone seen as a drag on this process
is cut loose by any means necessary. That is why guys like Will are so
fond of using the weapons of the Left against people like Trump. It cuts
them loose and does so in a way that pleases their friends on the Left,
letting them know they are the right sort, just a little reluctant.

It is a bit ironic that at the end of Will’s career, he finds himself
back where he started. Nixon, for all his faults, which were many, was a
Dirt People candidate. In 1968 you voted for Tricky Dick because he was
willing to punch the hippies and their Ivy League commie enablers. Guys
like George Will and the other members of Team Buckley hated Nixon for
it. Just like we see with Trump, the Buckleyites claimed
their principles prevented them from embracing Nixon, but it was never
principles, it was class. Nixon was not their sort.

Now Will is back where he started, except this time there is really
nowhere for him to go with it. The rise of alternative media makes
having a perch on liberal media outlets pretty much useless. Now that he
is at Fox, he has to compete with perky bimbos that say all the same
things he says. Then you have alternative media voices that are nimbler
with new media so they are able to bury the staggering geezers of
Conservative Inc. Will makes a dramatic exit from the GOP and it is
mocked on-line by the alt-right.

Like the rest of the Yankee Right, Will is fading into irrelevance.
