---
title: "Inequality"
date: "2016-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7495"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7495"
---

For generations, Americans, who rejected liberalism, were trained to
screech and run out of the room whenever the topic of inequality was
raised. After all, anything other than a natural distribution of wealth
was socialism and if nothing else, conservative means not being a
socialist. It’s fundamentally the problem with all reactionary ideology
and why Buckley Conservatism has degraded into a shabby libertarianism,
lacking anything resembling a coherent worldview.

The issue of inequality is a perfect example.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Piketty" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">That French economist</a> wrote a big book on the topic
and the response from the Right was to dismiss it without having read
it. The libertarian wing thumbed through some reviews so they could
pretend to have read it, before dismissing it in a shower of platitudes.
They have to pretend inequality is not a real issue because to do
otherwise means confronting the contradictions in their ideological safe
space.

The fact is, having a small number of people or corporations controlling
the nation’s wealth ends in tyranny. This is the lesson of history. If
one man owns everything then you have Africa. If a cabal of men control
everything through a bureaucracy you have China. The West figured out
that a broad distribution of ownership cultivates human capital and
maximizes individual liberty. It’s not perfect, but there is a reason we
never speak of the African Renaissance.

Part of why both parties are being swamped by what they like to call the
fringe is <a
href="http://www.usatoday.com/story/money/markets/2016/05/20/third-cash-owned-5-us-companies/84640704/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">stories like this one</a>.

*The rising cash holdings of U.S. corporations are increasingly in the
hands of a few U.S. companies, with just five tech firms having grabbed
a third of it. And nearly three-quarters of cash held by non-financial
U.S. companies is stashed overseas, outside the long arm of Uncle Sam.*

*Apple (AAPL), Microsoft (MSFT), Alphabet (GOOGL), Cisco Systems
(CSCO)and Oracle (ORCL) are sitting on $504 billion, or 30%, of the $1.7
trillion in cash and cash equivalents held by U.S. non-financial
companies in 2015, according to an analysis released Friday by ratings
agency Moody’s Investors Service.  That’s even more cash concentration
than in previous years, as these five companies held 27% of cash in 2014
and 25% in 2013. Apple alone is holding more cash and investments than
eight of the 10 entire industry sectors.*

*Corporate America’s rising pile of cash is becoming increasingly
important to investors as profit growth and the stock market stalls. The
amount of cash held by U.S. companies rose 1.8% in 2015. Unfortunately
for U.S. investors, 72% of total cash held by all non-financial U.S.
companies is stockpiled outside the U.S., up from 64% in 2014 and 58% in
2013, as companies try to avoid paying U.S. tax rates.*

There was a time when Democrats would make an issue of this based on old
school appeals to class. “Look at these fat cats robbing the working
man!” The Right was not mute on this stuff either. Wholesale tax
avoidance was not always a conservative principle. Conservatives would
also note that these firms are run by progressive, nation wrecking
wackos. But, that was when conservatives still thought countries were
real things.

The reason <a
href="http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/Glenn-Beck-Zuckerberg-conservative-meeting/2016/05/21/id/729993/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Faceberg gets to summon media whores like
Glenn Beck</a> to his lair and demand they stop talking about his
censoring of opinion is because he has 40 billion dollars. He is also
allowed to have free access to the internet by the state. The reason for
the <a
href="http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAN_SELLING_THE_DEAL?SITE=AP&amp;SECTION=HOME&amp;TEMPLATE=DEFAULT&amp;CTIME=2016-05-20-15-43-45"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">gross corruption of the popular media</a>
is that those concentrated billions can be funneled into operations that
buy news reporters and outlets, in addition to politicians.

It’s something I’ve been repeating for a while now, but I enjoy
repeating it. Buckley Conservatism was always about anti-communism first
and foremost. The whole point of their ideology was to shape the defense
of the West against Soviet communism. Reagan is a perfect example. He
was willing to concede domestic policy to the Democrats in order to have
a free hand on foreign policy. The result was a continuation of the
welfare state in exchange for a military buildup.

The problem for the Buckley types is the Cold War ended. Generations of
conservative “intellectuals” have been trained to cede cultural issues
to the Left. Their default response on domestic issues is to surrender
so they can get back to talking foreign policy. It’s made them incapable
of fighting a culture war. Those principled conservatives are too busy
planning the sack of Carthage to be bothered by the Left’s assault on
decency.

It’s why they are being swamped by what we’re calling the alt-right.
Talking about special treatment of carried interest to a guy who is
watching his town be overrun by foreigners is insulting. That’s why
Trump was able to shove everyone aside and win the nomination. Watching
those debates, I was reminded of the movie Pleasantville. In this case,
Trump was the only guy in color and the rest were in black and white.

Conservatism used to focus itself on maintaining and defending the
culture and traditions of the country. Allowing a handful of financial
buccaneers, who got rich plundering the economy while riding a sea of
credit money created by the state, is the antithesis of conservatism. It
conserves nothing. Dealing with these extremes is something the Right
cannot cede to the Left or you end up like Venezuela.
