---
title: "I Have My Doubts"
date: "2016-11-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-11-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9061"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9061"
---

I’ve rewritten this post a few times now, mostly because I keep thinking
about a rule that I think all of us should follow. That is, no enemies
to the Right. The reason the Buckley thing is falling to pieces is they
invested all of their time slicing pieces off of the right side of their
movement. The Birchers were easy, but before long they were slicing off
vital parts. The reason the so-called alt-right exists is that so much
of the Right had been purged, the fringe has become a majority.

Still, there’s a lot of the alt-right that creates a fair bit of doubt
in my mind.  Since the election, the media has been racing around
looking for “leaders” of the alt-right to report on and interview.
That’s catnip to the sort of people who like being famous more than they
like being right. It also attracts people who think they can make a buck
off selling people what they want to hear. That’s how the Tea Party went
from grass roots movement to a bust-out. How long before someone
launches a line of Pepe gear?

For instance, is
<a href="http://www.dangerandplay.com/" target="_blank">Mike
Cernovich</a> a guy in it for the money or a higher purpose? I don’t
spend a lot of time reading his site, or any time to be honest, but his
name pops up a lot in stories about the alt-right. I see he is peddling
a book called MAGA Mindset with a picture of Trump on it. Maybe it is
all above board and perfectly legit, but it could be just another grift
too. It’s hard to know. Would he be selling the Commie Mindset if Bernie
Sanders had won the White House? I don’t know, but it is a good thing to
keep in mind.

There’s a difference between selling the word and spreading the word.
It’s the <a
href="http://www.theonion.com/blogpost/why-cant-i-sell-any-of-these-fucking-bibles-10876"
target="_blank">Bible salesman</a> versus the missionary. The former
could just as easily be selling toasters or porn. The point of the
exercise is to make the sale. Their product is just a means to an end.
The missionary, on the other hand, is the product. He is selling more
than just his wares. He is selling himself. His identity is measured in
converts. <a href="http://www.vdare.com/" target="_blank">VDare</a> begs
for money so they can proselytize, not so Peter Brimelow can drive a
Ferrari.

It’s not just the fringy sorts that give me pause. Ann Coulter was an
enthusiastic champion of Mitt Romney. She used to talk about Chris
Christie as a lion of the Right. She was a late arrival to the
immigration patriotism cause. Ann Coulter is in the business of selling
books. It has worked to our favor that she picked up the cause of
immigration and then championed Donald Trump, but what happens if she
can sell more books promoting open borders? I’m not questioning her
sincerity, just making a point about motives.

I don’t want to cast aspersion on these people. I don’t know enough
about Cernovich to judge his motives. Honestly, my hunch is he is just a
harmless weirdo.  Ann Coulter was a skeptic of the Bush Klan going way
back. She was fond of ripping into the Bush people over “compassionate
conservatism” before it was popular. Ann Coulter has taken a lot of
abuse and lost a few friends over her Trump support. Still, it is wise
to be skeptical about people making a living selling you what you want
to hear. Talk radio falls into this too.

Money is one reason for skepticism. Hidden agendas are another. Fringe
movements that gain traction inevitably attract members of other fringe
movements. Every fringe weirdo in America is hoping on the alt-right
bus, hoping to ride it to legitimacy. During the election, Jill Stein
tried to ride the Bernie Bro wave. When that failed, she went on
Twitter, aping Donald Trump, by calling Hillary crooked and corrupt. She
even started making noises about immigration, thus earning her the
nickname  “Based Yenta.”

Richard Spencer is another good example. Watching
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NcqCdGLFWXs"
target="_blank">the NPI event</a> the other day, I kept getting the
sense that Peter Brimelow was there to legitimize Spencer, not because
Spencer had a big stage to offer Brimelow. Spencer invests a lot of time
declaring himself the Pope of the alt-right, but my guess is hardly
anyone calling themselves alt-right knows anything about him. The next
time someone quotes Richard Spencer to me, it will be the first time.
His white identity thing is a tiny club without out much of a future.

The point here is not to disparage these people. I think Richard Spencer
is mostly harmless. I’m just using him as an example to make a point.
Populism is always going to be open to a lot of oddballs looking for a
home, but it is important to remember that they are the ones seeking
shelter, not the ones building the shelter. The people rallying to the
Trump banner or the Brexit banner or any of the populist movements of
Europe are not doing so because they want a white ethno-state. They just
want normal countries again.

Skepticism is a good thing. There are a lot of people pulling down their
freak flag now and hoisting the Pepe banner. Most of it is harmless and
well intended, but not all of it. It’s never easy to know so it is wise
to maintain a healthy degree of doubt about all of them. Old soldiers
like Brimelow or Sailer have earned trust over long careers, but all the
new guys have a long way to go before we can really know what they are
up to and assess their  motivations. Until that’s clear, I have my
doubts.
