---
title: "The Return of The Mule"
date: "2016-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8724"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8724"
---

If you go back and watch videos of Reagan in the 70’s and 80’s, one of
the things that jumps out is how aggressively he attacked the Left. In
his <a href="http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/?pid=43130"
target="_blank">first inaugural address</a>, he attacked the very
essence of what Jimmy Carter stood for as a politician. The man was
sitting just behind Reagan as the Gipper explained that everything
Carter believed was dangerous nonsense. The other thing that jumps out,
when watching old Reagan speeches, is that no Republican talks like that
anymore.

Instead, every Republican that has aggressively pressed the attack
against the Left over the last quarter century, has been attacked by the
media and so-called conservatives as unacceptably “polarizing” as if
that is a thing. Official Conservatism has instead insisted that
they abide by a set of gentile rules designed by the ruling majority,
intended to perpetuate their hegemony. You could be forgiven for
thinking that maybe the whole thing was a setup, a game of bad cop –
worse cop, in order to rig the results.

Whenever the futility of this arrangement has been pointed out to
Official Conservatism, they sigh and concede that it is unfair, but
principle demands “we abide by the rules because that’s who we are.” If
you pointed out that “who they were” was a bunch of losers, they would
put on their lemon face and suggest that perhaps you were disloyal or
some sort of hate thinker. Conservatism in America became the candy
coating to the liberal nut inside the system.

I was thinking about that over the weekend as first we get the leaked
tape of Donald Trump talking like a normal man, who believed he was in a
private conversation with another man. The beta male pansies in the
managerial class don’t know anything about this, but normal men in
private like to tell dick jokes, boast about women and reminiscence
about their exploits. The faggots that take up space in Official
Conservatism don’t know about these things.

Watching one traitorous fink after another decry Trump’s locker room
talk from a decade ago, I was reminded once again that these people were
never on my side. It was always a con, a grift, to fool otherwise decent
people into putting down their weapons and surrendering to the Left.
Buckley-style conservatism, whatever it was, is now just a tool of the
managerial class to clear the field for nation-wrecking policies to
benefit the ruling elite at the expense of the middle class.

Last night, I was reminded of why Trump was able to obliterate the GOP
field despite being out spent a million-to-one. He is not a pussy. Any
other Republican faced with the dirty trick pulled on Friday would have
gone into the debate prepared to grovel and plead, begging for a second
chance. It is not all all inconceivable that he would have offered to
step aside. Trump went into the debate prepared to deliver a counter
bunch designed to knock the old fat cow on her ass.

It was a sterling performance that turned the tactics and strategy of
the government party back onto them. If the contest is going to be a
referendum on Trump’s character, then Trump is going to make a big show
of exploring the character of the Clinton Gang. Having Bubba’s many
sexual assault victims at the event was a missile landing directly into
the weapons cache of the Clinton campaign. His demand for a special
prosecutor reminded everyone of the elephant in the room.

When even the most disloyal of craven rumpswabs concedes Trump won the
debate, you know it was a great night for The Donald.

> Well, sadly, "dump Trump" probably over.
>
> — Jonah Goldberg (@JonahDispatch) [October 10,
> 2016](https://twitter.com/JonahDispatch/status/785310850550726656?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

Guys like Jonah Goldberg  would sooner take a job in the dreaded private
sector than say anything nice about Trump or the people prepared to vote
for him.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7499" target="_blank">As I’ve
pointed out in the past</a>, Goldberg is Exhibit A for the case against
Official Conservatism and the party it has infested. Trump stands as the
rebuke of the surrender caucus, that has profited guys like Goldberg so
handsomely over the last two decades. If he has to concede to Trump, you
know it was a great win.

Trump probably will not win and even if he does, it’s probably too late
to avoid disaster anyway. Democracies always murder themselves. That is
the lesson of history and ours will do the same, sooner rather than
later. If the worst is to be avoided, then the present arrangements must
be de-legitimized in order for a reform effort to have room to grow.
That’s the role of Trump in the election. He the destroyer of worlds
that need destroying.

When this all started, I compared Trump to the character in the Asimov
Foundation series called
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mule_(Foundation)"
target="_blank">The Mule</a>. One way of interpreting this character is
as a destroyer that sweeps away that which must be swept away in order
for something better to rise in its place. That’s the Trump campaign. By
cracking the Conservative Industrial Complex and challenging the
legitimacy of the managerial class, he is exposing the whole thing as a
racket, one which the people can no longer trust.

Last night The Mule Returned.
