---
title: "HBD and Democracy"
date: "2016-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6402"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6402"
---

The other day, the HBD blogger Jayman posed a question on Twitter. Can
you have democracy and a universal acceptance of **H**uman
**B**io**D**iversity?

For those unfamiliar with the concept, **H**uman **B**io**D**iversity is
a catch-all term for the observed biological differences between groups
of humans that are *most likely* tied to genetics. I say *most likely*
because while modern biology assumes more than 90% of what we are is
genetic, figuring out what is cultural from what is genetic is not
always easy. Some biologists think the number is 99%, so there’s plenty
of debate in the field.

The basic assumption of HBD is that like every other living thing on
planet earth, humans evolved in response to the particular challenges
they faced as a species. These challenges were environmental
and cultural. It’s easy to forget that culture is part of our
“environment” just like climate and topography. It’s also easy to forget
it is still happening.

Humans living in the mountains adapted to mountain life. Their culture
adapted as well and may have exaggerated certain traits that are well
suited for mountain life. Even though we are just one people, arm in arm
on this big blue marble we call earth, those differences remain baked
into our genome.

At first blush, this may seem obvious. After all, the humans in
sub-Saharan Africa are black, while the humans in Siberia are not black.
The humans in the heart of Europe look nothing like the humans in
Central America. There are plenty of red heads in Ireland, but you don’t
see them naturally occurring in Indonesia.

It’s not just appearance. Something like 97 of the fastest 100 meter
dash times are held by West Africans, while the long distance records
are held by East Africans. There are no great black downhill skiers.
Turn on an NBA game and it is obvious that a sport played best by men
that are tall and jump high is dominated by Africans.

These differences are so plainly obvious, we are no longer allowed to
talk about them in public, but they are undeniable. HBD simply observes
that genetic traits are heritable. Tall parents have tall kids. Since
cognitive traits are also genetic, they must be heritable as well. That
means they will show up in human groups, just like physical traits.

If you want something more than a short summary, Jayman has [this great
primer](https://jaymans.wordpress.com/hbd-fundamentals/) on his site.
[HBD Chick has a
post](https://hbdchick.wordpress.com/category/what-is-human-biodiversity/)
explaining the basics of the topic.

That’s enough background. The question is, can a society embrace
democracy when it also accepts that there are great variations
in cognitive traits between population groups? The assumption I’m going
to make is that Jayman means “democracy” in the modern sense of the
word. That’s representative democracy or indirect democracy. Similarly,
his idea of society is the modern, multi-ethnic, multi-racial variety we
have in the West.

To answer the question, it’s important to know that humans evolved in
small non-diverse groups. The sort of diversity we see today is an
extreme outlier in human history. Up until the last century, when
different human groups came into contact with one another, they tried
like hell to exterminate each other.

That means there is a better than average chance that we are hard wired,
in general, to resist diversity, as currently understood. Reproductive
advantage goes to those who are most like the group and have traits most
favored by the group. The result is we naturally are suspicious of
strangers.

Put another way, it means humans are, to some degree, biologically
inclined to distrust those outside their group. We know Africans, for
example, evolved into small, isolated villages as a survival strategy.
Communicable diseases, which Africa has in spades, no pun intended,
don’t spread easily across populations that are isolated. Distance and a
high level of distrust of outsiders are a natural firebreak to disease.

The other side of this coin is democracy, which is not a universal form
of human organization. The Arab world not only lacks it, but actively
rejects it. We killed a million Arabs trying to impose democracy on Iraq
and it lasted about week after we ended the occupation.

Asia had democracy imposed on it in places, but even in very modern
countries like Japan, it is a very Japanese type of democracy, not
western democracy. Even in Europe, participatory self-government is a
novelty. It’s why they are sliding into a kakistocracy called the EU.
The truth is what we think of as western democracy is really Anglo-Saxon
democracy.

The point here is western style democracy as we understand it is a very
European-ish thing that evolved among peoples with a high degree of
social trust within their ethnic groups. Even so, it was only within the
last 100 years that universal suffrage became the norm. Countries like
Spain and Portugal finally figured it out a few decades ago.

Where does that leave us?

If you accept that the observable differences between population groups
are real and those differences are reflected in the organizational
strategies, that means democracy will not work for all people. Arabs and
Africans, for example, will never get the hang of it or even want to get
the hang of it. This would explain why all attempts to impose it on them
have failed.

If you take a bunch of Arabs, a bunch of Pakistanis, some Africans and
settle them into England, the result is a sizable minority that is
hostile to democracy, maybe even working to subvert it. If the rest of
the population, even the Welsh, notice this and come to accept the HBD
view of humanity, then democracy can’t last. No one would want it.

The blank slate crowd would argue that these differences are purely
cultural and temporary. Since technocratic democracy and materialism are
the future, these other groups will, in a couple of generations, get on
the democracy bandwagon. This is the argument we hear in America with
regards to importing the population of Mexico.

Fundamental to participatory democracy is the assumption that voters
will vote their individual interests. The businessman will vote for
pro-business candidates, even if his kin think otherwise. The working
man will vote for the pro-labor candidate for the same reasons. Once a
large number of people start voting on tribal grounds, everyone else has
to follow suit.

To quote Lee Kuan Yew, “In multiracial societies, you don’t vote in
accordance with your economic interests and social interests, you vote
in accordance with race and religion.” Once that becomes apparent to the
dominant group, they have no choice but to limit popular government and
take measures to limit the numbers of the other groups.

The bottom line here is that HBD is not necessarily hostile to
democracy, but it is hostile to immigration, open borders and the whole
universalist religion, of which democracy is a small part. The answer to
Jayman’s query is that acceptance of HBD can preserve western
liberalism, but only at the expense if egalitarianism, multiculturalism
and anti-racism. It’s HBD or diversity, but not both.
