---
title: "Reform Week Part IV"
date: "2016-05-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7412"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7412"
---

In the 1990’s the NBA started drafting high school kids and letting them
play in the league. It was an idiotic decision that has haunted them to
this day. High school boys are not ready to play at that level and they
lack the maturity to develop as a bench warmer for a few years. It is
fairly well established that the peak years for athletes of this type
are from 25-to-32. Taking a player who is seven years from his peak is
sure to retard his development and waste a lot of money. The result was
a steady decline in the level of play in the league.

That is an important lesson. Even in sports like track that are based on
pure physical gifts, you need more than natural talent. There is a set
of skills and a degree of maturity that allows the athlete to fully
exploit their natural talents. Development systems not only help nurture
talent, but they also weed out the mercurial and erratic before they are
put into a position where others are counting on them. More than a few
great talents have washed out before they hit the professional ranks
because they lack the character or maturity for the job.

For political athletes, a similar development system is necessary to
police the ranks efficiently. One or two corrupt individuals slipping
into the legislature is manageable. A whole parliament full of crooks is
a recipe for disaster. Making the process of getting there arduous is a
time tested way of filtering at the source. The Roman Empire became
unstable right around the time they started taking shortcuts and cutting
corners in their development of their political leaders. They started
making exceptions and before long no one respected the rules and customs
of the Republic.

American politics is suffering an NBA problem. The Senate and House are
both stocked with far too many people who never served time in the minor
leagues of politics. It is hard to find anyone who has a job, much less
did the grunt work of being a town manager or city councilman. Instead
of earning their bones in the minor leagues, they are jumping right to
the big show.

For example, the great hope of the Trotsky wing of the GOP is Ben Sasse.
He spent a year in the dreaded private sector after college and then got
on the gravy train of government work. A dozen years on the dole
and runs for Senate and is now the shiny new penny “representing”
Nebraska, a place he rarely visited for twenty years prior to his
election. Instead of working his way up from dog catcher or state rep,
he just parachuted into the Senate without much vetting.

Marco Rubio is an example of trying to rush guys along before they are
ready. Rubio had a successful career in the Florida legislature. Making
the leap to the Senate was a big step, similar to going from AA to the
majors. He had the skill to do it, as long as he was going to spend his
first term learning the ropes and growing into the position. If he
flourished, then maybe he could be offered a spot on the 2024 GOP ticket
or perhaps run for governor of Florida. Instead, he is a has-been at 44.

One way to restore the development system is to return the Senate to the
states. The original design was to have the Senate represents the
interests of the states, while the House was the democratic voice of the
people. The 17th Amendment, passed in 1913, changed that and threw the
system out of balance, making it just as prone to democratic impulses as
the House. More important, it has made the Senate more accessible to the
overly ambitious. The result is a chamber increasing full of feckless
climbers like Ben Sasse.

Repealing the 17th would not be an easy sell, but simply returning the
selection of senators to the states is probably a workable compromise.
Each state could then create a system for picking senators. Given this
power, they will inevitably create a system controlled by local
interests, even if it maintains the veneer of popular selection. Having
the legislature nominate candidates for the public to vote on is an
obvious solution.

Another reform that would help restore the development system is to
expand the House of Representatives. The Apportionment Act of 1911 set
the current size of the House in an age when the population of the
country was a third of what it is today. Doubling the size of the house
would get the apportionment closer to what it was a century ago. It
would also make buying influence much more expensive. Buying off two
hundred legislators is much easier than bribing five hundred of them.

Expanding the House would also make being a congressman less important.
Lowering the prestige of the House, while increasing the prestige of
state legislatures will help keep the kids on the farm until they are
ready for the big show. That means state government gets better at
protecting the interests of the state as a counter to federal power. The
good people of Nebraska would washout a poser like Sasse long before he
could be inflicted on the nation.

Finally, another angle of reform could be on the pay side. Paying
Congressman and Senators $200K a year sounds like a lot, but Washington
is not a cheap city. A pol has to maintain two homes and bear the cost
of commuting, to some extent, from the district. It’s why guys like
[Paul Ryan take advantage of insider
information](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/aug/13/paul-ryan-sold-shares-banking-crisis)
to make money in the markets. It is perfectly legal and they all do it.

It is how a guy like John Kasich gets a net worth of $25 million,
despite a lifetime in elected office. Harry Reid became a millionaire
off shady land deals he was able to broker first at the state level and
then in the Senate. One of the surest ways to become a millionaire is to
get elected to Congress. On your first day there is a line of lobbyists
ready to give you investment tips.

In order to strip away the self-dealing, the pay would have to go up
considerably. Maybe giving Congressman and Senators an allowance for a
house in Washington and a salary commensurate with the importance of the
job would be enough to make a ban on self-dealing workable. There is
some history here as Congress passed the gift ban twenty years ago.
There will always be bribes and people willing to take them but removing
some of the justifications makes it easier to police.
