---
title: "Forever Young"
date: "2016-12-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9200"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9200"
---

<a href="https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2016/12/14/the-coming-thing/"
target="_blank">Greg Cochran has a short post up</a> soliciting opinions
on what will be the next big thing in science and technology. He is not
fishing for the next smartphone app or medical cure. I think he means
the big new field of study or technological advancement. It is one of
those posts that is not intended to be interesting, but to get the
readers noodling over the question. Judging from the comments thus far,
that is the way his readers have read the post. It seems to be another
stab at
<a href="https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2016/12/08/science-policy/"
target="_blank">the topic he started the other day</a>.

It is an interesting question as we do seem to have reached the point of
diminishing returns with the microprocessor. E-mail was a huge game
changer. The mobile phone was another big leap into the unknown. The web
probably comes in third, but it still had an enormous impact on
humanity. These inventions have changed the way humans interact with one
another and continue to put stress on the organizational systems we have
had in place since the Enlightenment. Donald Trump just won an election
by mastering Twitter.

We have reached peak chip, so to speak. The low hanging fruit has been
picked and we’re well on the way to commodification of technology.
That’s not to say there is no more work to be done in tech. It’s just
that the boom years are over and the industry is now mature. The next
big ideas, the stuff that could alter society, will be coming from
somewhere else. The temptation is to think it will be some new
technology like genetics or nanotechnology. Those fields have the
futuristic vibe futurists like.

Genetics does have the prospect of being highly disruptive. Just take a
look at how 23andMe or Ancestry.com sell their products. Implicit in
their pitch is that race and ethnicity are in your DNA. That means race
is not a social construct. Ancestry disguises this by using multi-racial
actors, but the implication is clear. Similarly, <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/dec/12/high-social-cost-adults-can-be-identified-from-as-young-as-three-says-study"
target="_blank">the ability to predict things about people at an early
age</a>, based on examining their DNA, could be very disruptive. Imagine
what happens to insurance when you can test for risk of heart attack.

The thing is, a lot of this information has been available to us through
other means. Humans have known for a long time that people are not the
same across race or ethnicity and most people still know it, even if
they don’t say it. Even so, it has no impact on public policy or on the
howling of the multiculturalists. We’ve also known that the apple does
not fall far from the tree. If the kid is born to losers, the kid will
probably be a loser. How the kid is raised has little to do with it, but
we still preach the morality of parenting.

A more promising area where something game changing could come is in the
field of aging. Humans live longer and are healthier than ever and it
has already had a huge impact on society. All of our pension and
insurance schemes are broken mostly because people live too long. Long
living has resulted in children maturing more slowly, in terms of social
status. A century ago, a man went to work as a teen and had a family by
the time he hit 20. Today, men live at home until 30 and start families
well into their 30’s.

Imagine what happens if science finds a way to push the expiry date out
a few more decades. Imagine if 100 becomes the new 65, in that the 100
year old is as vigorous as the typical 65 year old. Imagine that the
golden years of retirement start at 110. This is standard stuff in
science fiction, but it may not be too far off in reality. <a
href="https://www.thesun.co.uk/living/1944409/breakthrough-as-scientists-discover-how-to-slow-down-the-ageing-process-raising-hopes-of-drug-treatments/"
target="_blank">British researchers have figured out how to drastically
slow the aging of mice.</a> That opens the door for not only slowing the
process, but arresting it. Forever young may not be too far off.

Even if that is beyond the pale, think about the impact of Viagra.
Invent a pill to keep the needle pointing north and the world beats a
path to your door. Imagine a pill to end gray hair or crow’s feet. Even
if people don’t live to 150, just being healthier and more vigorous late
into life could have a huge impact on society. Retirement, for example,
would make a lot less sense if you had plenty of juice well into your
senior years. Of course, retirement would become something radically
different too. Our view of aging would radically change.

The reason to think that life extension and aging is the place to see
great innovation in the near term is mostly economic. Penis pills made
their makers very rich. A gray hair pill or a wrinkle cure would
similarly make their makers billions. Just look at the number of men
seeking out HGH from black market sources. The market for anything that
extends life or extends youthful vitality is the market of all people.
Is there anyone who would not buy a pill that makes you look as good as
you looked in the flower of youth?
