---
title: "Elfin Safety"
date: "2016-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6513"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6513"
---

The other day I saw that Major League Baseball plans to experiment with
a special helmet for pitchers. This is in response to the very rare
event of a batted ball hitting the pitcher in the head. <a
href="http://www.nydailynews.com/sports/baseball/mlb-debut-protective-headgear-pitchers-article-1.2529883"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The pictures of this thing</a> suggest it
is a weird contraption to have sitting on your head. Anyone who has worn
a football or motorcycle helmet knows they are not very natural. This
thing looks ridiculous in addition to probably being uncomfortable

I don’t know for sure, but I don’t think cricket bowlers wear a helmet.
It seems to me that cricket bowlers would be more likely to take a ball
off the head than baseball pitchers, but I’m not an expert on cricket.
I’m just thinking that the Brits are way over the top with “elfin
safety” compared to Americans so if they have not mandated helmets,
there must be no risk. As I said, I could be wrong about cricket.

Thinking about it, the number of pitchers that get hit by batted balls
is surprisingly small. I can recall a few ugly incidents, over many
years of watching sports. If you do the math, there are about 80,000
balls hit by a batter that end up in play every season. In a given year,
maybe one or two Major League pitchers get hit hard enough to be a
concern. There are some years when it never happens so maybe the odds
are 1-in-100,000.

As a point of comparison, there is a 1-in-700,000 chance of being struck
by lightning on any given day.  The odds of being struck in your
lifetime is 1-in-3,000. No one, as far as I know, has been killed by a
come backer in professional baseball. I’m sure it has happened somewhere
in pickup games or youth leagues. The point being is that you should
have a greater fear of lightning, if you are a baseball player.

In my youth playing sports, helmets for batters had been around for a
while, but they were crude compared to today. As a catcher, I never wore
a helmet, even though they were available, until I was in high school.
They became mandatory at some point. They also improved the design
around that time so it was not as big of a hassle. Even so, I caught a
lot of baseball games and never took a hit to the head.

The fetish for safety is one of those strange things about the modern
age that is hard for me to pin down. It’s irrational to make pitchers
wear a helmet when they are at no real risk. At the same time, the
people arguing for these things make the point that it does not cost
anything to be careful in these cases. That’s not really true, but I can
see why they think it is true. That and no one wants to see a ball
player get seriously injured.

Still, there is something driving this that says something about modern
mass media democracies. For the bulk of the 20th century, safety items
for sports were rare. Everyone just assumed the risk and did not think
much of it. Look at old hockey video and you see guys skating around
without helmets, face guards or mouth protection. Goalies did not wear a
helmet.

It was not just bat and ball sports. Look at the history of F1.
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2518788/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">There was a great documentary</a> on the safety issues
in the early days of Formula 1 a few years ago. Even if you don’t like
car racing, it is a very interesting piece. The near total disregard for
the safety of the drivers was just something everyone accepted for a
long time. In fact, the danger was part of the appeal for fans.

In the case of F1, safety was forced on the sport by drivers. Guys
getting killed every week simply became too much for even the bravest
men. That’s an exception. In all other sports, safety is forced on the
players. No ball players want to wear those goofy looking pitcher’s
caps. Hockey players scrap the face guard as soon as the hit the
professional ranks. Boxers would die in the ring if allowed.

<a
href="http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Steve Pinker has documented the decline
of human violence</a> and the safety revolution probably fits in there
somewhere. Violence declines as the respect for human life increases.
The revolution in medicine that has extended healthy lives in the West
probably means a corresponding spike in the respect for human life. When
you’re lucky to make it past 30, blood sports don’t sound so bad. When
you live to 80, taking care of yourself makes a lot of sense.

It’s not just sports either. Safety is a whole industry now. Walk around
anywhere work is being done and you see all sorts of safety measures in
place. Most of these are just in my lifetime. I’ll grant that much of it
is driven by government meddling, but a fair bit is driven by a genuine
concern for the safety of people in their daily lives. There’s no real
push-back from employers and in many cases, the employers sponsor these
measures.

There’s a limit to all of this. Safety has become something close to an
obsession in the last half century. It’s not a bad thing, but the point
of diminishing returns may be upon us, maybe behind us. If we’re down to
making ball players wear strange head gear it means we have run out of
serious safety concerns. That means the cost-benefit ratios will be
turning the wrong way, if they have not already done so.
