---
title: "Girrrrl Power!"
date: "2016-12-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9295"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9295"
---

One of my friends mentioned the other day that he had seen the movie
Rogue One, the latest Star Wars offering. He said he liked it, which I
thought surprising. From the commercials, I was under the impression
that it was another Girrrrl Power! movie telling us that girls can do
anything they set their pretty little heads to, even if the evil white
men try to stop them. Put another way, it looks like another movie that
has a tiny little female in a role that was traditionally played by a
tough guy leading man.

He said it had a lot of that nonsense, but the shoot ’em up stuff and
special effects were good enough to let you ignore the preachy garbage.
My friend is a movie goer so he has developed the ability to filter out
the proselytizing so he can enjoy the entertainment portion of films.
Maybe that is a skill you acquire after sitting through a certain
quantity of movies or maybe it is a natural personality trait. I know I
lack it, which is why I don’t watch many movies. If it is going to be
preachy, I’ll just skip it.

There’s also the Star Wars element. For good or ill, the franchise has a
become Star Trek for the fake nerd movement. Women who “fucking love
science” seem to be big into Star Wars. I liked the movies as a kid, but
I was always a Star Trek guy. I also tended toward real science fiction,
the stuff you had to read. Even as a kid, Star Wars struck me as a bad
western with good special effects set in space. It’s why I only got
around to watching the “prequels” earlier this year when they were on
free cable.

Star Wars is a good reminder that pop culture is aimed mostly at women
and kids, so it is no country for old men. Peddling movies to young
people is made easier by the fact they don’t know a lot. They simply
have not been alive long enough to notice that this year’s blockbuster
is the blockbuster from five years ago, just with different actors and
explosions. They don’t know that Big Bang Theory is just Friends, with
nerds instead of hot looking Manhattanites. This stuff is all new to
them so they eagerly buy it up.

Women are also easy targets for pop culture because women are hard wired
to notice what other women are doing. It’s why the fashion industry
exists. Most men wear the same styles their whole life. Women change
every year. That’s because of biology. Hollywood has figured this out so
they put out films with female leads in the newest styles and fashions.
Since the New Religion says all girls are really kick-ass ninja
warriors, we get lots of films where 90-pound pixie ninjas with adorable
haircuts.

<a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/the-big-picture-of-star-wars/article/2006053"
target="_blank">The odious John Podhoretz</a> claims that Hollywood
figured out that action films would always attract male viewers so they
decided to cast females in the lead to bring in the females. Podhoretz
is an example of reversion to the mean, his father being an
exceptionally smart man, but he may be correct here. This sounds like
the sort of thing a corporate studio would do, thinking it is brilliant.
Whether it works or not will never be tested because the committee said
it was brilliant and the matter is closed. It strikes me as plausible,
at least.

No matter the reason, the thing about modern movies is the habit of
putting females in roles that should be played by men. Unlike the habit
of casting a black guy in the smart guy role, this feminizing of the
male lead never works as intended. There are smart black guys in the
real world. There are no 90-pound females beating up full sized bad guys
using nothing but ninja moves. That’s never happened. It’s never going
to happen either. No one comes away thinking it will ever happen, other
than the crazies in the cult.

The other day, I watched a movie called Sicario, which is about Mexican
drug dealers and the US efforts to catch them. The movie is well done
and a good two hours of entertainment. The one problem is they put a
tiny little nymph in the lead role. The viewer is supposed to accept
that this tiny little girl is not just a member of a tactical team, but
recruited to be part of what amounts to an off-the-books Seal Team. Most
of her screen time is her brooding and crying over the fact the boys
don’t play by the rules.

Of course, the writers, directors and producers of our entertainments
have to work within the rules the censors give them. We’re supposed to
believe the censors were all sent packing, but they never went away.
It’s just that they were replaced with ideological enforcers from the
Cult. Instead of a prim faced Christian lady editing the scripts, it is
a vinegar drinking lesbian from the Womyn’s Studies Department. The
people making a living in Hollywood like their jobs so they play along
as that is the path of least resistance.

The result is a paucity of male leads in movies these days. This
probably has something to do with the <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/06/hollywood-has-a-huge-millennial-problem/486209/"
target="_blank">collapse of the male audience</a> for movies. Guys are
not all that interested in Girrrlll Power!. Young males are spending
their leisure time blowing stuff up and killing people in video games.
It’s why the lunatics have been making war on gaming. They will not
sleep until the last pale penis person is hunted down and forced to
submit to the New Religion. Given the results thus far, it does appear
that the effort has failed.

Maybe that means the Girrrrl Power! era is coming to a close. Movie
makers need to make money so they may be forced to bring back the normal
male leads. Maybe the next big thing in movies will be men who are not
sobbing pussies, but old fashioned tough guys doing the hard work of
being men. I hope so as I’m getting old and it will not be long before
I’m spending my days in the movie theater with the other geezers, before
we head to Denny’s for a 4:00 PM dinner.
