---
title: "The Multi-Culti Wonderland"
date: "2016-01-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6322"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6322"
---

A big blizzard blew through my little slice of heaven over the weekend.
The snow started Friday afternoon and lasted into Saturday night.
Depending upon who is doing the measuring, we got anywhere from
20-inches to 36-inches. I was standing in waist high snow next to my
vehicle and I’m six feet tall, but drifting snow makes it hard to gauge.
Everywhere I walked was at least thigh high, so we got close to
30-inches.

I’ve written before about [snow in the
ghetto](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=3642). We have had an influx of
foreigners so the demographic of my part of town is different of late.
We have a quiver of Indians from the southern end of the subcontinent.
An intrusion of Muslims now lives down the block from me. The Spanish
population seems to have grown, but the black population feels smaller
for some reason.

In years past, snowstorms were just white guys out clearing snow and
black guys walking in the middle of the street. Go into cities like
Baltimore, Washington or Philadelphia after a snow and you always see a
bunch of black people walking in the streets. We still had some of that,
but we’re much more vibrant now so the mix of responses to the snow is
more diverse too.

Watching the Indians deal with snow has been one of the more enjoyable
things over the last twenty-four hours. They suck at snow removal. Now,
America tends to get only upper caste Indians, so they are probably not
used to physical work, but mastering a shovel is not that hard. Watching
ten of then work one shovel, smoking and gibbering to one another made
me feel like [Charles James
Napier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_James_Napier).

One of things I’ve noticed about South Asians is they tend to confuse
activity for work. South Americans do this and have made it an art form.
It’s called the Latin Way. South Asians will put a lot of effort into
looking busy and explaining what they will be doing as soon as they
start doing it. I don’t know their tongue, but I imagined they were
discussing the shoveling process, while not actually shoveling any snow.

The Muslims were interesting. They look North African to me, but I’m not
sure. They keep their women in garbage bags so they could be from the
Gulf. They smoke like chimneys, so I just assumed they were North
African. Regardless, they did not even attempt to clear out their cars.
Instead, they walked around in groups, muttering to one another in
Arabic. Unsurprisingly, the most clannish people tend not to be very
neighborly.

That’s the reality of the multi-culti paradise. No one gives a bleep
about anyone outside their tribe. I shoveled out some old people and a
handicapped guy. Me and a couple of young guys teamed up to clear our
parking areas. A couple of older white women brought coffee and we made
what is a tedious task into something enjoyable. I did not know any of
them, but we fell into the work naturally. As you can guess, not a lot
of diversity in our group.

The strange thing about Hispanics, something you see in a situation like
this, is they work hard, but they are not industrious. These are all
young men who could make money shoveling drives, clearing cars and so
forth. Instead, they were drinking beer and enjoying the day off from
wherever it is they work. Some were probably called in by the
construction outfit that imported them, but most just sat around.

In fairness, it could very well be their otherness that keeps them from
hustling. When I was out shoveling, a few walked past clutching beers.
They probably would have been happy to help for some cash, but they were
not going to offer. I’m as alien to them as they are to me. But that’s
the problem in a nutshell with the multi-culti paradise. Everyone is a
stranger in a strange land.

Another interesting thing I noticed is that eventually, the Indians
struck a deal with someone to clear the snow for them. A white guy had a
crew of Hispanics he was renting out for quick shovel jobs. The site of
upper caste Hindus hiring Hispanics to shovel their snow was like seeing
the future. A generation from now, the South Asians will be at least a
rung higher than the Mexicans.

[It’s the Lee Kuan Yew
rule](http://www.spiegel.de/international/spiegel/spiegel-interview-with-singapore-s-lee-kuan-yew-it-s-stupid-to-be-afraid-a-369128.html).
“In multiracial societies, you don’t vote in accordance with your
economic interests and social interests, you vote in accordance with
race and religion.” I’d take that further and say you self-organize
according to your race and religion. No one can be an individual because
all groups interact with one another at the group level.

The small intrusion of Muslims do not have the numbers to be anything
but on the fringes so they just milled around hoping for spring. The
Hindus have numbers so they can deal with the Mexicans and whites
collectively, at least to get their snow shoveled.

That brings to mind another famous quote from Lee Kuan Yew, “I think we
were progressing very nicely until the surge of Islam came, and if you
asked me for my observations, the other communities have easier
integration – friends, inter-marriages and so on – than Muslims… I would
say, today, we can integrate all religions and races, except Islam.”

That’s the issue faced by the West. America can handle an inflow of
Hispanics and Canadians, because they are balanced off by South and East
Asians. There’s no balancing out the Muslims. As soon as their numbers
increase, the ghetto goes Muslim and the rest of us flee to higher
ground. That’s fine for the ghetto maybe, but as we see in Germany, they
soon overflow their ghettos and then all hell breaks loose.
