---
title: "Killing the King"
date: "2016-03-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6941"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6941"
---

In the olden thymes, a mad king presented the elite with a dilemma.
Violating the system for naming a king by, say, voting to remove the
king, would introduce dangerous ideas into the system. At the same time,
willy-nilly removing the king undermines the whole point of having a
king and a line of succession. It was always the critical flaw in
hereditary monarchy. What do you do when the king is a liability?

For the benignly mad king, the answer was to work around him until he
went to meet his maker. His counselors, maybe his wife or even his
mother would make the decisions while the mad king was maintained for
ceremonial reasons. Once a suitable replacement was available, like a
son or a brother, then the mad king would choke on his dinner or fall of
a horse. Everyone could pretend it was a natural transition and there
was no need to question anything.

At the other end, the malignant king, the tyrant who was sane enough
to to perform his duties, but mad enough to cause great harm, was a
serious problem. Often, the tyrant is smart enough and paranoid enough
to eliminate obvious replacements, thus buying himself some life
insurance. Eventually, the risk of keeping the tyrant in power is
greater than the leap into the unknown and the mad king falls of his
horse or eats a bad apple and he is dead.

The take away here is two-fold. One is the madness of the ruler or the
ruling class is only important if it puts the ruling class interests at
risk and it has to be a critical mass of them at risk. Killing one noble
is tolerable. Threaten 25% of them and you have a revolt brewing.
Caligula did not get himself in trouble merely because he started
killing the beautiful people in Rome. His mismanagement threatened the
general welfare and risked a general revolt. The financial crisis of 38
AD resulted in a famine, which was a direct threat to the system.

<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/Pandora-John-William-Waterhouse-171x300.jpg"
class="wp-image-6980" aria-describedby="caption-attachment-6980"
decoding="async" width="186" height="317"
alt="Pandora John William Waterhouse" />

Pandora John William Waterhouse

The other takeaway is that when left with a choice between near certain
death or ruin and some unknown outcome, people will choose the latter,
even people with a lot to lose. It’s the only rational choice. If the
status quo means a 99% chance of destruction and killing the king opens
a range of possible outcomes, some good and some terrible, the numbers
favor killing the king. In fact, they make regicide a moral duty.

Killing the king, however, is really not a solution. The leap into the
unknown is opening Pandora’s box. It has often led to the demise of the
ruling class. The assassination of Caesar was arguably the great mistake
of Roman history. Waiting the guy out probably would have turned out
better for the Roman elite, but they could not see what was over the
horizon.

In theory, representative democracy was supposed to solve this problem.
If David Cameron starts doing things that make him a liability, his own
party will abandon him, because they know they will face the voters
eventually. If one party goes bonkers, like the Labour Party led by
Jeremy Corbyn, then the party collapses. The ruling class competes with
one another and the audience votes on who wins each little skirmish.

For the most part, this has worked out well for the English speaking
world. In these countries, the ruling elite has supported the system
where the general population gets a say in the management of the
country. Europe is another matter. The ruling classes of the Continent
have never bought into the concept. The European Union, after all, is
mostly a way around the local legislatures and the will of the people.

Europe operating as a market-state without external threats and a
pacified population gave the ruling class of Europe the sense that this
arrangement would work long term. Then the king went crazy and flung
open the doors to Muslim invaders. Initially, this was not a problem as
the ruling class lives in bunkered enclaves, removed from the
consequences of their polices. They have no reason to care if the train
stations are carnivals and rape and assault by the dusky sons of
Mohamed.

\*\*Note: There was a pic I grabbed on-line but the person who took the
pic and some other members of the OCD community took issue with my use
of it. These are folks who can’t see the forest through the trees and
want to spend all day haggling over meaningless details. I have no time
for this so I removed the pic. My apologies to the OCD community. I will
forever avoid noticing them so this sort of mistake does not happen
again\*\*

But, the people have noticed that their liberties are slowly and
methodically being curtailed in the name of public safety. When you can
only enjoy a traditional parade from behind barricades and armed
soldiers, you’re going to start having dark thoughts about the people
who caused it

<a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/london/2016/03/26/german-railway-launches-gender-segregated-carriages-in-wake-of-sex-attacks/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">When you have to start putting your wife
and daughter on a segregated train car</a>, for fear the Muslims may
rape them or simply go crazy seeing an uncovered female head, the mad
king is no longer a man for whom you will pledge allegiance. When the <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/london/2016/03/27/belgium-charges-attacks-suspect-march-against-fear-called-off/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">king cancels the “March Against Fear” out
of fear of offending the invaders</a>, it’s hard to love the king.
Instead, you start thinking it is time to kill the king. It’s either
him, or you, no matter what comes next.
