---
title: "Silas Lapham"
date: "2016-03-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6847"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6847"
---

Seven or eight years ago I started noticing Kevin Williamson in the
pages of National Review. He often wrote about the sort of things I find
interesting and he has some decent reporting skills. Buckley’s paranoia
in his old age drove off most of the quality writers from the magazine
so Williamson stood out. His quill pen act was ridiculous, but I can
forgive a little phoniness if the material is good.

Of course, Bill Buckley was a world class phony. His exaggerated Brahman
routine was so ridiculous it could have passed for satire. Late in life
this style became so absurd his columns were unreadable. But it served
the purpose of inoculating him and his movement from the charge of being
middlebrow by the tribunes of the people on the Left. It is hard to
dismiss a rich guy as stupid or provincial when he sounds like a
Victorian barrister.

The first time I saw Williamson, I had to laugh as the phony-baloney
style immediately made sense. White trash guys with something more on
the ball than the typical prol often go to the extreme in order to lose
their white trash past. They are aware enough to see there is a better
way than what they were born into, so they get as far away from home as
possible. That usually means aping the habits they observe in their
betters. The terminal insecurity makes them extremely prickly about
issues of class.

The sad thing for these guys is they tend to get bitter as they are
never welcomed into the club. They end up living the life of Silas
Lapham, if they are lucky. Otherwise, it is life of the servant, full of
petty indignities. People born into the upper classes know how to spot
these phonies and they enjoy reminding them that they are forever
outside the club. Williamson can force himself to sound like Bill
Buckley, but he will forever be white trash from West Texas. There is no
escaping biology.

All that I aside, I enjoyed reading his work at NR for a few years. The
libertarian nitwittery was never my thing, but once a month or so he
would land on an interesting topic and report some useful facts. The
ragged condition of modern journalism means basic reporting can no
longer be taken for granted. Anyone that does it well in medium and long
form journalism these days is a rare bird, even if their writing style
is unnecessarily ornate.

[A couple of years ago I noticed that Williamson was doing some
dangerous noticing](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=2932). The
managerial class hates noticing almost as much as they hate normal
people. I was not the only one to pick up on it and his noticing
abruptly ended. Williamson spent a long time polishing apples to get a
perch at National Review. He was not about to foolishly let himself get
purged so he went back to writing libertarian gibberish and
conservative boilerplate. It is safe material that flatters the people
that write checks to National Review.

Last summer, [Williamson went all in on the Trump
bashing](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/419853/witless-ape-rides-escalator-kevin-d-williamson)
and my instinct was to assume it was more apple polishing. He just
wanted to prove to his betters that he was not going to be a problem,
now that one of the dirt people was getting uppity. It is that old
inferiority complex kicking in. Trump is making a lot of [people in the
servant class](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6731) nervous because he
exposes the reality of their situation. A guy like Williamson, I just
assumed, was particularly freaked out by it.

Over the weekend, [this piece by
Williamson](http://dailycaller.com/2016/03/12/national-review-writer-working-class-communities-deserve-to-die/)
was rocketing around twitter. The source is locked away behind a
firewall, but the gist of the piece is that Williamson hopes white
working class people are exterminated. He considers it the moral thing
to do. That is not much of an exaggeration. When you argue that the
traditional American communities organized around work and family need
to be destroyed, you are pretty much arguing for genocide.

It is a funny thing that has happened in America over the last fifty
years or so. It used to be that men who worked in the newspaper business
accepted the fact they were working stiffs. They reported on the rich
and powerful back to their friends and neighbors. They had no illusions
about their place in the world. Watch an old black and white movie that
has newspapermen in it and they are decidedly proletarian and proudly
so.

Hatred of the working class is now the norm. On the one hand, welfare
spongers are regularly called working class, along with drug addicts and
criminals. Williamson enjoys this shtick, writing about hillbilly
heroin, obliquely suggesting that this is typical white people, but
mostly dumping on poor whites like his parents. Then there is the bit
where downscale whites are assumed to be Nazis and Klansmen, driven to
racism by their inability to keep pace with the beautiful people, many
of whom are of the dusky variety.

I think that is why we have seen the Conservative Industrial Complex go
berserk over Trump. It is not just that he is a proletarian guy with
billions to spend, and thus having no need for the approval of frivolous
scriveners like Williamson. It is that he has no interest in joining
their club. If you have organized your life around aping the manners and
opinions of your betters, it is your identity. Trump’s rejection of them
is a negation of everything they are as people. They hate him for it.
