---
title: "Carnival of Nonsense"
date: "2016-09-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8672"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8672"
---

The other day, I was on a conference call hosted by a youngish women who
spoke mostly in riddles. She actually said, “intrinsically customize
distinctive relationships” in a non-ironic way. She may have said other
nonsense like this, but my eyes had glazed over and I was working on a
revenge fantasy, not paying attention. That goofy phrase woke me from my
daydream and that’s why it stuck in my head. I spent the rest of the
call trying to unriddle what that could possibly mean and why anyone
would say it.

Anyone familiar with life in large organizations is familiar with this
sort of gibberish that seems to have started about two decades ago. My
first recollection of creeping neologisms is in the 90’s when everyone
and everything had to have the word “synergy” attached to it in some
way. I can still recall a particularly good looking power-skirt
enthusiastically telling a group of us that “synergy” was our key to
success. I was sure then and I am sure now that she had no idea what it
meant.

Echolalic babbling has become so common now that we tend not to notice
it. <a
href="http://www.coindesk.com/microsoft-azure-cto-wants-to-connect-every-industry-with-a-blockchain/"
target="_blank">This article</a> on block chain technology I ran across
the other day is a good example. I have an interest in the topic so I
read these things when I find them, but “read” is not really what I do.
Instead, I scan them looking for word combinations that are in a real
language conveying actual information. I naturally filter out nonsense
like “the diversity of such vertically connected organizations” because
it is meaningless pap that just fills space.

The excessive use of jargon is not new. Pointless fields of study like
the soft sciences are packed to the gills with jargon. Read a psychology
paper and you have to keep stopping to think about the meaning of some
word or phrase that more often than not has no real meaning, outside the
narrow specialty within the field of psychology. The word is a signal
that lets the reader know if they belong. For those who don’t belong,
they are intended to scare you off so you don’t look too closely and
discover the study is mostly nonsense.

That’s what happens in the corporate world where there are layers and
layers of “managers” that only exists because the state has created the
need. Companies fear being sued or being whacked around by the state, so
they have elaborate processes to comply with the law. The army of
do-nothings in the bureaucracy are there to make sure no steps are
skipped. They just clog up the works, by forming committees and process
management teams that try hard to keep the remaining productive workers
from getting their work done.

There’s a chicken and egg issue here. Is this the result of women now
dominating the workplace or did this evolve so that women *could*
dominate the work place. Much of the jargon and gibberish we see is
attached to elaborate processes, which naturally appeal to women. Males
are results oriented while women are process oriented. Get a gander at
how federal grants are doled out in the cognitive sciences and you see
an elaborate process staffed almost exclusively by women. Perhaps the
Muslims are not wrong about everything.

That aside, no one wants to believe their work is meaningless so it is
natural to try and make what you do seem important to yourself and
others. Larding up these busy work jobs with mountains of nonsensical
jargon makes the people doing these jobs feel important. Mastering the
corporate pseudo-language allows them to feel like experts and insiders,
much in the same way academic jargon works. So, armies of middle
managers go from meeting to meeting speaking in tongues to one another,
proud that their calendars are full of meetings.

<a
href="http://takimag.com/article/life_de_bois_theodore_dalrymple/print#axzz4LYjseLMp"
target="_blank">Theodore Dalrymple thinks there is something
sinister</a> to this descent into echolalic babbling, but I’m not sure.
Orwell’s Newspeak was a part of an overall program of the state
to oppress the masses. The proliferation of jargon we are seeing does
not strike me as such. Instead, it is closer to what you see with small
children on a playground. They have a limited vocabulary and lots of
free time so they make up silly words and word games that sound
pleasing, but mean nothing.

That’s what the boys and girls in the managerial state are doing when
they cook up neologisms. It’s nursery rhymes for adults, who live and
work in what often resemble daycare centers for adults. Instead of
wrestling with the Legos to build a house, they spend their days
wrestling with Excel to make a cool looking pivot table. Instead of
memorizing rhymes, they invent bizarre word combinations like
“monotonectally transform multimedia based channels” and put them into
PowerPoint presentations.

It is another example, I think, of how Huxley got it right and Orwell
got it wrong. The authoritarian model imagined in 1984 could never last
because it had to rely on force and the math always works against such a
system. The violence required to hold it together eventually exceeds the
systems capacity for violence. The Huxley model of a world populated by
infantilized adults, cheerfully engaged in busy work requires much less
coercion from the state and it has a higher carrying capacity.

It turns out that the future is not “a boot stamping on a human face –
forever.” The future is a conference call on which a cheery 30-something
says things like “progressively coordinate functional strategic theme
areas” – forever.
