---
title: "The Media Fix"
date: "2016-01-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6371"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6371"
---

Back before Al Gore, peace be upon him, gave us the internet, I
maintained quite a few magazine subscriptions. National Review, The New
Republic and The Atlantic were on my list from the time I was a
teenager. I would cycle in others like Harper’s, The New York Review of
Books and even Granta and Ploughshares. I spent many a night drinking at
the pub where the later was founded.

Now, I have exactly zero subscriptions. I take what I can get on-line
and there’s so much on-line I see no reason to pay for it. The fact that
I can, with a few clicks, catch up on the [news in
Borneo](http://www.theborneopost.com/) or check in on the doings of
[Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow and his fight against
hooliganism](http://tass.ru/en/politics/852711) is truly a miracle.
Educated men of a century ago would be gobsmacked by the amount of
detailed information I can include a single blog post.

There’s a downside to this wonderfulness. In the olden thymes, my
subscription meant something to the people running those magazines. They
needed it to pay their writers, so it was important to the writers as
well. Today, these publications have no reason to care about me or my
opinion of them. They just need to generate enough traffic to show their
donors, who don’t care about me either.

In other words, as the financial relationship has changed, the
intellectual relationship has changed. These publications are now
on-line and they don’t have a direct financial link to their readers.
Instead, they depend on wealthy donors and support from the massive
nonprofit establishment. The result is an operation like National Review
went from *appealing* to readers to *lecturing* them.

A similar thing has happened with TV news. In the olden thymes, the
three networks were certainly preachy and biased, but they also had to
get viewers and that meant keeping it between the ditches. The batshit
insanity of a MSNBC would never be permitted. Those fruitcakes were
relegated to local access and shortwave because no one could afford to
indulge them.

That all changed with cable. MSNBC gets $0.70 per cable household per
month, whether anyone watches or not and is overwhelmingly not. That
means they collect $70 million per month even though no one watches.
Fox, CNN, ESPN et al have similar or better deals. When you get a
billion dollars for just showing up, you can indulge in just about any
sort of reckless behavior you want, even letting mentally unstable
lesbians host a primetime show.

The cable rackets have had another impact. They rely on writers and
bloggers out of the Commentary Industrial Complex. Fox hires boys and
girls from National Review and The Weekly Standard to be guest on shows.
MSNBC hauls in people from progressive publications. PBS uses the NY
Times and Washington Post as their farm system.

Put it all together and we now have a mass media that is not only
unresponsive to its viewership and readership, but also openly hostile.
The old periodicals that used to peddle ideas and culture to the public
now lecture the public on behalf of the managerial class. The low-brow
mass media of television can now indulge all of the excesses of
progressive fanatics, making sport of anything and everything normal
people find useful.

The worst part of this is that unplugging and dropping out has no
impact. Until tens of millions of households unplug from cable TV, these
media operations are immune to public discontent. Cord cutting will have
some impact, but most people will never take that step. The massive
nonprofit industry will keep on financing the news and opinion
operations. Rich guys like Carlos Slim and Jeff Bezos will backstop big
news sites.

The North Koreans are fond of installing loudspeakers in villages to
blast propaganda to the masses. In America, they install them in your
living room and your pocket. The communications revolution was supposed
to threaten the media monopoly of the prior age. Instead, it has created
a special force, shock troops, who man the megaphones on behalf of the
managerial class.

I suspect that much of what’s going on in the Republican primary is due
to a realization that the people on talk radio, Fox News and your
favorite news site are not playing it straight. Not so long ago they
were explaining why you had to hold your nose and support Romney,
because winning was too important for principles. Today, they are saying
principles are too important to vote Trump, even though he is looking
like a winner.

One of the things I’ve noticed in my life is people seek to break free
of the transactional life. Retail is looked down upon, I think, because
people naturally hate the clarity of it. When you sell direct, you have
to do so in a way that people like. Every lost sale is an indictment of
you and your product. It’s why the toughest, smartest guys in most
business are the sales guys. They have no illusions about themselves.

The media has sought to break free from the retail relationship. Selling
ads based on circulation and viewership is a daily confirmation of your
worth, or lack thereof. The result of this drive, on the one hand, has
been the thoroughly corrupt cable TV market where content providers get
a free shot at your wallet.

On the other hand, a massive, taxpayer subsidized nonprofit system has
been created to fund writers, newspapers, journals and even academics.
Look around a think tank and these people are calling each other
“fellow” and “resident scholar” as honorifics. It’s no wonder C-level
joke writers like Jonah Goldberg have developed massive egos. [Everyone
calls him “fellow” down at the
institute!](http://Back%20before%20Algore,%20peace%20be%20upon%20him,%20gave%20us%20the%20Interwebs,%20I%20maintained%20quite%20a%20few%20magazine%20subscriptions.%20National%20Review,%20The%20New%20Republic%20and%20The%20Atlantic%20were%20on%20my%20list%20from%20the%20time%20I%20was%20a%20teenager.%20I%20would%20cycle%20in%20others%20like%20Harper's,%20The%20New%20York%20Review%20of%20Books%20and%20even%20Granta%20and%20Ploughshares.%20I%20spent%20many%20a%20night%20drinking%20at%20the%20pub%20where%20the%20later%20was%20founded.%20Now,%20I%20have%20exactly%20zero%20subscriptions.%20I%20take%20what%20I%20can%20get%20on-line%20and%20there's%20so%20much%20on-line%20I%20see%20no%20reason%20to%20pay%20for%20it.%20The%20fact%20that%20I%20can,%20with%20a%20few%20clicks,%20catch%20up%20on%20the%20news%20in%20Borneo%20or%20check%20in%20on%20the%20doings%20of%20Gurbanguly%20Berdimuhamedow%20and%20his%20fight%20against%20hooliganism%20is%20truly%20a%20miracle.%20Educated%20men%20of%20a%20century%20ago%20would%20be%20gobsmacked%20by%20the%20amount%20of%20detailed%20information%20I%20can%20include%20a%20single%20blog%20post.%20There’s%20a%20downside%20to%20this%20wonderfulness.%20In%20the%20olden%20thymes,%20my%20subscription%20meant%20something%20to%20the%20people%20running%20those%20magazines.%20They%20needed%20it%20to%20pay%20their%20writers%20so%20it%20was%20important%20to%20the%20writers%20as%20well.%20Today,%20these%20publications%20have%20no%20reason%20to%20care%20about%20me%20or%20my%20opinion%20of%20them.%20They%20just%20need%20to%20generate%20enough%20traffic%20to%20show%20their%20donors,%20who%20don’t%20care%20about%20me%20either.%20In%20other%20words,%20as%20the%20financial%20relationship%20has%20changed,%20the%20intellectual%20relationship%20has%20changed.%20These%20publications%20are%20now%20on-line%20and%20they%20don’t%20have%20a%20direct%20financial%20link%20to%20their%20readers.%20Instead,%20they%20depend%20on%20wealthy%20donors%20and%20support%20from%20the%20massive%20nonprofit%20establishment.%20The%20result%20is%20an%20operation%20like%20National%20Review%20went%20from%20appealing%20to%20readers%20to%20lecturing%20them.%20A%20similar%20thing%20has%20happened%20with%20TV%20news.%20In%20the%20olden%20thymes,%20the%20three%20networks%20were%20certainly%20preachy%20and%20biased,%20but%20they%20also%20had%20to%20get%20viewers%20and%20that%20meant%20keeping%20it%20between%20the%20ditches.%20The%20batshit%20insanity%20of%20a%20MSNBC%20would%20never%20be%20permitted.%20Those%20fruitcakes%20were%20relegated%20to%20local%20access%20and%20shortwave%20because%20no%20one%20could%20afford%20to%20indulge%20them.%20That%20all%20changed%20with%20cable.%20MSNBC%20gets%20$0.70%20per%20cable%20household%20per%20month,%20whether%20anyone%20watches%20or%20not%20and%20is%20overwh)

Back in the 1990’s when newspaper circulations were collapsing, I read a
story about a paper in Dayton Ohio. They hired a consultant to tell them
why they were losing customers. The consultant pointed out that their
food section was running stories on haute cuisine while their readers
ate hamburger helper. In other words, the product sucked so people
stopped buying it.

That’s much tougher in the current moment. The product certainly sucks,
but people are not dropping TV in big numbers yet. Similarly, the
tax-exempt rackets face no threat from Congress. There are plenty of
billionaires willing to finance papers like the NYTimes and Washington
Post. Maybe the only response is for voters to support the candidates
the media hates the most.

Trump – Cruz 2016: They are as much fun as chemotherapy, but they are
what you need to fight the tumor that is the media.
