---
title: "The Saudi Problem"
date: "2016-01-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6223"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6223"
---

It is generally assumed that wars are started over historic hatreds,
competition for resources or territorial ambitions. This allows us to
pretend that all wars are bad and the fault of bad or stupid men. Every
war is described in terms of what should have been done to prevent it.
The reason for this is the belief we not only know why wars were
started, but we have the knowledge to prevent future wars.

Study up on the Great War or the Thirty Years War and you see how that
is just ridiculous. Events have a way of getting away from even the most
powerful. As I tried to explain in my [Dungeons & Dragons view of
history](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5335), history in real time is
a version of [John Conway’s Game of
Life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life) played out
in four dimensions, but it [looks like
this](https://www.clicktorelease.com/code/conway3d/) to the people
living it.

That said, sometimes war is just the least bad option. It solves a
problem with the least amount of pain, or so it seems at the time. For
instance, look at what’s happening with the Saudis. Not too long ago,
the Saudis were selling oil for between $80 and $100 a barrel. The
American Army was breaking up Iraq and guarding Saudi interest in the
region. Things were working out pretty well for the Kingdom.

Today, the Americans are giving away the store to the Iranians in what
some think is a strategic realignment. Yemen is a boiling cauldron of
sectarian violence requiring Saudi military operations. There’s a real
threat of millions of starving Yemenis pouring into the Kingdom. Oil is
trading at thirty bucks a barrel and [the Kingdom is running huge
deficits](http://www.ft.com/fastft/2016/01/05/deficit-is-sticky-but-saudi-budget-looks-positive-says-fitch/).
The Saudis have been quietly deporting their guest workers, mostly out
of fear they could rise up in revolt.

The Middle East, of course, is a bad neighborhood and the Saudis know
that better than anyone. They play the game harder that anyone so no one
should feel sorry for them. Much of what is going on in the region is in
some way their fault, but there are greater forces at work in the region
over which they have little control.

The Saudis are in the middle of something analogous to the Thirty Years
War with the area of Northern Iraq and Syria being the main theater of
operations. Western media often describe the Arab Muslim world as
divided between Sunni and Shia, but it is much more complicated than
that. Unlike Western Progressives, Arab Muslims have a much stronger,
more emotional connection to the past and the people who created it. For
example, the divides within Islam have been there since the [Battle of
Karbala](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Karbala) in 680 AD.

That’s where the comparison to the Thirty Years War breaks down. The
Reformation and Counter Reformation were all about how the people of
Christian Europe related to one another. Would the various tribes of
Europe relate to one another within the dominion of the Catholic Church
or would they relate to one another outside the Church. The end result
was a Europe of nations, each with their own version of Christianity.

The war in Islam is entirely about how Islam relates to the outside
world. As an organizing philosophy, Islam is being swamped by Western
materialism. The only thing Islam has going for it right now is a
surplus of young people, most of whom would prefer to be anywhere, but
places run by Muslims. As a smart guy recently wrote, [Islam is
dying](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6003) and this war is about who
gets to manage the decline.

That brings us back to the Saudis and their troubles. The Kingdom is
competing with Iran for the right to direct the Islamic response to the
West. Both sides think they are the natural leader of Islam and the
natural hegemon in the Middle East. The difference, it appears, is that
Iran wants the West out the region, while the Saudis want the West,
particularly the US, heavily involved in the region.

The problem for the Saudis is the US has become an unreliable partner.
The Obama administration’s hostility to Israel and their obsession with
striking a deal with Iran has left the Saudis without a powerful ally.
Waging economic war via oil prices is taking a major toll on the
Kingdom’s finances, making it harder to conduct petrodollar diplomacy.
What the Saudis could really use is a war in the region that drags in
the US in a major way.

The financing of Syrian rebels may have been based, in part, on the
belief that the US would eventually get back into Iraq. If so, it was a
miscalculation as Obama is too weak and afraid to commit to another
military adventure. Instead, the Russians used the conflict as an excuse
to increase their role in the region. This is certainly bad for Russia
in the long run, but it bolsters Iran in the short run.

That may explain why the [Saudis executed that Shiite
cleric](http://www.cnn.com/2016/01/02/middleeast/saudi-arabia-executes-dozens-terror/)
the other day. It was intended to provoke the Iranians. While there is
little hope for Obama doing anything in his final year, the Saudis may
figure it is a good idea to ratchet up the heat in the region so that
the Republican who enters office has a reason to reverse course and get
the US back into the game.

Of course, war with Iran would be a disaster for the Saudis even with
the US on their side, willing to commit forces to defense the Kingdom.
They are no match for the Iranians and hosting US forces brings all
sorts of trouble. But sometimes war is the least bad option. Given where
the Saudis find themselves at the moment, provoking a confrontation with
Iran may be the best option they have.

 
