---
title: "Gaming Iowa"
date: "2016-01-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6386"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6386"
---

The final [Des Moines Register
poll](http://www.bloomberg.com/politics/articles/2016-01-30/des-moines-register-bloomberg-politics-iowa-poll-republicans)
has been released and there’s both joy and consternation across the
land. The anti-Trump folks are going one of two ways on it. Some have
resigned themselves to the inevitable and are exploring various forms of
suicide. Others are denying physical reality and following in the steps
of [Dorothy Martin and her UFO
cult](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails). Back in 2012
we saw the same thing in the week prior to the general election.

The Trump supporters are a bit sanguine about it. They are happy to see
their man pulling into the lead, but they fear it is a false dawn. After
all, all of the experts have said that this is an impossibility. So
conditioned to accept expert opinion, they cannot believe that the
unicorn they are seeing is real. I can’t blame them for it. I’ve seen a
lot of weird stuff in my life and this is pretty weird. I still can’t
get over Jerry Falwell endorsing Trump.

When gaming these things out, it is important to remember that Iowa is
the not always a good barometer. Of the last seven contested GOP
campaigns, Iowa picked correctly three of seven times. The Democrats are
not much better. Iowa has picked correctly five of the last nine
contested Democrat races. I’m just looking at the [Wiki
page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iowa_caucuses#Republican_Party_process)
going back to the 70’s, which is a good enough sample to see that it is
a coin flip as to whether Iowa matters.

If the polls and prognostications are correct and [Trump wins
Iowa](http://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/election-2016/primary-forecast/iowa-republican/),
he goes into New Hampshire with a massive (edit: I have a poor sense of
direction) tailwind and a good shot at running the table. He’s already a
big favorite in New Hampshire and he leads in the later events. Iowa was
thought to be his weakest state for him, so a win and he probably sees
his numbers jump everywhere.

The question is how the rest of the field will respond. There’s clearly
a good portion of the GOP electorate who has been trained to hate Trump
by their keepers in the Conservative Industrial Complex. Will we see the
rest of the field lock shields, pick a champion and launch an anti-Trump
counterattack? That’s a good possibility, but history says these efforts
fizzle due to the fact the factions hate one another as much as they
hate the bogeyman they share.

So, we have one possible outcome. Trump wins and we quickly see some
sort of stop Trump effort coalescing around a single candidate. The
betting now has Trump as a 49% chance of winning so let’s give this
scenario the same chance. Next week we have a Trump victory and the
beginnings of a CIC organized stop Trump campaign around one of the
losers.

The next most likely outcome in Iowa, according to the numbers, is a
Cruz win in Iowa. Barring something close to an asteroid strike, it
would also mean Trump comes in second and Rubio third. Cruz has the best
“ground game” in the state and we’re told that means a lot, but [the
data suggests maybe not all that much after
all.](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2016/01/trumping-conventional-wisdom-on-ground.html)
Thirty years ago the number of volunteers and endorsements was a proxy
for voter sympathies, but that’s not true today. Otherwise, Trump would
not exist.

A Cruz win means he goes into New Hampshire with some momentum, but he
is not very popular there and the rebel vote is solidly behind Trump.
How much of a dent it puts in Trump’s support is unknown, but his vote
is not going to the party men so in this scenario, not much changes for
Trump.  On the other hand, it makes mounting an anti-Trump campaign
impossible. The party hates Cruz too. That makes this scenario the
nightmare scenario for the CIC.

We have a 49% chance of a Trump win and a 40% chance of a Cruz win, both
are bad news for the CIC. Reading the propaganda organs, their hope is
Rubio wins, thus launching both a javelin at the heart of the rebels and
launching a new crusade for the men in modestly priced suits who make up
the Conservative Industrial Complex.

Having a bisexual Cuban amnesty fanatic knock off the evil ones would be
for them what Obama was for the other side of the managerial
elite. Wednesday in Washington would be an unofficial holiday as the
locals partied into the wee hours.

Once sober, they would pull the plug on the rest of the field, train
their guns on Trump and we would get a replay of 1992 where a wall of
sound would hit the public, declaring Trump out of bounds. Trump’s
support would collapse down to the core 25% and he would look for a way
to exit the scene.

Finally, there’s the man from nowhere scenario. Rick Santorum won last
time, even though no one gave him much thought. The reason he won, the
reason the CIC refused to acknowledge at the time, was that Romney was
terrible. Santorum was the “none of the above” option. The only guy who
could plausibly play that role this time in Ben Carson and he is not
looking too good. I’d give this a one percent chance of happening.

There we have it. There’s a 49% chance Trump wins and sets off a real
old fashioned civil war in the party. There’s a 40% chance Cruz wins and
delays the civil war or even prevents it. A lot will depend on how New
Hampshire goes in this scenario. Then there is a 10% chance the CIC
destroys the rebel alliance and reasserts its control of the process.
Finally, we have a 1% chance of something crazy happening that tells us
nothing.
