---
title: "The Eco-Struggle"
date: "2016-04-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Religion
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7071"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7071"
---

Way back in the 1980’s I was working for a Democrat Congressman and Al
Gore was a first term senator.  Even then there was talk that he could
one day run for president. I was just a kid so I naturally assumed it
was true and paid attention to his career. When he ran in ’88 for the
Democratic nomination, my impression was that he was a very weird dude.
He reminded me of a distant cousin who came back from Vietnam with a
heroin problem. Even after he got clean, he was still screwed up.

When Gore ran for President in 2000, I was pretty sure he was having
some sort of nervous breakdown around the time of the debates. In the
first debate he carried on like a child, making weird noises and faces
trying to distract Bush. He was criticized for it, especially after the
VP debates, which everyone thought were great. What made me think he
lost his marbles was that he dressed like Dick Cheney and aped his tone
and mannerisms in the second debate. Al Gore had become
[Zelig](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zelig).

Of course, any doubts about his sanity were settled after the election
when Gore dropped out of sight and went on some sort of spiritual
pilgrimage. He got fat, grew a beard and walked the earth like Kwai
Chang Caine, only to come back as an Old Testament prophet, instead of a
Shaolin master. His preaching about global warming is, aesthetically,
right out of the Hebrew Bible. Al Gore is Ezekiel telling you
eco-sinners to repent or face the wrath of Gaia. Instead of idolatry,
the sin is enjoying modern conveniences.

If you listen to Gore’s sermons on global warming, you can’t help but
see them as sermons. He is preaching a faith that is not based on
science, even though it borrows jargon and concepts from legitimate
science. <a
href="http://www.ted.com/talks/al_gore_the_case_for_optimism_on_climate_change/transcript?language=en"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This TED Talk is a pretty good
example</a>.

*We now have a moral challenge that is in the tradition of others that
we have faced. One of the greatest poets of the last century in the US,
Wallace Stevens, wrote a line that has stayed with me: “After the final
‘no,’ there comes a ‘yes,’ and on that ‘yes’, the future world depends.”
When the abolitionists started their movement, they met with no after no
after no. And then came a yes. The Women’s Suffrage and Women’s Rights
Movement met endless no’s, until finally, there was a yes. The Civil
Rights Movement, the movement against apartheid, and more recently, the
movement for gay and lesbian rights here in the United States and
elsewhere. After the final “no” comes a “yes.”*

*When any great moral challenge is ultimately resolved into a binary
choice between what is right and what is wrong, the outcome is
fore-ordained because of who we are as human beings. Ninety-nine percent
of us, that is where we are now and it is why we’re going to win this.
We have everything we need. Some still doubt that we have the will to
act, but I say the will to act is itself a renewable resource.*

Even if we assume anthropogenic global warming is a real thing, an
assumption that is increasingly dubious, “solving” it is an engineering
problem, not a moral one.  To be a moral problem makes assumptions about
the future that are matters of preference, not moral certainty. The
Mesozoic Era was much warmer than today, with little difference between
winters and summers on most of the earth. The planet was teaming with
life, including the dinosaurs. Life, including humans, may flourish in
the balmy future.

The science is not the point, of course. This is a crusade for guys like
Gore and the others in the New Religion. The point of the crusade is to
fail, which is inevitable with something like climate change. There is
no “perfect” climate or even a correct range. Climate is by definition a
dynamic thing.  No matter what happens to temperature data, the weather
and government policy, the global warming cult will be out on the
streets, banging their pots and pans, telling us to repent. For these
people, we are always eco-sinners in the hands of an angry Gaia.

As with all iterations of the New Religion, the struggle is a central
part of the cult of climate change. The truest believers are all members
of the ruling elite, yet they carry on like they are plucky underdogs
fighting mysterious dark forces that secretly control society. The
strange thing you see with guys like Gore is the sacralizing of
suffering on behalf of the cause. The whole climate change racket is
shot thought with whining about the need to give up the comforts of
modernity.

Even weirder, they have no intention of actually suffering for their
faith. Instead, they want to make you suffer. Al Gore can buy “green
credits” like indulgences because he is worth close to a billion. That
means he gets to live like a royal, enjoying your suffering as you try
to work the new gas can. His mansion is lit up like Versailles, while
you squint in the florescent haze of your eco-friendly CFL. It’s
suffering by proxy, where they sacrifice their time to watch you suffer
as a result of their policies.

What strikes me about it is the utter pointlessness of it. The endless
posing and posturing has no end because it has no end point. A faithful
Christian at least has the serenity of his communion with God. The
Muslim, at the click of the detonator, knows he will be with Allah.
Climate change fanatics have nothing but a hopeless misery. Even if all
of their policies are enacted, nothing comes of it.

The cult of climate change is a church with no sanctuary, so everyone
assembles in the nave for no reason other than to be seen by the other
believers. These are people suffering from a form of phantom limb
syndrome. Instead having had a leg chopped off that they can still feel,
it is their sense of the divine that has been amputated. The result is
this weird nature cult run by billionaires.
