---
title: "Two Worlds"
date: "2016-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8730"
---

I had no intention of watching the debate as I’ve seen enough of them to
know they will always be “two-on-one moonbat fun.” The moderator will
gang up with the Democrat to attack the Republican. Even mild
nothing-burgers like Mitt Romney got the business from that fat woman on
CNN. But, friends told me Trump was beating the old bag up, so I tuned
in just in time to see him put the saddle on the fat cow and ride her
around the debate stage. I did not watch a lot of it, but it was fun
seeing the good guys win.

The thing that crept into my mind was how weird it all felt. As a
normie, I know that the two airheads installed as moderators are way out
there where-the-buses-don’t-run. In all probability <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2016/10/11/nytcnbcs-john-harwood-advises-clinton-campaign-gloats-about-provoking-trump-at-debate/"
target="_blank">they have been working with the Clinton campaign</a> to
try and setup Trump. Similarly, the audience questions would be hand
picked and designed to help Clinton. I knew all that and I’m sure
everyone watching knew it too. Yet, I got the distinct impression that
the two moonbats really thought they were fooling us.

The same was true in the after debate programs. I ran through the cable
channels and I saw chattering skulls swearing that Clinton had a great
night. I saw others grudgingly saying that Trump did some things well.
What everyone in America saw was a complete and total beat down. Even
the squirrely guy with the bad wig, Frank Luntz, could not get his
phony-baloney focus group to pretend it was close. I was left wondering
if these people are insane and really believe this stuff, or they are
just paid to lie so they lie.

Having had my fill of that nonsense, I flipped over to the sportball
games and I saw an ad from the fat cow featuring a <a
href="http://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2016/10/lies-republican-hillary-clinton-ad-longtime-democrat-donor-video/"
target="_blank">person claiming to be a Republican</a> voting for the
fat cow. The claim in the ad is Trump has autism so she is not going to
vote for him. Think about that for a second. The man has been in the
public eye for over three decades. He has been doing business deals all
over the world. By now someone would have noticed that he has autism.
Yet, they run the ad hoping that someone will believe it.

<a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/pew-in-2016-latinos-view-republicans-more-favorably-than-in-2012/"
target="_blank">Steve Sailer has a post</a> up about how everything the
media tells us with regards to Hispanics and their voting habits is
largely nonsense. If you went solely by what is broadcast by the media,
you would think America is about to tilt majority Hispanic and their
vote is critical. In reality, Hispanics are about two-thirds the black
population and their votes don’t matter very much because they tend not
to vote. As Sailer says, the media does not seem to know much about
Hispanics. Alternatively, they are lying.

I think there is a third option. The media reports on the America they
imagine, not the actual country. They stuff the news events into their
model of reality. It’s why the British press runs laps around the US
media when reporting on America. The people immersed in the American
media eventually come to believe the model of the world and can’t
imagine any other. The result is the people screaming at us through the
megaphones often sound like crazy people, ranting about imaginary things
that either don’t exist or can’t exist.

It’s not just the media. That’s the window through which we glimpse the
managerial class. I’ve recently had reason to spend time among the Cloud
People and I had the same feeling I get when traveling abroad. I was in
a strange land with strange people,so  I was much more restrained in my
speech and movement. Even though I speak the language, I really can’t
read what’s behind the eyes anymore. They look like me and they make the
same sorts of noises, but there’s a barrier between myself and these
people.

Within living memory, professionals regularly interacted with the
working and lower classes. Poor people got to see how middle and upper
middle people lived. I grew up poor and had many examples of middle
class people I could emulate to get out of poverty. Today, the Cloud
People are increasingly insulated from the Dirt People. To the typical
managerial class type, the great bulk of America is outside their field
of view. In the case of the media, it is to the extreme as they live and
work in the media centers.

When the “experts” pondered the Brexit result, they sounded like
primatologists puzzling over why the monkeys they were observing
suddenly acted in a new way. In the current US election, I’m often
struck by the feeling that the people in the media are puzzled as to why
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YrO7KDMfx_0"
target="_blank">Clinton is not up by fifty points</a>. Because the
answer is outside the set of things that sit inside their model of the
world, they are left to either pretend she is up by fifty points or
assign dark motives to the deplorable Dirt People outside the perimeter.

We are a nation of two worlds now. The Cloud People are in their world,
which is just about divorced from our world. Increasing they speak in
their own argot that uses English words, but with alien meanings. They
don’t live where we live or live as we live. We have been colonized by
pod people, who are only vaguely aware of the rest of us. Unlike the
British Colonial officers of old, our rulers don’t have much interest in
us. We’re just a bad smell to them, something they tolerate while
dreaming of the day when will be rid of us.

This is similar to the Brazilian model, except that in Brazil, the
ruling elite is at least a full standard deviation more intelligent than
the lower classes. In the American model, the world of the Cloud People
is something similar to the <a
href="http://mysite.du.edu/~treddell/3780/Kornbluth_The-Marching-Morons.pdf"
target="_blank">Marching Morons</a>, except that the extraction system
on which it is based insulates them from the consequences of their own
actions. Hillary Clinton is a dangerously incompetent boob, but she may
be elevated to the top job simply because the system protects her and
repels even well-heeled challengers.

One of the lessons of Africa in the mid-20th century is that people
prefer to be ruled poorly by their own, rather than expertly by
strangers. The Managerial class spends all of its time debating how to
expertly manage the economy and how to replace the Dirt People they find
inconvenient with imported Dirt People they believe are more compliant.
Meanwhile, the Dirt People slowly begin to realize that they are ruled
by strangers. When the Africans were barred from taking command of the
machinery of rule, they smashed it. That’s another lesson to remember.
