---
title: "Summer of Scandal"
date: "2016-05-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7534"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7534"
---

I have long thought that Team Obama was going to work to destroy the
campaign of Hillary Clinton, not by having her indicted or backing an
alternative in the primary. That would be too obvious and it would risk
splitting the cult of personality Obama created within the Democratic
Party. Part of [the plan to make Obama a
billionaire](http://www.cnn.com/2016/05/25/politics/obama-kalorama-washington-dc-leases-house/)
after he leaves office is to cash in all the favors he has in the bank,
so that means not spending them now in a political fight.

Instead, the better play is to let her twist in the wind on the scandals
and let surrogates on the Left take turns whacking Clinton around in
public. Unlike Bill, Hillary lacks the nimble political instincts to
dodge and weave in public. Bill could easily swat away whatever was
hurled at him and he always looked like he was not worried in the
slightest. That was the creepy thing about him in the Lewinsky
scandal. He seemed to enjoy the scandal more than he enjoyed the cause
of the scandal.

In contrast, Hillary always looks like she is lying. The woman could be
ordering lunch and she gives off the vibe that she is plotting to kill
the waiter. The reason for it is she is always lying and she is not
exceptionally good at lying. Bill is a sociopath. For him, lying is his
nature. He enjoys the game. Hillary is just a crook and she is always
worried about being caught, which is why she looks so calculating in
public. This is a woman who knows she is a crook.

Anyway, that is what this latest revelation tells me. [Team Obama is
just letting this
stuff](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/26/us/politics/state-department-hillary-clinton-emails.html?_r=0)
drip out a little here and little there so the pressure is always on
Team Hillary to deal with scandal. The more times she and her people are
asked about it, the more chance there are to lie and get caught lying.
For a generation, the NYTimes has been carrying water for the Clintons,
but even they have to admit the truth when the State Department
concludes Clinton has repeatedly lied about her e-mail.

Team Obama could have shut this down or had State exonerate Clinton a
long time ago, but they did not. That is how you bury someone without
making it obvious. You let others do it in a plodding, bureaucratic
fashion so it just looks like procedure. That is what this [Terry
McAuliffe
scandal](http://time.com/4348675/terry-mcauliffe-hillary-clinton-china-investigation/)
looks like right now. The FBI was probably sitting on this for years,
but then they decided to fold it into the Clinton investigation, because
it opens up another front in the trap they are slowly building for
Hillary.

It also points to the next phase of this slow torture of Clinton. The
McAuliffe issue is a money scandal. He took donations from the Chinese,
which is a favorite gag of Team Clinton going back 25 years. He also
appears to have gotten his personal funds confused with campaign funds.
Coincidentally, those campaign funds have links back to the Clinton
Foundation. This lets the FBI open a case against the Foundation and
that means examining the finances of what everyone knows is a money
laundering operation.

Politicians understand scandal better than the press and the public. The
one thing they know is that sex and money are the two scandals that get
you tossed out of office. The reason is people can easily relate to
those types of failings. Using campaign funds to buy gifts for your
girlfriend is the sort of thing that makes great copy and it requires no
explanation. The public gets it because we all understand the
temptations involved. Everyone likes money and getting laid.

That is why I suspect this McAullife stuff has surfaced. The FBI is
probably not going to get the DOJ to indict Clinton before the election,
at least not on the e-mail stuff. That would actually play in Clinton’s
favor as she could then play the victim card. She would come out and
claim it is a right-wing conspiracy to keep a woman out of the White
House. The liberal media would turn the FBI head into Ken Starr because
that is the easy sell. It fits the narrative of the good liberal
fighting the evil man.

That sort of narrative reporting does not work when the dramatis
personae are Chinese bagmen, the oleaginous Terry McAuliffe and the
parade of [unsavory characters around the Clinton
Foundation](https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2015/02/18/foreign-donations-to-hillary-clintons-foundation-raise-major-ethical-questions/).
 Every reporter in Washington will now be on the prowl for a piece of
the puzzle connecting all the players in a web of financial shenanigans.
Proper e-mail procedures are boring. Financial scandals are juicy and
they are really juicy when they involve exotic weirdos carrying satchels
full of cash.

Ironically, it is now following the same path as Watergate. The old line
about that scandal was that it was not the crime it was the cover-up.
That was half true. The real story was the deep, long standing hatred of
Nixon by the liberal ruling elite. They hated him for his red hunting
and they hated him for his decidedly plebeian style. Watergate and the
related scandals were standard issue politics in those days, but they
became weapons for the beautiful people to use against the usurper.

That is the way this is looking to me. The Left never really liked
Hillary. She was always seen as the Yoko Ono of the Clinton Team. Her
disastrous handling of health care made her a loser and there is nothing
worse in liberal circles than losing. The way that Team Clinton opposed
Obama in 2008 forever placed Hillary outside the in-crowd. Now, the
beautiful people are using all of these small crimes to shred her
candidacy. The summer of scandal is upon us.
