---
title: "On Being Revolting in the Modern Age"
date: "2016-08-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8329"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8329"
---

I was reading something about a battle in the American Revolution and it
got me to thinking about what revolution would look like in the modern
age. We tend to associate revolutions with mobs in the streets,
disobeying lawful orders from whoever happens to be in charge. That’s
part of it, for sure, but usually they have more formal elements as well
as popular unrest. The American Revolution had a number well
organized acts of rebellion like boycotts and peaceful resistance before
we got armies in the field.

Revolutions have two forms, at least at the onset. There are the revolts
within the ruling class and then there are popular rebellions. The
former is more like a civil war played out on the small scale. For
instance, a group of soldiers takes over the military and then sacks the
civil leadership. The English Civil War is the best example. The latter
is when the people get tired of their rulers and rally around a leader
or cause (or both) and force out the old rulers. The Bolshevik
Revolution is the most obvious example. The American Revolution
is unique in that it has both elements.

In the modern west, a military coup is unlikely as the civilian
authorities have done a good job over the last few generations of
selecting against the sort of ambitious men who tend to lead military
coups. In Europe, the military is simply too weak to pull it off. That
and the rest of Europe would either send in troops to restore civilian
rule or have the US do it. Then you have the fact that there’s not a lot
of popular support for the military in much of Europe. A coup would
result in massive protests.

The US is a different animal in that we have a big competent military,
but it is mostly stationed overseas. That’s not an accident. If the
invade the world types are purged from the ruling class, the next step
is a great demobilization. There’s simply no way a civilian leadership
is going to allow a massive high tech army to be garrisoned at
home. Even so, the military culture in the US has long selected against
the sort of men that lead military coups. It’s the one thing we have no
screwed up yet.

I think if we are going to see a soft civil war or a revolution from
within, it will look a lot like what we are seeing with nationalist
parties across the Continent. The first wave will be less than
professional politicians demonstrating the power of popular discontent,
followed by a second wave of real professionals who take control of
those new parties and lead a reform movement. This is not so much a
revolution or revolt, as a process of internal reform tapping into
popular will to overcome internal resistance. It’s not exactly how
democracy is supposed to work, but it is not a terrible result if it
leads to peaceful change.

There’s good reason to be pessimistic about this possibility. We saw how
the Austrians rigged their election and a lot of people suspect this US
election could be loaded with shenanigans. Even if Trump overcomes the
Clinton crime machine, he will most likely face a ruling class unified
against him. In America, we may have crossed the Rubicon in the 1990’s
when it became clear that the ruling class could no longer police
itself. Their inability to purge their ranks of the Clintons was a sign
that the rot had reach a point where reform is no longer possible.

That leaves popular revolt. Certainly voting for Trump sends a message,
but messages need a sender and a receiver. If the people on the other
end refuse to acknowledge the message being sent, then it’s not really a
message. <a
href="http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/king-george-refuses-olive-branch-petition"
target="_blank">The Olive Branch Petition</a> was the last ditch effort
by the Colonist to avoid a breach with the mother country, but the
King’s refusal turned it from a message *to* him into a message *from*
him. That message was clear to the colonials. They could either submit
unconditionally or prepare for war. A Trump win followed by a unified
refusal by the political class to cooperate would also be clear message.

A few bloggers on our side of the divide have noted that what comes
after Trump is, if history is a guide, going to be much worse. Instead
of an amateur politician, who still believes in the system, the next guy
to rally the troops will be a professional who does not believe in the
system. Instead he will be a guy that looks at the system in the same
way Turkish strongman Erdoğan looks at democracy. That is, it is useful
only as a vehicle for taking the leader to where he wants to go. “If you
must break the law, do it to seize power: in all other cases observe
it,” said Julius Caesar.

That may be true, but it will still require popular support. What we are
seeing with nationalist insurgencies in the West is they are running
into the massive power that comes from owning the mass media. A little
girl skins her knee and there is a news team there to blame Trump in a
four hour TV special. Hillary Clinton is caught running a pay-for-play
scheme and no one can be bothered to ask her why she went to the trouble
of installing an illegal e-mail system in her bathroom. Even the most
cynical and savvy insurgent campaign cannot get past this problem.

It may be that the custodial state has reached a point where rebellion
is no longer possible. Or, it may simply be that the method of revolt
will have to adapt to the modern age. If the rulers no longer have the
consent of the governed, then the governed will have no reason to
voluntarily cooperate. Perhaps the cord-cutting movement is one of those
acts of rebellion that makes sense only in a mass media age. Publishing
the private correspondence of rulers, obtained by hackers, is certainly
a very modern for of rebellion.

Whether any of it works is open to debate

 
