---
title: "The Unreadable Web"
date: "2016-12-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9179"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9179"
---

The other day, I was reading something on-line and followed a link to
one of the business sites. The first thing to happen was a useless
popup. I have a pop-up blocker, but many of them still slip past for
some reason. After years of dealing with pop-ups, my mouse hand is
trained to close the window on instinct. It is a reflex now. I closed it
only to have another open and I closed it. A minute reading the site,
the screen goes dim and I get a message telling me that I am running an
ad-blocker, along with a lecture about how that is mean.

I just closed the site and moved on. In fact, this has become my habit.
If the site has any of this junk, I just close the site and move onto
other things. I respect the fact that sites need to make money so they
post ads, but having to navigate through a sea of clutter just to read
500 words or look at a picture is not a good use of my time. I’ve
observed others do the same thing I do when it comes to pop up windows.
Before they load, people close them so they do nothing more than annoy
the reader. They are otherwise useless.

The main reason I run the ad-block stuff is that many of these embedded
ads have malware. If a website wants to monetize my viewership by
infesting my computer with malignant software, I have no qualms about
blocking their attempts to monetize my viewership. Therefore, the
lectures that are becoming common on websites about the immorality of
running ad-block strike most people as ludicrous. It’s why the Brave
browser is gaining a market. It blocks the ads and it blocks the nag
screens about ad-block.

Of course, it is not just ads or pop-ups. The proliferation of scripting
has made many sites unreadable on a phone or tablet, unless you use
something like ghostery. The Washington Times is a perfect example. It
is more ad than content and the scripts never seem to load properly, so
the site looks like a Picasso painting most of the time. I stopped going
to the site entirely as it took too much effort to make it work. If I
have to redesign my web browser to look at your site, I’m probably not
going to bother visiting your site.

The truly monstrous thing done by web designers is embedded audio and
video. By default, I now turn off my sound so I don’t have to hunt
around looking for where the noise is coming from on the web page. I use
a flash blocker to get rid of most of it, but some of it still slips
past. That means YouTube does not work, so I have two browsers. One is
for video and the other for daily browsing. When I’m ruler of these
lands, the people responsible for embedded, autoplay video will be torn
to pieces and fed to the dogs.

Those who have read Jospeh Tainter’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Collapse-Complex-Societies-Studies-Archaeology/dp/052138673X"
target="_blank">The Collapse of Complex Societies</a> will probably
recognize a familiar pattern. The first ads on websites were a big hit,
relative to their cost. That banner at the top for Joe’s Diner cost
nothing, but made something. That’s an infinite return on investment.
The next wave of ads came with a cost, both direct and indirect. The
former was the cost of weaving them into the sites. The latter was the
cost of people using ad-blocker and other tools to limit the number of
ads in the way of the content.

As we have move from the physical world of content to the virtual world,
the demand for more revenue, drives the ever more complex methods to
monetize the website. The costs ratchet up, but the barriers also get
higher as users find more and better tools to defeat the ads and
scripts. The Brave browser costs me nothing and does a great job
filtering almost all of this stuff from my view. We’re not far from the
time when you pay a monthly fee for a browser that filters all ads from
all sites. That’s the model Brave is pursuing..

Web sites are probably near the point of negative returns, with regards
to monetizing their content. That’s why so many are going back to the
old subscription model. It may not fix their revenue problems, but they
have no other option. The ad model is simply not working. That, of
course, means the ad model is probably nearing collapse. Once big sites
begin to rethink how they monetize their content, everyone else follows.
A web of paywalls and subscriber-only content is probably the future for
the large scale content makers.

Whether or not that is sustainable is a topic for another day.

 
