---
title: "Time to Forget"
date: "2016-05-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7486"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7486"
---

Certain events have a warping effect on the culture long after they have
any practical impact. The sacking of Baghdad by the Mongols permanently
altered the trajectory of Islam. The English Civil War is another great
example of a single event casting a shadow over many
subsequent generations. Regular readers will know I reference it often,
because it plays such a big part in American history. America would be a
much different place if the Mayflower had sunk in the North Atlantic or
the Wampanoag had done the right thing and slaughtered the Pilgrims.

The reason we have the word “penumbra” is that every shadow has a limit,
beyond which it has no influence. In the history of man, those seminal
events that cast the shadows, shrink with the passage of time and their
shadow correspondingly shrinks. In time, they cease to exist. We can
joke about Genghis Khan because he no longer casts a shadow any of us
can feel. One day, people will joke about Hitler in the same way because
his deeds will have no impact on the minds of the living.

We are living in an age of receding shadows as the big events that have
shaped our present fade from our collective memory along with the people
who lived through them. Hitler is an obvious example. Let us assume the
youngest one can remember back is to when they were around five years
old. That means the youngest person to remember Hitler is seventy-six
right now. It means the youngest person who could have fought Hitler is
pushing ninety right now.

In my lifetime, the Holocaust and the Civil Rights Movement are the two
issues that loomed largest in politics. I do not remember an election
that did not have some racial component to it. The Democrats try to use
the race card to turnout the black vote. At the same time, support for
Israel has been a defining issue of foreign policy debates. Republicans
are so hawkish on defending Israel; they often sound like they are
running for Prime Minister of Israel.

For generations, the worst thing you could ever be called was an
anti-Semite. A close second was racist. One of the things that we see in
what we are now calling the Alt-Right is an indifference to the charge
of racism. In fact, many make sport of being called a racist and spend
hours on Twitter trolling Lefty in order to elicit the racist charge.
The reason is the charge has been so overused that it is laughable. When
you get called a racist for quoting FBI crime statistics, the charge has
no meaning. It is simply another way for the mob to scream “witch!”

[Vox Day has a
recap](https://voxday.blogspot.com/2016/05/jonah-goldberg-and-end-of.html)
of a twitter exchange between himself, Jonah Goldberg and Milo
Yiannopoulos the other day. A point Milo and others are now making is
that the charge of anti-Semitism has gone the way of racist. No one
takes it seriously because it has been so overused. There is also the
fact that no one alive has any clear recollections of the Holocaust so
it has no emotional impact. That is why telling jokes about Jews is no
more meaningful to young alt-right types than telling Irish jokes.

There is certainly some truth to their claims. When not spending the
$400k salary he pays himself from the magazine his father created, John
Podhoretz spends his days calling people anti-Semitic on Twitter. When
he gets bored with that, he runs around demanding to see the bar mitzvah
pictures of Jews he does not like, so he can accuse them of not being
*authentically *Jewish. There’s only so long that festering carbuncles
like John Podhoretz can do this before people no longer take any of it
seriously.

The Holocaust has cast an exceedingly long shadow over American public
life and it may be starting to recede. Like the tide going out, we are
now seeing a lot of surprising things that had been covered by the
water. One of those is that there is not as much conformity and
unanimity within the Jewish community as has been assumed. The blood
libel against all gentiles has forced a degree of solidarity on Jews in
America, but as that loses its power to scare the goy, it also loses its
power to unite the Tribe.

I think that’s what we are seeing with [the feud between Bill Kristol
and David
Horowitz](http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/05/15/bill-kristol-republican-spoiler-renegade-jew/).
Solidarity is losing its value so it is beginning to crack and a guy
like Horowitz is fine with having a nasty public spat with a fellow Jew.
Yes, what is good for Israel is a part of it, but that is not the
defining issue for Jews in America. Evangelicals care more about Israel
than most Jews. The core issue in this dispute is *patriotism*.

The yesterday men on the Right like Podhoretz and Goldberg will cling to
the old slurs until the last man, but this is probably a positive
development in America. You can meet Italians who are liberal and you
can meet Italians who are libertarians. In other words, blood does not
dictate politics for 85% of Americans. The exceptions are blacks and
Jews and we may be seeing that fall away for the Jews.

That is probably a positive development as it means Jews can fully and
publicly integrate into American life in the same way the Irish or the
Italians have blended into the fabric of American culture. No one ever
talks about Irish solidarity in the way we talk about Jewish solidarity
or black solidarity. No one worries about offending Italians or Poles.
There is no stigma attached to it. Just as important, the rest of us can
stop tip-toeing around the obvious.

By obvious, I mean the fact that Jews have been the most successful
ethnic group in America. In fact, no country has been better for Jews
than America. Here, the Jewish people have been free to reach their
maximum potential. That is something all Americans should take some
pride in, but Jews should be extremely proud. Instead of viewing
themselves as oppressed losers, American Jews should be confident
winners, celebrating and enforcing that which allows them and everyone
else to be a winner, compared to the rest of the world.

[David Goldman comes down on the side of
Horowitz](https://pjmedia.com/spengler/2016/05/18/bill-kristol-isnt-a-renegade-jew-just-a-sorehead-throwing-a-public-tantrum/)
and I sense he is viewing this as a positive as well. He does not
address it head on in his column, but the fact that he chooses sides
based on patriotism is a bit of tell, I think. What is good for America
trumps ethnic solidarity. As a Jew you can be pro-Israel, but you have
to be pro-American more than anything. That is the way every other
ethnic group is expected to view things. You can cheer for Ireland over
England in soccer, if you are Irish, but you do not root for Ireland
over America.

For as long as I have been alive, the key phrase with regards to the
Holocaust has always been “never forget.” That is a wonderful rallying
cry for an abused people who feel they have to fight their way inside.
It is self-defeating for a successful people who are already inside and
often in positions of authority. Whether guys like John Podhoretz like
it or not, people do forget and that is often a good thing.
