---
title: "Insurance Versus Taxes"
date: "2016-01-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6159"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6159"
---

You can make the argument that insurance made the modern world possible,
because it made risk quantifiable. The insurer is making a bet that the
return on his investment of your premiums will exceed the claims on
those premiums. In order to make that bet, he has to have some way to
calculate the amount he can reasonably expect to payout in claims.

That’s one half of the equation. The other half is the investment. In
order to run a profitable insurance company, you have to invest
conservatively. The same guys figuring out the probability of your death
this year are using the same mathematical skills to find the safest
investments. The result is large pools of premiums moving into the safe
investments like bonds. \[1\]

Niall Ferguson in the [Ascent of
Money](https://books.google.com/books?id=JA_IYJ0P4ZkC&pg=PA196&lpg=PA196&dq=scottish+widows+fund+niall+ferguson&source=bl&ots=EE5T2RYfJJ&sig=6IC24yq9zWHscmyF1B4oFIPA4TI&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiK17fJ8I7KAhWGwj4KHXlgBZYQ6AEIJDAB#v=onepage&q=scottish%20widows%20fund%20niall%20ferguson&f=false)
gives a great history of the first modern insurance company, the
Scottish Ministers Widow’s Fund. Robert Wallace and Alexander Webster
figured out a few things that revolutionized capital. One of the
consequences of this innovation was that large pools of capital were
created from thousands of small premiums. That capital could then be put
to work in new businesses, new industries and new technology.

The interesting thing about the birth of modern insurance is even after
centuries of experience, we still can’t understand the difference
between insurance and taxation. Social welfare programs, for example,
work on the principle of pay-as-you go where current taxpayers cover the
expenses of current beneficiaries. Back when the Scots were inventing
modern actuarial tables, they knew pay-as-you-go could never work in the
long run. Yet, here we are.

It’s also why the public sector pension systems are teetering on
collapse. The Scotts figured out that a fixed benefit system had to lock
in the benefit side by pegging it to the amount of premiums paid into
the system. Once you uncouple the premium from the benefit, the system
will collapse. The only question is how long it will take, but the
boundary always seems to be one working life, as we are seeing in
America.

Similarly, insurance only works when it is voluntary. When the state
comes in, points a gun at your head and says you have to buy an
insurance policy from the companies they choose or from the state,
that’s not insurance. That’s extortion. If you want to be kind, it is a
tax. When the state takes money from citizens against their will, that’s
a tax, regardless of the intentions.

It’s why American health insurance is collapsing. It has none of the
features one must have for a successful insurance system. The insurers
are forced to take all customers, regardless of risk. They are not
allowed to dump reckless customers or even ask about risky behavior. At
the same time, the customers are forced to buy insurance. In many areas,
there’s only one or two companies and the rates are set by the state.

Of course, what makes health insurance an impossibility is we will all
get sick and die eventually. You cannot insure against certainty. A true
health insurance system would combine the logic of whole life insurance
to cover the inevitable with the logic of term life insurance to address
surprises, like getting hit by a bus. Again, these are things we have
known for centuries.

Progressives are now talking about using the same nutty ideas to
“remedy” gun violence in America. [They want gun owners to carry
liability
insurance](http://www.cnn.com/2015/10/08/opinions/yang-gun-violence/)
that would pay victims in the event the insured’s gun is used in a
crime. No insurance company would sell a policy to a gun owner to cover
the cost of them shooting someone. There’s simply no way to shoot
someone without being negligent (criminally or civilly) or justified. In
both cases, insurance has no role.

The point of this, of course, is to drive up the cost of gun ownership
and create a gun registry, but even if it was an honest effort, the gun
owner is being held liable for the actions of others. That’s just a
click away from collective punishment and contrary to a couple thousand
years of western civilization. More important, it is confusing insurance
with taxation. In this case, taxing millions of gun owners so
politicians can hand out tax dollars to the victims of gangbangers.

All of this brings me to [something Steve Sailer has been
pushing](http://www.unz.com/isteve/immigration-insurance-the-debate/)
with regards to immigration and that is forcing immigrants to carry
liability insurance. Unlike compulsory gun insurance, the attempt here
is not to infringe on a natural right. Steve is cleverly trying to
introduce the idea in order to help immigration opponents. In that
regard, it is clever and I hope it catches on with the chattering
skulls.

The problem here is similar to the other examples of compulsory
insurance. It’s really just a tax. We already have a sponsor system
where people can bring over relatives and employees, as long as they
meet certain financial terms. Sponsors cannot be on welfare, for
example. They have to have an income higher than the current poverty
line.

Where the insurance should come into play is on the sponsor and
employer. If Jose wants to bring his family over, he has to either get a
liability policy with a million dollar combined single limit or post
assets of the equivalent. Employers seeking H1 visas would do something
similar. If Jose gets rich and wants to sponsor his relatives, Jose has
to carry enough insurance to cover it. Similarly, the employer will have
to factor insurance costs into their indentured servant costs.

\[1\] I know. I know.
