---
title: "iMagistrate"
date: "2016-03-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6823"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6823"
---

I recently had the unpleasant task of working with some young attorneys
on a contract. Lawyers tend to carry on like they spend their days
splitting atoms, but reality is much different. They spend most of their
days cutting and pasting from one document to another. Contract law is
simply not that difficult, but it has been made vastly complicated by a
massive bird’s nest of verbiage. Too many lawyers with too much time and
too much software.

Of course, contract law should not be difficult at all. In fact, it is
something that could easily be automated. After all, a contract defines
a relationship. Party X agrees to do something and Party Y agrees to do
something. Then there are consequences for when either party fails to do
what they promised. Life is simply not that variable where there needs
to be new language for each contract. There is a reason we have the
expression “boiler plate” to describe contract language.

A system where the two parties could answer a series of questions about
their expectations of the other in the agreement would be easy to code.
Writing some code that would force compromise over contradictions would
be a bit more complicated, but no more complex than answering an on-line
survey. Once the parties agree, the system would get a signature from
both parties and register the contract.

My bet is most people would find this much better than dealing with
human lawyers, who tend to get competitive over trivialities. The
machine would present both parties with the most common agreement for
their situation and that would satisfy the parties in most cases. This
sort of normalization would also minimize disputes as people accepted
the rules, rather than look for ways around them.

Disputes would go before the machine. Rather than two lawyers trying to
trick a human judge into going for their version of events, the parties
would answer questions on a touch screen. If you think lie detectors
work, maybe add those into the mix. Either way, the robot judge would
calculate the odds of each side being truthful and then render the
verdict most likely to be in the interest of justice.

Having been in court too many times, human judges always try to force a
deal. It is part of their process. Imagine the parties answering the
questions, given their odds of success and then offered a compromise.
Since most contract cases are money cases, a haggling module would allow
the parties to find a middle ground and that would be that. No
deposition and interrogatories, just a couple of hours in front of
iMagistrate on-line.

The beauty of the robot judge is he does not need to be in a courtroom.
He could be a kiosk at the mall or an internet presence. Since the judge
is automated, there would be no need for lawyers. Contract law would,
for most situations, become a self-service issue, like pumping gas or
washing your car. It would probably save Americans billions just in
contract stuff.

Of course, there is no need to limit this approach to contracts. I am
just starting there because it is fresh in my mind and one of the minor
nuisances of my life. If you think it sounds preposterous, consider that
you sign a contract every time you rent a car. The law regarding car
rentals has become so formalized and regulated, it is just part of the
background noise of vacation. Applying this to employment and services
is no great leap.

Many criminal issues could also be automated as well. Drunk driving is
just about to that point in America. The cop pulls you over and you are
given a choice of taking a breath test or confessing. It has not put
that way, but that is the reality in most states. If you refuse the
breath test you lose your license until you see a judge, who always
finds you guilty. Taking a breath test is just standing before the robot
judge, when you think about it.

Imagine instead of arresting T’Quan and parking him in a booking cell,
T’Quan is immediately brought before iMagistrate. The police enter their
data and T’Quan answers a series of questions. Hard evidence like video
and fingerprints are uploaded and the verdict is rendered. Maybe
iMagistrate can offer the accused a plea deal. Either way, the process
could take hours rather than months.

That will never happen, of course, because it is too frightening to us.
Maybe not never, but no one reading this will live to see Robocop and
RoboJudge, but the civil stuff is not unrealistic. There are on-line
services for wills and setting up a business and even filing for
divorce. Vast chunks of the law simply do not need a highly trained
mouthpiece. They can be turned over to software. If software can write
your will, it can sure as hell handle probate.

Got legal trouble? There is an app for that!
