---
title: "The Surplus Value Of Robots"
date: "2016-03-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6815"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6815"
---

The very, very abbreviated version of the Marxist concept of creative
annihilation is that capitalism not only destroys previous economic
orders to make way for the new, but also that it must ceaselessly
devalue existing wealth. The manufacturer that implements automation
destroys the value of plants that lack automation. When the fully
automated plant comes online, the semi-automated plant loses it’s value.

For Marx and those who followed him, this seemed rather obvious. Acme
Widget pops up to make a new gadget that eliminates the need for some
old gadget. The plant making the old gadget would close and the workers
would be fired. The new and better had to displace the old and that
naturally meant capital always declined in value. The math would follow.
At least from the perspective of a man in a rapidly industrializing
world, it felt that way.

The trouble with Marxism was not so much that it had everything wrong,
but that it could never square basic tenets with observable reality. The
new gadget was, *in fact*, better than the gadget it replaced.
Capitalist societies did, *in fact*, experience a general, as well as a
specific, increase in material wealth. Clearly something else was going
on which is why we have the phrase, *Schumpeter’s gale.*

The core of Western economic thought is that two things are essential to
a thriving economic order. One is a growing population and the other is
the multiplier effect from technological advance. The value created by
each unit of labor, in turn makes subsequent units of labor more
productive and thus more valuable. The value of the buggy whip factory
may have been vaporized, but the value of the fuzzy dice factory that
replaced it is much higher.

Libertarians, of course, will bore the hell out of you preaching about
creative destruction. To some degree, we all accept it, even the
socialists. It’s impossible not to as we have seen the process with our
own eyes. The fax machine makers followed the typewriter makers into the
dustbin of history, but you can now read this off your phone. Even old
school socialists understand this now.

A very hard thing for people to understand is the idea that things can
be true for a while and then stop being true. Alternatively, something
can be true and important today, but unverifiable and insignificant
tomorrow. Feudalism made a lot of sense in the 7th century, but then
stopped making sense in the 14th century. By the 19th century no one
really cared about it anymore. In other words, lots of things are true
and important for a while, but not forever.

That’s where we may be headed with economic growth. The whole point of
pushing for economic growth was to increase the general welfare. Sure,
some people getting rich was nice, but that was a necessary evil. The
point was to increase the overall bounty in order to make your society
prosperous. Reducing scarcity has been the goal of man since the dawn of
time. Even Marx accepted this as the starting point of
political-economy.

We are reaching a point where vast segments of a modern economy can be
turned over to robots. Japan is building indoor farms that are almost
entirely automated. Automating warehousing is just about here.
Driverless car technology will make driving a truck a thing of the past.
Read the news and you can see the future of manual labor. It has no
future. In a generation, maybe two, it will all be done by robots. More
important, it will be done better, faster and cheaper.

Of course, financial transactions can be automated now, eliminating the
gambling aspects of finance. It has not happened for a number of
reasons, but it is coming. We talked about the law last week and how it
is slowly being overrun by algos. Health care is another profession
where automation will be making a huge impact over the next decades. Dr.
Google is already the first consult for many people. Put in the symptoms
and out pops hundreds of sites full of useful information.

Instead of the value of the widget factory being vaporized by the
essential processes of capitalism, it is the value of human labor, both
manual and cognitive. In fact, cognitive labor is what will most easily
be replaced with automation. Instead of having the value of our labor
stolen by greedy capitalist, mankind is about to have the value of its
labor vaporized by our own inventions.

We are already seeing hints of the problems to come from mass
automation. America has a record number of people not working. This is
causing disruption in our politics and our economics. It’s hard to pitch
the American Dream to people who are on an allowance from the state.
More important, it is impossible for people to maintain the habits
required of citizenship when they are on an allowance from the state.

The bigger challenge is how to distribute the bounty. Human societies
from the dawn of agriculture have distributed wealth based on the value
of labor. The great warrior who saved his people would be rewarded with
lands he could pass onto his heirs. Today the smart guy who is good with
the language gets rich in the law or on TV, while the smart guy with
high math skills gets rich on Wall Street.

How do we distribute the bounty of society when everyone’s labor is
worthless? There are a few possible answers, but none of them include
maintaining cultural items like a work ethic or self-reliance. Free
markets would also become an artifact for the museum. In other words,
the robot future will require an entirely different culture based on the
value of labor being zero. That may require a different type of human
too.
