---
title: "The Entirely Worthless Catholic Church"
date: "2016-03-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7015"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7015"
---

There Catholic Church is now a disgrace. The images of the toe-sucking
Pope over the weekend should have been enough to empty the pews for
good, assuming anyone was left after the pedophile priest scandals. Now
we see that <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/03/30/university-moves-fire-conservative-professor-political-views/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Catholic universities are going full
moonbat</a>, censuring people for expressing what is still Catholic
dogma.

*In the fall of 2014, junior faculty member Cheryl Abbate told a
student, who secretly recorded the exchange, that his defense of
man-woman marriage was an unacceptable topic in her ethics class and
compared his views to racism. She said, “You can have whatever opinions
you want but I can tell you right now, in this class homophobic
comments, racist comments, and sexist comments will not be tolerated.”
And then she told the student he should drop the class.*

*On this very popular blog, Professor McAdams outed the incident and
charged the teaching assistant with “using a tactic typical among
liberals now. Opinions with which they disagree are not merely wrong,
and are not to be argued against on their merits, but are deemed
‘offensive’ and need to be shut up.”*

*A firestorm ensued that pitted the academic freedom of McAdams against
the leftist pieties of the officially “Catholic” institution.*

*The teaching assistant is said to have gotten mean emails, though she
was hailed as a liberal hero and went on to a tenure track position at
another university. McAdams was brought up on charges.*

*It was announced this week that a “diverse” faculty committee
recommended to the university president that McAdams be suspended
without pay from April 1 through the fall of 2016 and that he lose his
job unless he admits “guilt” and apologized “within the next two weeks.”
Specifically, the demand is “Your acknowledgement that your November 9,
2014, blog post was reckless and incompatible with the mission and
values of Marquette University and you express deep regret for the harm
suffered by our former graduate student and instructor, Ms. Abbate.”*

*The ever quotable and crusty McAdams compared the demand to the
“Inquisition, in which victims who ‘confessed’ they had been consorting
with Satan and spreading heresy would be spared execution.” He called
the demand a violation of “black letter guarantees of academic freedom
embodied in University statutes.”*

*He also charges the university president with dishonesty since the
faculty panel did not require such an admission of guilt or an apology.
McAdams said such a statement from him would amount to a “loyalty oath”
and he says he will not submit.*

It’s perfectly reasonable for a religious institution to require its
employees to be members of the religion. Similarly, a Catholic entity
can demand that its employees support the positions of the Catholic
Church. This is the basics of a civil sane society. If you don’t agree
with the Catholic Church, don’t go to work for the Church or affiliated
institutions. If I went to work for some devout Muslims, I would not
bring a ham sandwich to work for lunch. It’s just common decency.

Marquette is allegedly a Catholic institution. The last time I checked,
the Church still rejects the fruitless arrangement of gay marriage. Yet,
here they are allowing Social Justice Warriors to fire a professor for
upholding the Catholic position on marriage. What sort of church allows
enemies of its existence take over its institutions like this? Why would
anyone want to be a part of such a spineless, gutless hypocritical
enterprise?

This is really not much a surprise. The Catholic Church is following the
same path as the main Protestant sects. The Episcopal Church is a
carnival of perversion with gay bishops and <a
href="http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/baltimore-city/bs-md-ci-heather-cook-sentencing-20151027-story.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">homicidal lesbians</a>. It’s why their
pews are empty. Who wants to celebrate that? The answer, of course, is
no one and that’s why the Catholic Church is becoming a sad joke. Even
with fair warning, they are heading down the same rat hole.
