---
title: "The Brave New Pansies"
date: "2016-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6520"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6520"
---

Brave New World is one of my favorite books because it got so much
right. In fact, it got so much right that both sides of the ruling class
pretend it was never written. Instead they prefer Orwell to be their
bogeyman. The Left says the Right harbors fantasies about Hitler and
Right says the Left is dreaming of Stalin or Mao.

The truth is Orwell was mostly wrong about the future. He made some keen
observations about his fellow ideologues, but only incidentally. I don’t
think he ever understood that his brand of utopianism could only lead to
madness. I’m not an Orwell scholar so I’ll accept correction on that
point, but that is my impression.

The one thing I think Huxley got wrong, however, is that bounty always
contains the seeds of destruction. Good times lead to careless risk
taking and negligence. Before long, the whole thing comes unraveled. A
world where human want is eliminated will eventually implode when some
lunatics get control of the levers of power and they will because
everyone will be too fat, dumb and happy to notice.

<a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/man-falsely-accused-of-sexually-assaulting-actress-feels-like-he-has-undergone-mental-torture-a6867366.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> is a reminder of
that truth.

*A commuter wrongly accused of sexually assaulting a
“well-known” actress after brushing past her at a train station has
spoken of how “half a second turned into a year of hell”.*

*Mark Pearson said he felt like he had “undergone a form of mental
torture sanctioned by the state” after he was charged over the alleged
incident at Waterloo station in December 2014.*

*CCTV footage showed the 51-year-old walking through the station holding
a newspaper in his left hand and with his right hand on his bag strap
when he brushes past the woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons.*

*The alleged victim later told police he had “penetrated” her and hit
her on the shoulder – although footage showing he had never broken his
stride.*

*The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) were found to have deliberately
slowed down the footage, which made it appear Mr Pearson had more time
to assault the alleged victim.*

Amazingly, there’s no indication in this story that anyone is angry that
the police framed an innocent man by manufacturing evidence.

*Mr Pearson’s defence barrister Mark Bagshaw explained the footage had
been slowed down from one frame per second to one frame per two
seconds.*

Again, look at how casually this is reported, as if it is just standard
procedure.

*There were no witnesses or forensic evidence.*

*A jury took just 90 minutes for jurors to clear Mr Pearson of any
wrongdoing at his trial at Blackfriars Crown Court.*

*Speaking BBC Radio Five Live, the married picture-framer called the
charges “preposterous” and said “anyone who has seen the CCTV images
knows that I couldn’t possibly have done it”.*

*He said in court: “It is against everything I believe in as a human
being. I did nothing. I would have had to crouch down, put my hand up
the woman’s skirt … penetrate her, take my hand out again … all while
holding the newspaper and walking along the concourse.”*

*“For me, half a second turned into a year of hell. I feel I have
undergone a form of mental torture sanctioned by the state.”*

*Mr Pearson, who says he now suffers from anxiety, said he spent a year
defending himself in and out of court.*

*He said whenever he told people he was innocent he would feel they were
thinking “of course you would say that”.*

*The CPS defended its decision to take the case to trial, saying in a
statement: “There was sufficient evidence for this case to proceed to
court and progress to trial. We respect the decision of the jury.”*

The short version is we have a collection of pussies at the police
department too afraid of the social justice warriors to do their jobs.
Instead, they frame innocent men, fobbing off the responsibility on the
juries. The process, however, is a terrible punishment for people like
the victim in this case, just so the pussies in the police department
can hide from the mean girls.

This is why Europe is succumbing to what amounts to a flash mob of cab
drivers and carpet salesmen pouring in from the Middle East. These
illiterate young men may not have much on the ball between the ears, but
they can spot a bunch of feckless pussies when they see them. If the
cops can’t stand up to some screeching man-hating harpy, making
ridiculous accusations, how in the hell can they stand up to young men
willing to use violence? They can’t, which why we are seeing what we are
seeing.

That’s the flaw in the Huxley model. To get to and maintain the Brave
New World, you need people willing to use violence, if necessary, to
preserve order. Once a society gets rich enough to dream of the
custodial state, it gets too soft and stupid to implement it. Right now,
it seems like the only thing keeping order is cultural inertia. The
migrant waves are making clear that the big burly custodial state is
really a paper tiger.
