---
title: "The Wuss Right"
date: "2016-07-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8059"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8059"
---

In the chattering classes, the line dividing the Left from the Right is
over means, not ends. Watch cable news for a while and inevitably they
will have one of those mini-debates they like staging to illustrate the
two extremes of what is acceptable opinion on some issue. After the
Dallas shooting, for example, a liberal and conservative would offer
their take on the incident. What we are supposed to take away from these
exchanges is that your opinion better fall somewhere between the two
offered on TV. Otherwise you’re some sort of fringe weirdo or worse.

The acceptable window varies from station to station, but there’s not a
lot of diversity within the dominant political culture. The liberal
channels set the window closer to their preferred opinion while Fox is
slightly to the right of them. The thing is, everyone agrees on the
ends. You never see two people debating an issue where one has an
entirely different goal in mind. Both sides always start from the same
premise and have the same ends in mind. By “ends” I mean esoteric
concepts like world peace, racial harmony or economic equality. They
both talk about “solutions.”

If I were to describe what it is that drives those on the dissident
right away from conventional politics, into the arms of various
alt-right groups, I think I’d start with the ends in mind. People in the
various refusenik camps, on the fringes of society, simply reject the
ends that the conventional Left and Right accept as their starting
point. It’s not that the trouble makers want the opposite of those
Utopian goals. It’s that they reject the assertion that those goals are
possible. Humans are imperfect and there is no solution to that bit of
reality.

An example of how this works is in <a
href="http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/what-west-baltimore-needs/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this piece from The American
Conservative</a> on the problems of Baltimore City.

*From near and far, too many people who felt qualified to offer an
opinion or exercise power to help didn’t take the time to appreciate the
history that has shaped West Baltimore or the variety of people who have
been working for decades to improve this place. Accounts of a place like
Sandtown have to start with policies forged decades ago regarding
redlining and lead paint—policies that handicapped the value of many
residents’ homes or did likewise to their children’s brains. The harm is
ongoing: conservatives can easily recognize how the welfare state
disinclines people to work, but it is hard to blame recipients when most
of the wealth transferred through government goes straight to property
managers and hospitals, not to the people themselves, who have little
opportunity to accumulate wealth. The institutions that are accessible
to people in West Baltimore—primarily churches and gangs—are trusted
because other institutions don’t maintain any reliable order or
support.*

Ask any liberal why Baltimore is a dumpster fire and they will make the
exact same claims. They blame it on magic. Redlining, as a real
practice, never really existed. In fact, banks have been under pressure
for generations now to lend to *unqualified* minorities. Even if we
pretend it was a real thing, it ended two generations ago. Blaming long
dead bankers for the problems of today is the same as blaming ghosts. No
one ever tries to explain how not getting a mortgage causes T’Quan to
murder Terrelle for his sneakers. Blaming redlining is no different than
saying Allah wills it.

There’s a similar problem with lead paint. It was banned in 1971 and
government has been removing it from housing for two generations.
There’s also the fact that there are no studies showing increased levels
of lead in the residents of Baltimore, compared to the surrounding
areas. It’s an interesting theory, but that makes it a good example of
how statistical correlations can lead you down a blind alley. But,
blaming magic means not facing reality so the Left and Right embrace
crackpot theories like lead paint as the cause of black crime.

*Rebuilding institutions requires local leadership as well as outside
aid. Great hay was made of some $130 million spent on a public-private
partnership in the late 1990s and early 2000s to revitalize the
neighborhood. Much of this money can still be seen in the homes that
were rebuilt. You can walk around whole blocks that were vacant 30 years
ago and that now have clean sidewalks, no drug traffic, and the sort of
neighborliness that New Urbanism celebrates. As deep as the problems of
Sandtown are, much good has been achieved using outside investment
directed by people from within the community.*

This is the sort of stuff black radicals like the Black Panthers used to
demand back in the 60’s. They wanted no-strings attached money from
white people so they could build their Afro-paradise. When they got it,
they stole most of it and used the rest to build out their criminal
enterprise. Well intentioned white people supported these groups because
they assumed the fairy tales were true. If you just gave black people
money, they would create a black version of Mayberry USA. It was just
assumed that all human capital was the same, because after all, all
humans are the same and only racists would say otherwise.

West Baltimore is what it is because it is full of West Baltimoreans.
The people who built and maintained the city’s institutions left a long
time ago for suburbs. The current residents moved in, like animals
taking up spots in abandoned buildings. They did not build it. They
could not maintain it. The result was that nature took its course. The
institutions decayed and collapsed. The habits and ways of the new
inhabitants took over. There’s no solution to this reality. You don’t
fix human biology with a government program or pseudo-prayers to the
gods of diversity.

The line dividing the New Right and the Buckley Conservative is between
those who accept the reality of the human condition and those who don’t.
The writer of that piece thinks all people are the same and that the
observable differences are due to various forms of magic like racism and
lead paint. It’s why they are called the Wuss Right. They inevitably
give into the Left because they share all the same assumptions about
humanity as the Left. They share the same goals. Convergence in the form
of orchestrated surrender is the inevitable result.
