---
title: "Mobile Phones"
date: "2016-07-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8094"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8094"
---

I have had a mobile phone since the early 1990’s. I was provided the
Motorola bag phone when it came out and I think that was ’90 or ’91, but
I may be off a year or two there. Before that I was provided with a
model that was the size of a cinder block, when you added in the case,
battery and antennae. The funny thing was that the early phones were so
unreliable we had a pool of the things. That way when one was broken you
could use one of the spares. Before long no one had the number they were
assigned.

That was forever ago, of course. By the end of the ninety’s everyone had
something small they could put in their pocket. Over the last 25 years I
have been through all sorts of phones. I have always been an early
adopter so I had the first flip phones and then the first pocket sized
models. When Palm released the Treo, I had to have one. According to the
stories, Steve Jobs invented the smartphone, but that’s nonsense. Palm
created the smartphone. Somewhere in a drawer I probably still have the
old Treo to prove it.

Since the Droid hit the streets, I have been an Android user and I
stopped being an early adopter. I think by the second iteration of the
Droid I decided I had gone as far as I needed to go with the smartphone.
Having e-mail and text was great. I will use the GPS when I get lost and
I do listen to podcast when traveling. The millions of apps are lost on
me. Since something like 90% are never downloaded, I am clearly not
alone in that. As a practical matter, the mobile phone topped out for me
about six or seven years ago.

Anyway, I had to buy a new phone as the old one was starting to become
unreliable. I started with the assumption that I would buy another
Android model or maybe try an iPhone. The cost of the things got me
thinking that maybe it is time to downsize and go back to a basic phone.
Spending $700 for a smart phone that mostly sits idle on my desk strikes
me as a waste of money so I went looking at other options. Even with the
zero interest financing from the carrier, it seemed like a waste.

I decided to break form entirely and buy a Windows phone. I know one
person with one and they love it. I was skeptical, but I saw one on-line
for $200 at the Microsoft store so I got less skeptical. You have to try
new things and new things that can save you $500 are worth trying. If it
were a crappy phone, I figured, it would be a $200 lesson. I have
learned much more expensive lessons so the risk seemed small. Plus, the
phone was unlocked so I could shop plans.

The hardware is actually a Lumia 650, but it is branded Microsoft and
loaded with the Windows 10 OS. It turns out to be a great phone and the
OS is vastly better than I expected. The interface is better than Apple
and Google. I never would have guess that in a million years, but that
tile interface is a great idea. It is stupid on a desktop, but it works
really well for a phone. I use mine one handed so using larger tiles for
the upper left and small ones at the bottom right means I can reach
everything with my thumb.

Since I was going rogue, I figured it was time to walk away from Verizon
and try the low cost guys that the local drug dealers use. Mobile phones
are a vital part of ghetto life so there are all sorts of low cost
carriers catering to the poor. The average hopper is not leaving the
five block area of his gang’s turf, so quality of service is not an
issue. What is important is that you can get a good deal on a burner and
the retailer does not ask too many questions.

So, I went with T-Mobile. I do not know if they serve the black
community or it was just the miracle of local demographics, but I was
the only honky in the phone store. I suspect I was the only person with
a job, other than the clerks. But the lack of an income is no longer a
hindrance to participating on the modern consumer economy. I saw two
gals who I know have not worked a day in their lives buying new phones
on whatever payment plan they offer. Maybe they were signing up for
Obama phones before he leaves office.

I have a theory that most of the airtime on wireless networks is used by
stupid people talking to other stupid people. Watching the sad sacks at
the T-Mobile store I could not help but wonder what they talk about to
the people on the other end. If their conversations in the store were
representative, millions of minutes are consumed with people saying
“yeah” and “you feel me” to one another. It is not like they are
coordinating meetings between business trips.

Of course, keeping the people down at the bottom busy is an increasingly
important issue in a modern society. The bottom is creeping up as the
demand for low-skill labor and low-IQ laborers declines. This is a
problem that will only get worse over the next decades. Giving them
enough money to buy game consoles and mobile phones means they have
plenty of toys to fill their day. Consumer electronics are the Soma of
the technological age. The iPhone and Xbox are what gives meaning to
their lives.
