---
title: "Religion Of Hate"
date: "2016-06-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7606"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7606"
---

Imagine that you can go back in time and have a conversation with your
younger self, maybe explaining events of today. Since my audience is
getting younger all of a sudden, I will keep this bit of make believe
relatable for all ages. Imagine you go back to 2005 and meet your 2005
self with all the knowledge and experience of your 2016 self. I am
picking 2005 because that precedes the collapse of the Bush presidency
and the beginning of the manic phase of the Great Progressive Awakening
that started in the 90’s.

Now, 2016 you sits down with the 2005 you and says, “In a decade, our
black Muslim president, who may be bisexual (Google [Reggie
Love](https://www.google.com/search?q=reggie+love&oq=reggie+love&aqs=chrome..69i57.1727j0j7&sourceid=chrome&es_sm=93&ie=UTF-8)),
will issue [an edict forcing schools to let mentally ill men in dresses
into
restrooms](http://abc13.com/politics/us-gives-directive-to-schools-on-transgender-bathroom-access/1336183/),
so they can watch your daughter pee. The [Republican Party will sneak a
provision](https://www.conservativereview.com/commentary/2016/05/gop-house-codifies-obamas-transgenderism-into-spending-bill)
into a mammoth budget bill legalizing this edict. When challenged, the
[President will claim the Christian Bible requires
it](https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/obama-transgender-bathroom-policy-is-based-on-the-golden-rule).”

It is reasonable to assume that your 2005 self would think your 2016
self had gone insane or was pulling some absurd joke. A normal person in
2005 could not imagine that serious people would be talking about
trannies at all, much less allowing them a free shot at children in
restrooms. Think about it, in 2005, Obama and Hillary Clinton were
*against* homosexual marriage. Now, Clinton is a click away from coming
out as a lesbian.

How in the hell does this happen?

One way to understand the threat to civilization from the neo-puritan
cult we call liberalism is to look at the language. Somewhere in the
mists of time, the cult started insisting we say “gender” instead of
“sex.” No one thought much of it. It just felt like one of their silly
ticks so they can feel special. Normal people are not obsessed with
waging war against society so they tend not to assume these ticks are
part of a larger plan.

Biology tells us there are two sexes so claiming there are three or four
is never going to fly. Humans do not have genders so once you get
outside the world of the real, you are free to make up whatever you
like. That is how we ended up with 85 “genders.” Once you expand the
definition of something, you can start to include other stuff that was
never part of the original definition. That subtle shift from “sex” to
“gender” opened the gates of Hell.

Similarly, it was not so long ago when men had wives and women had
husbands. Now, [we have “intimate
partners”](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/06/intimate-partner-violence-in-the-great-recession-2.html#comments)
which means nothing, so it can mean anything. This sounds like a
harmless neologism to dodge the whole queer couple issue, but that is
not where it ends. It is never the end. By conflating all sexual
relations into this formless term, there is no distinction between
marriage and an orgy or porn shoot. All of a sudden, your marriage is no
different from a random hookup.

I was reading about the [Baylor “sexual assault”
scandal](http://www.si.com/college-football/2016/05/26/baylor-art-briles-sexual-assault-ken-starr)
the other day and it became clear that sexual assault is a term that
means nothing and everything, depending upon the social justice
warrior’s inclination. Rape is a real word with real meaning. When a
woman is raped, we know it means non-consensual sexual intercourse.
There are degrees of rape, but they are based on the degree of violence
involved. The sex is still sex and non-consensual.

Sexual assault, on the other hand, means anything from an unkind word
on-line to violent rape. In the Baylor case, one of the two players
involved was accused of sexual assault. He spent the night drinking with
a girl, who invited him into her apartment in the late hours. He says
sex was consensual and she says she did not want sex. There is nothing
more to it beyond that, but it is in the same bucket as violent rape,
because of the language.

Again, normal people think sexual assault is just a polite way of saying
rape, but normal people are not nursing elaborate revenge fantasies
against all men. The whole point of creating this new expansive term was
to accuse otherwise innocent men of horrible crimes. [It lets unhinged
coeds turn a college campus upside
down](http://gotnews.com/breaking-wedding-photos-of-jackiecoakley-uva-rape-hoax/)
by making reckless accusations of sexual assault. It makes it easy for
the demented harpies of the Cult of Modern Liberalism to wage war on
normalcy.

Think about the kind of people who cook up the phrase “undocumented
worker.” These are not just dishonest people. These are *crazy* people.
They are so committed to their cause, which always involves immiserating
normal people and pulling down civil society, they will endlessly plot
to pervert the language as a part of the longer term goals. Everything
about their lives is directed at destroying what you consider to be
normal, including you.

It is an important part of our reality. The people on the other side,
call them liberals, globalists, moonbats, commies, whatever, they are
fully committed to the end of you and everything that defines you. It is
a religion for them, a religion based on hatred of you. Whatever it was
or whatever it may claim today, it is just a religion of hatred, mostly
a hatred of white people and specifically a hatred of white men.

There is no reasoning with fanatics. There are no bargains that can be
struck. The lesson your 2005 should learn from your 2016 self is that
every deal struck with these people was broken. They never stopped
demanding more and more, because they will never stop until they pull
the roof down on all of us. The folks cheering on the Mexican mobs
attacking people in San Jose are never going to consider you a friend.
They hate you, so you better be prepared to hate them back just as hard.
