---
title: "Reform Week Part I"
date: "2016-05-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7247"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7247"
---

Societies go through reform in a few different ways. The most obvious
way is revolution. We do not think of revolution as a reform, but it is
a type of reformation. The stuff that does not work is swept away and
new stuff is put in its place. The “sweeping” is often bloody as the
stuff being swept is attached to people with a vested interest in
it. That and every revolution is driven, in part, by revenge.

Similarly, conquest is a type of reform too. A neighboring power defeats
the society, forcing it to restructure itself in response. Maybe that is
as a vassal state or simply as a weak and defeated minor power as it
retools for the world in which it finds itself. The Gallic sack of Rome
in 390 BC ushered in a period of reform that set the stage for Roman
domination of the West.

The usual way in which we think of social reform is the voluntary type
where changes are initiated either in response to crisis or in response
to defects in the current arrangements. The changes ushered in after the
1929 stock market crash are an obvious example of reform in the face of
crisis. The 12<sup>th</sup> Amendment that altered the selection of the
President is an example of the ruling class fixing something that did
not work as intended.

Peaceful reform does not spring from thin air. The world changes and the
current arrangements no longer satisfy the needs of the *people in
charge*. The key point here is that this sort of peaceful reform is
top-down, not bottom up. It may be spurred by popular unrest, but this
sort of reform is in the interests of those in charge or those just
taking charge, like our technological elites who got rich in the last
generation.

In America, the last big reform period was after World War II. Yankee
reformers blasted away the old system for managing blacks and they
replaced it with a form of riot insurance we call the Welfare
State. Youth culture and the sexual revolution came at the tail end of
that reform period, as the ruling elite reconfigured the majority
coalition that would dominate politics for the next fifty years. Steve
Sailer’s coalition of the fringes is an entirely artificial arrangement
that suits the needs of the ruling class. At least it used to.

The ructions going on today in the two parties are the result of old
systems no longer up to the task of meeting the challenges of the day.
The current arrangements evolved in a bygone era. The Cold War is long
over yet we still have a political arrangement organized around fighting
the Red Menace at home and abroad. America’s foolish blundering into the
Arab world is the result of a system looking for a new enemy.

Reform is long overdue.

The question is what the nature of the next reform movement will be. The
reforms of the 50’s and 60’s were cultural. The country was doing simply
fine economically and the large financial interests had been tamed
before the war. First came the knocking down of the racial institutions,
followed by new political institutions to fill the void. Then the family
institutions were plowed under in the sexual revolution. Things like gay
rights and tranny rights today are mostly just nostalgic echoes of those
reform movements of the 70’s.

The current age is nothing like the period following World War II so it
is unlikely that the coming reform period will be anything like that
time. That is why the causes of this Great Progressive Awakening have
seemed so silly and pointless. They are silly and pointless. The one
substantive effort at economic reform, Obamacare, devolved into a
festival of vengeance against Christians, traditionalists and the white
middle-class. The Left’s reformist impulse has long since burned out.
What’s left is just spite.

This age is much more like the period starting at the end of the 19th
century and running into the early 20th when taking on the monsters of
industry was the priority. The Sherman Antitrust Act was passed in 1890.
The Clayton Antitrust Act was passed in 1914. Of course, Teddy Roosevelt
made his bones in trust busting at the turn of the century. Financial
reforms followed the crash of ’29, along with additional laws like the
Robinson-Patman Act to limit corporate consolidation.

If you look at the economic reforms of that generation, the goal was to
limit the power and influence of new industrial barons. Concentrations
of wealth are the great threat to republican government so the logical
response to it is to break up the large interests. A century ago, that
meant trust busting and strong limits on the economic activity of the
super rich. It also means laws against the sort of reckless risk taking
at the root of every financial crisis.

This time around things are a bit different, but the same problems
exist. The coming period of reform will be economic, aimed at returning
power to the political class. That will also mean political reforms that
will be necessary to enforce the economic reforms. Again, reform is
about the people in charge and the public is secondary. Even so, the
brewing unrest is the opening that allows reformers to usher in changes.
In the coming decades, those changes will be economic and political.

More tomorrow.
