---
title: "Better Living Through Chemistry"
date: "2016-06-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7683"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7683"
---

I am a bit skeptical about claims regarding the glorious future. One
reason for the skepticism is the fact that the West seems to be
careening toward a bad period, similar to what happened at the end of
the industrial revolution. Super intelligent robots, the singularity,
forever life and so on assume a quickening pace of technological
discovery. A crisis period like the end of the 19th through the middle
20th century would put a halt to that sort of progress, by redirecting
resources to the crisis.

Then there is the fact that predictions about the future are always
[hilariously
wrong](http://www.cracked.com/photoplasty_777_26-hilariously-inaccurate-predictions-about-future/).
We should probably be thankful that these predictions prove to be wrong.
[Imagine dressing like
this](http://publicdomainreview.org/collections/fashions-of-the-future-as-imagined-in-1893/).
The mistake futurists always make is in assuming current trends will
continue unabated into the future. They also always assume things will
unfold within their lifetime or close enough to it so they can get their
hopes up for actually seeing it. If you spend your days dreaming of the
glorious future, you hope to see it.

All that said, I enjoy reading the predictions. [Stories like
this](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/2016/05/18/two-hour-sydney-london-flight-on-track-for-2018-launch/)
are catnip for me because they seem plausible. Quality of life
improvements always attract investment. Produce a practical way to
transport humans from Sydney to London in two hours and you are a going
to make billions. Even a six hour flight would be awesome. Making air
transport faster and more pleasant is the sort of opportunity that is
possible and potentially wildly profitable so I can see it taking a big
leap forward in the near term.

That got me thinking about what else smart people, with an eye on
profit, will be looking to improve in the near future. The most obvious
place to look is health. I do not mean living forever stuff. I am
thinking Viagra level improvement. The penis pills made their inventor
billions because it addressed a basic human desire. There is not a great
demand to live forever, but there is a great demand for a long life. The
longer the better. Make the daily existence of people better and you
will become richer than Midas.

My guess is the next Viagra will be a pill or treatment that solves gray
hair. I do not have much in the way of gray hair, but most people my age
are “dealing” with it. Woman start dying their hair as soon as they see
gray. Men often go the same route, opting for ridiculous looking home
treatments. Then there is the beard dying business which always looks
bad. Science has a rather good understanding of the process, so solving
it is plausible. Produce a cure and the geezers will beat a path to your
door.

Along the same lines, skin tone is one of those quality of life issues
that many people would pay to address. Women get treatments for their
hands, to address the effects of aging. The “Madonna Mitts” problem is
important to women. Of course, both men and women get their faces
stretched and use Botox to get the wrinkles off the mug. John Forbes
Kerry looks like Frankenstein because he has had so much work done to
his face. Modern people want to look young and skin tone is a big part
of it.

Like gray hair, this is an area that science understands enough about to
think a solution is plausible. It is really not a solution that is
needed, as much as it needs mitigation. The age at which humans start
fretting over skin tone is the middle years. By the time you reach your
late fifties you have come to terms with your mortality and get on with
enjoying your time. A pill or treatment that helps the 30-year old women
look twenty-five for a few more years would make the inventor a
billionaire.

Finally, I was at the diner the other day and the place was full of
geezers. It was also full of walkers and air tanks. The complaint most
people have when they age is the lack of energy. This is mostly due to
reduced cardiovascular capacity. By the time you get in your 60’s,
walking up hills and taking the stairs is taxing. That is why people in
their 80’s have to use walkers (often) and carry air tanks. But this is
also a complaint for people in their middle years. Being tired is
probably a top-10 complaint about aging.

Again, this is something we know a bit about so addressing it is
plausible. Athletes have been using drugs to goose their cardio for
years. Sharapova was just banned from tennis for using the
drug meldonium, which is prescribed in Eastern Europe for people
suffering from congestive heart failure. In the West, we have all sorts
of drugs for people suffering from lung and heart disease that preserve
their cardiovascular capacity or at least extend it for a while.

If someone were able to produce a supplement for people to take, like a
daily vitamin, that would offer just a subtle boost to their cardio
capacity, thus giving them more energy, without the long term side
effects of current drugs, the market would be huge. Look at how many
famous people in entertainment and sports abuse Adderall so they can be
more alert. Maybe the answer is simply a pill for better, deeper sleep,
but boosting cardio capacity could be part of it. Imagine how much money
you would make if your little pill offers increased vigor throughout the
day.

There you go, my glimpse into the glorious future.
