---
title: "Sigma Male Versus Alpha Male"
date: "2016-03-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6991"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6991"
---

Out on the fringes, far away from polite company, exists a place called
the manosphere or androsphere. This is place where somewhat normal men,
unconstrained by PC thought police and buttressed by behavioral science,
write and talk about how to score chicks. They write about other topics,
but it is mostly about manly stuff, which biology dictates must revolve
around scoring chicks. That is biological reality.

Anyway, most of this stuff is not new or even very creative. Men have
been making money “teaching” other men how to get laid for a long time,
probably since the first settlement. Skin magazines like Playboy used to
have regular features on how to succeed with the ladies. What is
somewhat new and useful is the borrowing of behavior science,
particularly of primates, and applying it to modern social dynamics.

Of particular use are the terms to describe male status within a group.
Researchers who study behavior of social animals often refer to the most
dominant individual as the “alpha” male. The second most dominant is the
“beta,” the third is the “gamma”, and finally the “omega” is at the
bottom of the male hierarchy. The manosphere has taken these terms and
created a useful set of sketches to describe modern western males.

It is why Donald Trump is so often referred to as the alpha male in the
debates or even in the campaign. Trump has all the features one would
associate with the top dog in a social group. He is loud, brash,
confident and he attracts the best women. By best here I mean sexually
attractive, not the ugly feminists majoring in penis chopping at
Oberlin. Trump walks into a room and he is the boss. Everyone knows it,
especially the women.

Jeb Bush was quickly called a beta male by people who do not understand
the lingo, but he was probably a gamma, as he had no willingness to take
on the big dog. Jeb was happiest in the submissive role. That is the
thing people fail to grasp about this stuff. Beta males are not
necessarily losers. They just happen to have been beaten by the winner.
In a different setting, Rubio could be the top dog, but Jeb is always
submissive.

Way back when the Republican primary started, it feels like years ago
now, the conventional wisdom was that the Republicans needed their
Obama. They needed a magical minority to bring them grace which in turn
would bring them electoral success. ¡Jeb! Bush changed his nationality
to Mexican, hoping to be the first trans-national president. Marco Rubio
jumped in, figuring he ticked all the boxes to become the Republican
Obama.

It did not turn out that way. The Alpha Male started talking about
things of interest to the voters and he jumped up in the polls. Then he
laid waste to the Bush campaign and then put down the Rubio campaign,
thus leaving the hated Ted Cruz as the only alternative around which the
party bosses could rally. As it stands, the only guy with a shot to stop
Trump is Cruz. Instead of getting their Obama, they are now hoping to
get their Clinton.

I do not mean the lesbian grifter in the weird pantsuits. Not that
Clinton. I mean Bill Clinton, the grifter from the Ozarks who enjoyed
lying almost as much as he loved shagging interns. At least that is what
the grandees of the GOP are hoping people believe. In reality, they
detest Cruz and are just hoping he keeps Trump from hitting 1237
delegates. Then they can dump both men at the convention and nominate
invertebrate like Paul Ryan or maybe Marco Rubio.

Meanwhile, we have a month or two to watch something interesting and
that is a battle between a sigma male and an alpha male. Labeling Ted
Cruz a sigma male works in the context of the managerial class. There,
the normal masculine traits like physical courage, aggression and risk
taking are off-limits. The managerial class is a highly feminized social
structure, where females can compete with men for status.

Therefore, the dominant males display credentials and positions of
authority in the bureaucracy, much like some birds display their plumage
to warn off other males. Bill Clinton could be the “big dog” because he
held the top job in Arkansas, thus making him the alpha in any political
setting. It is why he had no interest in being a senator. Bubba always
had to be the big dog in the room and you cannot do that when you are
one of one hundred powerless jerk-offs in the Senate.

Cruz, in contrast, is aggressive and forceful. He likes to flash his
credentials, but he has little interest into being the dominate figure.
He has not problem locking horns with others, but he is not trying to
climb to the top of the existing social order. Instead, his nature is to
remain on the fringe, taking shots at the people in charge. He revels in
being the rebellious bad boy, relative to the group, in this case it is
official Washington.

This is why Trump is struggling to put Cruz away at the moment. Rubio
was willing to concede defeat because he really wanted to win the top
spot. Cruz instinctively does not want the top spot; therefore, he has
nothing to lose. Instead, he can stand out on the fringe defining
himself in opposition to Trump. [The Cult of Never
Trump](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6837) is basically for Sigma
males and the women who love them.

That does not mean Trump cannot eventually crush the Cruz campaign. It
just means he will have to employ different tactics. Beating Bush was
simply about dominating him physically. Trump seemed to be giving Bush a
wedgie in every debate. With Rubio it was just a matter of confronting
him. Like I said, Rubio wanted to win and was willing to accept defeat
if he was beaten so Trump just had to win.

Cruz is a different problem. Trump will need to avoid responding to
Cruz. That is the first rule of handling these guys. They want to be the
guy instigating the fight on their terms. Instead, Trump should find a
surrogate like Chris Christie to attack Cruz. That will let Trump
focus on bigger topics that one would expect the top dog to be
discussing. It also means Team Trump can focus on the weird ticks of Ted
Cruz. This a proven way to unman a sigma male.
