---
title: "Europe’s Bloody Future"
date: "2016-12-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Immigration
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9247"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9247"
---

One aspect of the continuing crisis in Europe that is never discussed is
why the people allegedly responsible for the welfare of their people,
continue to act so irresponsibly. Closely linked to this is why the
people in these countries have been so passive toward their ruler’s
flagrant disregard for their duties. In any previous era, the terrorist
attack on the <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/us-germany-truck-dashcam-exclusive-idUSKBN14B2CV?il=0"
target="_blank">Berlin Christmas market</a> would have led to a swift
response from government, because doing anything else would have the
people in the streets building a scaffold for their rulers.

Germany continues to have a reputation for effective and efficient
government administration, despite the fact all the evidence suggests <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4058312/It-s-convenient-Questions-discovery-Berlin-attack-suspect-s-ID-24-hours-police-scoured-truck-emerges-far-right-leader-KNEW-attacker-Tunisian-Muslim-hours-atrocity.html"
target="_blank">Germany is now run by a collection of thumbless
boobs</a>. As someone on Sailer’s site <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/has-germany-become-a-potemkin-society/"
target="_blank">noted</a>, this is not a new thing. Germany has been
operating like a drunk on holiday for quite some time. Angela Merkel’s
decision to import a million violent low-IQ barbarians is just the most
egregious example of the reckless disregard for their duties by the
German rulers and the indifference of the German people to it.

It’s not just the Germans, either. The French have been tolerating the
importation of useless savages from North Africa for decades. Paris is
now a small tourist area surrounded by Bronze Age cavemen. Every
election, the French people come out and vote for the guy promising to
murder more French citizens, because the alternative risks being called
a racist and that’s worse than death. The fact that millions of
otherwise sensible people can vote in favor of suicide like this speaks
to the power of belief.

The Europeans, at least a great many of them, are infected by the same
virus that has infected many Americans. They have embraced the most
extreme forms of multiculturalism, where opposition to racism is the
highest calling. In America, this results in finding the nearest black
guy and parading him around the streets or putting him in the White
House. Secondarily it has meant an embrace of open borders and the
celebration of degeneracy, but the primary focus is always on race. In
recent times, it’s been black history month twelve months a year.

In Europe it is a bit different as they don’t have the long shadow of
 the English Civil War and slavery. Instead, the afflicted become
convinced that there is no difference between people. Since difference
is the sole reason for borders, any hint of a border is tantamount to
bringing back Nazism. The result is open borders above all else. Even
the small steps they have taken to control the flow of barbarians into
Europe were done reluctantly and after many public proclamations about
how awful everyone feels about defending themselves from the hordes.

How this has happened is not a topic discussed in polite company or by
the chattering classes. Read through all of the news accounts and
commentary about the Berlin attack and no where do you see any questions
about whether it was wise to import a million barbarians. That’s just
assumed. Instead, the speculation is over how the natives somehow drove
this poor barbarian to fulfill his purpose as a barbarian. The European
media reads like the patient newsletter at an insane asylum.

One cause of this is the Cold War. For close to fifty years, Western
Europe was America’s daycare center. Americans did all the heavy lifting
with regard to the defense of Western Civilization both militarily and
economically. European elites were allowed to play dress up and pretend
to be in charge, but everyone knew the Americans were in charge. If
something broke, America fixed it. If someone got an ouchy, America
would salve their boo-boo. The Pax Americana allowed the West to remain
in a state of perpetual adolescence.

The result was at least one generation of leaders lacking any training
in responsible government. They dress up like proper rulers, but they
have no idea what it means to defend their people. In fact, they don’t
even think about the hoi polloi as their people. They are just the great
unwashed, an undifferentiated mass of greedy mouths and grasping hands.
They were free to evolve this way because the Americans were always
there to make sure nothing bad happened. As the protective bubble is
removed, all of this being exposed.

At some point, people get tired of being murdered. The young German with
a taste for politics is going to start to question why he is loyal to
people, who show more concern for foreigners than they do for him.
A lesson of the French Revolution is that once people begin to question
the legitimacy of the system, everything is soon up for grabs. The
reckless disregard for their duties, by people like Merkel, is planting
the seeds for something much worse than the monthly Exploding Mohamed we
see in the news.

Whether or not it is too late to save Europe is open for debate. It is
also possible that more sober minded politicians will rise up, push
aside the reckless and begin the task of rebuilding their countries. The
future is not written and there is no such thing as the tide of history.
Even so, it appears Europe is headed for a very ugly and perhaps bloody
reckoning. No society can last when its rulers are perpetually at war
with its people and that is what Europe is today. At some point, the
people will join the war.
