---
title: "Marco Versus Hillary"
date: "2016-02-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6407"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6407"
---

On Steve Sailer’s site, I commented upon one of the election threads
that the most likely result will be Marco Rubio versus Hillary Clinton.
Just for kicks, I went on to point out that this was Clinton – Lazio 2.0
and a suspicious mind might wonder if this was not the scripted result.
For those who don’t remember Clinton’s senate run, she used pretty boy
Rick Lazio like a Q-Tip and then tossed him away.

I was mostly joking, but it is not an outcome that is beyond the pale.
If Rubio wins New Hampshire, he is most likely the nominee. Despite her
debacle in Iowa, Clinton is probably going to win her party’s
nomination. Democrats have gone around the bend, but there’s no way the
brothers and sisters are voting for the old Jewish guy. Think about
that. Blacks are now the party ballast for the Democrats.

Anyway, after a long primary for both sides, let’s say we end up with
Hillary Clinton versus Marco Rubio. I’m going to assume that most people
reading this would not be enthusiastic with either option, but democracy
is all about the lesser of two evils, picking between electrocution and
poisoning. My guess is most readers face every election thinking both
choices are unpleasant. So, how to pick?

My first litmus test issue for any candidate these days is immigration.
I’m a squish on the topic, but I think open borders is grounds for
commitment to an institution. Here’s what Hillary Clinton says, “We need
comprehensive immigration reform with a path to full and equal
citizenship. If Congress won’t act, I’ll defend President Obama’s
executive actions—and I’ll go even further to keep families together.
I’ll end family detention, close private immigrant detention centers,
and help more eligible people become naturalized.”

Marco Rubio tried to pass exactly that in the Senate, but he now
says, “Our reaction needs to be what we should be doing anyway, which is
passing immigration reform, beginning with getting illegal immigration
under control.” I guess if you really want to make a case for a
difference between Marco and Hillary, you can say he is slightly less
enthusiastic about granting citizenship to the world, but we’re
splitting hairs now.

My second litmus test issue is gun control. Hillary says, “I’ll take on
the gun lobby and fight for commonsense reforms to keep guns away from
terrorists, domestic abusers, and other violent criminals—including
comprehensive background checks and closing loopholes that allow guns to
fall into the wrong hands.” While I have no doubt she is a gun grabber,
this word salad here says she will do nothing about it.

Marco Rubio has no history of gun grabbing and he said, “It’s not the
guns, it’s the people who are committing these crimes.” His voting
record here is solid and he has never said anything to suggest he is
faking it. Rubio is also from Florida and you go nowhere in Florida
politics if you’re soft on guns. This is one of those times where you
have to look beyond the position statements and Rubio is the safe choice
on guns

I used to put abortion as a litmus test issue, even though there’s not
much to be done about it. My view is that while abortion should be
legal, but very limited, calling it a natural right tells me you are too
stupid to be trusted. I used to hold the same view of homosexual
marriage. The fact is, Progressives have won all these battles and it
will take a revolution to alter that reality. Most of the GOP is fine
with abortion and homosexual marriage so a candidate’s opinion here is
irrelevant.

That’s it for the big philosophical questions. Next on my list would be
the smaller issues like taxes, spending and regulation. It’s easy to get
lost in the weeds on these things. Look at the candidates websites and
they have thousands of words on issues that fall into one of those three
buckets. Clinton has a whole section on legal reform, whatever that
means. Rubio has a section on common core, a topic that should not even
exist.

I’m just going to keep it at the 30,000 foot view. What do the
candidates have to say about reducing the size of government? Stop
laughing. God help me, but [I read everything on Hillary’s
site](https://www.hillaryclinton.com/issues/) and I have no idea what
she wants to do as president. Her whole site is just emotive nonsense
about various demographics groups. The only reasonable score here is to
assume she would be business as usual, which means steady growth of the
state, with some extras for Democrat barnacles.

[On Rubio’s site](https://marcorubio.com/issues/), he has a laundry list
of issues organized so the blind and stupid can easily navigate the
topics. To his credit he has a section on
[debt](https://marcorubio.com/news/spending-cutting-proposals-fiscal-discipline/),
which is pretty funny given his personal finances. As you can see,
there’s nothing there but some platitudes about saving stuff by reducing
waste and reducing waste by saving stuff. As with Hillary, there’s no
reason to think he has any interest in cutting government spending.

On taxes, it appears both candidates want to move commas around the tax
code, which is always great fun. It accomplishes very little, but it
makes for great flag waving. Both candidates think social engineering
through the tax code is a great idea. Otherwise. there’s not much to
distinguish them and they don’t seem to be making taxes a big part of
their pitch. That really says a lot when you think about it. It used to
be that taxes were the main difference between the parties.

That leaves regulation. Like taxes, you just don’t hear anyone talk
about clearing out the regulatory thicket anymore. The Federal Registry
is close to 100,000 pages now. There are more than one million
regulations in the Code of Federal Regulations. No human can know all of
them. Hillary Clinton is promising more regulations for all sorts of
nonsense like requiring people to be happy on alternate Thursdays, but
her posted positions are, as a I wrote above, emotive nonsense.

Rubio, to his credit, [has a section on
regulation](https://marcorubio.com/news/marcos-plan-to-restore-sanity-and-restraint-to-regulation-a-national-regulatory-budget/).
Hilariously, he proposes new regulations on the making of new
regulations. I miss the days when Republicans talked about cutting
departments. It was a lie, of course, but at least they were not talking
about altering the space-time continuum. I went looking around for a
better understanding of his idea and it is basically a budget that
limits the total number of regulations each year, based on some exotic
formulas.

The funny thing here is Hillary, the old commie, is showing her age. In
her prime, a good statist promised a laundry list of free stuff from
the public treasury. Today’s statists replace laws passed by elected
parliaments with administrative degrees ginned up by autocratic
agencies. Rubio’s regulatory reform is a complicated technocratic
response to the metastasizing technocratic state. It’s unleashing a
cobra in your house to kill the mice.

The long and short of it, when you start comparing the two probable
contestants for president, is they are not all that different from one
another. Unless you have some weird reason to care about how they move
some commas around the tax and regulatory code, the only difference
worth mentioning is the gun issue. Otherwise, your life will not be any
different under the tyranny of Hillary than the tyranny of Marco.

Just in case someone is tempted to mention the courts, just keep in mind
that the most egregious decisions of late are from Republicans
appointees. The lesson of the last year is that the courts have locked
shields with their fellow in the managerial class against any attempts
by the dirt people to reign in their excesses. Like abortion, only a
revolution will do anything to fix the courts.

We’re doomed.
