---
title: "Hitler’s Swoosh"
date: "2016-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6580"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6580"
---

Public acts of piety have become a staple in the mass media. It’s hard
to watch anything on television because every five minutes, it seems,
someone is on screen telling us they are a good thinker in some way.
Watch a sporting event and before long they are preaching about women,
NAM’s, homosexuals or whatever fad is whirling around the Cult of Modern
Liberalism at the moment.

It’s what bad thinkers call “virtue signaling.” You see it everywhere.
Someone blunders and utters a truth about the world in public and
immediately there is a line of people telling us how they were offended.
Then there is a line hooting some form of “burn the witch!” and
demanding the heretic grovel. The very act of groveling, the public
struggle session, has been ritualized so everyone can sing along with
the sinner.

The New Religion, unlike old useful religions, has evolved as an
elaborate pat on the head for managerial class types. It’s a mommy
religion telling her sweetie pie everything is going to be all right.
That means the moral code is just as self-absorbed as the practitioners.
After all, even mass murderers have mothers who love them. <a
href="http://espn.go.com/boxing/story/_/id/14793389/nike-ends-endorsement-contract-manny-pacquiao"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story on ESPN</a> is a good example.

*Nike terminated its endorsement contract with boxer Manny Pacquiao on
Wednesday after he made derogatory remarks about same-sex couples.*

*“We find Manny Pacquiao’s comments abhorrent,” the company said in a
statement. “Nike strongly opposes discrimination of any kind and has a
long history of supporting and standing up for the rights of the LGBT
community.”*

*Based on Pacquiao’s comments, a spokesman confirmed that he is no
longer on the company’s endorsement roster. Pacquiao, 37, had endorsed
Nike for a little more than eight years.*

*On Thursday, Pacquiao said he respects Nike’s decision to drop him but
stood pat on his opposition to same-sex marriage and added that he is
happy that “a lot of people were alarmed by the truth.”*

*Pacquiao’s original remarks were made to a Filipino television station
earlier this week*

*“Have you seen any animal having male-to-male or female-to-female
relations?” Pacquiao said. “If you have male-to-male or female-to-female
\[relationships\], then people are worse than animals.”*

*Pacquiao apologized on Twitter within hours.*

*“I’m sorry for hurting people by comparing homosexuals to animals,”
Pacquiao tweeted. “Please forgive me for those I hurt. God bless!”*

You history buffs out there will recognize this as our old friend
fascism. It’s been updated to modern tastes so instead of guys in brown
shirts dropping by for a chat, it’s guys in Nike gear tweeting their
outrage. The Gestapo made a big show of rounding up trouble makers in
order to send a message. Our rulers do the same thing, but via social
media and mock outrage. Same clowns, different clown car.

The moral inversion is what makes this New Religion a loser in the long
run. Nike has no trouble using child labor and slaves to make their
sneakers. Nike has no trouble sponsoring rapists and thugs. They were
giggling like school girls when famous thugs were wearing Nike hoodies
in an attempt to get the “white Hispanic” lynched down in Florida. But
they draw the line at hurting the feelings of Filipino homosexuals?

If your moral code requires you to drop everything to defend the local
homosexuals, but is silent on your use of child labor and slavery, your
religion is barbaric and you are a dangerous lunatic. A world full of
boorish guys like this boxer is going to be far more safe for
homosexuals than a world run by sociopaths like the people at Nike. The
former has empathy, which provides a natural limit on cruelty. The
latter sees humans as exploitable resources.
