---
title: "The Corporate State"
date: "2016-10-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8713"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8713"
---

The other day, someone was telling me about their troubles getting
fraudulent charges removed from their credit card. It started with a
$499 charge for some sort of AT&T service. He called his bank and
was told he needed to call the merchant that put through the charge.
After a number of phone calls, he was put in touch with someone
that tried to talk him out of a refund. After some angry words, he got
the the charges reversed and a credit to his account.

Somewhere in the process, he spotted some more fraud charges, so he was
back hassling with the bank and vendors getting those off his card.
Those charges were for shoes and clothes he did not buy. Talking to the
merchants, he discovered that the items were being shipped to an address
in another state so he asked if he should notify the police. The
merchant laughed and said they don’t do that. They just try to notify
the shipper to have the items returned. Otherwise, it is just a loss.

I would imagine everyone reading this has had a similar hassle with this
type of theft. I once had a bunch of weird charges show up on my Verizon
bill. It was a cramming deal and it took weeks to get the things off my
bill. Verizon was in on it somehow and they eventually got hit with a
civil suit. I called the attorney general, but I quickly learned they
had no interest. They only take on small fries they can push a around. A
big company like Verizon operates outside the law.

Now, I did get my money back from Verizon and my acquaintance got his
money back on his credit card. I’m guessing he had half a day of time in
hassling with the bank. I had a few hours yelling at the dirt bags in
Verizon customer service. In my case, I had gone to a paperless bill. I
had to jump through hoops to get an actual paper bill sent to me again
so I could begin watching the bills for this sort of scam. Verizon works
very hard to conceal the details from their customers and this is why.

This sort of theft is just a fact of life everyone accepts. The police
no longer investigate most property crimes and they rarely go after the
organized scammers, like the crammers working the telephone bills. The
on-line merchants that get hit by credit card scammers just accept a
certain amount of loss and bake it into the cost of doing business. Even
the banks assume losses due to electronic theft. All of these losses are
socialized, spread around to all of us in the form of interest and fees.

It’s not just that they are socialized. Increasingly, government is
handing the responsibility of policing society over to corporations.
That’s what happened when <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/us-yahoo-nsa-exclusive-idUSKCN1241YT"
target="_blank">the government had Yahoo monitor their e-mail system</a>
without a warrant. They basically deputized the corporation so they
could do the policing. Cities and counties all over America have
outsourced traffic enforcement to private enterprise. These companies
get the right to tax speeders and red light runners by using cameras to
catch them.

This happens with other types of crime too. If my vehicle is stolen, the
cops do not look for it. Instead, the insurance companies now organize
the hunt for car theft rings. In many parts of the country, the cops no
longer investigate home robberies until the insurance companies step in
with evidence of a pattern. Since filing a claim with your insurer is
mostly likely going to result in a rate hike, many people don’t bother
calling the cops at all. There’s little benefit and lots of hassle.

This is another facet of
<a href="http://en.metapedia.org/wiki/Anarcho-tyranny"
target="_blank">anarcho-tyranny</a>. It’s not just that the state has
stopped doing the basic duties of government. They have subtly
outsourced them to cartels with the power to tax all of us in order to
socialize the cost of crime. As we saw with the Yahoo case, the logical
next step is to give corporations the power to police. You may never be
arrested by Google or Apple, but they will be the ones that report you
to those with the power to arrest you, most likely a contractor, too.

Sam Francis imagined a more Orwellian end result than we are seeing. The
end game appears to be a corporate state that is legitimized by the law,
but fully de-legitimized in practice. On the one hand you have
management that wears the synthetic mask of enthusiasm, as they go from
meeting to meeting, figuring out how to obliquely enforce policy. On the
other hand you have the lower ranks, grimly going through the motions in
order to avoid interaction with management.
