---
title: "The New Normal"
date: "2016-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6327"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6327"
---

In 1992 I was watching television at friend’s house and Bill Clinton was
on denying something about his draft dodging. I forget the details of
what he was saying, but I recall being a bit flabbergasted at the
answer. Everyone knew he gamed the system to avoid service. Lots of
ambitious young men thought that was the way to go. They thought, in
addition to being dangerous, the draft was a bad career move. Given what
was happening in the country, that was not an unreasonable assumption.

I really could not see how being honest about avoiding the draft was
going to be a terrible setback to his campaign. A big chunk of the
voters were in his age group so they knew perfectly well what he did as
many of them faced the same choices. Plenty of Republicans had done the
same thing. More important, most of the press at the time was his age
and they too had gamed the system to avoid the draft. Even so, he chose
to lie and lie poorly.

Sitting there with my friend watching it, I said something along the
lines like, “I just can’t see why he chooses to lie when the truth would
be better for him. I can’t believe people will vote for a guy who is
such an obvious liar and so bad at it.” We both agreed that there was no
way Clinton would win the nomination or beat Bush in the general. That’s
not the first time I was wrong about politics, but the first time I was
*that* wrong.

What I did not see back then was that the world was changing quickly.
There was a demographic change as the Boomers took over the country.
There was also the end of the Cold War. Like everyone at the time, I had
grown up with normal being the US and Russia, armed to the teeth,
wrestling for control of the world. Frivolous men like Bill Clinton had
no place in national politics, because no one would risk it.

The point here is that even when logic and history are on your side, you
can believe things that turn out to be totally wrong. In retrospect,
Clinton winning in 1992 makes sense, but at the time a lot of people,
not just me, thought it was preposterous. On the other hand, a lot of
people were sure Clinton would win, once he was the nominee. They turned
out to be right, even though their arguments at the time were mostly
wishful thinking.

That’s why I have never discounted the Trump phenomenon or the Sanders
campaign. Things are the way they are until they are not and you never
really know change is happening until it is on top of you. That and a
country that would elect and re-elect a ridiculous person like Barak
Obama simply because he is black and has a funny name is capable of
anything.

Looking at the GOP race heading into Iowa next week, everyone seems to
be certain, but no one agrees on who will win and what it will mean.
[Nate Silver has been calling the GOP side for
Cruz](http://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/election-2016/primary-forecast/iowa-republican/),
but [he has been wrong a lot
lately](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2016/01/nate-slippery-silverfish.html).
Silver missed the Trump phenomenon so badly, it is not unreasonable to
think it is due to animus. I don’t follow him enough to know, as I find
him to be an obnoxious twerp, who needs to be punched in the face – a
lot.

The professional anti-Trump faction is sure Trump will lose in Iowa and
they are carrying on like it is a certainty. You can be sure the
chattering skulls are ready to race off to the nearest TV station to
shout, “I told you so!” The National Review special “Trump Lost!”
edition is already in the can. Jim Geraghty has been out talking about
how the polls must be wrong because Trump is going to lose. As to who
will win, they are all over the map.

The thing is, when nothing goes to form, it’s a good idea to start
contemplating the unthinkable. [Jerry Falwell just endorsed
Trump](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/01/26/evangelical-leader-jerry-falwell-jr-endorses-trump/).
That’s on par with the Koch brothers endorsing Bernie Sanders. It’s not
just a one-off either. [Polls show that Trump is doing very well with
Evangelicals](http://www.politico.com/story/2016/01/trump-evangelicals-poll-218210)
so I guess the better analogy is the Libertarian Party putting Bernie
Sanders up as their nominee.

That’s the other lesson of the 1992 election. When things change in the
culture, everything is up for grabs in politics. The other way to look
at it is when the politics are suddenly a scramble, it means the culture
is undergoing a structural change. After ’92, we saw the rise of global
finance, mass migration and a communications revolution. If Trump wins
Iowa, it’s time to start thinking about what the new normal is going to
be like.
