---
title: "Drama-ocracy?"
date: "2016-07-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7965"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7965"
---

One of my favorite periods in history is the 17<sup>th</sup> century.
You have The Thirty Years War and the English Civil War just in the
first half of the century. The second half was not quite as exciting,
but you have the founding and flourishing of the American colonies, the
Glorious Revolution, the Battle of Vienna and the Salem Witch Trials.
Then you have the laundry list of men in arts and letters that continue
to cast a shadow over civilization. [The 17<sup>th</sup> century was an
exciting time to be alive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/17th_century).

The thing that always jumps out to me, particularly with regards to the
evolution of the colonies in this period, is how much merit counted to
the people of the age. We tend to think of this as being the age of
royalty and inherited position, but merit was critical within the ruling
class and within general society. Prince Rupert was on the wrong side of
the English Civil War, but he was a talented general and outlived pretty
much everyone. It mattered to his contemporaries, his peers and the
people that he was a talented man.

Of course, when the American colonies split off, merit became the coin
of the realm. A man could not have a career in politics without first
having a career in something useful. Even the sons of the elite were
expected to go into the military or the law before starting a life in
politics. The result was that rich guys were common in government. The
super rich of the 19th century ran for office, were governors and
Congressman and participated directly in party politics. The rule was,
you got rich so you could go into politics.

That is not the way things work today. In fact, it is quite the
opposite. [This story about Marco Rubio’s
opponent](http://miami.cbslocal.com/2016/06/22/the-making-of-patrick-murphy/)
for his Senate seat is a good example of the modern politician.

*For Murphy, the newfound role as the Democrat’s Most Eligible Candidate
is extraordinary; and not just because he’s only been a Democrat since
2011.*

*Murphy’s rise is extraordinary because of how little he seems to have
accomplished to get here.*

*A child of divorce, Murphy spent his formative years living with his
father, Thomas P. Murphy, Jr., who built a multimillion dollar
construction empire from scratch. Thomas Murphy made sure his son
attended private schools including an elite prep academy in the
Northeast, The Lawrenceville School. The school’s alumni include five
Governors, three Congressmen, a Senator, two Pulitzer Prize winners and
a Nobel Laureate. The school has also produced an array of business
titans in its storied history.*

*Patrick Erin Murphy circa 2010, however, did not seem destined to join
their ranks.*

*A star athlete in high school and college, injuries kept him from
pursuing that further, opting instead for a more functional degree in
business administration from the University of Miami. His time at UM was
marred by a drunken brawl at a South Beach night club that left him with
a mugshot and a black eye. After graduating in 2006, he joined Deloitte
& Touche as an audit assistant. He did not meet the minimum requirements
to become a Certified Public Accountant in Florida, opting instead to
apply for a license in Colorado, even though he did not live or work
there. He applied in Colorado because the requirements were lower.*

*Before gaining approval in Colorado, Murphy took the licensing exam
multiple times before passing it. Even with a CPA license in Colorado,
his opportunities in Florida were limited because his license was not
valid in the Sunshine State.*

In other words, Patrick Murphy is a moron without a single
accomplishment to his name, other than having won the lucky sperm
contest. If his father had not been rich, Patrick Murphy would probably
be wearing a blue vest down at the local Walmart. Of course, his
opponent, Marco Rubio, is a feckless airhead as well. He has never had a
job that did not come with a government check. The race for one of
Florida’s two Senate seats will be a battle between pretty boy morons
sponsored by billionaires.

This is not particularly unusual. [The second in command for the
Democrats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steny_Hoyer) in the House has
never worked a day outside of government. Another House Democrat leader,
[Chris Van Hollen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_Van_Hollen), went
into politics right out of college. Like Patrick Murphy, Van Hollen is
as dumb as a plank. If not for the family connections, he would be
running a kiosk at the mall. That is the story all over the House and
the Senate. [Massachusetts has
a Senator](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/12/11/sen-ed-markey-39-years-voting-present/),
who drove an ice cream truck, before getting into politics. His nickname
is Mr. Frosty.

It is tempting to dismiss it all as the inevitable degeneracy of
democracy. The word
“[kakistocracy](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/kakistocracy)” is common
on the dissident right. That is not really what is happening. Instead,
these nitwits we see in politics are basically actors hired by
billionaires and corporate interests to stand in for them in the House
and Senate. Chuck Schumer is a genius, but everyone in DC knows he is
the Senator of Goldman Sachs. Marco Rubio is owned by Norman Brahman,
the Florida billionaire. Paul Ryan is in his job because the money men
behind the GOP know he will do what he is told.

The most obvious example is Barak Obama. He was stumbling around jobless
until rich liberals in Chicago found him wandering the streets as a race
hustler. Like casting directors or Hollywood agents, they discovered a
talent they could make into a star. He was given the right back story,
trained to play the role and taught how to read his lines from the
teleprompter. Obama is a nice enough person and not the dumbest guy to
occupy the White House, but he does not have a thought in his head. He
does what he is told, like any other actor.

Our politics have become a play. We see the actors and hear some of the
stage directions, but we never see the writers or the directors. The
producers who fund these things are known, but no one really knows much
about them. All the attention is on the stars and the supporting actors.
If you have the right look and you can learn to say your lines
convincingly, you can get rich being an actor playing a politician.
[Even the B-actors become
millionaires](http://www.motherjones.com/mojo/2014/09/eric-cantor-cashes-34-million-wall-street).
If you cannot do anything useful and you want to get rich, go into
politics.
