---
title: "White City Fighting"
date: "2016-02-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6591"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6591"
---

<a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2016/02/17/south-african-students-loot-university-buildings-torch-portraits-of-white-people/#ixzz40WNFQ5WQ"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I saw this on the wires the other day</a>.
South Africa is no longer trendy so the West ignores it, but it offers
a glimpse of our future.

*South Africa’s University of Cape Town (UCT) was rocked by
racially-motivated destruction Tuesday, as a group of students looted
several buildings and made a bonfire out of portraits and photographs of
white people.*

*At UCT, a movement calling itself “Rhodes Must Fall” has been seeking
to make the university provide more benefits and accommodations for poor
students. It has also been seeking to stamp out the legacy of white
leaders (in particular Cecil Rhodes) from the era when South Africa was
dominated by those of European descent.*  
*The protest movement took a destructive turn Tuesday, apparently
prompted by university officials’ request that protesters move a shack
they had constructed on Residence Road near several dormitories. The
students responded by breaking into several nearby residential
buildings, robbing them of portraits and photographs, as well as
furniture and other materials, according to News24.*

*The portraits and photographs, which apparently were mostly or
entirely of white people, were piled up and set ablaze.*

When I was a young man, one of things that seemed obvious to me was that
the fads and tastes of rich people did not scale down to poor people.
Seeing communities go from two parent working-class families to divorced
mothers and single middle-aged men, it was not hard to see that easy
divorce was a terrible idea. Rich people can afford to bust up the
marriage. They can carry the cost of a broken home.

Easy divorce was one of the worst things to hit the working classes, but
it was not the only rich man fad to wash through the lower ranks. Casual
drug use is one obvious example. The sexual revolution is another. These
are things that are tolerable when you are immune from the want of
money. They are a disaster when you must maintain the delicate balance
required of the lower classes.

Not so long ago the rich understood this. They also believed they had an
obligation to set a good example for the lower ranks. They also
supported laws that backstopped these healthy customs. In fact, a good
way to lose your place in society was to fail in your duty to set a
proper example.

Today, of course, our elites compete with one another to see who can be
the most offensive to decent people. The further down into the gutter
they look for inspiration, the more they are celebrated by the culture
czars. For instance, black culture is now the high culture, while stodgy
old white guys are the butt of jokes.

It’s tempting to think this is deliberate and orchestrated. Guys like
Steve Sailer argue that swinging a wrecking ball through the cultural
institutions that hold up the middle-class is just part of the war of
top and bottom versus the middle. It’s easy to see why people think
that. <a
href="http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/politicalcalculations/2013/12/05/the-major-trends-in-us-income-inequality-since-1947-n1757626/page/full"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The emergence of a global over-class does
correlate to the collapse of middle and working class values in the
West</a>.

It strikes me that the root is the weird new religion of anti-racism,
egalitarianism and multiculturalism. Even assuming nothing but good
intentions, the resulting product is just a ragged anti-white ideology
that celebrates every human pathology at the expense of Western
tradition, simply because white is bad, meaning non-white is good.

Again, these trends have been a disaster for the working classes and
increasingly hard on the middle-class in Western countries. Whatever
benefits have accrued to the elites will inevitably be short lived,
simply based on math. Rich white countries can afford to indulge in
cultural nonsense for a while. Sweden is an obvious example.

In a world where whites are outnumbered even in their own lands, this is
a civilizational catastrophe. This brings us back to South Africa. It is
a click or two away from facing the same fate as Rhodesia in the last
century. Life expectancy in South Africa was 64 when Apartheid ended.
Now it’s 56, the same as in Somalia. South Africa is the rape capital of
the world, where <a
href="http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/africa/crisis-in-south-africa-the-shocking-practice-of-corrective-rape-aimed-at-curing-lesbians-9033224.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">“corrective rape”</a> is increasingly
common.

In a world increasing dominated by Africans, a religion of “hate whitey”
is not going to turn out very well for whitey. Since whitey is
responsible for the creation of and preservation of civilization, this
spells doom for the civilized world. The lesson of South Africa is the
lesson for the world. The people in charge need to do what must be done
to maintain the pillars of civilization, even when they don’t like it.
