---
title: "Estates of the Realm"
date: "2016-08-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8372"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8372"
---

For a long time now the pattern of American presidential elections has
been that the primaries wrap up in late spring and early summer. The two
candidates begin to take shots at one another leading up to their
conventions in July. The Republican usually lacks the money to run an
air war, so that leaves the Democrat free to pound away in key states
with TV ads. The media, of course, swings in on behalf of the Democrat
with a relentless drumbeat of attack ads telling us that the Republican
is Hitler again.

Then we have the conventions and both parties begin running their ads
and doing big campaign events. The media is still in the satchel for the
Democrats, but the quantity of noise from both sides diminishes the
impact of the media. They are left to cover speeches and interview
people from both camps, usually swooning over the Democrat and playing
gotcha with the Republican. Then we get the debates and the sprint to
the finish as both sides focus on the toss-up states.

This time we are seeing something weird and different. The media is
doing their part, but it is mostly the so-called conservative media
leading the charge against the Republican. The Democrats have been
running ads in the swing states, but they are mostly nonsense videos of
Hillary from twenty years ago. They can’t show her today because she
looks like death and sounds like she is about to turn someone into a
toad. That and she appears to be struggling with serious health issues.

Trump is running his campaign away from the media and not running any
ads. Instead he is doing these big events where thousands line up to
hear him make his pitch. Trump is running the sort of campaign
presidents ran in the 1940’s. The only thing missing is the train, but
his private jet makes it a lot like the old whistle stop tour. He lands,
does a speech and is off to the next town. On a weekly basis, Trump
jousts with the media over their latest attack, but otherwise he has not
done a lot of it.

We are seeing something strange this time. It is as if we have three
elections going on at the same time. The Democrats are keeping Clinton
hidden away for fear people will notice she is seriously unwell. Someone
struggling with a cognitive disorder is better off in small rooms with a
few people and that’s what we keep seeing. Her events are lightly
attended, but there does seem to be an effort to keep her from standing
in front of a large crowd. They probably worry that she could topple
over like Bob Dole in ’96.

The other election campaign is the Trump barnstorming tour where he does
these stadium shows for thousands. They are not running ads to promote
these things. Instead, they are relying on word of mouth via social
media. They also get local media coverage. <a
href="http://money.cnn.com/2016/06/14/media/donald-trump-media-blacklist/"
target="_blank">Trump is deliberately banning the big foot media</a>
from his events and he is not paying for a plane to ferry around the
press like we have seen in prior campaigns. Trump is running the first
high-tech, grassroots presidential campaign in history.

Finally, we have the mass media election. This is where members of
the media debate one another over the latest events. They used to count
on the Democrats to supply the copy and some flaks to help sell this to
the public, but this time is a bit different. Hillary’s poor health and
long criminal history are preventing her campaign from putting her or
her close allies in the media for fear someone may accidentally ask a
question.

There is a medieval vibe to all of this as the estates of the realm are
now fully insulated from one another. There’s also the obvious divisions
within the estates, as there were in 18th century France. The media,
serving as the First Estate, has a credentialed and high-born top with a
rough and tumble, low-born bottom. The nasally twats writing at the
NYTimes or appearing on the chat shows all popped out of elite colleges
and come from upper class families. The bloggers and twitter monsters
are uncredentialed rubes from the country.

You could argue that the forces behind Trump within the political class
represent the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noblesse_de_robe"
class="mw-redirect" title="Noblesse de robe">noblesse de robe</a> while
the people backing Clinton
are <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noblesse_d%27%C3%A9p%C3%A9e"
class="mw-redirect" title="Noblesse d&#39;épée">noblesse d’épée</a>. The
third estate, just as in 18th century France, is not entirely on the
side of the former, but is not all that happy with the latter.
The [bourgeoisie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bourgeoisie "Bourgeoisie"), in
our case, are academics, the vast array of business interests that feed
from the public trough and those who profit from global capitalism. You
are, in all probability, a free peasant.

It is not a perfect analogy and it is not intended to compare modern
America to 18th century France. Sadly, we will not get to lop off the
heads of the first estate when this is all over. It does help clarify
the current crisis. The people chatting on TV don’t know you and they
have no idea what you read or why you read it. The things discussed on
blogs like this are as alien to them as proper dining etiquette is to
you. Modern American society is now highly compartmentalized and
fragmented and we see that in the campaigns.
