---
title: "I Bring Bad Tidings"
date: "2016-10-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8803"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8803"
---

Recently, I was involved, in a limited basis, with a bankruptcy. The
company that went belly up had over a million dollars in debts and no
assets. Most of their debt was in the form of accounts receivable, but
they had some loans and leases as well. Up until the point they filed
for bankruptcy protection, they had paid all of their bills on time. In
fact, they paid most vendors in ten days, something that is just about
unheard of these days. This prompt payment is what led their vendors to
be so generous with them.

This story reminded me of something that happened years ago. There was a
house party at a mansion (are there mansion parties?) and many party
goers were out on a balcony of some sort that extended over the pool
area. The balcony was large enough to hold dozens of people, but it
started to give way due to the mass of people. Panic set in and that
made things worse as the frightened party goers scrambled to get off the
balcony. The whole thing collapsed and took a bunch of people down in
the process.

The connection here is that it is human nature to observe the actions of
others, trust those actions and to infer things from them. The vendors
extended terms to that business saw that they paid in ten days and that
others were more than happy to extend credit, so they did the same. The
party goers saw everyone else out on the balcony and just assumed it
must be safe. They never stopped to think that maybe it was not built to
hold a hundred people. In both cases, when reality came rushing in,
there was a rush to the exit.

That’s something I think about when I read <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2016/10/19/fed-risks-repeating-lehman-blunder-as-us-recession-storm-gathers/"
target="_blank">stories like this</a> regarding the global economy. The
entirety of the world economy is built on one thing. That is the rock
solid belief that the US government will never miss a debt payment and
never devalue the dollar to arrest its debt. The entire global economy
is built on the asset value of US Treasuries. If there ever comes a time
when people begin to doubt the security of that debt, the panic will
plunge the world into a new dark age or possible something worse.

The people in charge of the Federal Reserve understand this. The people
running the ECB know this. The PBOC knows this. The masters of the
universe all agree on one thing and that is they have to protect the
foundation stone of the world economy. Guarding the underlying stability
of the financial system is their overriding concern. That means they are
willing to risk recession and maybe worse in order to protect the asset
system. It’s not unreasonable from their perspective, but it does reveal
the bigger problem.

That bigger problem is we have reached the logical end point of the
credit economy. If the US economy does lurch into recession, the world
economy will follow. The central banks will not have many options as
they have used all of their big tools to prop up the asset base over the
last decade. The Fed can lower rates a bit and maybe restart their
Quantitative Easing program, but they will have little or no success in
blunting a recession. The world will just have to wait it out and hope
for the best.

That is not how the world ever works. A 2017 recession will cause the
new US president to propose “solutions” and new governments in Europe
will demand relief from Brussels. Bad economics always leads to worse
politics and the politics of the West are already fairly rotten. <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-10-20/nationalists-and-populists-poised-to-dominate-european-balloting"
target="_blank">The rise of nationalist and populist parties in
Europe</a> will only complicate an already fragile set of arrangements.
Imagine if something like a Syriza were to take over the Italian
government just as the world is headed to recession. Fun times.

The fact is, there’s a limit to how much the world can borrow from the
future. We are probably near that limit. With recession looming, the
ability of central bankers to blunt it with credit issuance is limited.
That means it becomes a political problem. The record of politicians
coming up with useful reforms in times of crisis is not good. What’s
needed is a sustained and organized retreat from a money system that has
outlived its usefulness, but that is probably impossible. Instead it
means a disorganized and haphazard retreat.

As Evans-Pritchard concludes in his story, the possible outcomes are
mostly grim with some of them very grim. If the central bankers get it
wrong and plunge the economy into a deep recession, the politicians will
most likely respond with massive spending of money that does not exist.
That could unleash price inflation and a collapse of asset values. It’s
not guaranteed, but the fact that it is one possible outcome is grim
news in itself. The future is grim and things will mostly likely be
worse than we expect.
