---
title: "The Automat of the Future"
date: "2016-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7255"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7255"
---

When my grandmother was young, she and her friends would go to the
theater to see newsreels, which were the mass media of the age. The only
other way to reach a lot of people was radio and newspapers. A common
theme of newsreels was to talk about the glorious future of labor saving
devices. A century ago, a new labor saving invention was coming every
day so it certainly felt like humanity was accelerating forward.

The only reason I know about this is my grandmother would tell me about
it when I was a boy. She liked to talk about how she would spend the day
at the theater watching newsreels about the kitchen of the future that
pretty much looked like her current kitchen. In 1920 having a blender in
the kitchen was the driverless car of the day. By the time my mother was
having kits, everyone had one.

The point my grandmother was making at the time is that the glorious
future is never all that glorious when you get there. When she was a
young girl, kitchen appliances would make being a wife and mother a
breeze. That’s not how it happened. Being a wife and mother was pretty
much the same, just with electric appliances instead of manual ones.

Of course, the American kitchen did not accelerate into the glorious
future. It pretty much stopped around 1965 and has remained there every
since. The fridge is a little better and dishwashers are better, but
incrementally. The person of 1965 transported to today would not marvel
at your Sub-Zero fridge. They would be stunned that it was unpainted,
but that’s about it.

That’s something to keep in mind when listening to sermons on the robot
future. The future is rarely as promised and when it is, it turns out to
be rather mundane. My grandmother was promised a self-cleaning kitchen
and instead got a dishwasher that required her to rise the dishes first.
My mother was promised a kitchen that made food at a touch of a button,
but only got a microwave out of it. The Jetson’s kitchen never arrived
and probably never will.

The economics of technological innovation are what limit the result set.
There’s not much to improve upon in a modern kitchen. The robot stove
that delivers the turkey to the table would be really cool, but no one
is buying one or reorganizing their house to accommodate it. The stove
we have is good enough so there’s no reason to invent a new one. The
microwave oven, the last great innovation in cooking, was an accident.

That’s what should limit enthusiasm for the robot future. Those
self-learning machines from Skynet are going to enter a world of
double-entry accounting. All of their advances will come with
trade-offs. Those trade-offs are the boundary preventing you from having
a jetpak and flying car. These things are possible, but the trade-offs
make them unworkable. For as long as I have been alive men have been
trying to solve the jetpak problem and all efforts have ended in tears.

The robot future will run into similar trouble as we see with <a
href="http://www.techinsider.io/the-future-of-the-machine-worker-is-here-2016-3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the automated fast food restaurant</a>.
This is basically an
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automat" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Automat</a> pitched as something new. When I was a kid,
one of my memories was going to an Automat on a family excursion where
you could buy food from a vending machine. By the time I hit adulthood,
eating from a vending machine was for single men and drug addicts.

From the article:

*On Tuesday, the Financial Times reported on an analysis by Deloitte
that found that the UK had already lost 31,000 jobs in the legal sector
to automation, and projected that another 114,000 jobs would be next.*

*It’s all happening very fast. In 2013, MIT engineering professor John
Leonard told the MIT Technology Review that “robots simply replacing
humans” would not happen in his lifetime. “The semi-autonomous taxi will
still have a driver,” he argued. Today, Google’s autonomous cars have
traveled more than 1m miles on public streets, and self-driving taxis
seem all but inevitable.*

*Sharkey expects that the service industry will be particularly hard
hit. He estimates that by 2018 there will be 35 million service robots
“at work”.*

*A bartending robot named “Monsieur” is already on the market. A
hardware store in San Jose, California has a retail associate robot
named “Oshbot.” The UK salad bar chain Tossedreportedly announced this
month that two outlets in London would have self-service kiosks instead
of cashiers. On Thursday, Domino’s Australia unveiled a pizza delivery
robot in Brisbane.*

Notice no one every talks about the trade-offs. Let’s assume the Automat
of the future is human-less, which is not the case, but we’ll pretend
anyway. Who will be the customers for these things? Throw tens of
millions out of work and they have no money to
buy <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wW-4LU79qbU" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Extra Big-Ass Fries from the Hardees robot</a>. That
puts an end to the robot future in a hurry. Until that puzzle is solved,
there will be no robot future.

Then there’s something else. I don’t want to buy food and drinks at the
ATM. I rarely go out to eat for lunch, but when I do it is to get out
among people. The girl at the local deli is cute and I enjoy ogling her.
The waiter is friendly and I enjoy chatting with him. I like the fact
that the Greek family that owns the deli is onto the third generation
now. You don’t replace that with robots.

The future imagined at any time tells us more about the people imagining
it than the people who will create it. In the 1950’s, fear of nuclear
war drove sci-fi and horror movies to imagine all sorts of monsters born
from technological error. In those newsreels a century ago, when people
were more optimistic, the future was bright and happy for humans.
Technological progress promises prosperity. The fact that we dream of
electric sheep says a lot about us, but little about the future.

The robot future imagined by our overlords is nothing like that glorious
future sold to my grandmother in newsreels. Her glorious future was a
great time to be alive. American would be free from the mundane to
conquer the world. The robot future sold today is sterile and joyless, a
great time to take advantage of the suicide kiosk at the mall. The great
minds of our age say the future is pointless. Instead of a singularity,
it will be a nullity.

Unless humanity is hardwired to self-destruct, that will not be the
future. Life always finds a way. If it is truly pointless, then we will
follow the path of the panda, except we will have built our own
enclosures. Then again, those young men streaming over the border are
full of hope for their future so maybe they just displace the people
working on the sterile robot future. It’s hard to know, but the future
will not be what our overlords imagine, at least not for them.
