---
title: "Father’s Day in the Ghetto"
date: "2016-06-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7798"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7798"
---

When you live in or near the ghetto, you cannot help but notice the fact
that family life is nothing like it is out in Honkyville. Dave Chappelle
used to do a bit on how his limo driver took him through the ghetto once
and he saw a baby on the street corner selling weed at one in the
morning. What made it funny is the truth of it. In the ghetto, you will
see little kids running around at all hours. Seeing an unattended
toddler standing on the corner is not common but seeing small children
without their parents is not rare.

I was riding through a section 8 area on my bike once, it was
mid-morning probably, and I saw a small kid standing next to a running
car. The car had both doors open. The townhouse it was in front of also
had the door wide open. Presumably, there was a mother inside, maybe
watching the kid and the running car. I did not stick around long enough
to get the answer, but I was not shocked by it. This is just a feature
of the underclass, especially the black underclass.

Father’s Day around here is always a bit amusing because I imagine the
black guys all looking for a place to hide, not entirely sure which kid
is technically theirs and which baby momma is looking for them. It is
terrible, but I blame [Maury
Povich](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_0q9076HDQ) for making me
cynical about these things. That and the black illegitimacy rate in
America is 75%. In the ghetto it is 100%. It is why today the local
grocery store is staffed entirely by black people. Whites take off and
blacks gladly pick up the extra shifts.

It was not always this way. Black illegitimacy was at 12% before the
Civil Rights Movement. Social justice and the welfare state destroyed
the black family. By the mid-60’s illegitimacy among blacks was in the
40’s and then exploded with the introduction of recreational drug use.
On the one hand, you had young blacks destroying themselves with drugs.
On the other hand, you had a warlord culture evolve around the sale and
distribution of street drugs. Thug life is not family life.

In the ghetto, black people do not have any concept of fatherhood
because no one grew up with a father. Often, the mothers do not even
know who it was that knocked them up so the biological father does not
even have a name. It is as if the women were impregnated by ghosts. As a
result, the black underclass is entirely matriarchal to the point where
men live separate lives. The better mothers hope their boys get out of
the ghetto, but most just accept they will end up on the corner.

Hispanics have gone a different way with illegitimacy. All the blather
about Hispanics being culturally conservative ignores the fact that 53%
of Hispanic babies are born to unwed mothers. The difference here is
that Hispanic males are not invisible. They stick around and try to take
a role in child raising. They may not marry their baby-momma, but they
at least make a token effort to take care of the babies. There is still
a shame component that compels even the male to pretend to be a
responsible father.

The underclass whites are a lot like the Hispanics in that regard.
Dwayne may not have bothered to marry Brandy when he knocked her up, but
little Randy will grow up knowing Dwayne is his daddy. This is just a
carryover effect from when American culture served the needs of the
lower classes by enforcing basic rules of conduct. There are still some
poor whites around who remember when you did the right thing, but in a
generation or two that will fade into the mists of time.

Jerry Springer Nation is the end point for all of it.

It does not have to be this way, of course. In fact, the current
conditions are an anomaly in America. This is a new problem created by
our betters over the last couple of generations. Bored with the post-war
prosperity of the 50’s, they decided to experiment on the poor by
blowing apart the traditional institutions that gave some structure to
the lower classes. Nature does not dispense her gifts equally. Some in
every generation, born with the right stuff, managed to climb out of the
under-class.

That is nearly impossible now. Kids coming out of the tough
neighborhoods in American cities never learn the basics of behaving in a
civilized society. The schools do not bother teaching them much of
anything. With no useful role models, even kids with something on the
ball are condemned to life in the urban reservation. For boys that means
crime and then the cemetery. The unlucky head off to prison. The girls
are just baby mills and a conduit to send tax dollars into the ghetto,
so white liberals can feel special.

There has never been a time when poverty was fun. It was always hard,
but the promise of America was always that even the poorest had hope.
“Behave, do the right thing, work hard and anyone can grow up to be
president.” That promise has been rescinded by the black-hearted sadists
who rule over us. In the future, the robot historians will puzzle over
why Americans did not rise up and hang the bastards long before they
could do so much damage. Every time I ride through the ghetto, I wonder
the same thing.
