---
title: "The Africa Problem"
date: "2016-04-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7126"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7126"
---

In 793 the first Viking raid of any note took place at the monastery
at [Lindisfarne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lindisfarne). It was
quite a shock to the Christian people of Britain, but it was just a
taste of what was coming. This was the dawn of the Viking age and
warriors would be pouring out of Scandinavia for 250 years.  In a short
time, a piracy problem would turn into a threat to civilization, forcing
the people of Europe to organize themselves in defense of their lands
and people against the Norse raiders.

The problem over the horizon today is the population explosion in
Sub-Saharan Africa. We get hints of it in the news from time to time,
but policy makers in the West try hard to pretend it is not a problem.
On slow news days,
<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/13/opinion/out-of-africa.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the state media has someone write a
“think piece” on the topic</a>, but otherwise, Africa may as well be
Mars as far as public policy. As Steve Sailer is fond of pointing out,
the math says this must change.

<a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/tom-friedman-watches-the-land-raft-assemble-in-africa-and-head-for-europe/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Sailer has a post</a> up on this and he
offers some ways to address what will be the defining issues of the next
half century or more.

*The solutions for the African threat to world peace and prosperity
appear to me to require a threefold approach:*

*– Perimeter and in-depth defense of the West to shut off the magnet
justifying guys with three wives and 17 children feeling optimistic and
unworried about their selfishness.*

*– Strong campaigns promoting family planning in Africa.*

*– Outside investment in sustainable economic development in Africa,
such as better agricultural practices that don’t contribute to
desertification.*

*These will be expensive, but the cost is minimal compared to the
alternative of turning Europe into a banlieue of Africa. The main
problem is ideological: we need to break the taboo against talking about
the need for Steps \#1 and \#2.*

His first proposal could work and would certainly limit the flow of
economic migrants into the West. The fantasy version of migration is
that these people come to work. In reality, they come to go on welfare.
Politically, this would be an easy sell to populations facing financial
pressure due to bloated welfare systems and excessive government. But,
politicians appear to be allergic to this notion. They would rather see
the whole thing collapse than be thought rude to the invaders.

Math is not a social construct and the math says the West cannot afford
to feed and clothe a billion Africans, plus the millions of others who
wish to have the material benefits of the West without the work. You can
choose to accept reality or be forced to accept reality. There is no
third option so the West will eventually have to halt the flow of
migrants into Europe..

The second proposal strikes me as odd, given Sailer’s views on human
biology. The West has been flooding the Dark Continent with condoms to
fight HIV for a couple of decades now. George Bush made a big deal of
fighting AIDS in Africa. The thrust of the effort was the distribution
of condoms. Even so, the population explosion has gone on, suggesting
that the locals are not all that interested in birth control. Biological
reality is not amenable to wishful thinking.

The last proposal has a similar problem. The West has been investing in
Africa for as long as anyone has been alive. Ethiopia, for example, gets
90% of its government budget from foreign aid. Hundreds of billions have
flowed into Africa through government, charity and combinations of the
two. In many parts of the continent, the result has been worse than
doing nothing. The book <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Dead-Aid-Working-Better-Africa/dp/0374532125"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Dead Aid</a> details how aid to Africa
has mostly made things worse.

That leaves us with option one as the starting place. A million or so
Muslim migrants into Europe has radically altered politics. Ten million
more and instead of “right wing parties” the news is full of violent
revolts and coups. Whether the current political class snaps out of
their delusions or they are replaced with more practical men, Europe
will put and end to the great migration.

There’s something else. The West is broke. That reality is going to
become more apparent as we head to the denouement of the credit money
age. That means economic development programs in Africa come to an end.
They may not end dramatically, more like a slow winding down as economic
reality makes aid to Africa less fashionable. Decades of delaying the
inevitable means decades of facing the inevitable.

Africa is a fragile place. It does not take much to plunge it into
anarchy. Think of Yemen but continent scale without rich neighbors
willing to provide food aid. The inevitable result is famine and then
plagues as the population starts to shift around looking for food. Throw
in civil war and a massive spike in violence to the mix. That’s
horrible, but it would fix the population problem in a decade or two.

That assumes the West has the willingness and ability to hold the line
against mass migration. It’s not hard to see the math. The current
migrant crisis leads to political instability in Europe. That retards
food and medicine shipments to Africa, which puts pressure on the
population to seek relief across the Mediterranean. Suddenly, the Viking
age is looking pretty good.
