---
title: "Travelogue: Open Borders"
date: "2016-09-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8489"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8489"
---

Whenever an American is required to go out into the provinces, he is
inevitably forced to hear some harangues from the locals about the
doings in the Empire. Europeans believe themselves to be worldly
sophisticates and they invest a lot of effort into maintaining that
delusion. At this point in history, it may be the only thing Europeans
are good at doing. They really are a bunch of ridiculous posers and they
are so endlessly smug about it. This suggests it is a studied and
cultivated habit, not just a weird quirk.

In Iceland, I was subjected to a long boring lecture by an Icelandic
woman over the wonderfulness of open borders. She was unaware that I am
a FOP (Friend of Pepe) so she was operating under the impression I was
sympathetic. It was hard to keep a straight face, given that Iceland is
a rocky island in the North Sea. Even if they welcome the world, the
world will not be moving to a barren moonscape that is cold in the dead
of summer.

Open borders is a strange religion with many in Europe. The news is a
pretty much just a non-stop celebration of open borders. They talk about
it with such reverence, you could be mistaken for thinking “open
borders” is the new name for God. Today the news is celebrating the
first anniversary of Alan Kurdi, [the hoax perpetrated by the Western
media](http://www.express.co.uk/comment/expresscomment/604590/Migrant-crisis-the-truth-about-the-boy-the-beach-Aylan-Kurdi)
to help sway public sympathy for allowing in a billion Muslims. The
news, of course, still maintains it was a real story, which is like
watching people talk seriously about Big Foot.

On SkyNews they had one of the typical panel discussion things that
American news channels like so much. It was, of course, a multi-culti
festival of virtue signaling. All of them had on their serious face as
they competed for the title of most pompously pious on the subject of
migration. One of the people was a middle-aged honky with the title
“comedian” which was the only thing funny about him. The others were
brown women representing both diversity and girl power

The moderator, to his credit, brought up the fact that most people just
saw it as virtue signaling. The unfunny comic looked as if he was about
to have a stroke. If he did fall over, it would probably have been the
only time he had made anyone laugh. The African woman next to him then
explained that she did not understand the phrase virtue signaling, so
she went into a speech about her virtue.

The backdrop to much of this is Brexit. In the run-up to the Brexit
vote, the remain side was at great pains to show the issue was about
economics. Now that they lost, they are sure it was about xenophobia and
racism. They carry on like Brexit is going to return the world to the
Dark Ages. One of the Girl Power! Trio on the set went on a rant about
how awful it was going to have to show her passport when traveling to
Europe. She made it sound like customs was the showers at Auschwitz.

In a conversation with an Irishman and another Icelander at breakfast, I
was told that nationalism was the worst thing since the other worst
thing and that open borders has made the peace in Europe. The absurdity
of this was amusing for a bit as the two of them competed with one
another as to who was the most ridiculous person in the room. Finally, I
had enough and reminded them that Europe was at peace because the US
kept the peace.

That went over like a Hitler salute and the reason is many Europeans
have come to define themselves by their relationship to America and
Americans, or at least what they imagine to be America and Americans.
The median age in Europe is 38 so few living Europeans have known
anything other than life in the American Empire. As a result, the
culture has changed to reflect this reality. Dependence eventually
creates a dependency culture and that’s the culture of Europe today.
