---
title: "Crime & Punishment"
date: "2016-04-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6490"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6490"
---

I’m not a fan of the death penalty. I’m not absolutely against it, as
there are times and places where it is a necessity. Poor societies
cannot afford to house and feed monsters so they have no choice but to
execute their violent criminals. It’s a matter of
self-defense. <span style="font-weight: 300;">If they try to segregate
killers, there’s a good chance the killer gets loose and kills again.
Or, the killer harms a fellow prisoner or guard.</span>

My view on the death penalty is a libertarian one. The state derives its
authority from the people and the people have a right to self-defense.
As a matter of self-defense, the state can kill enemies, but only
enemies that are a threat. A man in chains is no threat so hanging him
is murder. It is no different than a man shooting a burglar in his home
versus hunting down the burglar and shooting him in the back.

That said, I get why people are in favor of the death penalty as a
matter of vengeance. A guy who kills kids, for example, commits the
worst possible offense against society. Hanging the guy simply as an act
of vengeance brings some satisfaction to the people. The trouble is the
state gets stuff wrong all the time so vengeance could very well lead to
hanging an innocent man. You can let a man out of jail, but not out of
the grave.

That’s the theory. <a
href="http://nypost.com/2016/04/14/ex-manson-follower-details-grisly-murders-at-parole-hearing/?"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The reality is a case like this one</a>
in America’s Paper of Record.

*A follower of Charles Manson who participated in his cult’s infamous
1969 massacre has won approval for parole.*

*Leslie Van Houten, 66, the youngest member of the so-called Manson
Family, “was granted parole suitability today by commissioners of the
Board of Parole Hearings meeting at the California Institution for Women
in Corona,” according to Luis Patino, a spokesman for the California
Department of Correction.*

*“We’re really ecstatic,” Van Houten’s lawyer, Christie Webb, told The
Post. “Leslie is an individual. She can’t change what she did, but she
has tremendous remorse.”*

*The parole board will review the judgment for up to 120 days and, if
its members uphold the decision, the matter will be forwarded to
California Gov. Jerry Brown.*

*Brown “will have a maximum of 30 days to either uphold, reverse or
modify the decision, or send it to the full board of commissioners
sitting en banc for review,” Patino said.*

*Van Houten was convicted in 1971 for the savage murders of Leno and
Rosemary La Bianca in their Los Feliz home on August 10, 1969.*

*She later admitted that she was whacked out on LSD when she stabbed
Rosemary 14 times with a knife.*

*The double murder came one day after several other Manson disciples
killed pregnant actress Sharon Tate – who was married to renowned
director Roman Polanski in her Benedict Canyon home. Several of her
friends were massacred.*

These crimes were monstrous. The people who committed them admitted to
the crimes, even bragged about them. There’s simply no way to argue that
they may have been wrongly convicted. The best you can do is claim some
mitigation like insanity or excessive drug taking. Even so, this woman
was given life with a chance at parole. Now, she may be released after
spending 40 years in prison.

This is why people support the death penalty. This woman should never be
free, but she is old and the government is broke so they are letting
criminals go free. There’s also the fetish among our rulers for
committing outrages against the people. Letting a monster go free is a
way they can feel hip and edgy by outraging the squares out in the
suburbs. The death penalty closes off this stuff. If Van Houten had been
hanged, this is not a story. Instead, she will be released and probably
be invited to the White House.

This is why I think we should get back to having penal colonies. The
Cloud People are simply too greedy and self-absorbed to run a proper
criminal justices system. They will always look for reasons to set
monsters loose on the rest of us. At the same time, wholesale execution
of violent predators is never coming back in the West, until the Muslims
take over.  A compromise is to setup
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4294" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">penal colonies</a> to house people like this women.

The monsters can be dumped on an island with ample food and water, but
otherwise they must self-organize. Maybe a facility to dispense food,
water and medical care is run by the state. If they kill each other, so
be it. The non-violent, who simply cannot stop committing crimes, can be
dropped into a more regulated colony. They live out their lives with no
chance of return, unless they are exonerated. Maybe we setup a court for
them on the island to help regulate the colony. We can call it
Australia, just to make it fun.

The point is we have, at any one time, about 500,000 or so people in
jail that we never want out of jail. The billions spent doing this, and
the endless criminal proceedings that come with it, can be solved with
penal colonies. That would free up resources to run a sane prison system
for the petty thieves, errant losers and young knuckleheads. A Leslie
Van Houton would be sent to Murderer’s Island out in the Pacific, never
to walk our streets again.
