---
title: "Deep Thoughts on Religion"
date: "2016-03-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6502"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6502"
---

The best guess of science is that belief evolved as one of man’s first
cognitive traits. Most likely it evolved with language, but that’s a
guess. Until science is able to pin down the exact spots on the genome
that control belief, which will never happen in our lifetime, all we
have is speculation. What we know about language and belief says the two
most likely evolved as complimentary traits and emerged very early in
humans.

In our current age, we tend to think of belief as religion, specifically
monotheism, like Christianity and Islam. It’s more accurate to think of
religion as a subset of belief, which includes culture, altruism, faith
in what others say and so on. There are lots of things we accept as a
matter of faith that fall outside the supernatural. Belief is what
allows acquired knowledge to be passed around and passed between
generations.

Religion, like language, is an incredibly efficient storehouse of
acquired knowledge. If you believe the tides operate on the digestive
rhythms of the great invisible guppy beyond the horizon and you have
jotted them down in the Book of Guppy, your people now have a very
useful chart of the tides. It’s also easy to pass this knowledge from
one generation to the next by teaching the great faith of the guppy to
the children. The fact that there is no big invisible guppy is
irrelevant.

The evidence we have suggests that the first religions were
naturalistic. When you live off the land as hunter-gatherers, explaining
the natural world is an important part of survival. The first “gods”
were probably spirits associated with things early man observed in
nature. The winds, the rains, thunder, lightning and the changing of the
seasons would be things early humans would know and “explain” by
associating them with the supernatural.

Fertility gods have been found in human settlements all over the world,
which makes a lot of sense when you think about it. What makes life
possible is the reproductive urge. Associating human fertility with
animal and plant fertility, the fertility of the earth, is just another
way of storing what has been learned about the natural world, including
the people in it, into a portable set of beliefs that can be passed onto
the next generation.

Most likely, religion became more structured and the gods more human,
when man began to settle and develop agriculture. Human settlement
requires cooperation and that means rules of conduct, enforcement of the
rules, ways to deal with free loaders, how to defend property and so on.
Religion makes for a very useful way to establish rules and enforce
them. After all, if the gods say stealing is wrong, then punishing
thieves is pleasing to the gods. Religion, it would seem, is essential
to human settlement.

Something people often forget is that a big part of man’s environment is
other men. Just as we have evolved to be a social animal, our cognitive
toolkit evolved to benefit the social animal. It’s entirely possible
that our sense of belief, our religious urge is what drove man to
settle. Once man was able to accumulate enough knowledge about the
natural world, settling down in one place may have been a natural
development.

One of the great challenges of evolutionary biology is knowing which way
the causal arrows point. More often than not, they point in both
directions. The point here is that belief is one of the more important
and powerful parts of the human animal. It lies at the core of what we
are and how we went from foraging about in packs like chimps to living
as we do today. It also shaped how we settled and how we altered our
environment, which in turn helped shape humanity.

Modern people like to think we have abandoned all of those primitive
things like gods, superstitions, rituals intended to change the
direction of events. Christianity has mostly died out in Europe. About
70% of Czechs never attend church services. Only 44% of Germans say they
believe there is a God. Churches in the Low Countries are being
auctioned off as they no longer have parishioners. The main area of the
Thirty Years War is no longer Christian. Imagine that.

It’s tempting to think humans are losing their religiosity, but that’s
not how biology works. We can no more consciously abandon belief than we
can will ourselves to be left handed Bolshevism, Marxism, Nazism and
Fascism competed for a while to be the new religion of Europeans. Now it
is multiculturalism and the nature cults like global warming and
environmentalism. If the news is correct, the American cult of
anti-racism is finding a home in Europe as well.

In the early years of widespread narcotic trafficking, well organized
gangs that operated under strict rules ran the trade. They were violent
and chaotic, but the violence and chaos were manageable. Then the cops
decided to chop the heads off the drug gangs, thinking the organizations
would die or be great diminished. Instead, the bits and pieces of the
shattered organizations became block-by-block street gangs, making war
with one another over drug corners and sneakers.

The collapse of Christianity in the West has followed a similar pattern.
The various national and regional expressions of Christianity provided
order and rationality to human belief. The slow motion collapse of these
organizations resulted in crackpot death cults like Nazism, Marxism and
Bolshevism. Today we have various forms of nature worship
and minoritism, which are just as nutty and self-destructive, just less
bloody so far.

B. S Haldane identified fanaticism as one of the four important
inventions, which he associated with the Judeo-Christian tradition. He
was mistaken. The Greeks figured out that men would fight harder when
they had a reason to fight. In all probability, fanaticism evolved not
long after man had a reason to believe. Like belief, it is something
that is a permanent feature of the human condition.

Humanity staggered along through the agrarian age with religions that
helped make agrarian life sustainable. Christianity eventually allowed
the West to advance beyond sustenance farming and finally became an
asset in the rapid technological advance of the West. Whether or not the
new religions will be an asset or the undoing of the West is impossible
to know from where we sit. What we know is people will keep believing in
something with some portion falling for it fanatically.

 
