---
title: "Girl Power"
date: "2016-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7190"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7190"
---

The men of our species (I’m assuming you are human) are bigger, faster
and stronger than the females and it is not even close. I speak “on
average” here. There are small, frail men and big brawny women, but
those are both outliers. Even wimpy men are bigger, faster and stronger
than the typical woman. That’s why the best women’s college basketball
team scrimmages against frat boys, rather than male athletes.

There was a presidential commission on the topic 25 years ago when the
push for women in combat was first broached by the usual suspects. <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Presidential-Commission-Assignment-Women-Forces/dp/016038236X"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">They published a report</a> that you can
buy if you’re interested. In that report, they concluded that
the average female in her early adulthood is as physically capable as a
typical late middle-aged man. They found that just 3.4% of female Army
recruits could score at the mean for male recruits. After basic, that
number fell to below one percent.

The above is a hate-crime, of course, and not intended to be taken
literally. Let’s just say it is a theoretical construct in order to
evaluate <a
href="http://www.marinecorpstimes.com/story/military/2016/04/18/marines-new-fitness-plan-pullups-women-wont-mandatory/82793128/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story coming out of the Marine
Corp</a> this week.

*Marine leaders have proposed a new physical fitness test that would
still allow women to do the flexed-arm hang — but they’re not likely to
earn a first-class score without pullups.*

*A new plan for the PFT would require most women to do between eight and
10 pullups to net a max score on that portion of the test.*

*The potential change is in response to a fitness review ordered by
Commandant Gen. Robert Neller. Marine leaders found that “some current
\[fitness\] standards are either not relevant, not challenging or not
attainable,” according to a briefing obtained by Marine Corps Times. The
plan was presented to Marine leaders last week.*

*Women would still be allowed to do the flexed-arm hang under a
new proposal, but would be given little incentive to do so. Points for
the flexed-arm hang would max out at 50, while one pullup would be worth
51 points.*

In the PC age, the people in charge have to engage in all sorts of weird
processes to work around the limitations placed on them by the lunatic
cult in charge, but do so in a way that flatters the lunatics. In this
case, the Marines have to have effective combat units, but do so in a
way that permits them to pretend they are enthusiastic about having
females in those units, even though that means degrading those combat
units.

The lunatics insist that females are smaller, slower and weaker because
of the patriarchy. Years of oppression by the pale penis people forced
women into these “gender roles” that cause them to be smaller, weaker
and slower than men. The solution is to get a bunch of people killed
trying to prove this point and magically, our women will all look like
Armenian males. It’s human sacrifice to please the gods, if there was
such a thing as gods. Why this is good for anyone is never explained,
but shut up.

This is not just a denial of observable reality. It is a denial of
biology as a science. One of the big reasons humans rose to the top of
the food chain is the division of labor. Most evolutionary biologists
think one reason Neanderthals failed is there was no division of labor
between the sexes. Having females specialize at things best for
producing and rearing children, and men specialize in hunting and
defense, was a huge edge for modern man, compared to previous smart
monkeys.

Behavioral science also argues against women in combat. Men have evolved
for combat. We’re literally built for it and not just physically, but
cognitively. Our competition for mates is about denying the rival a
chance to mate and the surest way of doing that is to kill him. Female
competition for mates is about gaining the attention of males, not
slaughtering the other females. Anyone who has been around children
knows you have to train males to be civil; it comes natural for little
girls.

Since we live in the age of hating the pale penis people, reality is no
longer a limit to this sort of lunacy.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeannie_Leavitt" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Like the Air Force</a>, the Marines will hunt around for
a gal they can pretend is Audi Murphy so they can load her up with
medals and display her as an example of their progressive enthusiasm.
Everyone will pretend this is typical, even normal, in order to keep the
religious police from hustling them off to a re-education camp.

This is the price we pay for allowing a cult to gain control of our
country. The Stupid Tax is the price we pay for making every safe for
the dumbest members of society. A few pennies are tacked onto shampoo
bottles, for example, so that a warning can be placed on the outside
telling the stupid not to drink shampoo. When the stupid person sues,
the shampoo maker can say he did his best to warn the stupid about the
dangers of drinking shampoo. Billions are siphoned from society to
accommodate the stupid in this way.

What the military is facing is a Lunatic Tax. They can still drive off
the dangerously stupid, but they have to accommodate the the whims of
the  lunatics. That means re-engineering their combat units so they can
have a sprinkling of girls in them. When the angry bull-dyke Senator
visits, they can show her how enthusiastic they are for girls in combat.
This also requires a catalog of euphemisms and esoteric rules to game
the theocrats. Everyone in the military now speaks in tongues.

This will not end well.
