---
title: "Fear and Resentment"
date: "2016-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6162"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6162"
---

I continue to read National Review On-Line, despite having dropped the
subscription to the paper version years ago. The reason is it is a
canary in the coal mine sort of publication now. Their selection of
topics and positions indicates the current thinking within the
Republican Party. They have fluff and red meat type stuff too, but it is
mostly about how to sell the GOP to the public.

The Weekly Standard, in contrast, is about influencing policy and is
more of a trade journal for staffers in DC. They will take a long
piece on policy or strategy and package it with a bunch of fluff that
managerial class staffers will find interesting. My guess is their
circulation is 90% within the DC metropolitan area. It now fills the
role the New Republic filled before it was destroyed by the gay Nazi
from Facebook.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/429192/immigration-new-culture-war"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this ridiculously long-winded piece on
immigration</a> from one of the fake nerds at National Review is
something that got my attention. I mostly skimmed it for two reasons.
One is that a 3,500 word piece is too long by default. Second, it’s
obvious the author has no grasp of the subject.

*For years, elite conservatives have ignored grassroots opposition to
mass immigration, and Trump’s rise is their reward. That GOP primary
voters are in revolt over immigration, and that so many of them are
spurning elected Republicans they no longer trust, should come as no
surprise.*

*Does this mean that all conservatives need to do is call for closing
the borders, and then all will be well? Not by a long shot. If
Republicans who favor mass immigration have been blind to its downsides,
many of those who are opposed to it have themselves been blinded by
nostalgia — they have failed to recognize that the more culturally
homogeneous America of the 1980s, when many older conservatives came of
age, is gone.*

*The result is that anti-immigration conservatives have alienated
potential allies. Many centrist and liberal African Americans share
conservatives’ skepticism about immigration, yet they are reluctant to
join forces with a movement they see as racially exclusive. Many
Hispanics and Asians, whether foreign- or native-born, see the virtue in
reducing less-skilled immigration while easing the way for skilled
workers. Political scientists Jens Hainmueller and Daniel Hopkins have
gathered considerable evidence that support for such a policy is
widespread among Americans of all backgrounds. Yet immigration advocates
have deliberately framed the immigration debate as all-or-nothing, and
conservatives have let them get away with it.*

I’ll just note that no where in the 3,500 word article do we find
numbers in favor of mass immigration of any sort. The alluded to
“evidence” in this quote is never mentioned again. Like the “evidence”
in support of Big Foot and extraterrestrials, the evidence in support
of mass immigration is always discussed, but never presented.

Again, it is an unnecessarily long article. The argument is that the GOP
needs to adopt a policy of unlimited immigration that discriminates
against low-skilled immigrants. That way, the knuckle-dragging rubes in
flyover country will stop bitching about the foreigners and get back on
the GOP bus. Again, there’s zero data in support of the claim that
immigration is good for Americans. It’s just assumed.

None of this is new, but it indicates two things. One is the GOP is
still baffled by the revolt of the peasants. They are convinced the
trouble is the poor white dirt people in their trailers and shanties,
being displaced by the brown people of the future. If the GOP can buy
them off then the American middle class will gladly sign onto what the
author concedes is cultural suicide.

The other thing we see here is there’s no real interest in peeping over
the walls and seeing the faces of the revolting. They prefer to imagine
the Trump vote is a bunch of old white guys on Rascal Scooters, waving
around the Confederate Flag. There’s a sneering contempt for the rabble
outside the walls. Therefore, it is only proper to assume the worst of
them.

The contempt is most obvious when they deploy their favorite phrase,
“fear and resentment” to those opposed to mass immigration. The
implication is that only paranoid losers oppose mass immigration. They
can’t keep up so they manufacture bogeymen they can point to as an
enemy. Hilariously, the author finishes by calling his war on Americans
“the compassionate case for integration and assimilation.”

This being the start of 2016, I have naturally been reading up on the
year 1916. Even though it was clear that Russian society, for example,
was buckling under the strain of war, the tsarists were incapable of
seeing things through the eyes of the Russian people. To them, the
peasants and workers may as well have been foreigners, for all the
connection they felt toward them.

You see the same insularity in today’s managerial elite. Reihan Salam is
better than most in that he concedes that the GOP should pay some
attention to its voters on the issue of immigration. The trouble is the
vast majority of the managerial elite look at the American people in the
same way the tsarists looked at the starving peasants of St. Petersburg,
as a burden and a nuisance.
