---
title: "A Hooker, A Schoolteacher And Three Hacks Walk Into A Bar"
date: "2016-03-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6960"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6960"
---

The most entertaining campaign in my lifetime has managed to get even
more hilarious with the news that [Ted Cruz has a string of women on the
side](http://theconservativetreehouse.com/2016/03/24/the-national-enquirer-runs-story-of-multiple-ted-cruz-affairs/#more-114240).
The holy roller getting jammed up with hookers has happened so often
that it is now a hackneyed bit that even bad comics avoid. We are pretty
close to the point where being a holy roller is disqualifying on the
assumption there is a scandal lurking in the closet.

The National Enquirer is a tabloid so you always have to be wary, but
they are not the only people with the story. That linked piece suggests
several outlets had the story and held it for reasons as yet
unexplained. I looked at the twitter accounts of the women named in the
stories and they have suddenly gone quiet. Nowadays, that is a good clue
when trying to validate these things.

A sex scandal is always a good time for political junkies because it
lets us have some fun at the expense of a big shot. This one could be
hilarious because of the whipsaw effect. The media, conservative and
liberal, hate both Trump and Cruz. In fact, they have turned themselves
into pretzels trying to hate both men as bashing one inevitably helps
the other. If I had to guess, conservative media hates Trump more than
Cruz, but liberal media truly fears Trump.

As of this writing, all of the major media is giving this a good leaving
alone. Part of it is they hate following the lead of the Enquirer. We
saw this with every sex scandal since Gary Hart. But sex scandals sell
and eventually they have to cover it so they will dick around pretending
to do their own reporting for a while to keep up appearances. There is
also a legal issue, in light of the Gawker verdict.

Then there is the fact that some of the principles are fixtures in
political media. Amanda Carpenter is a gadfly who turns up on all the
chat shows. She has also been quite partisan in her support for Cruz.
Her animosity toward Trump is off the chart. Another one of the Cruz
women is a spokeschick for Fiorina. Another works for Trump and is on
the chat shows ever day. Calling these women “Cruz Bimbos” is going to
make for some uncomfortable moments.

That is the real story here. These people all hang out with one another.
A story like this reveals the truth of political media. It is all a
show. Two people spend a segment calling each other Hitler and then go
out for drinks or more. Newt Gingrich called it Hollywood for ugly
people and he was right. Nothing is on the level and everything is for
sale. Both sides are just in it for the cash.

Katrina Pierson, one of the alleged bimbos, is a pretty good example of
the sort of people in the chattering classes. She was an Obama supporter
in 2008, but then joined the Tea Party in 2010. She worked for Ted Cruz
when he was running for senate. Now she is working for Trump. [She also
has a habit of taking things that do not belong to
her](http://www.dallasnews.com/news/politics/headlines/20140214-sessions-rival-katrina-pierson-says-1997-shoplifting-charge-helped-turn-life-around.ece).

Putting the politics aside, the hard part for the chattering classes is
this story a truth about women in their business. All of these “strong,
independent women” are chasing after the high status males like the
“stupid prol” women they love to mock. Say what you want about Sarah
Palin, her old man is not catting around on her and she controls the
checkbook. Amanda Carpenter could learn a few things from Palin.

Of course, all of these women are full of it. One of the weird parts of
politics is just how many women are there to snag a man. The adventuress
is a fixture in Washington. They love the action, but they also love
competing with other women for high status males, even the married ones,
especially the married ones. There are normal women too, but the
adventuress-to-normal is off the charts, compared to anywhere else.

One last bit from this that is worth mentioning. Ted Cruz is what the
man-o-sphere calls a “sigma male.” Like the alpha male, the sigma enjoys
locking horns with other men and chasing women, but they prefer to
operate on the fringe. Instead of climbing the status tree to be the top
dog, they work solo and eschew building a following. They often go out
of their way to piss of the establishment as a part of the strategy to
score women.

This is a pattern we see with Cruz. Senators are famous for sticking
together, but he has gone out of his way to piss in the cornflakes of
his peers. Even when he was working for Bush, he had a reputation for
being a jerk to everyone. But his bad boy rep helped him with the
ladies. Now we can assume it is part of his seduction strategy. It is
also the reason he will be dropping out the race sooner rather than
later.
