---
title: "Reality on the Rhine"
date: "2016-03-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6739"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6739"
---

There are two ways you can concede reality. One is to keep running
headlong into it with a bucket over your head until you pass out and are
dragged off the stage. The other way is to adapt but pretend that
reality has decided to accommodate you. This means an assault on the
language or sending an inconvenient truth down the memory hole. This way
everyone can pretend they were not the guy running headlong into reality
with the bucket on their head.

Angela Merkel’s decision to turn Germany into a province of the
Caliphate was based on fantasies popular with our ruling classes.
Namely, that all people everywhere are the same and want the same
things. All those messy differences we see are just social constructs or
the legacy of white racism. Throw open the doors of civilization and we
will have paradise!

Instead, Germany now has Muslim rape gangs, migrant ghettos and growing
social unrest. Further, this has destabilized the very sensitive
political balance in Europe. Britain could very well bolt the EU and it
is entirely due to the migrant hoards trying to swim the Channel. Across
Europe, xenophobic political parties are moving from the fringe to
respectability, [even in
Germany](http://www.spiegel.de/politik/deutschland/afd-befragung-so-tickt-die-alternative-fuer-deutschland-a-1081385.html)
where they are allergic to such things because of you know who.

While there are few signs that the good thinkers in Germany are ready to
take the bucket off their head, the rest of Europe is trying to adjust
to observable reality. T[he Balkan states have sealed their borders with
Greece](http://news.yahoo.com/slovenia-ban-transit-migrants-midnight-190152692.html),
turning the birth place of western democracy into the [Camp of the
Saints](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Camp_of_the_Saints). Greece is
quickly becoming [a sort of ghetto for
migrants](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/mar/02/idomeni-greece-refugee-march-abruptly-cut-short)
denied access to Germany. If the average Greek did not hate Germans
after the financial debacle, they do now.

That, of course, should have been the lesson everyone learned from the
show down over Greek debt. The EU may have been a French initiative, but
it is a German institution now. If you’re the French or Dutch, this is
not a bad deal. Hungarians and Poles are probably fine with it for the
most part. But the Golden Rule always applies. The man with gold makes
the rules and in Europe, that’s Germany.

This brings us back to reality. Germany, as the dominant nation in
Europe, has to accept the responsibilities that come with the position.
Europe is best served when led by a Frankish coalition, dominated by the
heirs of Louis the German. And yes, I’m being fast and loose with
history here, but the point is Germany and France are the heart of
Europe and must dominate the politics. There can be no other way.

[Merkel’s trip to Turkey and the resulting “deal” to help address the
migrant
problem](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/mar/08/un-refugee-agency-criticises-quick-fix-eu-turkey-deal),
suggests the German political elite is starting to figure out that
reality is not going away. A united Europe means a federation of ethnic
states led by Germany and France. It can never mean a monolithic super
state that has no natural identity. Borders exist for a reason. They
help maintain order, inside Europe and outside it.

There’s another bit to this and that is Germany will have to take the
lead in defending Europe militarily. History has not ended and that
means Europe will have to maintain a foreign policy and a military to
back it. [Russia will forever make mischief in
Europe](http://www.rferl.mobi/a/russia-syria-said-using-migrant-crisis-as-weapon-against-nato-west-breedlove/27584179.html).
That’s what Russians are put on earth to do so that has to be addressed.
T[hen there’s the demographic issue to the
south](http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-graph-that-explains-the-2015-migrant-crisis/).

That brings me back to the beginning. Fair or foul, the idea of a
re-militarized Germany is a tough sell, even if the reality of it is a
necessity. The political class of Europe is going to have to find a way
to accomplish the goal while pretending reality has given in on this
point. The rather obvious lesson of the last 25 years is that the
institutions designed for fighting the Cold War are falling away. NATO
is operating on borrowed time. Something must replace it.

The bigger issue facing Europe, one no one dares mention, is that the
Germans need to put their past behind them. You know who was an
aberration and it is long past time for Germans to regain their national
pride. They cannot be the leader of modern Europe if they are
psychologically crippled by events no one alive remembers. Hitler has
been dead for 70 years now. Time to close the books on him.

That also means closing the books on the neutered German too. The Cold
War required West Germany to be a super-charged Switzerland full of
gregarious beer drinking bureaucrats who meticulously adhered to the
latest political fashions. The new Europe requires a confident Germany
willing to take on the hard work of defending civilization from threats
internal as well as external. That’s going to require retiring the old
thinking as well as the old men and women currently in charge.

Call it whatever you like, but the reality of Europe is that it is
defined in Germany.
