---
title: "Data Driven Nonsense"
date: "2016-11-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-11-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9000"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9000"
---

When I was a young man starting out in the world, I was once given an
assignment for the marketing people. The job was to gather up and detail
the costs of various marketing programs. For some reason they did not
track these things in the accounting system. That meant I had to rummage
through filing cabinets pulling out invoices and then tabulating the
results in a spreadsheet. My guess is I was given the task mostly
because I was the only guy who could use Lotus 1-2-3.

I gathered up all the data for the periods in question and put together
a report. Out of curiosity, and to be a suck up, I created s chart that
showed the impact of various marketing efforts on sales. I even factored
in things like the number of peak sales days in a month and adjusted the
results to reflect these variances. What jumped out to me was
that marketing did nothing for sales. I then expanded the data range to
include previous years and it was more obvious. Our marketing was a
waste of money.

I was young, but I was not an idiot so I gave the VP of marketing the
numbers without my analysis. He then used them in his presentation, in
which he claimed to be the key to the company’s success. I sat watching
it waiting for someone to point out that he was full of baloney, but no
one did. What I realized was everyone believed in these types of
marketing schemes. They had to work because everyone did them. The VP of
marketing liked his job so he told everyone what they wanted to hear.

The point of this walk down memory lane is that people have been using
data to lie to one another long before we had cheap database software
and <a
href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-09-29/hedge-funds-are-china-s-newest-export-as-quants-flock-offshore"
target="_blank">Chinese quants</a> cranking out reports. My bet is the
first modern humans to migrate out of Africa had a meeting where Grog
held up a skin, with marks on it, that he claimed was proof that slow
food and fast women were just over the horizon. Data analysis is often
just another form of magic that we use to grease the wheels of life.

This always comes to mind when I hear political types talk about their
data operations. Reince Priebus is running around saying it was the GOP
data operations that got the Trump vote out on Tuesday. He was on the
radio claiming that his team “knew what people ate for lunch, when they
went to work and how they voted in the past” so they could target these
voters and get them to the polls. He made it sound like they had studied
all of us since birth so they could maximize their vote.

This is nonsense. Trump had none of this stuff in the primary and he
poleaxed everyone in his way. His “ground game” was to go on TV and
radio and be interesting. Then he went on Twitter to give reporters
something to ask him. In the general, he preferred the old fashioned
whistle stop tour. Instead of a train, he flew around on his plane and
did stadium shows near airports. His campaign was lean and mean,
avoiding the trap of hiring an army of experts. [Trump was outspent
something close to 5-to-1 when including outside
groups](http://observer.com/2016/11/donald-trump-didnt-just-win-he-won-with-unprecedented-efficiency/).

The fact is people buy stuff because they think they need it. They buy
*your* stuff because they think it is cheaper or they think it has high
status. I have a $200 Windows phone because it does everything I would
want to do on an iPhone. My friends all have iPhones because they think
it makes them look smart and hip. No amount of analytics are going to
get me to buy an $800 iPhone nor will it make the cheap mobile phones
hip and trendy.

Similarly, people vote for a few reasons, one of which is tribal
loyalty. I know people who will never vote for a Republican, even if the
Democrat is an ax murder. No amount of data analysis is going to alter
that reality. The persuadable, on the other hand, can be persuaded if
the candidate is appealing and offers them something they want.
Similarly, the loyalists will turn out if they like their candidate and
he has something to offer. Again, big data has nothing to do with it.

I suspect Trump’s reluctance to sign off on the big data operations, in
his campaign, was due to the fact he has spent his life sitting through
presentations in which clever guys tried to baffle him with data. Early
in his career, he was the guy doing the baffling, as he convinced
bankers and investors that his projects were going to make money.  Over
a long career he has figured out that the basics of sales are immutable
and the rest if just window dressing.

That’s not to say that all data analysis is nonsense. Steve Sailer has
used publicly available voting data to analyze the lunacy of Official
Conservatism™. It’s just that big data is not terribly useful in selling
a candidate or a political party. Hillary Clinton allegedly had the
greatest data team in the history of data teams. She had Google,
Faceberg and Twitter working with the DNC to aid her data team. She lost
because she is an awful person with nothing to offer.

But, that’s not what the data says, or at least it is not what the
quants analyzing the data will say it says. Instead, they will work for
the next year building after action reports loaded with jargon from
statistics and demography, that will prove she just needed a bigger data
operation and more “granular analysis in real time.” In 2020, the
one-legged Latina lesbian the Democrats offer up against Trump will have
the best data team and ground game in the history of mankind.
