---
title: "The Fury of the Central Planners"
date: "2016-09-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8555"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8555"
---

When I was out in the provinces last month, I watched a bit of the BBC
and SkyNews. One of the things I found humorous about the news coverage
was the hyperventilating about Brexit. Every story had a Brexit angle,
even the local interest stuff. The general impression I got from the
news presenters was that they were having a tough time keeping it
together. At any moment they could break down into sobbing over the
horrors of Brexit. If you did not know better, you would think Brexit
was code for re-opening Auschwitz.

All the prophesies about the disasters that would befall the world, if
the snaggletoothed yokels voted to leave Europe, have not come to pass.
In fact, the early returns suggest it has been a net positive for the
Brits. Time will tell how it all unfolds as there is a lot that has yet
to happen. Even so, the results thus far are making the Remain side look
rather foolish. Instead of accepting this reality, the true believers
are carrying on like Godzilla is about to cross the Channel and attack
London, because of Brexit.

This inability to accept reality is not confined to the Brits. Tyler
Cowen has an <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2016-09-13/don-t-believe-the-good-economic-news-about-brexit"
target="_blank">unintentionally hilarious column</a> up demanding that
we believe the libertarian economists and not our lying eyes. The short
version, for those uninterested in reading it, is that he and the rest
of the doomsayers forgot to carry the one and the day of reckoning is
actually a little ways off. But don’t you worry though. The day of
reckoning is approaching and those beastly Dirt People in the
accompanying picture will be held to account.

In fairness to libertarians, modern economists are not libertarians.
They dress up their act with libertarian hobbyhorse items like free weed
and open borders, but modern economics is managerial central planning.
They are technocrats convinced they can micromanage everything through
monetary and tax policy. <a
href="http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/30793d38-737b-11e6-b60a-de4532d5ea35.html#axzz4KAvyjDi0"
target="_blank">No matter how many times they get it wrong</a>, they
remain certain they just need to tweak their models and boundless bliss
will spread over the countryside. Worse still, they fully embrace the
lunacy of homo economicus.

Economics, as I’m fond of saying, is the modern equivalent of astrology.
Before a battle, Cyrus II of Persia would bring in his astrologers to
advice him on the time and place to attack his enemy. The astrologers
would figure out what he wanted to hear, consult their maps and then
tell him what he wanted to hear. Cyrus was a bad ass dude, who was
rarely wrong, so it was a wise course by the astrologers to tell the
boss what he already knew. When he won, they got some credit and they
avoided contradicting the boss.

<a href="https://venezuelanalysis.com/news/2719" target="_blank">This
old story</a> about the eminent <s>astrologer</s> economist Joseph
Stiglitz praising the economic polices of Venezuela ten years ago is a
good example. Stiglitz was telling his hosts what they wanted to hear
because they were paying him to endorse their brand of lunacy. Of
course, Venezuela is now headed to total collapse because their economy
has ground to a halt. In an age when Mexico’s poor people are obese,
<a href="http://www.bbc.com/news/world-latin-america-37342801"
target="_blank">Venezuela has managed to have a food shortage</a>. Maybe
the rulers should not have listened to Joseph Stiglitz.

The fascinating thing about economists is that their error rate is
outlandishly high, but they never lose credibility with the rulers.
Obama called in his best seers when he rose to power in 2008. They told
him that borrowing a trillion dollars and blowing it on pointless
projects would result in 1.5 trillion in economic activity. They called
it the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiscal_multiplier"
target="_blank">fiscal multiplier</a>. One could be forgiven for
thinking that this is another version of
<a href="http://economyblog.ncpa.org/the-tale-of-the-100-bill/"
target="_blank">this old joke</a> about a stranger coming into town and
spending $100 at an hotel, then changing his mind.

<a
href="http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/01/why-government-spending-does-not-stimulate-economic-growth-answering-the-critics"
target="_blank">The Obama stimulus plan was a bust</a>, but that was
never really the point anyway. Obama wanted to lavish his party with
your money and he wanted to make it look like he was doing you a favor
by doing it. That’s why he called in his best magicians and astrologers
to give it their stamp of approval. Being right or wrong was never a
concern. It never is in economics. The chief architects of the stimulus
knew it was a great career move to give their stamp of approval to what
was obviously just good old fashioned patronage. All of them landed
prestigious jobs in the academy and Wall Street afterward.

Anyway, I suspect the fury of the central planners over Brexit has to do
with fear that the scam is no longer working. Every big foot economist
from the West weighed in against Brexit. They shook their staffs and
promised Britain would be visited by plagues, monsters and dark spirits
if they left Europe. The voters chose Brexit anyway. If you’re in the
business of fooling the people on behalf of the rulers, you need to show
you can fool the voters. Otherwise, the rulers have no use for you.
