---
title: "The Fury of the Dirt People"
date: "2016-03-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6615"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6615"
---

Other than libertarians, people of every ideological strip start with
the basics of modern civics. All of us have an obligation to our fellow
citizens and our government has an obligation to all of us. Your duty as
a citizen is not to the ruler, but to your fellow citizens. That means
the men and women in government jobs have those same obligations. That’s
the foundation stone of popular government. We create among ourselves
the apparatus of the state so it can serve our collective interests.

Fundamental to making this work is the idea of fairness. No one gets
everything they want and few are deprived of getting something they
want. Similarly, no group is getting to game the laws to take advantage
of others. The laws in a society under popular government are often
aimed at addressing the issue of fairness. Rich guys pay more in taxes
than poor guys because the bulk of the people think it is only fair.
After all, the rich guy is getting more from the bargain.

That’s obviously a very simple way of putting it, but fairness is the
canvas on which popular government is drawn. It is the sense of fairness
that is at the heart of reform campaigns and the primary appeal of
political parties. Democrats in America have been campaigning on
fairness for as long as anyone reading this has been alive. Even
Republicans tuck the fairness issue into their appeals for low taxes and
open borders. In the West, at least, popular government is nothing but a
debate over what is fair and equitable.

I suspect that part of what’s happening to the Republicans, and the
Buckley Conservatives, is rooted in the fairness issue. The people
fobbing themselves off as conservatives these days are mostly
libertarians with some social conservative ideas bolted on as
decoration. This is the result of
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusionism" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Frank Meyer Fusionism</a>, which was supposed to bring
together the free market ideas of libertarians and the traditionalism of
the old Right. Today it is just technocratic libertarianism with some
hand waving about abortion and the gays.

As I’m fond of pointing out to libertarians, people are not moist
robots. Their heads may say that the factory has to close because it is
losing money, but they still feel terrible for the men getting pink
slips. They may be swayed by free trade appeals, but they still feel
wrong seeing jobs being shipped to China, while Americans end up on the
welfare rolls. It’s the nagging sense of fairness that leads us to think
that maybe we’re not living up to our obligations to our fellow
citizens.

<a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/us-carriercorp-layoffs-idUSKCN0VP2R6"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Consider this story from a couple of
weeks ago.</a>

*<span class="articleLocatio</span>n">Union leaders at an air
conditioner factory in Indianapolis threatened with losing 1,400 jobs to
Mexico said on Tuesday the plant’s owner expects to pay Mexican workers
$3 an hour compared to an average of more than $20 an hour for the U.S.
workers.</span>*

*“We haven’t given up the fight yet,” said Chuck Jones, president of the
United Steelworkers union local that represents workers at the Carrier
Corp plant. “But Carrier has pretty well indicated that the wage
differential is too great and there’s not much we can do.”*

*A spokeswoman for Carrier, a unit of United Technologies Corp
(<span id="symbol_UTX.N_0">[UTX.N](http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/overview?symbol=UTX.N)</span>),
said the company pays a “competitive wage” based on local conditions and
could not discuss pay levels.*

*Union and Carrier officials were locked in talks on Tuesday as a
political storm raged around them.*

*The announcement last week from Carrier that it would shift 1,400 jobs
from Indianapolis and 700 from another plant in Huntington, Indiana to
Monterrey, Mexico starting in 2017 prompted Republican presidential
front-runner Donald Trump to say he would tax Carrier air conditioning
units for moving to Mexico.*

Normal Americans can wrap their heads around the fact that Carrier will
save a lot of money by moving their plant to Mexico. They understand
that this may be necessary to remain competitive. They also wonder why
our government is doing all of these favors for Mexico, when the
Mexicans do things like ship us narcotics, gangsters and illegal aliens.
In other words, something feels wrong here. Whose interests are being
served here? It is clearly not the Americans working at the Carrier
plant.

Now, <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3459686/Billion-dollar-startup-bans-employees-drinking-office-caught-having-sex-stairwell-staff-parties.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">look at this story from Silicon
Valley</a>.

*Human-resources software company Zenefits had to send an uncomfortable
HR email to their own to staff recently following a few incidents within
their San Francisco office.*

*The startup, which launched less than three years ago but was evaluated
last May at $4.5 billion, was forced to ban staff from drinking in the
office after some wild parties that involved employees having sex in the
stairwell of the building, according to emails obtained by <a
href="http://www.wsj.com/article_email/zenefits-once-told-employees-no-sex-in-stairwells-1456183097-lMyQjAxMTI2MjIzMzMyMTMwWj"
rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank">The Wall Street Journal</a>.*

*The emails, sent around last summer by Zenefits Director of Real Estate
and Workplace Services, Emily Agin, described the situation of employees
having sex at work as ‘crude behavior’.*

*‘It has been brought to our attention by building management and
Security that the stairwells are being used inappropriately….Cigarettes,
plastic cups filled with beer, and several used condoms were found in
the stairwell. Yes, you read that right,’ the email said.*

*‘Do not use the stairwells to smoke, drink, eat, or have sex.*

*‘Please respect building and company policy and use common sense…’*

*The alcohol ban was officially brought in last week by Zenefits’s new
chief executive, David Sacks.*

*Sacks said it is important to cultivate a more mature work atmosphere
in a staff memo that was sent around last Wednesday.*

Zenefits is a company that exists because of the financialization of the
US economy. Cheap credit means cash to create this firm and keep it
afloat while it parties its way through a ton of cash. It’s also the
sort of firm that helps business treat their employees like furniture.
Americans see these stories and naturally wonder how these rich pricks
are allowed to get away with this nonsense. No American can smoke and
drink at work, much less get it on in the stairwell.

When the boys and girls of Conservative Inc, cloistered in their
taxpayer financed monasteries around Washington, cry out “A furore
Lutumnorum libera nos, Domine” they are not thinking about stories like
these. They have been insulated from the consequences of the polices
they are paid to promote. The Dirt People, however, look at the
unfairness they see everyday on their televisions and on-line and wonder
why their leaders have forsaken them.
