---
title: "Low IQ in the Information Age"
date: "2016-07-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8009"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8009"
---

Watching the cable news channels Thursday night as they covered the
attack on the Dallas police by the George Soros funded Black Live
Matter, I was fascinated by some of the “man on the street” segments.
The blacks they interviewed were not angry ghetto rats ready to break
out with chants of “kill the pigs!” Instead, they were articulate,
middle-class blacks more concerned with posting their selfie on Faceberg
than the shootings. They went to the riot because it was the cool thing
to do and all of a sudden it was *really* cool so they captured the
moment with a selfie.

That is the thing you cannot help but notice about this black
anger spasm is that it is almost exclusively among middle-class blacks.
In fact, it is among the blacks who are the greatest beneficiaries of
the Civil Rights movement. The angry black guy today is most likely to
be a mulatto at an Ivy League college, or in a government position, by
the magic of affirmative action. Barak Obama, instead of being thankful
for having not been born in Africa, walks around with a chip on his
shoulder about race. He and the [Mulatto
Mafia](http://www.vdare.com/posts/loretta-lynch-and-the-mulatto-mafia)
that surrounds him are largely responsible for BLM.

This is not just a black thing. One of the distinguishing features of
“homegrown” Muslim terrorism is that it is usually perpetrated by second
and even third generation Muslims. The parents came here, got jobs and
were grateful to be able to give their kids a better life. Those kids,
on the other hand, are filled with resentment at their “fellow
citizens.” They embrace radical Islam because they are filled with hate
toward the society into which they were born. Islam does not make them
crazy. They went bonkers on their own and found radical Islam to be a
convenient vehicle.

One possible explanation may be IQ. Being the smartest guy in the black
family means you are about as smart as the average white guy. Similarly,
being the smartest guy in the immigrant Afghan household puts you
somewhere around the IQ of a tow truck operator or office clerk. Being
the smartest guy in the Chinese family means you teach computer
engineering at the local university. Being the smartest guy in a Jewish
family means you win a Nobel Prize in physics. This is a deliberate
exaggeration, but the gaps are well [defined and
documented](https://jaymans.wordpress.com/jaymans-race-inheritance-and-iq-f-a-q-f-r-b/).

These Black Lives Matter types grew up in middle-class homes and did
well in school. Because they scored at the top-10% of their race, they
were eagerly recruited by the better colleges, where they suddenly found
themselves struggling to keep up with their fellow students. The Chinese
kid sitting next to them in chemistry is a full standard deviation
smarter and can breeze through his course work, while Yolanda needs
endless hours of tutoring just to clear the freshmen requirements. That
results in a lot of resentment and [high dropout rates among affirmative
action
beneficiaries](http://www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2012/10/the-painful-truth-about-affirmative-action/263122/).

People like Michelle Obama and Loretta Lynch have found themselves
struggling to compete with their coevals their entire adult lives, which
is why they have a chip on their shoulder. Their credentials are
meaningless and at some level, they know it and they know everyone else
knows it. Instead of being grateful for the opportunities, they are
resentful of the daily reminders that they are where they are because
someone decided to put them there as a trophy. High achieving blacks
often feel like pets, because [they often are the pets of sanctimonious
white liberals](http://www.theatlantic.com/author/ta-nehisi-coates/).

Muslims have a similar dilemma. Their parents come here happy to have
indoor toilets. They left squalor and violence to live in relative
comfort. They may harbor their own resentments, but their life in the
West has largely met their expectations. The kids, on the other hand,
come in with the same expectations as the Italians, Irish, Asians, etc.,
but they are not equipped with the same cognitive toolkit. The average
IQ in Iraq is just under ninety, which places them in the “uphill
battle” portion of the bell curve. They are looking at a top of being a
security guard or warehouse worker.

This is not just a problem for blacks and Muslims, of course. There are
plenty of stupid Italians and Irish. Townies in Boston are finding it
increasingly difficult to maintain their social standing because the
world no longer rewards a work ethic. America, like most of the West, is
a technological society and raw IQ is a required ingredient for success.
There is also the social component. Increasingly, you need a narrow set
of social skills to succeed and these are cultivated in private schools
and upper middle-class neighborhoods.

President Obama is a good example. He is top-5% for his race in IQ,
maybe even top-2%, but that was only good enough to get him through the
affirmative action door of elite colleges. His upbringing gave him the
exotic, international charm that is highly valued among our national
elites. No matter what you think of his politics, Obama is a
very charming guy in a way that is appealing to the sort of people
running Western governments and institutions. Needless to say, most
blacks and immigrants lack the social skills and they have no way to
attain them.
