---
title: "It’s Not Us, It’s You"
date: "2016-03-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6895"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6895"
---

In 2000 I was living in Virginia and not terribly interested in the
upcoming election. The reason was twofold. I was not a big fan of Bush
and all of the down ticket candidates were uninteresting, but harmless.
I think my state rep had been in office for decades and was running
unopposed, because no one had a reason to throw him out. He was harmless
and sensible, a rare thing in politics.

Even so, I went off the morning of the election to my polling place and
I was surprised to see a line. It was one of those times when you
suddenly realize you are wrong about things. Clearly, people were not
like me and indifferent to the election. They were engaged, because they
thought it was important. [Bush won
Virginia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_presidential_election_in_Virginia,_2000),
but not as handily as one would have expected.

What came next was eight years of Progressive crazies screaming at us
that Bush was a mix of Hitler and Satan. On the other side were
conservative media defending everything Bush said and did, even the
stuff that was contrary to conservative dogma, which was most of it. It
was in the Bush years that “conservative” lost all meaning and became a
brand label to sell the GOP, as well as ties, coffee mugs and so forth.

Part of the reason Donald Trump has risen to the top of the GOP field is
he has largely run against conservative media. It has been an article of
faith among media conservatives that the public hated the liberal media.
Michelle Malkin has said “lame-stream media” so many times it could be
her nickname. Much of what Fox News and talk radio do everyday is rail
about the liberal media, seeing that as red meat to their fans.

It turns out that the public actually has grown to hate all political
media equally. It is why the screaming about Trump has backfired. The
conservative public has been doing a slow burn for eight years over the
Bush debacle. They feel they were sold a pig in a poke. The people
selling it were the folks in conservative media, who tried peddling Mitt
Romney four years ago. They were ready to sell Jeb Bush this time.

It appears that conservative media may be slowly figuring it out as we
see in [this
article](https://www.commentarymagazine.com/articles/new-theory-trump/)
by the neo-con pundit John Podhoretz. He cannot bring himself the admit
the invade the world/invite the world ideology of his people is the real
problem, but he does inch toward blaming Bush for the current ructions.
Now that [Hari
Seldon’s](http://media.salon.com/2014/07/bill_kristol.jpg) top
lieutenant has said it is OK, I suspect others will begin to plow this
ground over the summer.

The gist of the Podhoretz article is that the bank collapse and mortgage
meltdown still haunt the GOP because no one was ever brought to account
for it. Instead, Republicans blamed Clinton and Democrats blamed greedy
bankers, who were never charged. Instead, they were bailed out with
borrowed Chinese money. The argument is that this “revolt” of the Dirt
People is a delayed response to this.

Well, that is some of it, but the 2008 nonsense was part of a larger
trend we have seen for decades. In the 80’s, many people went to jail
over the S&L Crisis. In 2000 hardly anyone went to jail for the dot-com
fraud and the accounting scandals. People have been watching the rich
and powerful avoid the law for a long time now so the mortgage collapse
was just part of the larger mosaic.

The bigger issue is that conservatives were told for generations that
the only way to roll back the welfare state and restore order was to get
control of Congress. That happened for the first time in 50 years when
the GOP won the House in ‘94. They did some good things and slowed
spending considerably, but Clinton was still in the White House so
rollback was off the table.

That was the argument for Bush from conservative media in 2000. Bush
with a GOP House and Senate could pass real reform and big parts of the
conservative agenda. Instead, we got wars of choice that staggered on
endlessly and a massive expansion of government not seen since LBJ. To
top it off, we got the start of the security state in the form of the
Department of Homeland Security.

This crap was sold and defended by conservative media for eight years.
The warmongering has been defended throughout the Obama years. All the
big-shots in conservative media were preparing to sell the voters on Jeb
Bush until the Dirt Monster showed up and busted up the party. It is why
the screaming and hooting from conservative media has fallen on deaf
ears. No one believes them anymore.

To add insult to injury, the surge of Trump has been cast as racist and
prol by the pajama-clad social justice warriors of conservative media.
If you are a rank and file conservative, you cannot help but wonder if
conservative media is just a big fraud run by the DNC. Browse through
[National Review](http://www.global.nationalreview.com/) and you can
only assume it is a well coordinated and financed attack on the voters.

People who work with numbers have an old gag, “quantity has a quality of
its own.” That is what is happening to conservative media. They can be
clever and smart and have access to the best media tools. That is not
much use when 99% of the people no longer believe them. Unless and until
conservative media comes to terms with the fact they are on the wrong
side of their customers, their star will continue to fade.
