---
title: "Feeling the Bern"
date: "2016-02-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6624"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6624"
---

A topic that gets little attention but is probably at the core of what
is going on in the West is the collapse of the intellectual Left. Not so
long ago, at least for men my age, you really could not be an
intellectual unless you embraced the economics of the Left, which meant
some form of socialism. Even intellectuals well outside
political-economy would make clear they were fine with some form of
socialism.

It’s how, for example, you could be a good liberal, like [Daniel Patrick
Moynihan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Patrick_Moynihan), and
also a [critic of what we now call
multiculturalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Negro_Family:_The_Case_For_National_Action).
The Left in the West started with economics as the core of the ideology.
There was simply no way to be a man of the Left and not embrace some
form of economic socialism. It was the intellectual engine of the Left.
It provided the goals and most of the justification for the great
liberal project.

The collapse of the Soviet Union put a stake in the heart of socialism.
The stagnation of the 70’s in the West did a lot to discredit socialism.
The economic liberalization of the 80’s and subsequent economic boom had
socialism on the ropes, but the collapse of the Soviets killed
intellectual socialism forever. It still staggers on in the domestic
policies of Western countries, but that’s just cultural inertia.

Progressives no longer have a coherent economic ideology. They have
accepted global capitalism without thinking much about it. Many of them
come close to arguing that economics is no longer in the domain of
politics. Instead, it should be left to supra-national organizations
like central banks and global trade organizations. The EU is the most
obvious example.

Technocratic managerialism has absorbed the political and intellectual
Left like an anaconda swallowing a small animal. Through the outlines of
the creatures skin, we can still make out Marx, Engels, the old FDR
coalition, the Fabians and so on, but each passing year it is more
difficult to detect them. What’s left of political-economy is a debate
over who has the better spreadsheet skills.

Progressives used to think they were on the side of the angels, because
they wanted to bring economic prosperity to the masses. The central
argument of the Left from Rousseau until the early 90’s was that the
correct economic arrangements would result in surplus and prosperity.
The math was therefore simple. The rich had too much and the poor too
little so polices that addressed that imbalance were a moral duty of the
Progressive.

The collapse of the Soviet Union took with it the economic arguments of
the Left. If market capitalism was able to dominate the premier
socialist enterprise, it was no longer possible to argue for socialism.
Not only that, but the opening of the Soviet Block also revealed the
true horrors of socialism. They even managed to rape the very earth on
which they stood. Chernobyl, in many respects, came to symbolize the
idiocy of socialism.

The problem for the Left was that the road to salvation could no longer
run through the economics department. What was the point of massive
government intervention in the lives of citizens if economic equality
was no longer a legitimate goal? That’s when they lurched into identity
politics. Salvation was now about making sure the black guy or the
lesbian felt wanted.

The problem here is no serious man of science accepts the claims of the
social justice warriors. That’s why the Left is now just a collection of
fashion statements. It has no intellectual underpinning. It makes no
claims to transcendent truth. It’s just a bunch of people, who think
they can gain salvation by harassing other people. Modern liberalism is
a cargo cult with no real point beyond salving the emotional wounds of
the adherents.

That’s why Bernie Sanders is such a threat to Hillary Clinton. Free
stuff from your neighbor is a terrible idea, but at least it is an idea.
If you are a young person loaded down with college debt, debt relief
sounds pretty good compared to Clinton’s weird howling about
transgendered rights. Something always sounds better than nothing, even
when that something is just a museum piece brought out of mothballs by a
guy who looks like a character from another century.

That said, nuts and bolts commies like Sanders are seen as a threat
to the boys and girls running the Cult of Modern Liberalism, because
he exposes the core problem of their new religion. If the people start
caring about material stuff again, they may not be willing to sign off
on the cultural suicide that promises salvation. If politics is once
again about material prosperity, the Left has nothing to contribute.
That makes old school commies like Bernie dangerous.

The quest to invite the world into Western countries is in many respects
an attempt to create a new victim class the Left can defend. In a world
where the poor are fat and live long lives, being the champion of the
little guy is not so glamorous. When the oppressed have their own cable
channels and control the national culture, even the fanatic has a tough
time feeling heroic on their behalf.

That I think is what lies at the heart of the open borders fanaticism.
Angela Merkel and her coreligionists are inviting the Muslims in so they
can be victims in need of protection. It’s Mother Theresa having run out
of lepers giving the village a plague so she can tend to them.
It’s [Munchausen syndrome by
proxy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Munchausen_syndrome_by_proxy).
Instead of being a nurse that poisons her patients, Merkel is a
politician, who poisons her country so she can cure it.

That’s why guys like Sanders and Jeremy Corbyn in the UK are a symptom.
The intellectual Left has collapsed. What’s left is the spiritual
trappings that have nothing to offer other than short term spiritual
relief to the adherent. While there is always a market for crackpot
religions and suicide cults, you cannot build a large scale political
movement on them. Bernie Sanders is the ghost of socialism past, warning
the present they are headed for destruction.
