---
title: "The Restoration"
date: "2016-07-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8130"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8130"
---

The reaction to Trump’s acceptance speech was predictable but
illuminating all the same. The Left is in a panic because they have
evolved into a bizarre identity cult that no longer cares about the
practical aspects of politics. Trump’s talk of jobs, trade and culture
may as well have been in a foreign language. The so-called Right has
evolved into a wish list of policy positions dreamed up by government
spongers living in the Imperial Capital. All of the boys and girls of
Conservative Inc. are shrieking in terror at the Trump speech, yelling
some version of “See? He is no conservative!”

Because Conservative Inc. insists they own the trademark for
“conservative,” they insist they get to define what is and what is not
“conservative.” Conveniently, everything Trump says is defined as
outside the bounds of conservatism, while everything they say is within
the bounds of conservatism. Professional conservatives pretty much spend
all their time proving they are inside the lines as currently drawn. The
death rattle of every mass movement is when they begin to turn all their
efforts to rule making and enforcement.

The one thing the Buckley-ites have right is that Trump is not one of
them. He is no libertarian and he has no interest in kissing the ring of
the identity politics crowd. Trump made clear in his speech that he
thinks the globalist fantasies about the glorious future are nonsense.
Trump is a nationalist in the old school sense. That is, he thinks
separate countries, governed in the best interests of their people, is
the right model. Those best interests are defined by the people and
implemented by their representatives. Hardly anyone on Team Buckley
holds these views.

That does not make Trump a conservative. In order to evaluate that, we
need a better definition of conservative than what has evolved over the
last three decades. The place to start for that is [Russell
Kirk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russell_Kirk). He is a good example
to use when understanding what went wrong with conservatism. Kirk fell
out of favor with the
[Fusionists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusionism) that make up Team
Buckley and he was detested by the neo-cons. As a result, he gets little
run in conservative circles these days, outside of some geezer
paleo-cons like Pat Buchanan and Paul Gottfried.

Despite having been thrown down the memory hole, [Kirk’s
conservatism](http://www.kirkcenter.org/index.php/detail/ten-conservative-principles/) is
looking like it will be what survives the current ructions on the Right.
Most Americans are what [John
Derbyshire](http://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2016-01-22.html)
calls “gut conservatives” in that they are instinctively attracted
to tradition and skeptical of the latest utopian fads. Many reading this
have been trained by our current elites to be skeptical of their
neighbor’s judgement, but the everyday tasks that are essential to an
orderly society are carried out by average Americans using their best
judgement.

If you look through that list of ten conservative principles, you can
make a fairly good case for Trump on a few of them. As is always the
case when judging a man through the television, you end up projecting
upon him things that say more about you than about him. For instance,
Trump is not an Evangelical Christian, but he is not hostile to
religion either. Whether or not he believes in a transcendent moral
order is impossible to know. He has said nothing to suggest he does, but
he has never said anything to suggest he does not believe it. We are
left to guess and that means guessing wrong.

Similarly, it is easy to say Trump is imprudent. His critics claim he is
proto-fascist because he speaks forcefully about what he will do as
president. Maybe it is just ego or maybe he believes it, but Trump
certainly does not seem like a guy in awe of his own limitations. On the
other hand, his statements on foreign policy sound a lot closer to John
Quincy Adams than anything we have heard since the end of World War II.
As with his spiritual inclinations, his prudence is not particularly
clear.

Determining whether or not Trump is a conservative in the Kirkian sense
is further complicated by the fact that he is a natural pitchman. Trump
is a self-promoter, in the old fashioned sense. He uses hyperbole freely
and amusingly. You know he is polishing the apple and he knows you know
he is polishing the apple. In the political realm, this makes it hard
to pin him down on specifics. It’s an effective political tactic, in
fact, [it is a great
tactic](http://48laws-of-power.blogspot.com/2011/05/law-3-conceal-your-intentions.html),
but it makes it hard to know exactly how Trump will attempt to govern.

In all probability, Trump is a transitional figure, like Nixon in 1968.
The still young Buckley movement was winning arguments, but not ready to
win elections. Nixon should have been a bridge between the unhinged
liberalism of the 60’s and a sober conservatism, but it never quite
worked out that way. The New Right we see forming up in the form of the
alt-right, dissident right and so on is not ready to be a full fledged
political movement, but it can energize a candidate. Trump could be the
shake down cruise for a restoration of the conservatism of Russel Kirk.
