---
title: "The End of Left and Right"
date: "2016-05-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7516"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7516"
---

Some of my posts, of late, have elicited shock and horror from people,
who probably think I am a fellow traveler. The post on inequality is the
most obvious example. As I mentioned at the start of that post, people
outside the Progressive fever swamps have been trained for generations
to run screaming from the room whenever the topic of inequality is
raised. After all, that is what commies talk about and being
conservative has always meant not being a commie.

The interesting bit from my perspective is the assumption that when it
comes to inequality, there can only be two positions. One is the Randian
view that the high achievers should get everything and the low achievers
should die. Concerns about merit and social comity are for losers. The
other view is that a dictatorship of the proletariat should rise up and
murder the rich and turn the country into a version of [Harrison
Bergeron](http://www.tnellen.com/cybereng/harrison.html). In other
words, equality is a stalking horse for communism.

In my post, I offered no policy proposals. I just pointed out that
concentrations of wealth are lethal to self-government and social
stability. That is the lesson of history. The New Right or whatever we
are calling it these days, should be willing to discuss this reality.
Otherwise, you cede the field to retrograde loons, who simultaneously
demand higher wages and the importation of cheap helot labor from
cultures antithetical to Western values. In other words, the game
has changed.

You see it in [the recent election in Hitler
Land](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-36362505). The loser is
described as “far extreme right” while the winner is described as a
lovable teddy bear. OK, I made up that last part, but that is not the
point. The “right” in this case is simply the guy who wants to keep
Austria an on-going concern as a separate country. His economic and
social positions are irrelevant. What brought him and his party to
prominence was opposition to immigration and globalism.

Similarly, his opponent is best known for wanting to liquidate the
country’s borders and dissolving it into the amorphous blob that is
Europe. Alexander Van der Bellen was the head of the Green Party for a
long time and [once
said](http://www.breitbart.com/london/2016/05/23/whoever-loves-austria-sht-president-elect-beat-nationalist-hofer-used-anti-patriotic-slogans/),
“Anyone who loves Austria must be shit.” His positions on economics and
other matters are a muddle, but no one really cares. He is not a Nazi
and he is a globalist. That is all that matters and it is the reason he
was able to squeak out a victory.

In America, the old Left-Right paradigm no longer makes any sense. The
Buckley Conservatives have no meaningful proposals to roll back the
welfare state. The Left has no plans to level the playing field by
seizing the wealth of the rich and distributing it to the poor. Both
sides wave their hands around for old times sake, but they are both
open-borders globalists, funded by the buccaneer class of donors.

Calling Ted Cruz a right-winger, for example, misses the point. Sure, he
would like to tinker with the tax code in a slightly different way than
Hillary Clinton and he has slightly different views on how to bomb the
muzzies, but on the defining issues of our age, they are pretty much in
agreement. Both the Buckley Right and the Left embrace globalism, open
borders and the ceding of popular sovereignty to un-elected
international bodies controlled by global corporations.

The New Right that is emerging is not defined by tax policy, endless
yapping about the constitution or its principled losing. It is a
cultural movement, first and foremost. The technocratic managerialism
that defines the Modern Left and Buckley Conservatives is not a part of
the New Right. Instead, it is opposition to open borders and globalism
based on citizenism. Being a citizen is not just location. It is
language, customs and historical perspective.

The striking difference between my view on equality, for example, and
some of my critics is that I place great value on social stability. I am
willing to use the power of the state, if necessary, to prevent global
buccaneers from destroying national culture. Libertarians and Buckley
Conservatives faint when hearing those words because they place
theoretical limits on government, and their symbolic loyalty to those
limits, above all else.

There is the great new dividing line in politics. One side is concerned
solely with stability and comity at the top. The Wall Street Journal and
the New York Times argue endlessly about how best to organize global
governance, because that is what matters to them. They are not just
indifferent to what happens in your neighborhood. They see such concern
as a fault, a mental defect that should exclude you from the halls of
power. As far as they are concerned, you are no more important than the
Malaysian sweatshop worker. You are just an economic unit.

On the other side of the dividing line are the localists, the people who
focus their attention on their neighborhood, their town, their city and
their country. The Super Duper Global Trade Pact may be great for Mega
Corp, but if it means all the jobs in your town get shipped to Malaysia,
then it is not good for you. Cheap stuff at Walmart is not much good to
a man without a job. Generous welfare benefits are not much good when
everyone spends it on liquor and meth.

That is the new line in politics. Are you concerned about what you see
out of your window or are you concerned about what you see through your
telescope. Hillary Clinton thinks of the US government as the local
interface of the emerging global state. It is one facet of the
managerial class. You, as a “citizen” have no control of it, you
interact with it like an ATM machine. That is exactly the way they see
national governments. They are just nodes on the network. All of the
company approved GOP options held the same views until Trump came
calling.

Left and Right are dead. It is globalist versus localist and everyone is
going to have to pick sides, even the libertarians for a change. The
\#nevertrump loons are picking sides, even if they do not fully
understand it. They are the toadies and rumpswabs that are in the
baggage train of every ruling elite. They are the folks who rush into
the street to greet the invaders. They do not understand any of this,
but they are men who believe in nothing but self-preservation so it
really does not matter. Everyone else will pick sides, based on their
perceived self-interest.
