---
title: "Magic Honky Theory"
date: "2016-04-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7056"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7056"
---

For as long as most people reading this have been alive, the cult in
charge of America has preached the need for full integration. This has
led to endless campaigns to “desegregate” the schools, housing, jobs,
sports clubs, etc. These campaigns are often insanely
self-contradictory. <a
href="http://usnews.nbcnews.com/_news/2012/02/09/10362607-white-firefighters-awarded-25-million-in-discrimination-case"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Fire departments are sued for
discriminating against whites</a>, while also <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/19/nyregion/new-york-settles-bias-lawsuit-against-fire-department.html?_r=0"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">being sued for <em>not</em>
discriminating against whites</a>. The inherent truth revealed in these
contradictions is ignored.

Domesticated conservatives put on their serious face and point out the
hypocrisy and idiocy of these efforts. The habit of blacks, for
instance, of creating domains exclusively for blacks is politely
ignored, while the similar habit among whites is attacked with the fury
of the state and state run media. Imagine trying get White Entertainment
Television on basic cable. Remember the horror when
<a href="http://www.thecollegefix.com/post/25223/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">kids pretended to create white student unions?</a>

The folks out on the fringe, the people who refuse to be house broken by
the Left, make sport of this stuff. There’s little point in taking it
seriously as the people promoting
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5746" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Magic Dirt Theory</a> are incapable of rational thought.
After all, if you think putting D’Shawn and his half dozen baby mommas
out in the suburbs will magically transform them into middle-class
burghers, you’re immune to reason. It’s better to leave the pointless
debating to the kept men of Buckley Conservatism and have fun making
sport of the them.

In fairness, the people promoting Magic Dirt Theory will say they are
operating from reason. Humans are a blank slate and if trained properly,
by growing up in a properly structured environment, they will turn out
properly structured. If D’Shawn happens to murder a nice white girl out
in the suburbs, it is the price that you must pay so that D’Shawn’ eight
kids will turn out better than their parents.

This is where the “appeal to reason” by the Cult is just way of
deflecting the unwanted gaze from what they believe onto other topics.
After all, if they really thought they could mold these people, they
would be in favor of building black-only towns in which to provide the
proper structure and training to D’Shawn and his cohort of bastards.
That way they would avoid the problem of hate thinkers and bad whites
screwing up the project. It is the logical end point of their blank
slate arguments.

The way around this has been to argue that “diversity” makes everyone
better somehow. This proximity effect only works in *your* neighborhood,
of course. The bunkered enclaves where our betters live are almost all
white. Like so much of what these people say in public, it is intended
to obscure, not explain. Ask these people why diversity is good and they
start mumbling about their favorite Ethiopian restaurant. Western
civilization did OK without having a single Ethiopian restaurant for a
few millennia, but we’re to believe it is now a necessity.

Anyway, <a
href="http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2016/04/04/472878724/denying-housing-over-criminal-record-may-be-discrimination-feds-say?utm_source=twitter.com&amp;utm_campaign=npr&amp;utm_medium=social&amp;utm_term=nprnews"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story from state controlled
media</a> gets to one root explanation for the Cult’s integration
fanaticism.

*The Department of Housing and Urban Development is making it easier for
people with criminal records to find housing.*

*In new guidance, released Monday, HUD tells landlords and home sellers
that turning down tenants or buyers based on their criminal records may
violate the Fair Housing Act.*

*Because of widespread racial and ethnic disparities in the U.S.
criminal justice system, criminal history-based restrictions on access
to housing are likely disproportionately to burden African Americans and
Hispanics.*

*New HUD guidance on criminal records and the Fair Housing Act*

*People with criminal records aren’t a protected class under the Fair
Housing Act, and the guidance from HUD’s general counsel says that in
some cases, turning down an individual tenant because of his or her
record can be legally justified.*

*But blanket policies of refusing to rent to anybody with a criminal
record are de facto discrimination, the department says — because of the
systemic disparities of the American criminal justice system.*

What’s going on here is pretty simple. In the suburbs, landlords use
credit and criminal records to keep out people who don’t fit the
neighborhood profile. They don’t want their property values collapsing
anymore than the local homeowners. A bad tenant can consume the profits
of a rental property before you can evict them so the landlords try to
use good judgement when screening their tenants.

The Cult hates this because they are convinced that if they can situate
non-whites within close proximity of whites, the special magic that
allows whites to run civilized communities will transmit to the
non-Asian minority and transform them into good citizens. In the case of
ex-cons, putting them in with the law abiding will magically
rehabilitate them. This is the Magic Honky Theory. Stand close enough to
the white guys and you start to act white.

As is the case with everything the Cult says, it is riddled with
contradictions. If Whites are the racists monsters they claim, then why
in the world would anyone want to send blacks to live with whites?
That’s like sending Jews out to Idaho to live with skinheads. Of course,
there’s no explaining how it is the honky got this magic stuff that lets
him dominate the non-honky, but also oppress the non-honky. What if the
non-honky gets this magic and begins oppressing the honky?

Of course, we all know the answer to that question and ultimately,
that’s the whole point.
