---
title: "Blog Update"
date: "2016-05-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7369"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7369"
---

This blog crossed a traffic threshold in the last month. In fact, every
month since I started this has seen an uptick in traffic, but somewhere
in the last month the average traffic crossed the 35,000 mark. That
means the readership is now averaging just a tick over 35K. I have no
idea how that stacks up to other blogs, but it seems like a lot given
that I am not famous and I have done nothing to promote myself. You’re
here by word of mouth and I am thankful for the interest.

The volume of comments has ticked up as well and I’m seeing more long
debates than in the past. That’s to be expected. I ended moderation so
that allows for more back and forth, good and bad. In that regard, I’ve
thought about adding a discussion forum to the site. It’s a simple thing
and it allows for readers to get long winded, if they choose, in
response to a topic. There are many free message board systems so I may
add one to the site when I have some free time. We can form
a Witenaġemot!

On a related note, I’m working on adding a subscription feature. The
normal WordPress feature is terrible and gets filled with spammers. I
have ten thousand subscribers but my bet is nine thousand are Ukrainian
robots. I’ve noticed that when I subscribe to other WordPress blogs,
nothing seem to happen so something is broken with the subscription
module that comes with the blog software.

As far as who reads this blog, it is mostly Americans according to the
stats tracker. The UK and Canada are the next most popular countries.
Interestingly, I have a lot of readers in Poland, Slovakia and the Czech
Republic. I have no readers from Mexico. Similarly, the people who link
back to me are mostly American sites, with a sprinkling of Canadians and
Europeans. I get a lot of links back from car and firearm sites for some
reason.

I’m also getting media requests. I started this blog as a hobby and I
never thought much about it being more than a hobby. I’ve had some
podcasters and radio people contact me about being on their shows. The
trouble is I don’t check the e-mail account here that often so I was
unable to respond in a timely fashion. I may add something here for
media requests, just to see if it is worth my time.

Finally, I’ve been asked about donations and I have no plans at the
moment to setup the stuff you need to take donations. Maybe when the
readership reaches 50K I’ll do it as it may makes sense at that point. I
don’t know enough about how it works to know if it is worth the effort.
Steve Sailer and Kathy Shaidle seem to make a living from their blogs
this way, but I have no way of knowing this. They could be living on dog
food for all I know. But, I’ll jump off that bridge when the readership
gets bigger.

Thanks for reading, commenting and tweeting me!
