---
title: "Return Of Heptarchy"
date: "2016-06-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7915"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7915"
---

We do not know a lot of the British Isles, prior to the Romans
arriving. Archaeological and genetic evidence gives some broad outlines,
but the details of daily life and the history of rulers and tribes is
largely unknown to us. The best we can do is piece together some general
ideas based on what has been dug from the earth and what the Romans
recorded about what they found when they landed in Britain. There’s
also genetics which can be used to trace the movement of peoples over
time. This helps build a general picture, but it is filled with
assumptions.

What we do know is that for most of her history, various tribes
controlled areas of land and those tribes eventually formed kingdoms.
The Picts, the Celts, the Welsh, the Angles and later, the Saxons, are
familiar names to people fond of history. Similarly, Wessex, Mercia,
Northumbria and East Anglia probably ring some bells for most people.
These were some of the kingdoms of the
[Heptarchy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heptarchy), a period in
British history that lasted from the end of Roman rule until most of the
Anglo-Saxon kingdoms came under the overlordship of [Egbert of
Wessex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Egbert_of_Wessex) in 829.

It is useful to keep this in mind when looking at the changes that are
coming to the UK if they follow through on the Brexit vote. The Scots
are talking about independence again. The Welsh have been talking about
independence for a while and may get serious about it again. Then you
have the always difficult problem of the Irish. Membership in the EU was
a disaster for the Irish in many ways, but they instinctively wish to go
the opposite of whatever way the English are going so it is hard to know
what happens with them. Then you have the Unionist issue, which is
complicated in the best of times.

Whether any of this will come to pass is unknown at this point, but
there is no doubt that the UK is about to go through a period where it
redefines itself to meet the world of the future. Those two great forces
discussed in yesterday’s post are at work in the UK now. On the one
hand, we have movements toward greater local control, even independence,
and on the other hand we have a movement to fold the whole country into
Europe as an administrative zone of Germany. For now, the smaller is
better side is winning the argument, but how far it goes is up in the
air.

The issue that lies beneath all of this is whether or not the United
Kingdom as a concept is of much use in the modern world. A unified
island made a lot of sense in an age when invasion was a reasonable
concern. A divided squabbling people would not stand a chance against
Norse raiders. The Continent has produced many threats that required a
strong and unified Britain. Today, invasion is not a concern and the
greatest threat from the Continent is a fresh batch of regulations that
make flush toilets less efficient. It is entirely plausible that the
costs of being united outweigh the benefits.

Scotland voting themselves out of the UK is an obvious first step, but
that may not be a great move on their part. The Scots remind me of the
French-Canadians. They like waving flags around more than they like
self-sufficiency. Similarly, the Welsh voted Brexit and seem to like
being in partnership with the English. Preservation of local customs and
language do not require independence. The Scots and the Welsh would
probably be happy with the symbolic parts of nationhood, but let the
English run foreign policy, trade and the central bank, as long as they
have a voice in Parliament.

The other side of this is the fact that the English may be tiring of the
Scots. In the last two national elections a clear line exists between
the Scots and the English. SNP is basically Labour with more Brave Heart
references. The Scots vote for a populist left-wing party while the
English are voting for what passes for a nationalist right-wing party
now. UKIP in Scotland is a collection of fringe nuts, while in England
it is a real party gently tugging the Tories back to where they belong
on the Right. I bet more than a few English would like to vote the Scots
out of the UK and be done with them.

Then we have the Irish. Currently, there is free movement between
England, the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. Britain leaving
the EU means a return of border controls to the UK and that means
borders come back between Ireland and England. There is also the fact
that Norther Ireland voted heavily against leaving the EU and is [making
noises about gaining special EU
status](http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-36667115). That is
only possible if they are an independent country. How likely is it that
Northern Ireland will follow the same path as the Scots and begin
badgering for independence? How long before the English tire of them?

All of this is idle speculation, but the ground is shifting in the UK.
