---
title: "Who Killed Conservatism?"
date: "2016-06-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7721"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7721"
---

Many normal people would flinch at the assertion that conservatism and
the conservative movement is dead or even dying. Instead, the normal
person would prefer to say it has been betrayed by politicians, as well
as their flacks in the so-called conservative media. Of course, all of
this assumes one can get three people to agree on what it means to be a
conservative.

There’s also an age issue. Someone in their 70’s will have a different
sense of how to define conservative from someone in their 30’s. The
70-year old will have come of age when Eisenhower was the definition of
conservative or maybe Goldwater. The 30-year old is walking around
thinking Newt Gingrich is the archetypal right-winger. All of us are
trapped in our piece of the timeline.

If we narrow the scope a bit and just look at professional conservatism
in America, the type we associate with the modern Republican Party, then
it is fair to say it is seriously wounded, if not dying. The action
these days is out on the fringe. The term “Alt-Right” seems to have
taken over as the popular label, but it is pretty the same people who
have been purged from conservatism.

Before you can finger the people responsible for killing conservatism
you have to figure out what went wrong. Buckley Conservatism ran out of
reasons to exist. It was first and foremost a defense against communism,
specifically Soviet aggression abroad and communist infiltration at
home. Once the Cold War ended, communism collapsed and Buckley
Conservatism was left without a reason to exist. The dragon was slain
and there was no need for a champion.

Buckley Conservatism was supposed to be a fusion of libertarian
economics and politics with traditionalism and social conservatism. The
Right would be for free markets, but also defend traditional
institutions and the social consensus that promotes stability. Ronald
Reagan ran on this platform in 1980 and National Review, the flagship
publication of the Right, was the intellectual home of fusionism.

That combination of traditionalism and capitalism should have been a
solid foundation for a post-Cold War conservatism, but that’s not what
happened. Instead, official conservatism quickly became something closer
to Corporate Libertarianism. The guy to blame for that is probably Newt
Gingrich. He emerged as the leader of the baby boomer conservatives in
the early 90’s and made it into technocratic managerialism.

Newt redefined the Official Right in the 90’s, steering it toward Jack
Kemp’s managerial conservatism, with its emphasis on making government
better. Instead of rolling back the welfare state, the goal was to
direct the power of the Federal government toward “conservative” ends.
If you look at the <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contract_with_America#The_Taking_Back_Our_Streets_Act"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Contract with America</a>, the thing
reeks of managerialism. It’s the sort of technocratic agenda guys like
Ramesh Ponnuru are still trying to sell, mostly because it means jobs
for their friends and family.

Eventually, the Gingrich Revolution gave us Big Government Conservatism
and Compassionate Conservatism, both just marketing programs for
embracing statist solutions in place of traditional conservative
solutions. Instead of leaving families and communities to manage their
affairs, government would nudge them along with an array of tax schemes
and regulatory gimmicks. Need more kids? Turn the knob for child tax
credits to get the old baby makers heated up out their in flyover
country!

Fundamentally, conservatism is a cultural perspective. It’s a
philosophical outlook rooted in ones traditions and heritage.
Managerialism is the obliteration of culture and tradition, in favor of
sterile technocratic governance. Once the Official Right surrendered to
this it ceased to be conservative. No conservative ends can ever be
achieved at gun point. Political liberty, after all, is the minimization
of the use of coercion by the state in its essential role of preventing
one person’s freedom from intruding upon another’s.

That’s why Buckley Conservatism is dying. The challenges of this age are
all cultural. Globalism marshals the monopoly of force of each state
against the local communities trying to hold onto their traditional way
of life. Mass migration disrupts the demographic balance that makes for
social stability. You can’t address these forces, much less oppose them,
with programs that promise to expand the role of the state in the
affairs of the citizens.

The Contract with America promised to eliminate 95 specific government
programs. None of those programs were eliminated. Welfare reform was
passed and offered the first substantive alterations of these programs
in a generation. Even so, the budget for these 95 programs during
Gingrich’s time as Speaker grew by 13%. That’s the story of post-Cold
War conservatism. Lots of Five Year Plans and artfully labeled agendas,
but the result has been a 25 year run of expanding government and
retreating liberty.

Newt’s brand of conservatism was all about avoiding the schoolyard
bullies by either currying favor with them as a flunky or quietly
submitting to them, pretending to maintain his dignity. It’s why the
modern conservative endlessly prattles on about his principles. For
them, dignified submission is a principle. The result has been a
generation of failure. The Left has gone from one triumph to the next in
the culture war, beating the country so out of shape a man of 1990 would
hardly recognize it.

Newt is not history’s greatest monster and he may very well have been
sincere in his efforts. Regardless, the embrace of credentialism, the
creeping mandarinism that comes with the managerial state and the
preference for technocratic solutions over traditional responses is what
killed Official Conservatism. The flowering of all that was in the early
90’s when Newt and the other “Class of ’94” types seized the party and
redefined conservatism. Two decades on and it is now headed for the ash
heap of history.
