---
title: "The News Biz"
date: "2016-04-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7101"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7101"
---

Way back in the early days of the dot-com boom, I had a conversation
with a publisher of a small sports magazine. He published twice a month,
actually doing the mailing himself. He had something like 10,000
subscribers so the mailing was no small task, but he had more time than
money. He would pick up the issue from the printer, it was a small
newspaper style magazine, and then apply the mailing labels.

Obviously, he hated this task and figured he could eliminate it by going
on-line. Newspapers were already shoveling their content on-line and all
the smart people said it was the future. The logic seems impenetrable.
The savings from printing and mailing would more than make up for the
lose of ad dollars. Eventually, on-line ads would add more revenue to
the mix.

That’s not what happened. The number of people who made the switch was
about 10% of his subscriber base. I think he said he peaked at about
1200 on-line subscribers. These were all subscribers to the dead tree
version. He picked up only a handful of new readers, even when he
started giving away free content as a teaser. For reasons he could never
explain, the digital audience was smaller than the analog audience.

<a
href="http://www.medialifemagazine.com/think-papers-websites-are-gaining-think-again/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> on the newspaper websites
offers similar data.

*For a long time, people assumed the web was the future of newspapers.*

*They figured readers would transition to papers’ websites when they
began abandoning their print editions. They thought audiences for
papers’ digital side would soar.*

*But just as newspaper advertisers don’t appear to be replacing their
print ads with digital ones, print newspaper readers aren’t
transitioning to newspapers’ websites in this digital age.*

*A new research paper finds that over the past eight years the websites
of 51 major metropolitan newspapers have not on average seen appreciable
readership gains, even as print readership falls.*

*The average reach of a newspaper website within the paper’s market has
gone from 9.8 percent in 2007 to 10 percent in 2015. So in your typical
top-50 market, the leading daily’s online audience would average just 10
percent of the market’s readership.*

*At the same time, print readership has fallen from 42.4 percent in 2007
to 28.5 percent in 2015*

*That’s a steep decline for sure, but it shows just how much larger
print readership is versus online.*

I think part of this is due to the difference in what is required of the
reader. Newspapers and magazines delivered to your door are actively
engaging readers. It turns out that those delivery fees and print costs
drove revenue. The customer did nothing but pay the bill. The content
was delivered to him via the miracle of the delivery boy or postman.
Until it is consumed, it’s right there in your house, reminding you to
read it.

On-line content is a different experience. You have to go get it. The
news site does not have a cheap way to grab your attention when you’re
heading for the morning constitutional or having lunch. Plus, there are
a billion sites to distract you while you are thinking about what to
read. Websites rely on you, the consumer, to find them. They are not
finding you. The result is fewer readers.

That’s part of it. The other part is newspapers in America have been
awful for a long time. Our news media, in general, is crap. I read the
British press because they do a better job covering America than the
locals. I have found interesting local stories in the British tabs that
are nowhere to be found in my local media. If you make a crap product,
you’re not going to have a big audience.

The argument from newspapers is they are losing out to cable, but that’s
baloney. They used to blame talk radio. Before that it was network news.
The fact is newspaper circulations have been falling for over forty
years. The birth of New Journalism seems to have ushered in a general
decline in the America media. Jamming the facts into a narrative turns
into propaganda quickly and people can tolerate only so much of it.

There’s a also a market issue. In the 1950’s, a small town would have
two or three papers. New York City had something like 20 daily papers.
Then you had multiple editions of the paper. In the 60’s and 70’s we saw
a consolidation and many cities ended up with one paper. Monopoly
enterprises always decline in quality and eventually succumb to runaway
cost problems. That’s what happened to newspapers. Paying a
columnist six figures for three columns a week is absurd.

The ironic thing about the technological revolution is we may see some
“dead” technologies rise from the grave simply because there’s no better
way to do things like sell news or music. <a
href="http://www.newstatesman.com/politics/media/2016/02/new-national-daily-newspaper-without-website-launching-today-can-it-work"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">A new British paper</a> just started and
it has no website. It is an old-style dead tree paper. If this works,
how long before musicians start selling their songs on vinyl again,
forgoing the digital format entirely?
