---
title: "Brother, Can You Spare A Tubby?"
date: "2016-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7203"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7203"
---

One way historians and anthropologists piece together the historical
timeline is by looking at official documents, seals, inscriptions on
buildings and money. If ancient scribes suddenly stop mentioning a king,
for example, a look at documents from the era can shed some light on
what happened. If all of a sudden the king’s brother is signing charters
and grants, then followed by a new king, it’s fair to assume the king
died or was incapacitated, leaving a period of uncertainty.

Alternatively, if the coins from that period suddenly changed from
having the king’s seal to having something generic or the image of a
rival, then it probably means the king made a very serious blunder and
was not just killed, but erased from the record. In the case of muddled
time lines, the coins can often help date when one guy’s rule ended and
his successor’s rule started. If the written record is hazy,the coins
can fill in the gaps.

It is not science, but the study of money is a specialty. Numismatists
are not just coin collectors. The academic side is much more than than
the simple cataloging of coins and currency. The money people used can
tell a lot about the people. The debasement of Roman coins in the third
century, for example, helps explain what was happening at the street
level in that era. Put another way, the changes in the coins tell a
parallel story to what histories tell us about the civil wars and
changes in imperial rule.

Somewhere, in a far off future, the robot historians will be picking
through the rubble of our current age and puzzling about today’s news
from the Imperial Capital that they are <a
href="http://www.politico.com/story/2016/04/treasurys-lew-to-announce-hamilton-to-stay-on-10-bill-222204"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">changing the money</a>.

*Alexander Hamilton has been spared an ousting from the front of the $10
bill, and Andrew Jackson will instead be bumped from the $20 to make way
for Harriet Tubman — a historic move that is helping quell a controversy
over Hamilton’s legacy.*

*“Today, I’m excited to announce that for the first time in more than a
century, the front of our currency will feature the portrait of a woman,
Harriet Tubman, on the $20 note,” Treasury Secretary Jack Lew told
reporters during a conference call Wednesday afternoon.*

*Lew also announced a set of changes that include putting leaders of the
women’s suffrage movement on the back of the $10 bill and incorporating
civil rights era leaders and other important moments in American history
into the $5 bill.*

<a
href="http://www.global.nationalreview.com/corner/434302/andrew-jackson-20-not-bad-thing"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Obsequious rump-swabs, like Dan
McLaughlin from National Review, were immediately seen out on the
street, in tears, thanking Obama for this critical change</a>. Look
through the comments on that post and you easily understand why the
epithet “cuckservative” cut these people so deep and why they were so
offended by it. Reading that post, I get the sense that the only
disappointment from McLaughlin was that they did not put a strapping
young black man on the twenty.

Maybe Jackson should be replaced, but there are dozens of far more
important people who could take his place. There are more important
women than Tubman, who is a trivial figure in American history. The only
reason we know about her at all is that
<a href="https://www.maxwell.syr.edu/news.aspx?id=262" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Progressive fanatics plucked her out of obscurity</a> to
be a heroine of their cause. Most of the Harriet Tubman mythology is
exactly that. She was illiterate and left no written records nor
anything in the way of proof to substantiate her claims.

As is always the case with Progressive fanatics, nothing they say should
be taken at face value. This move has nothing to do with Tubman, blacks,
Civil Rights or women. It’s about spiting the the bogeymen that haunt
the Cult of Modern Liberalism. Progressivism is defined by hatred of
southern white males. It defines everything they believe and do. It’s
pretty much all they are now. Striking the southern white guy from the
money in favor of a black women is a deranged act of vengeance.

Of course, the weenies of Conservative Inc are claiming this is an
attempt by Democrats to erase their association with Jackson. Maybe, but
the more plausible reason is it is another step toward erasing the
South. These are people who hate NASCAR, hunting, guns, fried food,
WalMart, the Rebel flag and football. The common theme is anything white
southern guys like, liberals hate and want to destroy. The people
digging up Confederate generals are now throwing a southern president
off the money.

Those robot historians will probably be just as puzzled as we are as to
why this bizarre cult maintains a hatred for one region of the
country. But, the joke, in the end, will be on the lunatics. It won’t be
long before the hip-hop boys start calling the new bill “tubbies.” They
call the twenty a “double” now and “tubby” is easier to rhyme. Given the
nature of hip-hop, they will probably come up with a far more crude name
for the new bill. Still, I look forward to asking lefty if he can spare
a tubby?
