---
title: "Ruling Class Madness"
date: "2016-08-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8398"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8398"
---

I ran across
<a href="https://twitter.com/Noahpinion/status/767481124159229952"
target="_blank">this tweet</a> and I was struck by the one entry in the
thread where Noah Smith says supply and demand do not apply to labor
markets. It does not have a place in the discussion, but it is an
example of something the managerial class types believe, in spite of
everything we know about the world.
<a href="http://noahpinionblog.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">Noah
Smith</a>, from what I gather, is one of the new breed of libertarians,
who embrace central planning and the custodial state. I’m not a reader
so I may be misjudging him, but I really don’t care all that much
either.

What struck me is how common it is to hear economists and
pseudo-economists make the claim that the laws of supply and demand do
not apply to labor markets. In fact, they regularly argue that the
axioms of their field don’t apply to all sorts of things that cause
trouble for the orthodoxy. In that twitter post, it appears that some
Progressives are now saying it is bad idea to build more housing in
their favorite cities, because that will magically make housing more
expensive. It’s nonsense, but how long before some economist offers a
supporting study?

It is easy to pick on economists for stuff like this, because they
deserve it. The managerial class is shot through with guys toting
economics degrees, offering up statistical justifications for their
favorite policy. <a
href="http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/08/why-nominal-gdp-targeting-is-an-especially-good-idea-right-now.html"
target="_blank">Today the libertarian economist Tyler Cowen argues</a>
for more currency manipulation, which one would think is something
libertarian economists would oppose. They routinely argue against
manipulating the supply of goods and services, but for some magical
reason it is good for the state to control the supply of money.

I’ve often compared economics to astrology because it is almost as
empirically sound as astrology and it holds a similar place in the
ruling class today as astrology did in the olden thymes. The rulers
today bring in the court economists to read their figures and predict
the possible futures. In the olden thymes the court astrologer was
brought into to read the stars and tell the king what the omens meant.
In both cases the ruler was simply looking for confirmation so that’s
what he got from his trusted magician.

It’s not just the economists. Security experts are always on our
televisions telling us about the need for government surveillance of the
public. After all, it is a dangerous world out there and if we’re going
to invite the world into your towns, we have to have cameras on every
corner. If that bit of thinking is not crazy enough, none of them ever
talk about what happens when someone we don’t like gets that massive
data trove collected by the surveillance state. They just pretend that
can’t happen, <a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/us-intelligence-nsa-commentary-idUSKCN10X01P"
target="_blank">even though it always happens</a>.

An axiom of data collection is that the easier it is to collect, the
harder it is to protect. An axiom of life is that anything worth
stealing, gets stolen. For a long time, liberals argued against the
state collecting data on citizens for exactly this reason. If they can
get it, they will misuse it and then someone will steal it. But, all the
alleged experts on these issues tell us that the NSA is an exception so
no one will ever steal this stuff or misuse it. One has to wonder how
many times we have secret data stolen before they stop insisting it
can’t be stolen.

If you have been reading this blog for a while, you will know I have
walked through the impossibility of open borders, self-government and
individual liberty working together. If we do away with citizenship
via open borders, there is no reason for anyone to have loyalty to the
government. Things like patriotism and national loyalty stop making
sense in a world of open borders. That means the state cannot rely on
people “doing their duty” as they no longer have a duty to the state.
How else will they get people to obey the rules?

The open borders types never bother to explain how their new borderless
society will work or what would happen if it turns out to be something
other than paradise. When anyone bothers to ask them, they respond like
it is obvious, but to date no one has tried to explain how a world
without borders could possible work. The best they can muster is
something about “who we are” which is ridiculous in a world without
borders,  as there is no “we” for us to be. It’s madness dressed up as
morality.

Guys like Steve Sailer think all of this is deliberate. The people at
the top not only understand the factual realities, they understand the
implications of their preferred polices. They know the currency
manipulation we see cannot last. They know open borders is doomed to
failure. They know the surveillance state cannot work. They are just
cashing in while they can. Wealthy interests pay them to keep the lie
going as long as possible. It’s not a ridiculous possibility. To get to
the top of the power structure, you have to be pretty clever, but also
spectacularly devious and dishonest too.

Alternatively, they could see everything everyone else sees, but they
have no answer for how to square all of these circles. Building more
housing in major cities is what is needed, but the entrenched interests
see no advantage and they have prominent spots in the managerial class.
Running a surveillance state is a terrible idea, but no one knows how to
put the genie back in the bottle so they just make peace with it as best
they can. The libertarian economist knows the truth about policies like
open borders, but he likes his job at the university too.

Sometimes, societies evolve down a dead end. Study the French Revolution
and you begin to see that it was not so much a revolution as a collapse.
The old order had reached a point where reform was impossible. The cost
of maintaining it exceeded the benefits so it broke apart in big chunks
like a building falling over in an earthquake. Perhaps that’s the issue
faced by America. The current arrangements are unsustainable, but the
cost of reform seems prohibitive, so all efforts are put into
keeping the plates spinning, not matter how absurd.

There’s another possibility and that is our betters have been gripped by
some sort of collective madness. This used to be the reason people gave
for why the Germans went nuts and backed Hitler. Germany was the most
advanced and sophisticated culture on earth and then within one
generation it veered into barbarism. That’s not an answer that explains
much, but to date no one has ever explained why the Germans turned to
Nazism. Similarly, there’s no good explanation for why our rulers
indulge in the madness we see on a regular basis now.
