---
title: "Follow The Money"
date: "2016-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8443"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8443"
---

*By the time this is posted I will be somewhere over the Atlantic on my
way to Iceland. I will then move onto Ireland where I will spend a few
days with the bog monkeys. Since there is some chance I may be tricked
into having an adult beverage or two and thus be rendered unable to
post, the following has been pre-recorded.*

*–Z*

One of the benefits of reading lots of history is you often see the same
catalysts, causes and dynamics turning up in the story. The Roman Empire
had a lot of problems toward the end, but a big one was their financial
structure. Their lack of money led them to do things that made their
situation worse. Similarly, the French Revolution had a “want of money”
angle to it. The crown was broke and did a lot of very stupid things, as
a result of being broke, that compounded the many social problems
brewing in the country,

It’s tempting to wonder, for example, what would have happened if Louis
XIV had been a bit more prudent or showed a bit more foresight with
regards to the financial system of his country. Alternatively, what
would have happened if his heirs had better advisers, who would have
pushed for mild steady reform in order to slowly bring the French
financial system into line with the emerging modern world. Heck, what if
Louis XV had simply avoided the mistake of hiring economist
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Law_(economist)"
target="_blank">John Law</a>.

The best historians, I think, look at the men of the time and ask why
were they unable or unwilling to do the necessary things to avoid
catastrophe. In almost all cases, there were plenty of people advising
the rulers that were making a blunder. In many cases, the rulers knew
they were blundering, but events constrained them from acting. In the
decades leading to the French Revolution, many smart and influential
people knew reform was necessary. They just did not know how to go about
it or what they were able to do, within the limits placed upon them,
made things worse

Anyway, that’s the vibe I get when <a
href="https://ca.news.yahoo.com/fed-nears-rate-hikes-policymakers-plan-brave-world-005117150--business.html"
target="_blank">reading these stories about the Fed and their
deliberations on the economy</a>. Due to the sensitive and precarious
nature of their positions, they tend to speak in riddles, but if you are
careful, you can tease out some meaning from their public statements.
They are very guarded and they reserve their more candid opinions for
private conversations, but they rely on the broader financial public to
put pressure on policy makers. These staged events are an esoteric form
of lobbying.

The United States has a Federal debt that rivals what we had
while fighting two empires in World War II. Current debt is close to
100% of GDP and that was the peak during the war years. The difference
is we are not battling two empires in a shooting war. Now we are
maintaining a global empire. The financiers understand this difference
and they certainly recognize the danger it poses. The costs of fighting
Hitler and Tojo were temporary and extraordinary. The cost of empire is
permanent and ordinary, at least for a while longer.

These debt levels are only possible in the artificially low interest
rate environment created by the central bankers. The trouble is they
appear to have gone beyond the point of diminishing returns with
interest rate policy. We are effectively in a no-growth economy now,
despite historically low borrowing rates at all levels. The West is not
in recession nor is it facing collapse, but it is exposed. There are no
financial tools left in reserve to face the next unknown financial
calamity and the bankers know this.

The trouble is the cost of reform is so frightening, no one is willing
to face up to it. Interest on the Federal debt is about 6% of annual
spending. If borrowing rates returns to historic norms, debt service
will grow rapidly. Some estimates say it would exceed 20% of the annual
budget within a decade. That’s based on the assumption the economy would
not collapse, but rising rates would throttle real estate, tip over bank
balance sheets and send the equity markets into free fall. All the
attempts to keep the plates spinning have made artificially low
borrowing rates the norm. Everything is now based on it.

The Federal government is not about to go bankrupt anytime soon. Federal
outlays are about 20% of GDP right now, which is more than manageable.
State and local government account for another 20% or thereabouts.
Government spending in Germany is at 44% at the moment. It is 44% in
Britain and 52% in France. In other words, the US has the same problems
we see with all social democracies, but we’re not Zimbabwe. The US
dollar is also the world’s reserve currency so that gives the US a much
bigger margin for error.

Still, there is a sense you get from theses statements from central
bankers is that they know these artificially low borrowing rates cannot
go on forever. The longer they continue, the worse it will be when they
finally return to normal. It’s just that no one knows how to fix it. The
political costs of inflating our way out of debt are too high. Letting
rates go up means recession and political panic. A continuation of debt
monetization limits the freedom of action of central banks when the next
crisis arises and there will always be another crisis.

That is what most likely worries the more sober minded bankers. A decade
of 4% inflation would be unpleasant politically, but not end times bad.
A slow rise in interest rates would not collapse the world economy
either, but it would usher in a long recession similar to the 1870’s,
where asset values tumbled for a decade as the Second Industrial
Revolution came to an end. The real danger is the unknown crisis that
does threaten the foundations of the system and the central banks have
no tools to face it.

That’s where the West is at the moment. Things are plodding along, but
there’s nothing in reserve in case of a crisis. The US economy is
stagnant at the moment, but if it falls into recession, there’s nothing
the Fed can do about it. Negative rates are unlikely and probably not
effective anyway. The Fed balance sheet is already bloated so further
monetization is going to be hard. The financial system is a citadel
whose walls need rebuilding, but no one has a clue as to how to go about
do it.
