---
title: "Public Madness"
date: "2016-01-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6209"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6209"
---

One of the more remarkable things about the last couple of decades has
been the evolution of multiculturalism into a suicide cult. Back in the
1980’s when “tolerance” was becoming a thing with Progressives, the
argument was that whites in white countries should be tolerant of their
dusky brethren.

It was not just the decent thing to do, it would make for a more
peaceful society. If whites in America, for example, put aside their
prejudices about blacks, then blacks would have a fair shot to join the
mainstream culture. If the West was more respectful of the third world,
then maybe those people would embrace civilization.

I recall being lectured about tolerance by a French girl back in the
mid-80’s and my thought at the time was that this was just another silly
way for Progressives to preen in public. When I pointed out to the
French girl that “tolerance” implied “dislike” as in she was tolerant of
blacks even though she privately despised them, she nearly had a
stroke. It was clear she had not thought much about it, but she liked
being smug around white trash like me.

Over the last three decades, this fetish has evolved from tolerance
through celebration to outright worship. Hilariously, there’s zero
tolerance for anyone that does not fully embrace the self-loathing,
suicidal impulses of the multicultural faith. On every college campus in
America, you will find a club for every conceivable “minority” group,
but the opening of a few “white student” clubs was cause for National
Day of Mourning.

Eric Hoffer wrote that “Every great cause begins as a movement, becomes
a business, and eventually degenerates into a racket.” A corollary to
that might be “every great cultural pathology begins as a petty public
piety, becomes a political weapon and degenerates into insanity.” It
does not trip off the tongue, but the point is what’s important. What
started out as a pose became a weapon for the political Left and has now
devolved into madness.

[This example from the City of Brotherly
Love](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/01/08/philly-mayor-isis-cop-shooter-does-not-represent-islam/)
would be funny if it were not so sad.

A 33-year-old Philadelphia policeman, Jesse Hartnett, was ambushed late
Thursday when Edward Archer, a Muslim man, reportedly tried to execute
him while he was sitting in his police vehicle. Images from the incident
show a man dressed in Muslim attire firing off a reported 13 rounds at
officer Hartnett. The police officer was hit three times but did not
suffer life threatening injuries and is expected to recover fully,
reports said.

According to Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross, the suspect
said he had committed the attempted execution in the name of the Islamic
State, the jihadi terrorist insurgent group that controls territory in
the Middle East.

“According to him \[the shooter\], police bend laws that are contrary to
the teachings of the Quran,” said Commissioner Ross.

Mayor Kenney, who was inaugurated last week, took a strikingly different
tone when coming to the podium.

He began by expressing his well-wishes for the officer who the Muslim
man attempted to execute, but then spent the latter part of his
statement distancing Islam from the shooter, who claimed he was carrying
out the shooting for Islam.

“In no way shape or form does anyone in this room believe that Islam or
the teaching of Islam has anything to do with what you’ve seen on the
screen,” said Mayor Kenney.

“That is abhorrent. It’s just terrible and it does not represent this
religion \[Islam\] in any way shape or form or any of its teachings,” he
added. “This is a criminal with a stolen gun who tried to kill one of
our officers. It has nothing to do with being a Muslim or following the
Islamic faith.”

I’m old enough to remember when mayors, even from big cities, were
content to take bribes, ignore police corruption and let the city unions
raid the treasury. Now they want to be the local imam, defining the will
of Allah and passing judgement on the conduct of the faithful. How long
before the mayor begins issuing fatwahs, calling the local youth to wage
jihad against the infidels?

The mayor is not thinking any of this through, of course. He’s just a
back pew moonbat that is willing to grin like a chimp on TV and do what
his handlers tell him. In modern America, municipal government is a dead
end politically, so it attracts low-watt sociopaths and grifters unable
to do productive work. Mayor Kenney is too stupid to comprehend any of
this. He is just trying to ape what he sees and hears from his idols,
people like Obama and Angela Merkel.

That does not change the fact that multiculturalism has become a public
madness. Angela Merkel is throwing her country into turmoil for no
reason other than the psychological terror she feels when contemplating
the alternatives. Like an agoraphobic fleeing a public place in terror,
Merkel is in a panic over the mere hint of nationalism and is instead
inviting a billion Muslims to relocate to the Fatherland.  She would
rather let the
[rapefugees](http://nypost.com/2016/01/10/germans-slam-rapefugees-in-wake-of-mass-sexual-attack/)
rampage through the streets than see her countrymen waving the flag.

Unlike private madness, public madness eventually recedes. We’re seeing
that now all over the West, but public madness comes with a price. The
bill for Merkel’s Madness will be paid. Whether that is through a return
of the worst instincts of the German people or a diminished of their
best instincts is the question. The same is true all over the West. The
madmen have conjured spirits most assumed were dead. It will not end
well.
