---
title: "The New Model Rhodesia"
date: "2016-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8826"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8826"
---

I read a book years back titled <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Banana-Sunday-Datelines-Chris-Munnion/dp/1874959226"
target="_blank">Banana Sunday</a> by a former Telegraph reporter named
Chris Munnion. The book is a memoir about his career covering Africa for
the British papers. Munnion was an old school reporter. By that I mean
he did not subscribe to narrative journalism where the reporters collect
up facts to fit the pre-written story. In his memoir he covers the rise
of that form of journalism and why it was and is totally insane. That’s
not the point of the book, but it is an interesting side bar. Otherwise,
the book is about Africa.

The book is full of a great observations about the Dark Continent, but
the part that stuck with me is on the fall of Rhodesia. There are two
schools of thought on what happened in Rhodesia. One says it was
inevitable, as Africans would eventually revolt against their white
rulers just on racial grounds. We don’t hear this sort of argument much
these days, as it is just politely assumed. The fact that what came next
for what is now called Zimbabwe is not exactly the ringing endorsement
for the claims of the multiculturalists.

The other school of thought says that Zimbabwe is the inevitable end of
multiculturalism. The elevation of non-whites to preferred status is
simply viewed as a surrender by whites to non-whites, who do what
victors always do in ethnic conflict. They slaughter and subjugate the
vanquished. In 1960 Rhodesia was 4% white, with the prosperous portion
in the south being 7% white. The total population was 8 million. Today
it is all black with a population of 15 million. It is also one of the
poorest countries in the world.

The thing about these competing theories is they are not really in
competition as they both accept the inevitable conclusion. In the West,
the people in charge are possessed with a bizarre fatalism about
migration out of the south into the north. Exactly no one makes the
claim that importing millions of Muslims into Europe, for example, is
good for Europeans. They simply claim that it is inevitable and since
the mystery forces of history will it, it must be the morally correct
thing to embrace. Right side of history and all that.

You see this in the increasingly bizarre acting out by America’s PC
elites on the college campus.
<a href="https://www.campusreform.org/?ID=8287" target="_blank">This
story from Emory University</a> is one that caught my attention, because
it shows that we are a long way from the old Civil Rights days
of equality and integration. There’s little doubt that the organizer
spends his free time nursing anti-white revenge fantasies, where his
tribe rises up and smashes the Pale Penis People. After all, if your
organizing principle is hatred of the honkies, what else are you
dreaming about?

If these sorts of things were organized by fringe minority nutters, it
would be of no consequence. The truth is multiculturalism shrivels up in
an instant without the support of white elites. They invented it and
they sustain it. It is their religion. Non-whites are vastly more
practical, but they play along as this is their ticket up the social
ladder. Fifty years ago black elites named their kids after Founders and
preached the Protestant work ethic to one another. Today, they give
their kids nonsense names and preach hatred of whitey.

When you read about Rhodesia the thing that jumps out is that many of
the whites in charge of the country were just as delusional as their
superiors back home. Both assumed things about the black population that
have proven to be completely false. The people on the ground, however,
had enough of a survival instinct to work their way through reality to a
solution. The European elites were simply too drunk on multiculturalism
to see what was happening and anyway, they were isolated from it.

There’s a similar vibe going on in the West today. The overgrown boys
and girls romping around the campus kindergartens of America are just
high on the fumes of their own sanctimony. They can indulge all of their
fantasies because they are inoculated from reality, at least for
now. They can rail against white males and turn them into lepers on
campus because there’s no risk. Even if public pressure thwarts these
efforts, guys like DeLa Sweeney suffer no personal or professional
consequences.

The big difference between what happened in post-colonial Africa and
what is happening in the West now is there is no escape. Instead, the
elites, based on and around the campus, both corporate and academic,
imagine a world like New Haven. Yale is a safe, secure world where the
modern Eloi can live self-actualizing lives. Occasionally one of them is
eaten by the Morlocks living down the hill in the rough parts of New
Haven, but otherwise they are immune to the reality of daily life.
That’s the future our elites dream for themselves.

I’m sure it will work out just fine.
