---
title: "Alone in the Universe"
date: "2016-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7357"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7357"
---

The Drake equation is the estimate for the number of technological
civilizations that may exist in our galaxy. Astronomer Frank Drake came
up with a list of specific factors that are essential to the development
of intelligent life. The
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drake_equation" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Wiki entry</a> is pretty good and worth reading if you
like. If you want something a little more casual,
<a href="http://www.space.com/25219-drake-equation.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">space.com has a nice article on it</a>. The Drake
equation is pretty much all the alien hunters have at the moment, given
that we have zero evidence of life beyond this planet.

The reason for that is a mystery. In fact, it has a cool name as well.
It is called the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermi_paradox" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Fermi Paradox</a>. There are billions of stars in the
galaxy. The math says there should be millions with planets similar to
earth and capable of life. That’s the paradox. The math says there
should be lots of earth like planets teaming with life that has evolved
for a lot longer than life on earth. Yet, as far as we know, we are
alone in the universe, but we keep looking.

<a
href="http://www.deepstuff.org/three-potentially-habitable-worlds-found-around-nearby-ultracool-dwarf-star/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> the other day is
interesting.

*Astronomers using the TRAPPIST telescope at ESO’s La Silla Observatory
have discovered three planets orbiting an ultracool dwarf star just 40
light-years from Earth. These worlds have sizes and temperatures similar
to those of Venus and Earth and are the best targets found so far for
the search for life outside the Solar System. They are the first planets
ever discovered around such a tiny and dim star. The new results will be
published in the journal Nature on 2 May 2016.*

*A team of astronomers led by Michaël Gillon, of the Institut
d’Astrophysique et Géophysique at the University of Liège in Belgium,
have used the Belgian TRAPPIST telescope \[1\] to observe the star 2MASS
J23062928-0502285, now also known as TRAPPIST-1. They found that this
dim and cool star faded slightly at regular intervals, indicating that
several objects were passing between the star and the Earth \[2\].
Detailed analysis showed that three planets with similar sizes to the
Earth were present.*

A light year is roughly 5.9 trillion miles so these planets are roughly
240 trillion miles from earth. To put that into some perspective, let’s
pretend there is intelligent life on one of these planets. They decide
to let us know they are there by using a light signal of some sort to
send Morse Code. By the time we received the signal and decoded it, most
of the people who sent it would be dead. By the time they got our reply,
they would all be dead and most the people on our end would be dead.

Traveling to these planets would be impossible for humans. The fastest
space vehicle we have is the upcoming Solar Orbiter that NASA plans to
launch in 2018. It will travel at 450,000 miles an hour. If that were
configured to haul humans, it would arrive in the vicinity of these
planets around the year 62,899. Our astronauts would not even be dust at
that point.  Even assuming we can build a vehicle to reach something
close to light speed, we’re still looking at having geezers showing up
to the alien planet.

The other side of this is that the alien planet could have a species
that has solved these technological problems. They have the ability to
reach speeds in excess of light and the ability to survive in deep space
for extended periods. The challenges of interstellar space travel are
many orders of magnitude more difficult than anything we
understand. That would most likely mean they are vastly more advanced
than humans in every way.

The size of the technological gap between us and them would be something
similar to modern humans and australopithecines. Our technology is
amazing to us, just as sharp sticks were amazing to
<span style="color: #333333;">Australopithecus</span>. To the people
able to conquer interstellar travel, our technology would be the
equivalent to the sharp stick. They will do things we cannot imagine
doing, much less understand doing.

One of those things, most likely, will be the ability to conceal
themselves from us. Interstellar travel will require manipulation of
matter on a grand scale. Long before they figured out the Warp drive,
they will have figured out how to hide from our level of technology.
We’re getting pretty good at hiding from radar and the visible spectrum.
Our alien visitors will certainly have expanded this ability into most
of the electromagnetic spectrum.

Of course, the ability to control matter at the scales required of Warp
drives means they would have the ability to control living matter as
well. We like to think we’re complicated and by the standards of earth,
we are complicated. By alien standards, we are single cell creatures in
a water bath. They would be able to manipulate us just as easily as we
control ants and roaches. For all we know, earth is just a really big
terrarium anyway.

Then you have the evolutionary issues. Humans today are nothing like the
humans of 200,000 years ago. Imagine what we will be like in 200,000
years. Intelligent life in a million years could very well be
microscopic organisms living in silica. What if <a
href="http://www.cnn.com/2016/04/12/us/breakthrough-starshot-space-probe-stephen-hawking-feat/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Hawking is more right</a> than he knows
and the future of intelligent life is at the smallest of small scale?
That means our alien visitors could very well be a dust storm or the
single facet of a snowflake.

The point here is that we are alone in the universe, as far we know and
as far as we will ever know. By the time we can know otherwise, we will
not be us. By the time the aliens can show up and set us straight, they
will be so far advanced compared to us we will not be able to detect
them anyway. For all any of us can know, we’re just a science experiment
for some distant race of life. Earth is a terrarium sitting on a kid’s
desk. Regardless, we are alone in this universe and we always will be
alone.
