---
title: "I’m All Blacked Out"
date: "2016-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8635"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8635"
---

On my way home last night, I saw a couple of young black women on a
corner, holding signs that had “Black Lives Matter” on them with some
other writing. I think one of them had something about Charlotte, but I
don’t know for sure. They were hoping to get the attention of drivers,
but it seemed like no one was paying any attention. As traffic slowed, I
did not see any heads turning their way, but in the city, drivers look
straight ahead out of habit. That way the bums and panhandlers are not
encouraged to molest you.

I caught the light so I was sitting at their intersection with a chance
to observe for a few minutes. They stepped into the street and starting
taunting the white drivers by holding their signs up against their
windows and chanting something. When young black women get worked up,
their voices reach a pitch close to a dog whistle. It’s just high
pitched echolalic babbling, that is intended to annoy, rather than
convey information. I had my windows up so I could make out nothing. My
guess is it was just some gibberish they saw on-line or on TV.

Before they got to me, the light changed and they had to retreat back to
the curb, which was a surprise. In the ghetto, you run into this
behavior a lot. Black females will wait for the light to change and then
saunter into the cross walk, giving drivers the business, making them
wait as they stroll across the street. It is just one of the many
hassles that comes with dealing with people in the ghetto. At some
level, they know the rest of us would just as soon ignore the ghetto
entirely, so they spend their energy making that impossible.

Sitting there watching their antics, I felt a bit of rage welling up.
All this effort to be a public nuisance, to make demands on me, and yet
they put little to no effort into managing their lives. Even if they
have a claim, harassing drivers on their way home is not going to win
them any friends. They have to know it, which means they are not there
on the street corner with good intentions. They are there explicitly to
be a public nuisance. They just like hassling white people, purely out
of racial animus.

More and more, that’s the sort of thing that creeps into my mind when I
see blacks acting up. I have a great deal of sympathy for black people,
particularly underclass blacks. Despite what you see on TV, most black
people in the ghetto are decent people. They just lack the cognitive
tools and opportunity. They are my fellow citizens and I want the best
for them. I just don’t know what can be done to change their lot in
life. The Civil Rights Movement was over 50 years ago, but here we are
with young black girls full of hatred for the honkies.

I got home and decided to see what the news channels had to say about
the riots in Charlotte. On a Fox show, some old white guy was trying to
explain to Juan Williams that the reason blacks get shot by cops is that
blacks commit an outlandish amount of crime. He tried to explain how 3%
of the population, committing 40% of the crime, is going to have a
disproportionate amount of police interaction. Juan Williams is
innumerate, so he could not grasp the math. He just kept insisting the
cops like shooting black people.

There was something about the irritated look on the face of Juan
Williams that bugged me. The old honky was trying to respectfully
explain the mathematical reality of crime in America. Blacks are 13% of
the population, but they account for more than half of all crime. Most
of that crime is against black people. This is public information that
is easy to verify. Yet, Juan had a look on his face like the old honky
had just farted. You could tell that he was thinking, “How dare this guy
say such things?”

Instead of getting angry, I flipped over to the sports channel and, of
course, they were celebrating the asinine and insulting protests by
black athletes. These pampered babies owe everything they have to white
America, yet they have the gall to claim they are victims. They are
living lives few humans have had the privilege to live and it is not
enough. That’s what’s so damned galling about these protests. They are a
reminder that it is never enough. There’s no way to pay off the debt,
assuming there is one. It never ends.

That is, of course, something white people used to know. When I was a
kid, the old people would often says, “We’ll never hear the end of
slavery. We’ll be paying for that forever.” The point was that there’s
no point in trying. All of us have done something to someone for which
that person will not forgive us. No man keeps going over to his ex-wife
asking for forgiveness. You just accept the fact that there is no making
it right and you get on with your life. That’s the reality of race
relations. There’s no fixing it so there’s no point in trying.

Even so, I’m increasingly pissed off by what I’m seeing and I resent the
people behind it. Guys like Juan Williams should be on TV demanding the
cops round up every last Charlotte rioter and pack them off to Africa.
The rich black guys on TV talking sportsball should be mortified that
their co-ethnics are embarrassing their race with these antics. If the
roles were reversed and it was whites making asses of themselves, you
can be sure the honkies on TV would be furious and embarrassed,
demanding a halt to it.

That’s not how it works and that’s what is getting tiresome. Those two
black girls get the idea in their heads to make a nuisance of themselves
in the street and I’m supposed to feel guilty about it. Frankly, Glenn
Reynolds was right. Let’s have a few motorists drive over these people
and then we can talk about feeling guilty. Let’s have the cops unleash
the dogs and water cannon on these rioters and then talk to me about
feeling guilty. I’ll be happy to feel guilty as long as the streets are
clear.

I’ve simply had enough. I’m all blacked out. I’m tired of the blame
shifting and excuse making. I’m tired of seeing people, who know better,
lying to me on TV. Those rich sportsball talkers ain’t living in my
neighborhood. They are as far away from the Black Lives Matter types as
possible. They live in gated communities with the honkies. Their honky
cohorts on TV are not even driving through my neighborhood. They are
despicable hypocrites, who deliberately say things on television that
make our lives worse.

Black America does not have a race problem. It ain’t honkies robbing,
looting and killing in the ghetto. They don’t have a cop problem. The
cops shoot fewer black offenders than white offenders. They don’t have a
gun problem either. Black America has a black guy problem. They have far
too many black guys robbing, looting and killing, almost always doing so
at the expense of blacks. They won’t let me fix that problem, so stop
demanding I feel bad about it. I’m done. I’m all blacked out.
