---
title: "CalExit!"
date: "2016-12-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9164"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9164"
---

Whenever the the word “secession” is uttered, it is assumed that angry,
racist honkies from the South are trying to stand athwart history,
keeping America from reaching the great beige future imagined by the
Founders. After all, the story of America is Yankee New England imposing
civilization on the rest of the nation and, from time to time, those
barbaric slack-jawed yokels from the South threatening to leave.
Everyone knows this, because it is in our history books and movies.

In reality, the birthplace of secession in America is not Fort Sumter,
but Salem Massachusetts. In the late 18th and early 19th century,
Federalists based in Massachusetts agitated for the New England states
to leave the Union. It really got going when Jefferson and the
Republicans swept the 1800 elections, giving his party control of the
Congress and the Presidency. The Federalists thought it was the sign of
the apocalypse and ratcheted up their efforts to secede, culminating in
the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hartford_Convention"
target="_blank">Hartford Convention</a>.

It is a useful bit of history to keep in mind when thinking about the
current grumbling from the Cult over the most recent election.
Progressives are not a tolerant bunch. Even though they lack the
self-awareness to see it, most of what drives them is a bone-deep hatred
of their fellow Americans. You saw this with Bush the Minor, who
embraced all the crackpot policies of the Left while in office. He was
basically a post-modern LBJ, but the Left hated him because he was from
Texas, a Christian and a Yankee apostate.

As the fever breaks and America begins the long march back to normalcy,
the Left is looking around and imagining themselves surrounded by the
people they hate. It is why they like <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/texas/2016/12/05/hate-hoax-villanova-student-withdraws-trump-voters-attack-claim/"
target="_blank">making up stories</a> about Trump supporters assaulting
good thinkers on the streets. They really believe that the next step is
to round up the people of \[the blank space where God used to be\] and
sending them off to internment camps. Therefore, any nutty tale that
confirms that fear is accepted and waved around in the news.

The point being is that the spiritual sons and daughters of John
Winthrop have never really wanted to be Americans, if that meant
embracing the rest of us as equals. Rather, they are fine with America
as long as it runs something like Iran, where the Progressive leaders
run the country and the secular institutions of government are mostly
window dressing. If Iran ever gets popular government, the Mullahs will
head into exile. Now that America is on the road to free government, the
Progressives are talking about secession again.

The big one is
<a href="http://www.yescalifornia.org/" target="_blank">CalExit</a>, a
movement to have California break off from the rest of the country. This
has been spurred by the election, where normal Americans broke mostly
for Trump, but Californians voted in heavy numbers for the anti-American
candidate. If you look at the bill of particulars on the CalExit site,
the inability to dictate election results to the rest of the country is
one reason they want to leave. Their history may be a little off, but
the reasoning is well within the tradition of Yankee scolds going back
to the founding.

That is not a terrible development. The lesson of the Hartford
Convention is the rest of the country should have encouraged New England
to leave. Fifty years after the convention, Puritan lunatics were
invading the rest of the country, ushering in a century and a half of
cultural lunacy that has just about obliterated America as a
self-governing republic based in individual liberty. Letting the heirs
of those original lunatics break off and create their own countries is
an idea who time came 200 years ago.

There would be other benefits to California leaving. One is everyone
would get serious about boundaries again. Californians would now
be foreigners in America. The only way to regulate this is by tying
citizenship to place of birth. People born in California, for example,
would no longer be Americans. Those living in, say, Colorado, would have
the right to return, like Jews to Israel, or remain as resident aliens.
They would no longer have the right to vote, hold office or serve on
juries. Colorado and Nevada would have a chance to avoid the same fate
as Vermont and New Hampshire.

Another benefit is that it could encourage New England to break off and
form a separate country too. At the minimum, the members of the Cult,
who have moved to other places, like Virginia and North Carolina, may
decide it is time to return home. Maybe New England does not secede, but
perhaps it can go back to being a reservation for Progressive nutters
that is granted a degree of autonomy. It would be a bit ironic if the
end result was a demand from the Cult for a return of Federalism and
state’s rights.

The major benefit of losing California is we would lose their <a
href="http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2016-12-02/stanford-study-reveals-california-pensions-underfunded-1-trillion-or-93k-household"
target="_blank">trillion in bad debt</a> that threatens to destroy the
bond market. California has been able to kick its problems down the road
because of its statehood. It is the stinky pile of sub-prime mortgages
in the AAA rated MBS. Independence would force some responsibility on
California. It could also force reform on the Cult of Modern Liberalism,
which has thrived by shifting the costs of its polices onto others. If
not, the rest of us would be free of them anyway, which is what matters.
