---
title: "My Advice to the Broads"
date: "2016-05-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=4517"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4517"
---

If you go over to the neighborhood google machine and enter “women less
happy” you get 284 million results. When you enter “men less happy” you
get 246 million results, but it quickly becomes apparent that most of
the results are the same as the first search. Scanning through the first
dozen or so pages of both queries reveals that the result sets are
almost exclusively about women being less happy than men and less happy
today than at some point in the dark past.

[There was a big study on this half a dozen years
ago](http://www.nber.org/papers/w14969.pdf). This being the modern age,
researchers are required to first eliminate the most obvious answers and
instead focus on those causes that reinforce the tenets of the One True
Faith. These days, the social justice warrior phenomenon where angry
young women make a nuisance of themselves, is explained away as the
fault of the pale penis people. The fat, blue-haired girl with the face
full of fishing tackle may have been born that way, but it is still your
fault.

The truth is feminism is and was toxic nonsense. A century ago, feminism
could make some claims to rationality. After all, women in the West did
have a strong position in society. Encoding that into the social and
political institutions made some sense. By the 1950’s, the happiest
period for women in modern history, feminism was at best a stupid fad
and at worst, what we have experienced, a suicide cult promising to
immiserate women at a scale the Muslims could never imagine.

That is a good thing to keep in mind. If a woman wants to maximize her
happiness, looking back to the 50’s and 60’s is a good place to start.
Women in that age got married early. By early, I mean young adulthood,
either after high school or after college. Instead of waiting until
their life was full of restraints and complexity, they found a husband,
with whom they could develop those restraints and complexity.

[It turns out that married women are twice as happy as single
women.](http://www.stateofourunions.org/2012/SOOU2012.pdf) This is a
biological fact of life. The females of our species are wired to seek
out a high status male, with whom they build a life-long bond. From the
point of view of nature, this guarantees the greatest chance of
reproductive success. Since it is vastly easier for a young adult female
to land a suitable mate than it is for a middle-aged female, getting
married early makes the most sense. Sure, the man could be a dud, but
there are no guarantees in life.

Similarly, women should try to have their babies by the time they reach
thirty. Childbearing is tough on the woman’s body so getting it done in
peak physical years makes the most sense. There is also the fact that
chasing around after a ten year old is easier at 30 than it is at 40 or
50. Kids will wear out even the most fit person so having them when you
are at your most fit means you get the most out of being a mom.

That is the other thing. I have met so many women who seem to think they
should not enjoy being a mom. They race off to work as soon as they can
drop the kids off to daycare and they carry on like their kids are a
burden. A woman’s reason for being on earth is to be a mother. That is
pretty much their only reason to be alive. A smart and happy woman will
enjoy it as much as possible as life will not be any better than
those years as a mother.

Now, the reality of life is that many marriages end in divorce. This is
why getting married early makes sense. Finding a replacement man at 35
is easier than at 45 or 55. It is going to be even easier if you are not
fat. It is easy to develop bad habits when married, but a woman is going
to be happier if she works to keep her figure and look as close to her
wedding picture as possible. Letting yourself go is a good way to end up
a divorced, bitter middle-aged hen.

This is not just about planning for being a swinging divorcee. Your job
as a woman is to make your man happy. Part of that is keeping yourself
sexually attractive. This is ground floor biology. By trying to look as
close to your wedding photo as possible, you will remind your husband
every day why he married you. The main reason men cheat on their wives
is sex so a good way to keep your man around is remove that problem from
the mix.

Finally, one thing every man in middle-aged and older knows is that
women often go bonkers in their middle years. The kids gain independence
and suddenly mom has no purpose. The mid-life crisis is far more common
for woman than men and it is due to simple biology. The female is here
to bear and raise children. Once that is done, finding a suitable reason
to get up every morning is not always obvious. Plan for this reality.
