---
title: "Bodymore, Murderville"
date: "2016-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7567"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7567"
---

I saw on-line that Chicago rang in the start of the summer murder season
with their 60th homicide of the year. In the ghetto, Memorial Day is the
traditional start of crime season. The weather is nice so everyone is
outside, making them easier to shoot. Chicago gets a lot of attention
because it is a big city so the crime numbers are gaudy. That and the
mayor is a former Obama and Clinton rumpswab. [Here is a handy
website](http://heyjackass.com/) that logs all the crime in the Windy
City if you have an interest in the details.

The thing is, Chicago is a city of 2.7 million people. For a city that
size, sixty murders is a great start to the season. Last year they
finished with 507 murders. Doing a little math, they are on pace for an
all-time low, if current trends hold, which is unlikely. Even so,
Chicago is not in the top-10 list of most violent cities. The last look
had them in the 30’s and that was after their record setting 2015. The
apparent drop in homicide so far will drop them down the per capital
homicide rankings.

*\[edit\] I misread the Chicago murder stats. That is 60 for the month
of may, not year to date. I will not have the editor killed for this
horrible error.*

That is what makes Baltimore an interesting place. The city is not
excessively big. The census puts the population at 600,000, but the
flight from the city has surely lowered that number. Even so, they
managed 344 murders last year. That is a homicide rate three times that
of Chicago. This year the body count is at 108 so they are a little off
the 2015 pace, but not by much. The late spring in the Mid-Atlantic has
probably tamped down the numbers a bit. Gunning down Trayvon over his
sneakers is not so much fun in the wind and rain.

[When you look at the
details](http://chamspage.blogspot.com/2016/01/2016-baltimore-city-homicides-list-and.html),
the pattern is obvious. Murder in towns like Baltimore is nothing like
you see on television and it sure as hell is not like the libertarian
scolds imagine. It is not well-organized street gangs in territorial
wars over the drug trade. Instead, it is low-IQ knuckleheads shooting
each other over petty slights. The drug trade is real, but it is ad hoc
and disorganized at the streets level. The beefs that lead to murder are
just as likely to be over sneakers as drug deals.

It is what drug legalizers never understand. The drug game in
America’s urban reservations is not what drives crime and social
dysfunction. Libertarians imagine that legalizing drugs will lead to
young black males throwing down their guns and heading off to community
college. Legalize drugs and they will find something else to fill the
void in their lives. Murder and mayhem in the ghetto are about the most
basic of human attributes – status.

Talk to a cop that works the ghetto and he will be the most cynical guy
you will meet. The reason is he spends his days working cases that have
no rational explanation. Ray-Ray pops Darius one night not because of a
business beef. No, Ray-Ray did not like the way Darius looked at him at
a cookout so he walked up on him and started blasting. Sometimes, there
is simply no reason at all. Ray-Ray just decided to kill Darius “cause
he got to go.”

Of course, no one in the neighborhood talks to the cops. Again, the
white romantics get it all wrong. The “community” is not hostile to the
cops because of race. They are hostile because they are hostile to
everyone. The ghetto is not a community. It is just a bunch of people
who live in close quarters. One neighbor will steal from another and
then shamelessly be seen on the street with the neighbor’s property. It
is the one place where Hobbes was right.

All of the sentimental explanations for the ghetto are to avoid the
reality of the situation. More important, they allow good whites to
avoid facing up to doing what has proven to work. You did not see this
level of dysfunction and violence in the black neighborhoods in the 50’s
and 60’s. Every metric for blacks has gone the wrong way since
desegregation. Literacy, crime, drugs, illegitimacy, etc. are all worse
for blacks today than they were in the bad old days of segregation.

That is not to say integration magically turned some blacks into
savages. It is that intolerance of bad behavior was an essential element
of segregation. Whites had a “zero tolerance policy” for certain types
of behavior from blacks. Black leaders, not wanting trouble, would
police their ranks more ruthlessly than those imaginary bad whites the
good whites are endlessly telling us are the cause of all bad things.
Segregation made black leaders responsible for their people and
therefore intolerant of misbehavior.

Over the last forty years, every black person with a clue has gotten as
far away from the black neighborhoods as possible. The result is the
ghetto is now a concentrated population of the worst black America has
to offer. There is no one inside to police the ranks, so we end up with
a blue wall around the reservation that maintains the border. When a
body turns up, there is some effort to find the killer, but most times
the crime goes unsolved.

There is no going back to segregation even if there was the will to do
so, but there are lessons to be learned. The one lesson from the bad old
days is that intolerance is under appreciated. Celebrating the
dysfunction and general lunacy of the underclass not only encourages it,
but it also gives people, who should know better, a reason to ignore it.
The music company executives, for example, who promoted hip-hop in the
80’s, should have been keelhauled. Instead, they were made
extraordinarily rich from the promotion of murder and mayhem.

Intolerance is why stop and frisk worked so well in New York. It took
the status out of thug life. If you went out with your pants around your
ankles and your hat on sideways, the cops would humiliate you on the
street. No one looks hard when they have their hands against the wall
and a cop has pulled their pants down, looking for weapons and drugs.
Remove the status from thug life and you get less of it. Ban the public
display of “black culture” in West Baltimore and crime drops quickly.
