---
title: "The Disease of Modern Liberalism"
date: "2016-06-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7712"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7712"
---

Like most everyone, I woke up Sunday to the news that a lunatic had shot
up a gay bar in Florida late Saturday night. Also like most people, I
figured it was just another example of the old adage, “nothing good
happens after midnight.” Then it became clear it was something more than
just the usual trouble and I braced myself for a full blast of crazy
from the Cult of Modern Liberalism. I just knew that they would swear
this was the fulfillment of prophesy and demand reparations like after
the black church shooting.

It did not turn out that way, obviously, as the shooter was a Liberal
Democrat and a member of a sacred group. It’s hard to blame the honky
when the shooter is a Muslim. Muslims are not real high on the totem
pole for the Left, but they still rank higher than whites, even gay
whites. The Left is afraid to elevate them too high on the piety pole as
even Lefty understands what that means. Once we have a critical mass of
Muslims they will start pitching lesbians off the roof at colleges
around the country. That’s their thing.

After getting caught up on the details of the story I figured, like a
lot of people, I’m sure, that the next play for the Left would be guns.
Instead of blaming the Religion of Peace™, they would blame the magic of
metallurgy and polymers for making the poor Mohammedan go bonkers. It
was either that or Donald Trump creating an unfriendly atmosphere. It
did not take long for the Cult to settle on guns since Hillary Clinton
plans to run on gun grabbing this fall.

That’s the thing. Normals all know the drill now. President Obama could
walk out of the White House, shoot a couple of pedestrians, rape a nun
and then take a dump on Abe’s lap and the Left would find some way to
twist it into proof their cause is just. If the Muslim had used a
suicide vest instead of a gun, the Left would have blamed climate change
for sending him over the edge. No matter what happens, the war on normal
people must continue. It’s what defines them. It’s who they are.

That’s what’s important to understand about the Progressive mind. These
are not people who think like normal people. Instead, they are
completely immersed in their secular religion, in the same way the
Muslim fanatics are consumed by Islam. No matter what happens in the
world, the Left looks for a cause in the tenets of their faith. In this
case, it is Magic Shape Theory that says shaping metal into a gun imbues
it with the power to take possession of a human, making them into a
killer.

This is why they never seem to lose focus on their causes, no matter how
many times their cause has been rejected. Disarming the sinners, the bad
whites they imagine are holding up the final ascent into the promised
land, is a defining goal. After the Civil War, they wanted to murder all
the bad whites. They still do, but they need to get the guns first.
That’s what matters, not the dead gay guys lying on the dance floor or
the Muslim lunatics running loose in the country.

It’s one reason the Left always wins. They never quit. Like all
fanatics, they cannot be reasoned with or bargained with, because they
can never accept anything but 100% of their goal. Getting within ten
miles of the promised land is no better than  being a million miles from
the promised land so they break whatever deal they made and demand to
get a little closer and then a little closer. Before long normal people
are getting thrown in prison and having their property confiscated
because they did not show enough enthusiasm for sodomy.

It’s an important lesson. There can be no deal struck with these people.
There’s no truce to be had or a balance to be struck. What defines
American liberalism is an unquantifiable hatred of the sinner, the bad
whites they see as the reason the prophesies have not been fulfilled.
When you define yourself by the moral distance between yourself and the
bad people, you can never embrace the bad people. You can never accept
them. You can only lie in wait, for your chance at revenge and glory.
That’s why they spring to action right after these events.

When the deranged white kid shot up the black church, the Left demanded
the removal of every Confederate flag. That caught normal people by
surprise as the Civil War has been over for 150 years. To the Left,
however, it never ended. It just moved into different phases over time.
The old hatreds are still there and any chance they get to exact
vengeance on their sworn enemies, they take it. It’s all that matters to
them. It is their reason to live.

I’m fond of pointing out that civilization exists in the space between
barbarians on one side and fanatics on the other. The fear of the
barbarian forces civilized people to do what they must to keep the
fanatics under control. America has lost control of the fanatics and
they are running amok at a time when barbarians are pouring over the
border, abetted by the fanatics who see an advantage. Exploding Mohameds
are a symptom of a greater disease, the disease of Modern Liberalism.
