---
title: "The Abuse of Sexual Assault"
date: "2016-12-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9275"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9275"
---

The other day, I ran across <a
href="http://www.cbssports.com/college-football/news/michigan-wr-arraigned-on-charges-of-sexual-assault-resisting-a-police-officer/"
target="_blank">this story</a> in the sports pages. The sporting news
often resembles the police blotter, so this is not a unique news item. I
usually skip these stories, but something about it
<s>peaked</s> <s>peeked</s> piqued my curiosity. The accused in this
case is a college football player charged with “sexual assault” along
with some other crimes. Like most people, I hear the word sexual assault
and I think rape, but then I remember the mountain of rape hoaxes on the
college campus and I’m immediately skeptical.

In this case, the player is charged with two counts of fourth degree
sexual assault, crimes resulting from the cops trying to arrest him and
underage drinking. Sandbagging is the standard procedure these days so
even the smallest crime ends up in a litany of charges. Because cops and
prosecutors are mostly incompetent, they use the sheer mass of the
system to bludgeon those caught up in the system.  The idea is to bully
the accused into taking a deal, which makes life easier for the cops and
prosecutors.

Of course, the charge that will ruin the kid’s life is the sexual
assault charge. Looking at <a
href="http://www.lansingstatejournal.com/story/news/local/2016/12/22/um-football-player-charged-sexual-assault-east-lansing/95755290/"
target="_blank">the news story</a> from when it happened, you get to see
the absurdity of the charges. In Michigan, <a
href="http://www.legislature.mi.gov/(S(sweqykyap3bdbwvistk0b5kx))/mileg.aspx?page=GetObject&amp;objectname=mcl-750-520e"
target="_blank">fourth degree sexual assault</a> is basically aggressive
touching, at least when it is between adults. It is always leveled at
males, who get into some sort of beef with a female. Two fully clothed
people on a city street are not engaging in anything sexual, but that
does not matter. It is the go-to charge against young males in an
altercation with a female.

Common law defined rape as unlawful intercourse by a man against a woman
who is not his wife by force or threat and against her will. These days,
rape is legally defined as unlawful intercourse against the will of the
victim. In other words, the sex of the parties and the use of force are
no longer relevant. Attempted rape, of course, is a failed attempt to
commit rape. These are concepts that everyone understands, with deep
roots in western legal tradition. They don’t require further explanation
as the definitions are clear.

Assault is a bit different. Most people think of assault as physical
contact where one person causes bodily harm to another. That’s not the
legal definition of assault. In the law, assault is an intentional act
by one person that creates an *apprehension* in another of an imminent
harmful or offensive contact. Put another way, assault is when one
person does something to cause another to think they are under threat of
harm. What most people think of as assault, the law defines as battery,
which is why you hear the phrase “assault and battery” in crime stories.

The point here is the law has had, for a very long time, a definition
for forcible sex, assault and battery. A reasonable person, particularly
someone on a jury, could review the facts and testimony and render a
judgement. That should have been enough to cover what happened in this
Michigan case and all others like it. Maybe the accused was threatening
the woman and she had a reasonable concern for her safety. That’s
assault. It is patently absurd to attach sex to it, raising the
specter of rape in the minds of the public and a potential jury.

But that is where we find ourselves in the modern age. We have expanded
the definition of a sex crime to include anything that may give a woman
the blues. The lunatics in charge encourage young women on the college
campus to scream “fourth degree sexual assault” whenever they feel bad
about a random hookup, which they are encouraged to do by the same
lunatics. Inevitably, these cases end up dismissed, but you still have
the waste of money and the ruination of reputations.

The fact is, there is no such thing as a sexual assault. The law often
conjures terms, from commonly understood words, that have meanings well
outside of the component words. It is almost always a hangover from the
past. In the case of “sexual assault” it is a modern attempt to alter
the relationship between the sexes. When was the last time you heard a
woman charged with sexual assault or a man charged when the victim is
another man? The answer is most likely never as it almost
rarely happens.

It is yet another example of how the Left carves out authoritarian safe
spaces, so it can run wild against its enemies. The war on men would not
get very far in a fair fight, because as
<a href="http://quoteinvestigator.com/2014/07/02/peace/"
target="_blank">Hitler said</a>, there’s too much fraternizing with the
enemy. The expansive use of the phrase “sexual assault” in the laws
allows every deranged co-ed in America a free shot at a male that vexes
them. It’s how the <a
href="https://heatst.com/culture-wars/columbia-student-the-damage-done-by-mattress-girl/"
target="_blank">mentally unbalanced young woman at Columbia</a> was
indulged well past the point where it was clear she needed psychiatric
help.

Rape is a very serious crime, which is why we send rapists away for long
stretches in nasty prisons. Attempted rape should be similarly punished
as we know that sex criminals can never be rehabilitated. This is where
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4294" target="_blank">penal
colonies</a> make a lot of sense. Sexual assault, on the other hand, is
a made up crime that is entirely political. It is a weapon used by
deranged feminists and lazy cops to bludgeon young men for the crime of
having a penis. <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/society/2013/mar/25/rape-myths-low-conviction-rate"
target="_blank">It’s also why these cases have such a startling low
conviction rate</a>. It’s also why so many young women put themselves in
dangerous situations.

That last bit is the worst result of the expansive use of sex crimes in
the war between the sexes. Young women are led to believe the law is a
force field around them, insulating them from their idiotic decisions.
That leads young women to going out, getting knee-walking drunk with
strange men and then waking up with regrets, if they are lucky. You can
bet that some portion of the “rape” problem in Europe has something to
do with unattached young woman staggering around wasted at all hours of
the night.

For just about forever, humans understood that boys and girls were
different, requiring different rules for both. Women need to take care
to protect themselves from men and men need to take care of their women,
so they are not assaulted by strange men. That is biological reality and
the only way our species survives. The abuse of sexual assault is just
one of many examples of what happens when the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assemblywomen"
target="_blank">Assemblywomen</a> becomes a law book, rather than a
comedy.
