---
title: "The Great Transition"
date: "2016-04-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-04-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7192"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7192"
---

Back in the 90’s, the set of things called conservative began to merge
with the set of things called Republican. By the time George Bush the
Minor was crowned, the two words were interchangeable. Liberals would
start hooting “extreme right-wing Republican conservative” as soon as
you mentioned Bush. It was not just liberals doing it. The Conservative
Industrial Complex was happy to make the two things synonymous. It made
it easier for them to raise money from GOP donors.

At the same time, the folks who had been the core of American
conservatism were pushed out of the set of things called conservative.
There was lip service paid to things like abortion or homosexual
marriage, but traditionalism was reduced to a marketing concept. Big
foot conservatives and the GOP no longer cared about social issues.
Instead, they were obsessed with globalism and making war on the
Muslims. “Conservative” became [Frank Meyer
fusionism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusionism) without the
traditional social conservatism.

I have written a lot about how Buckley Conservatism is exhausted. It
existed primarily as an argument in favor of a tough line with the
Soviets and secondarily as an argument against 19th century socialism.
It was a reaction to American Progressivism, not an independent
intellectual movement. The Soviets are gone and no one, not even
Progressives, think the worker’s paradise is a worthy goal. Conservatism
no longer has a dance partner so it staggers around looking for a reason
to exist.

Buckley Conservatism is now a collection of slogans mostly, but it is
also a massive money making racket. The collection of monasteries around
Washington DC are still cranking out policy papers and think pieces for
the political class. On the Left there is nothing to write, but their
monasteries are still in place, just looking for tenants. They busy
themselves now with Democratic party politics, but the rickety state of
the party reflects the Left. It is an old woman clutching at power.

The result is we have a strange period in American life. The old binary
style of politics that has been with us since the Civil War now has a
vacuum on both sides. The Left has no economic arguments and the Right
has no cultural arguments. The reason the two sides scream bloody murder
at one another over trivial stuff is they have no other way to
distinguish one side from the other. Both sides are a straw-man for the
other.

That does not mean we are headed for the singularity. The neo-cons are
still with us and they may be ready to make [the return trip from
neo-conservative to
neo-liberal](http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2016/04/conservative-intellectuals-gop-base-split-republican-party-213821),
by moving out of Republican politics into Democratic
politics. Intellectually, the Left has been an abandoned building since
the fall of the Soviets so there is a vacuum to be filled. The coalition
of groups on the Left are emotionally hostile to traditionalism, but
they are open to the authoritarian globalism favored by the
neoconservatives.

That Tevi Troy piece is worth reading and is probably more wishful
thinking/veiled threat at this point. We are not going to see the
American Enterprise Institute change uniforms overnight. That is not how
these things work. Instead, it will be a slow evolution as we see guys
like Jonah Goldberg, for example, transition from conservative to
moderate and then liberal or whatever label they settle on at that
point.

I’m picking on Goldberg because he is already [laying the groundwork
for his
break](http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/434140/donald-trump-conservative-media-support-never-join?target=author&tid=897)
with the Republican Party this fall. You can almost see the wheels
turning as he tries to figure out how to argue that sitting out the
election is the “conservative” position, despite arguing against that
same position for two decades. Many of his fellows in the Conservative
Industrial Complex are struggling with the same dilemma.

Now, Trump and the groundswell carrying him to the nomination is not an
intellectual movement. It is not really a movement at this stage. It is
simply a reaction to the fundamental contradictions in the globalist
world view. You cannot have national governments beholden to their
citizens in a purely global economy. If national governments are not
beholden to their citizens, there is no point in being a citizen. More
important, there is no reason for people to remain loyal to their
rulers.

That said, ideological movements always start this way. Most peter out
or become narrowly focused on achievable ends. Still, we see a lot of
very smart people writing out on the fringe. If you are curious about
the world and are looking for arguments about what is happening, you are
not reading the mainstream guys. You are reading the weirdos of the
[Dark
Enlightenment](https://habitableworlds.files.wordpress.com/2013/04/darkenlightenment1.png).
That is where the action is now.

Political and ideological realignments happen in fits and starts so
Trump could fizzle out only to be replaced the next time by a more
polished version that is more complete as a political leader.
Alternatively, the Conservative Industrial Complex could go through a
counter-reformation and tilt back toward the traditionalist-conservative
side. There is a large and growing mass of people rejecting the status
quo. It is a market that will be met by someone.
