---
title: "Marx Was Right, Sort Of"
date: "2016-10-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8834"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8834"
---

In the Communist Manifesto, Marx described the periodic crisis of
capitalism in terms of “the enforced destruction of a mass of productive
forces.” Marx argued that the productive forces unleashed by capitalism
eventually get out of hand and the result is excess, thus collapsing the
value of the means of production. The capital classes remedy this by
enforced destruction of a mass of productive forces*,* the conquest of
new markets, and by the more thorough exploitation of existing markets.

Marx gets blamed for the 100 million or so murders committed in his
name, but he did make a few insightful observations. For instance, the
nature of business to ruthlessly exploit existing markets in pursuit of
growth, even when it becomes self-defeating, is still true today.
Similarly, business will bankrupt itself in pursuit of new markets, all
in the name of growth. Much of what plagues us these days is the result
of global business desperately searching for a new market to exploit. It
is also at the heart of <a
href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/the-nfl-is-in-decline/article/2005033"
target="_blank">what is ailing the NFL</a>.

A lot of people are blaming the idiotic and offensive antics of the
players for the sudden drop in ratings. Football players have short
careers and most end up broke soon after leaving the game, but most
men envy them anyway. Boys grow up wanting to be a sports star and that
admiration carries over into adulthood, long after we know the reality
of sport. Colin Kaepernick disrespecting the fans and the country by
kneeling during the anthem grates on people. Normal people think he is
an ungrateful prick.

That may be part of the problem the NFL is facing, but my sense is the
impact is trivial. Maybe it is the last straw for some people, but if
you are a sports fan, you are willing to overlook the antics of the meat
heads wearing your team’s colors. The individual players are not all
that important to the drama. The point of professional sport is to
simulate the tribal warfare for which all of us were born. Instead of
defeating the neighboring tribe’s men and stealing their women, we watch
our team beat their team at a ball game.

The real issue that is plaguing the NFL is they have run out of ways to
separate their customers from their money. In fact, they ran out of
sensible ways to do that a long time ago. That’s why they have started
holding games in foreign countries. They think they can maybe find new
customers to exploit. The games they hold in London, for example, cost
the league millions, but they hope that Brits will get hooked on the
narcotic of the NFL and cough up millions for the product. So far, no
good.

As Marx observed, they are also ruthlessly trying to exploit their
existing market. Go to an NFL game and you come away feeling like you
have just been mugged. It’s not the absurd prices for everything. They
constantly bombard the fan with marketing, because they expect the fan
to commit his life to the corporate entity known as his team. Go to a
Dallas Cowboy game, for example, and you are treated to a long pre-game
ceremony about how you are not just a fan, you are soldier in the army
of the Dallas Cowboys.

Of course, most people consume their sports via the television and
that’s where you see the ravenous appetite of the NFL as they ruthlessly
exploit their market. It used to be that the NFL games were played at
one o’clock on Sunday afternoon. Now, there are games all day on Sunday.
There’s a game on Sunday night and Monday night. Now we have a game on
Thursday night. If that is not enough, there’s the NFL package for your
phone, tablet and whatever else you use to consume media.

The games are now more advertising than games. As the linked article
points out, the games themselves are only about 10-15 minutes of action.
The rest of the presentation is fluff and most of that is advertising.
There’s a play and then the refs have to hold a meeting about it. That
means a break to sell product for three or four minutes. They get back
to the game for a few plays and then it is time to have a break for more
commercials. It’s why the Red Zone Channel is so popular. It has no ads.

The NFL is in many ways emblematic of the modern credit economy. Rich
guys buy the teams on borrowed money at artificially low interest rates.
They don’t really care that much about the cash flow, like a normal
business. Their game is to inflate the value of the franchise over the
duration of their investment. To do that means maximizing the “brand”
and that costs money, which is why they load up their product with ads
to the point where it is more ads than product. The NFL is a big bust
out.

What’s happening to the NFL is their endless pursuit of growth has put
the live product out of reach for most people. The TV version is
exhausting the viewers with marketing and advertising. In an effort to
fully exploit its market, it is destroying the desirability of the
product. This is not exactly as Marx imagined the crisis of capitalism,
but it is a good lesson on the fantasy of endless growth. The whole
point of the NFL as a business is to get bigger and that cannot go on
forever.

This does not mean the NFL is about to go out of business, but it serves
as a useful lesson about the limits of the asset model. The modern
credit economy is based on the idea that asset values can grow forever,
therefore the credit base can grow forever. The NFL is based on the same
premise. In both cases, the effort to keep the fantasy alive in the face
of objective reality, is doing more harm than good. The question is how
long does it take the people in charge to figure it out.

 
