---
title: "Travelogue: The Imperial Capital"
date: "2016-12-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-12-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9209"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9209"
---

I have been out of pocket, as they say in the South, for the last few
days. A project in the Imperial Capital has required me to commute from
my estates in the ghetto to the capital each morning. Early days and
long nights, with the addition of a vicious commute, has made the past
week feel like a stay in prison. I’m just now getting my bearings about
what has happened in the world the last few days. I am happy to report
that the counter-revolutionary traitors have been rooted out and the
city is prepared for the ascension of our new ruler next month.

Those of you in the provinces can never fully appreciate the scale of
the Empire until you spend some time driving around the capital.
Government, at least the Federal government, is an abstraction. You bump
up against it when you file taxes or go to the post office. Otherwise,
the Empire is just the background noise of the universe. When you spend
time in the capital, you see it face to face. It is not an
abstraction or background noise. It is the dominating feature of life in
these parts, warping all the normal functioning of society.

It’s why anyone talking about reducing the size of government is either
lying, crazy or terribly uninformed. Reducing the size of the Federal
government means reducing the size of the Imperial Capital. Fairfax
County, on the Virginia side of the Potomac, has over a million souls.
The District is roughly 600,000. Start adding up the populations
attached to the capital and you get to five million. Expand out to
include the entire Baltimore – Washington area – the two cities are
slowly merging into a megalopolis – you get close to ten million people.

That’s a lot of people with a reason to keep things as they are and
maybe expand on them. Reducing the size of government is like saying we
will reduce the size of Los Angeles or Manhattan. This sort of thing can
only happen if the city falls on hard times or is sacked by invaders. It
took decades to blight Detroit and they worked really hard at it. Their
people are low-IQ morons. the Federal government is stocked with smart
and clever people who know how to keep the party going. Any and all
attempts to reduce the flow of cash into the city will be thwarted.

Another aspect of the Imperial Capital is that it is much more
international than the rest of the country. Lots of smart people from
other nations come to Washington to work on projects, lobby Imperial
officials and otherwise benefit from proximity to the Imperial Capital.
I’ve spent the week with people from all over, none of whom had a reason
to be in the capital area, beyond economics. They left the provinces to
make their fortune in the capital and they did. They get to live in big
house and dine at nice restaurants, thanks to the generosity of you, the
sans-culotte.

The result of this is the people inside the capital are blinkered. They
simply have no idea what is going on in the countryside. it is why they
are horrified by the Trump election. Donald Trump is their black swan.
The people inside were sure that such a result was an impossibility.
Imagine if you came home and found Big Foot riding a unicorn around your
neighborhood. There’s simply no way for the people living in the capital
to understand why they should accept limits. There can be no argument to
convince them that the state must be reduced.

Throw in the fact that 7 of the 10 richest counties on earth are
attached to the Imperial Capital and it is not hard to understand why
the people living here love government. Even the chattering classes, who
hold no official position, live like royals compared to the people in
the provinces.Jonah Goldberg, for example, lives in a seven figure home,
in one of the more exclusive neighborhoods in the area. He got rich
making armpit noises and singing the praises of the managerial state,
but mostly the latter. He’s not going back to the former without a
fight.

That leaves two possibilities. One is the city is sacked by angry
peasants or foreign invaders. The other is we run out of money. That
last one is the most likely answer. The proposed tax cuts and reforms
from Trump are getting an icy response from Washington, but the private
sector is tapped out. They need a jump start to begin growing again.
Eventually, we will reach a point where a choice must be made. Either
the peasants sacrifice to keep the Imperial Capital stocked with cash or
the ruling class tightens its belt. I would not bet on the latter.

My advise. Go long on pitchforks.
