---
title: "Flying Cars"
date: "2016-02-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6608"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6608"
---

Two times in my life I have made predictions about technology that were
pure genius. The first time was when I first saw Hypertext Markup
Language. At the time, the only websites were gray pages with blue
links. I said to a friend at the time that this would replace mail order
and probably retail. A storefront on the Internet would let the little
guy compete globally for customers. The person I said this to thought I
had lost my marbles.

The second time this happened was in a discussion of mobile devices. At
the time, palm-top organizers were just hitting the street. Someone said
to me that one day someone is going to get rich selling carrying cases
for all of these devises. My response was that someone was going to get
rich combining them into a single device, like a phone that was an
organizer, camera and personal identification. He too thought I was
nuts.

This does not make me a genius, of course, as I did nothing with these
insights and lots of other people figured it too. The point is I saw the
future as something other than a straight line projection from the
present. That’s hard to do which is why we rarely do it. Like everyone
else, I expect tomorrow to look like an extension of today, because that
has been my experience, with some notable exceptions. It’s why most
predictions about the future are hilariously wrong.

[When I read this story the other
day](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3454461/Flying-cars-just-TWO-years-away-Terrafugia-claims-TF-X-ready-skies-2018.html),
I immediately thought about those prior times when I had a bit of
inspired thought. As long as I have been alive, the dream of personal
air travel has been a part of predictions about the future. If it is not
flying cars, it is hovercraft, jet-packs or levitation devices. In the
future, the ground will be for bugs and losers. The winners will be
floating in the clouds, riding thermals to their office and jetting
about like Iron Man.

That sounds fun, but my bet is the future or transportation looks a lot
different than flying cars or even robot cars. Instead, the future is
probably something closer to personal drone transport. People will have
quadcopters that can take them on short trips around town and drop them
off safely back onto the ground. This would be fun, safe and solve some
of the transportation issues of the modern world.

We already have the technology to build a drone that can navigate around
obstacles and use GPS to locate a target. The small drones you can buy
from hobbyist sites are simple to operate because of the built-in
navigation technology. Scaling this up is nothing. Building a drone that
can lift a person is basic engineering that has been done to death. Add
in the software for guidance and navigation and you have a safe flying
gizmo average people could use.

Obviously, the safety issue is *the* issue. But that’s where the
technology of robot cars comes into the mix. If you can safely navigate
around a city street, the same technology can be applied to the drone.
That way, the typical user does not slam into a building or crash into
the ground when landing. Unlike cars, the drone-space would be free of
dogs, pedestrians, kids running into the street, potholes, etc.

The other advantage of personal drones transport is that the government
can mandate safety at the start. That means, unlike cars, all drones
must be wired into the drone-space control system. No classic drones
allowed in the drone-space. You are either on the grid or you’re on the
ground. That keeps the sky free from being butts-to-nuts with people
flying around out of control.

The obvious benefit here is cost. The driverless cars will be
prohibitively expensive for decades. Flying cars are never going to be
practical. Jet-packs have that sudden fiery explosion issue. A decent
drone is now a couple of grand. One for human transport would be
comparable to a basic car or motorcycle, even with beefed up safety
technology. That means they will be practical for most people from the
start.

The downside here is they would not be of much use in bad weather.
Flying around in a snowstorm is probably not going to be possible. That
means these things will be more like motorcycles, a second vehicle for
nice weather and nice climates. Unlike a motorcycle, you don’t have to
worry about being crushed in the skies by a delivery truck, so more
people would be willing to have a drone than a motorcycle.

The other upside here is they will not require trillions in new
infrastructure. Electric cars, flying cars and jet-packs present all
sorts of issues with the current infrastructure. The drone-space is open
range at the moment. We already have laws governing the airspace so
limiting where these things could be used is not a hug leap in
regulatory policy. The only change in infrastructure would be rooftop
landing pads maybe.

So, there you go. Cash out the retirement fund, mortgage the house and
invest in drones.
