---
title: "Hari Seldon Wants In The Game"
date: "2016-03-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6910"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6910"
---

As a general rule, I counsel against optimism. In fact, i tell people
that the wise course is to imagine the worst case and then figure that
to be the best case. That said, there are reasons to be cheerful
sometimes. This <a
href="http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/20/us/politics/donald-trump-republican-party.html?_r=1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> floating around the Imperial
Capital is one example.

*Republican leaders adamantly opposed to Donald J. Trump’s candidacy are
preparing a 100-day campaign to deny him the presidential nomination,
starting with an aggressive battle in Wisconsin’s April 5 primary and
extending into the summer, with a delegate-by-delegate lobbying effort
that would cast Mr. Trump as a calamitous choice for the general
election.*

*Recognizing that Mr. Trump has seized a formidable advantage in the
race, they say that an effort to block him would rely on an array of
desperation measures, the political equivalent of guerrilla fighting.*

*There is no longer room for error or delay, the anti-Trump forces say,
and without a flawlessly executed plan of attack, he could well become
unstoppable.*

*But should that effort falter, leading conservatives are prepared to
field an independent candidate in the general election, to
defend Republican principles and offer traditional conservatives an
alternative to Mr. Trump’s hard-edged populism. They described their
plans in interviews after Mr. Trump’s victories last Tuesday in Florida
and three other states.*

*The names of a few well-known conservatives have been offered up in
recent days as potential third-party standard-bearers, and William
Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, has circulated a memo to a small
number of conservative allies detailing the process by which an
independent candidate could get on general-election ballots across the
country.*

*Among the recruits under discussion are Tom Coburn, a former Oklahoma
senator who has told associates that he would be open to running, and
Rick Perry, the former Texas governor who was suggested as a possible
third-party candidate at a meeting of conservative activists on Thursday
in Washington.*

Bill Kristol is not a dumb guy. He is not much of an American at this
point, but he is not stupid. His interest in America is only as a source
of men and money to attack the Muslims. That’s what neo-conservatism has
been reduced to in the post-Cold War era. They will go along with any
crackpot scheme that lets them throw bombs at the muzzies.

Still, Kristol is not stupid. He know there’s no chance he could even
launch a third party, much less stop Trump from getting the nomination.
This is proof of that. He’s hoping to deal himself back in the game with
this largely worthless threat. The hope is that Team Trump, through an
intermediary, will make nice with these guys, maybe promising gigs in
the Leviathan if he wins.

An important component of the commentariat is the fiction of having
influence. Kristol get paid largely on the myth that he is a mover and
shaker in Republican Party politics. He made millions off taking credit
for Sarah Palin being named McCain’s running mate. Trump is putting the
family business at risk so Kristol is scheming for a way back in and
this is his gambit.

This suggests that the pros are now coming around to the idea that Trump
will not only win the nomination, but win the general election so they
want in on the action. I have no idea how this game of chicken will play
out, but the numbers suggest Trump is in a position to wait and let
these guys vent their spleen for a while longer. They want in so he just
needs to win and then make a deal.

There’s always the possibility that Kristol has simply lost his
fastball. That happens to all of us. He is closer to being worm food now
than his prime. The fact he is talking about comical losers like Perry
and the near-dead Coburn suggests maybe all of them have lost their
marbles, but that’s not the way to bet. Kristol is the Hari Seldon of
neo-conservatism and even in his dotage, he probably has more on the
ball than 90% of the schemers in the game.
