---
title: "Drugs"
date: "2016-02-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6445"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6445"
---

The issue of drugs is one where you can divide sensible people from the
unhinged. Sensible people understand that humans will always look for
ways to get intoxicated and some of those ways will be deadly. Some kill
over a lifetime like alcohol or smoking. Others kill quickly like meth
or heroin. There’s often a criminal element around these things, which
makes them a social problem, in addition to a personal problem.

Sensible people also understand that while you can never eliminate these
vices, you can’t embrace them either. A society full of potheads, drunks
and smack heads is not going to last very long. The great challenge of
human organization is to reduce the number of people that are a burden
on society, without turning men into slaves. The “free rider problem”
has been with us since the dawn of time and will be with us until the
end of time.

The libertarian obsession with drugs is well known. Libertarians were
put on earth to harangue sensible people about the evils of drug
prohibition. It’s their calling card and the reason they remain a fringe
movement. Their brand of personal liberty sounds good until people think
about Walmart having a sale on heroin or meth. No one wants to live in a
world where some guy is snorting coke at your kid’s ball game.

That, I think, is the reason for the obsession with drugs. A libertarian
society sounds great, as long as the society is full of libertarians
able to live as rugged individuals, making no claims on their neighbors.
Drug addicts present an impossible problem for libertarians. As soon as
you have a decent population of people that make bad choices, you get
demands for collective action to address the bad choices.

There’s another problem for libertarians when it comes to drugs and
that’s their assumption that people act out of self-interest. In the
libertarian paradise where drugs are legal and welfare is voluntary, the
belief is only a rare few will risk starvation in order to get high.
Charitable welfare will provide the additional incentives for those
that may choose getting high over food.

That’s the argument. The trouble is drug use makes clear that most
people are not rational and they don’t always act out of self-interest.
Things like meth would not exist if people were rational. Heck, weed
would not exist as it is not a very pleasant form of intoxication
compared to opiates or alcohol. Yet, marijuana is the most popular
illicit drug in the West. Lots of people smoke pot because their peers
do it or they have nothing better to do.

Then there are the drug dealers. If libertarians were right about
people, we would have few drug dealers. In a town like Baltimore, the
game gets you killed or sent away to prison for a long time. Yet, there
are plenty of young men getting in the game. As soon as one dies,
another takes up his spot on the corner. The money to be made is small,
even by ghetto standards. Young men just like action and some young men
just like the violence.

The bad choices drug takers make often lead to them not being able to
fend for themselves. You can rely on charity to handle things like drug
treatment, but you still need cops to get the junkies off the streets.
You need cops to keep the junkies from robbing people to feed their
habit. Like it or not, the drug addicted are a societal problem. Like
public parks, they are a public obligation.

That does not mean the war on drugs is the answer. By every metric,
prohibition has been a failure. The whole point of prohibition is to
drive up the costs of making and selling the prohibited product. Make
the cost high enough and the number willing to risk doing it shrinks to
a manageable number. The price of the product reflects that reality and
therefore prices limit the market. Prohibition is basically just cost
shifting.

Yet, illicit drugs are cheaper and more potent than ever. There are new
and improved drugs and the distribution channels are vastly more
sophisticated than at the start of the drug war. Then you have the
proliferation of prescription drugs that magically end up on the black
market, often through physicians who make more writing scripts than
seeing patients. The drug war is just a wildly expensive failure at this
point.

I don’t know the answer to the problem. Maybe there is no answer. The
number of heroin users in America is quite small according to the CDC.
They are 0.3% of all drug takers. Roughly a quarter of Americans use
illegal drugs so we’re talking about 300,000 people. That sounds like a
lot but in a country of 300 million, it’s a nuisance, not an epidemic.
It’s also easily manageable, if there’s a will to do something about it.
