---
title: "Brexit"
date: "2016-06-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7824"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7824"
---

On Thursday, which I think the EU requires the Brits to
call *quartidi, *the subjects of England vote on whether or not to
remain in Europe. The vote to leave, in theory, will compel the British
government to negotiate an exit from the EU and paddle the island
further into the Atlantic. The timing of the exit and the terms of the
deal are not contemplated in the text of the referendum. There may be
something in British law that determines these things, but I can find
nothing to support that claim.

That is not an unimportant bit in this discussion. It is no secret that
the ruling class of England not only wants to remain in the EU, but they
dream of a day when Britain is just another administrative zone of
Europe, sort of like how the Romans treated Britannia. It is not just
that the idea of separate countries has become a heresy. The ruling
elite seems to think the time has come to exterminate the British people
entirely, at least as an identifiable tribe. As former Lord Chancellor
Jack Straw put it, “the English as a *race* is *not worth* saving.”

[Looking at the polling](https://ig.ft.com/sites/brexit-polling/), the
way to bet is that Brexit falls short. There has been a surge in support
for leaving and English nationalism bubbling under the surface often
goes unnoticed in polls. On the other hand, vote fixing and browbeating
do not always show up in the polls either. There is also the fact that
people perceive the status quo as the safe choice. Humans are funny that
way. Any change meets some natural resistance, even when there is no
logic to resistance. Roll it all up and Remain most likely carries the
day.

Let us assume, by some miracle, that Brexit wins, what then?

In theory, the British government will begin negotiations with the EU on
the formal withdraw of Britain from the EU. In reality, there has to be
some political theater first. David Cameron will come under pressure to
resign by members of his own party. He staked his reputation on this
referendum so a failure to deliver would damage his standing. Plus, the
people that *really* run things may want a scalp to send a message. As
the saying goes, kill the chicken to scare the monkeys.

Of course, ousting a Prime Minister is no small thing and it could lead
to all sorts of turmoil in the ruling party. Usually when this happens
there is a group within the party that has coalesced around a new
leader, they are ready to install, once they have  deposed the old
leader. But that is not always the case and all hell could break loose
once the Cameron is gone. Britain could end up having early elections,
which would put things on hold until after the election. In effect,
Britain would have a do-over referendum on Brexit.

If we assume that the political fallout is limited to the theatrical,
the next step is the process of implementing the intent of the
referendum. That will most likely take years as neither side will be in
much of a hurry to get on with it. Parliament will surely pass some
legislation as a stop gap to keep the current arrangements in place
until a deal is done. The EU will set off on a long drawn out process of
forming a committee to study the process of forming a committee to
appoint a board to review Britain’s exit request.

The hope for all concerned is that the English people, having blown off
some steam in the referendum, will go back to their affairs and forget
all about it. From time to time the public will be notified that
negotiations have taken place in the south of France during the winter
or in the Alps during August, but otherwise nothing much will happen.
There will no doubt be tales told to the British press about the long
hours required to address the millions of details involved in actually
leaving the EU.

Polling outfits will be surreptitiously dispatched to keep measuring
public sentiment regarding the EU and the referendum. The hope being
that opinion will swing the other way and Parliament can then pass an
act overturning the referendum. The pressure to reverse the results of
the referendum will slowly build over time until either the opposition
is worn down or some crisis allows the rulers to act. A recession will
be blamed on Brexit and it will be quickly “fixed” by overriding the
referendum.

This probably seems like cynicism. After all, Britain is a liberal
democracy where the will of the people, as expressed at the ballot box,
is respected by the politicians. Our rulers invest a lot of time telling
us this and then spend even more time getting us to come out and vote.
Then there is the bizarre obsession with getting foreigners to vote in
their own lands and come to our lands so they can vote in our elections.
You can be forgiven for thinking that voting is important and respected
by our rulers.

That has not been the pattern in Europe, or anywhere else in the West,
over the last few decades. The voters vote and the political class does
whatever it likes, coincidentally in line with the will of their donors
and sponsors. The French people voted against the EU Constitution and
the rulers promptly ignored them. Other EU countries then cancelled
their referenda. The Greeks kept voting for change, only to get more of
the same after each election. Despite the rhetoric, voting counts for
little.

The reason for this is that what we keep calling liberal democracy is
actually *corporate democracy*. The political class serves the function
of the management group in a corporation. The buccaneering billionaires
of the global elite are the board of directors, who hire and fire the
politicians, based on their performance. The voters are just the minor
shareholders who are mustered every once in a while, to endorse the
actions of the board as represented by management. The vote is never
binding.

Whenever there is shareholder revolt, the board takes it out on
management. In theory, the shareholders could overthrow the board as
well as management, but this always requires leadership from a large
shareholder who is, in most cases, on the board. It may feel like the
shareholders are taking control, but in reality, the board is always in
control. It is just that the individuals members of the board may make
war on one another.

In the case of Britain remaining a sovereign state, the board is of one
mind, regardless of what the minor shareholders do tomorrow.
