---
title: "The End of Doyle"
date: "2016-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6955"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6955"
---

<a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/newstopics/howaboutthat/12202181/Angry-backlash-against-Croydon-man-who-confonted-Muslim-woman-and-told-her-to-explain-Brussels.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This</a> is what national suicide looks
like.

*A man who tweeted about stopping a Muslim woman in the street
yesterday, challenging her to “explain Brussels”, and lambasted on
Twitter for his comments, has responded to the criticism today,
insisting he is not some ‘far right merchant’.*

*Matthew Doyle, partner at a south London-based talent & PR agency,
posted a tweet on Wednesday morning saying: “I confronted a Muslim woman
in Croydon yesterday. I asked her to explain Brussels. She said ‘nothing
to do with me’. A mealy mouthed reply.”*

*He was later arrested.*

At some point, people figure out that posting a complaint on twitter is
the same as punching someone in the face so they will start doing the
latter. In fact, this man should have just punched the woman and walked
away. The chances of him being arrested would have been lower. That’s
how things are under an anarcho-tyranny. The cops only reach for the low
hanging fruit.

*His tweet referred to yesterday’s [bomb
attacks](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/belgium/12201893/Brussels-bombing-Belgium-terrorist-attacks-Isil-live.html)
on the Belgian capital’s main airport and Metro system that left at
least 34 people dead and 198 injured. His comment went viral, being
retweeted hundreds of times before he eventually deleted it.*

*Mr Doyle told the Telegraph he had no idea his tweet would be the “hand
grenade” it has proven to be – and that Twitter’s 140 character limit
made the encounter sound vastly different to how he thought it went.*

*“What everyone’s got wrong about this is I didn’t confront the woman,”
he said. “I just said: ‘Excuse me, can I ask what you thought about the
incident in Brussels?'”*

*“She was white, and British, wearing a hijab – and she told me it was
nothing to do with her.*

*“I said ‘thank you for explaining that’ – and her little boy said
goodbye to me as we went out separate ways.”*

*On Wednesday afternoon, he says, someone who’s been outraged by his
comments “turned up at my door, gave me a load of abuse and tried to
throw a punch at me.”*

This is predictable. When you start groveling, people naturally assume
you will not fight back. Every guy who wants to signal his membership in
the cult comes calling so they can take a poke at you, showing their
coreligionists they are a true believer. It’s a low-cost act of public
piety.

*As for his more inflammatory tweets, Mr Doyle claims they’re intended
as a joke, which people who know him would understand as “that’s
absolutely not who I am.”*

*“I’m not some far-right merchant, I’m not a mouthpiece for any kind of
racism or radicalism,” he says. “If I was xenophobic I wouldn’t live in
London.*

*“I have a Muslim neighbour who got burgled, and I was one of the first
people to go around to help.”*

What this man is failing to grasp is he can never be forgiven for his
crimes. No amount of groveling will get him off the hook. You see, all
mass movements need bogeymen. They cannot exist without them. The
suicide cult of multiculturalism can never forgive guys like this
because he is their oxygen. He is the face of the thing against which
they struggle. When the multi-cult starts forgiving the sinners, their
movement is finished.

This is also why multiculturalism cannot exist in a free society.
Inevitably, the people of Rotterdam notice that the swarthy fellows are
raping a lot of white girls. The folks in Minneapolis notice that the
Somali girls are disappearing. The people in <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/london/2015/12/30/no-go-zones-german-police-admit-losing-control-immigrant-problem-neighbourhoods/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Westphalia</a> start to notice the
migrant crime wave and the unwillingness of the police to go into those
neighborhoods. Once people start noticing, they inevitable start saying
it in public.

This forces the state to choose sides. The people who invited the
problem into your neighborhood are certainly not going to take your side
over the migrants, so men like Mr. Doyle get picked up by the police and
humiliated in order to send a message. The next guy tempted to speak up
will think to himself, “I have a family. I can’t end up like Doyle.
Maybe I’ll just think of something else.”

Of course, this just emboldens the Muslims. They see it as weakness so
they become even more provocative. In short order, another Doyle is on
twitter complaining about some “Asian” men who harassed his wife and
daughter at the train station. The police then pick up this new Doyle
and we never see him again. The train station is now part of the
Caliphate and the Doyles of the world steer clear of it.

As I keep pointing out, there’s always a reaction and we are seeing that
all over as fringe candidates and parties begin to fill the void left by
the legitimate candidates and parties. The fellas at Pegida or Soldiers
of Odin will soon figure out that petitioning their rulers for redress
is a waste of time. Instead, they will take up the tactics of the
Mohammedan. After all, success breeds imitators. <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3365979/Another-German-migrant-centre-burned-ground-suspected-arson-attack-country-s-tolerance-new-arrivals-continues-shrink.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Burning down migrant centers</a> will
soon move to blowing up mosques.

It will not end well
