---
title: "Otherkin Rights Now!"
date: "2016-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6357"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6357"
---

A decade or more ago I heard the term “otherkin” for the first time and
subsequently have waited for an otherkin rights movement to start. There
has been an <a href="http://www.murkworks.net/~elflist/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">on-line “community”</a> for them since the 90’s, but it
is a mixed bag of people who are pro-elf, elf-curious and
beings that are part-unicorns, part-gryphon, part-dragon, angelic or a
demon. There are combinations too so the otherkin “community” looks a
lot like Yugoslavia in the 1970’s.

All of this sounds insane and it used to be considered as such, but we
live in an age where the line between reality, insanity and fantasy is
arbitrary. As soon as something is declared arbitrary it becomes a
social construct and those are just about the worst things imaginable,
except Hitler. He remains the worst, but social constructs and those
yesterday men who traffic in them are down there with Hitler too.

Not to sound sanguine about it, but I’m old enough to remember when my
general indifference to homosexuals was considered good form. I once
hired an obviously gay man and my peers thought nothing of it. Not
noticing or discussing it was just what you did. Now, my failure to
celebrate it on Facebook, Twitter and the company e-mail system would
probably get me sent off to sensitivity camp.

When you live in such a bizarre age, the bizarre feels normal. The lack
of weird feels, well, weird. That’s why I think we’re going to see the
otherkins finally get to fly their flag on the community piety pole. <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/newstopics/howaboutthat/12127067/woman-says-she-is-a-cat-trapped-in-the-wrong-body.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Stories like this one</a> are just the
first rumblings of what’s coming down the road.

*We probably all feel a bit like a sleepy housecat when we have to get
up for work in the morning.*

*This Norwegian woman has taken that feeling to the next level. Nano
claims she realised she was a cat when she was 16 years old, and has
adopted feline mannerisms since.*

*The 20-year-old has opened up about her life as a puss, describing how
she has a superior sense of hearing and sight which allows her to hunt
mice in the dark.*

*She made the revelation in a YouTube video, which has been viewed over
100,000 times.*

*Nano claims to possess many feline characteristics including a hatred
of water and the ability to communicate simply by meowing.*

That hatred of water would suggest that Nano smells like low tide by
now. Judging from the pics, I’m guessing she has found a workaround.

*The young woman shows off her cat characteristics by wearing fake ears
and an artificial tail. She communicates by meowing.*

*“I realised I was a cat when I was 16 when doctors and psychologists
found out what was “the thing” with me. Under my birth there was a
genetic defect,” she explains in the video.*

*As they walked through Oslo’s central station, the presenter asked Nano
what she could hear and see that a normal person might not.*

*“Suitcases rolling on the ground,” she says, “Keys clinking in pockets.
People with ice under their shoes.”*

*Then all of a sudden, she lets out a hiss and takes a step back.*

*“There is a dog over there,” she explains. “Sometime I hiss when
meeting dogs in the street. It’s because of their behaviour and my
instinct automatically reacts by hissing.”*

*The cat woman wears a pair of pink fluffy paws with which to groom
herself, and feels especially like doing so when she is in contact with
water.*

*When asked if she was born as the wrong species, she said: “Yes, born
in the wrong species.”*

Anti-Otherkin bigots used to label these beings as mentally disturbed.
There was a other-ist slur they used,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clinical_lycanthropy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">clinical lycanthropy</a>, claiming this
was a form of delusion. We know now, at least you better soon know, that
this is hate-think. What matters is what *they* think and we have to
respect that. After all, if a man can wear a sundress and become a
woman, a girl can put on a set of mouse ears and be a rodent.

This will present some complications. We had to go around and change the
bathroom signage to accommodate the additional “genders” so I guess this
means installing fire hydrants and litter boxes in the train stations
for some of the otherkins. I’m not sure what sort of facilities
elves, unicorns, gryphons, dragons, angelic or demons will need, but I’m
pretty sure I would not want to follow the demon after his morning
constitutional.

Otherkin Rights Now!
