---
title: "TV and Movies"
date: "2016-06-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7665"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7665"
---

I have mentioned before that I am not a big consumer of television. I
own a TV just so I can watch sports. This time of year, I am pretty much
just watching baseball. I have the MLB subscription so I can watch the
Red Sox. I do not have anything against TV, but I never developed the
love for it as a kid like most people. I might watch a show in
syndication if it was popular and I will download movies, but these days
it is done in batches. Binge watching is pretty much the only way I can
watch a series from start to finish.

Anyway, someone recommended a program to me called *Justified*. I had
never heard of it, but the internet tells me it was extremely popular.
That is the thing about the modern mass media culture. You can be a huge
star, even though most people have never heard of you. A TV show can be
a hit, by attracting 2% of the audience. The culture is so balkanized,
we are all just ships passing in the night and TV reflects that reality.
My guess is *Justified* was popular with normals, but unwatched by the
folks in Yankeedom.

Anyway, the show itself is fine. It sort of reminds me of the fad in the
70’s of the cowboy detective. I forget the names of the shows, but the
twist on the traditional police show was to have the hero as a sort of
an updated western sheriff with the hat, boots and pithy country
expressions. The show is based on an Elmore Leonard novel so it has lots
of catchy dialogue. That was a Leonard trademark, the banter between
characters that was simple, but packed with meaning. I suspect that is
the attraction of the show for fans. There is a lyrical quality to the
writing.

I have only watched the one season, but what strikes me is that the male
lead is pretty much a normal male lead. In fact, all the men are the
sort of men you see on earth or at least you used to see on earth. The
beta male hipster thing is a sad reality of our age. The women are also
normal women. We hear lots of complaints about the feminization of men,
but the presentation of women in pop culture is equally bizarre. I can
see why this show would be popular with the gals, as it has lots of
relatable female characters in it.

I have often wondered just how popular the modern female heroine is with
real women. There’s endless hype for Hunger Games types of gals, but I
never hear real women talk up these types of films. I suspect it is a
lot like the homo movies. We are buried in hype about them, but there is
little to no demand for gay cowboys or the life story of Liberace. Then
again, I am just a broken down old hate thinker so I could be all wrong.
Maybe the young gals of today all dream of wearing Lycra jumpsuits and
beating up men.

The other thing that struck me is the fair treatment of downscale
whites. It still has lots of stereotypes about toothless hillbillies
banging their sisters, but it is much more nuanced than you typically
see. The war on bad whites has been raging for so long now it is easy to
forget that bad whites are people too. They are just presented as
people. It is a sad statement on our age when it is unusual for our
betters to present normal people as genuine people, rather than as bad
guys and monsters in their morality plays.

Anyway, the other indulgence on the TV front was the movie *Martian*.
Once I could download it free (I am ridiculously cheap) I watched it as
I heard it was a really good sci-fi movie. Maybe my standards are out of
whack or I lack the proper frame of reference, but it seems rather
mediocre to me. Matt Damon was good being Matt Damon on Mars. The other
actors are unknown to me but they seemed like they were doing a good
job. The visuals were great, but it just seemed sort of blah.

The thing is, I expect the visuals in modern movies to be great. We are
long past the point where CGI is new and cutting edge. Every movie now
has outlandish special effects. The days of model spaceships hanging
from fishing line against black paper are long gone. I had the same
reaction to the movie *Gravity*. Yes, it is neat how they make it look
real, but they are supposed to make it look real. That is the point. Not
making it look real would be unusual. I cannot remember the last time I
saw a movie where the effects were not realistic.

I have this debate with friends. Modern sci-fil is lacking because they
invest everything in the visuals and scrimp on the writing and character
development. They care more about getting tight shots of the actresses
ass in the Lycra jumpsuit than telling the story. The *Martian* turned
out to be *Castaway* on Mars, except Matt Damon was vastly less
introspective and interesting than Tom Hanks. Hanks came back a
better man. Damon comes back and we are led to believe he was turned
into a self-absorbed douche by his experience, which was what he was
before his adventure.

At the risk of sounding like an old coot, the stories were better when
they had none of the modern visual aids. A show like Star Trek had to be
carried by the story and characters. Watch an old Western and they are
basically stage plays put on film. They were more respectful of the
audience, because the audience had to fill in the blanks with their
imagination. The writers and actors had no choice but to invest in the
writing and character development. That is all there was, for the most
part.

Of course, that sort of brings me back to the beginning. These long form
serial dramas we see on cable like *Justified*, work because they do
invest in the writing. These shows have plenty of costume and setting
work. Game of Thrones is set in adventure land with magical midgets and
dragons. But that is not what these shows are about or why people watch
them. They are well designed and executed dramas with good writing and
acting. They are traditional western entertainment, which is people
entertaining other people by telling their tale.
