---
title: "Hamlet at the Bureau"
date: "2016-10-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8876"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8876"
---

Thinking about what comes next in this most bizarre of campaign seasons,
it occurs to me that this is a good lesson in how nothing exists in
isolation. Every decision has consequences. Those consequences may not
be obvious and they may not show up until much later, but no action
exists without a reaction. It’s the old gag about the time traveler
going into the past, stepping on a spider, only to return to a world
ruled by super intelligent insects. It is formally known as the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Butterfly_effect"
target="_blank">Butterfly Effect</a>.

In the early days of the Clinton administration, Team Clinton hoped to
put a fellow crook in the job of attorney general. That way, they could
make sure they had a member of the family blocking the inevitable
criminal probes that follow the Clintons around like an odor.They tried
Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood, but both failed to get confirmed. They settled
on Janet Reno, a dull-witted bureaucrat just happy to have the work.
They put her in the job for the same reason crooked southern politicians
install their retarded brother in-law as sheriff. She was too dumb to
get curious.

It mostly worked, but her stupidity also kept her from blocking cases
that would prove to be embarrassing to the family. A real pro in the job
would have headed off the intern problem, for example, before that got
to Ken Starr. In fact, Kimba Wood is clever enough to have quashed the
whole special prosecutor thing entirely. In other words, putting a
stupid person in the job worked up until they needed a clever person in
the job. You can be sure that Janet Reno does not get Solstice cards
from the Clinton family.

Team Obama tabbed James Comey to the job of Director of the FBI
primarily because he was harmless. Republicans had no problems with him
and Democrats were not afraid of him. That’s not to say he is a crook.
He’s just one of those careerists, who make a point of doing no more
than the job requires. You run into thee guys all over government
because they never get curious and ask too many questions. Politicians
love these guys because they look like Boy Scouts, but they never cause
any trouble.

For most of what the FBI does, having a straitlaced guy like Comey at
the top works just fine. He’s an able administrator, who will be
respected by his staff for being fair and sticking to the rules. His
lack of political ambition means he can get along with the rank and
file. So much of what the FBI does is just process, they need process
guys to make sure the processes are followed. The Bureau has not been
the swashbuckling crime fighters we see in TV for generations. It’s
mostly bureaucrats processing paper.

The decision to put him in the top job looked like a genius move until
last week. Having a go-along-to-get-a-long guy handling the Clinton
problem made it easy to push him into a favorable decision. The trouble
is, he is an honest guy with a conscience and apparently <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3886942/Resignation-letters-piling-disaffected-FBI-agents-wife-urging-admit-wrong-Director-Comey-jumped-chance-reopen-Hillary-investigation.html"
target="_blank">his conscience finally got the better of him</a>. The
same qualities that made it easy for the politicians to push him around,
made it easy for his subordinates to push him to take on the Clinton
Crime Family in the most spectacular way imaginable.

My bet is more than a few people in the Obama White House are thinking
they should have found a crook to put into that job. If not a crook, at
least someone with ambition for a life in DC after his term at the
Bureau was up. That’s the kind of guy who would look for a way to make
everyone happy, because he wants friends in town, not enemies. Comey is
looking a lot like a guy who will be happy to retire to some small
college job teaching law, after he finishes up his public service at the
Bureau.

Now the Democrats have the worst possible problem. When they want to
train all of their weapons on Trump and his defects, they now have to
peel off a few divisions to attack Comey and the FBI. The trouble with
that is it means this story stays on the front page. The Clinton
campaign is about focusing everyone’s attention on Trump’s flaws so
people don’t notice her corruption and unpleasantness. Now they have to
choice but to talk about her corruption and everyone gets reminded of
her unpleasantness.

What makes this even worse for Clinton is the subtext of this election
is the systemic rot in the form of lying and rule breaking. The reason
Trump’s line about the system being rigged resonates is most people
think the pols are lying and the media is covering for them. This is the
sort of story that presses on that wound. In the fullness of time, the
face of this era of corruption will be Hillary Clinton. She is
everything that is wrong with politics. This e-mail caper and the
current drama over it just reminds everyone of why they’re pissed off.
