---
title: "Turning Virtues Into Vices"
date: "2016-11-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-11-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8873"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8873"
---

The other day I had the misfortune of driving into one of the Pink
Ribbon events that seem to be everywhere these days. Every month is
breast cancer month and every weekend there is a “waddle for the cure”
event somewhere. You can’t watch a sportsball game without seeing some
bright pink mixed into the uniforms. The one I ran into was a 5K where
middle-aged women “unite” to display their “passion” for “fighting”
cancer. Like Hitler, women are passionate and enjoy fighting.

The Susan G. Komen Foundation is a racket, just like any large charity.
The bulk of the money they raise is spent on raising money, which
requires hiring scads of people, who need supervision by well-paid
administrators. Some money goes to charity, but how much ever ends up
doing any good is debatable. People more cynical than me suggest the
whole point of the Komen operation is to facilitate “pink washing” by
corporations looking to keeps the gals off their back.

I don’t know if that is true, but I do know that heart disease is the
number one killer of women and it is not even a close. The next seven
killers on the list account for fewer deaths than heart disease. Breast
cancer is very treatable and the treatments are fairly mild compared to
most other cancers. There are exceptions, but you would much prefer to
have breast cancer than colon cancer or congestive heart failure. You
won’t see women sporting brown or red ribbons for those diseases.

Komen and the pink washing rackets are not unique. All of the big
charities are rackets run mostly to employ managerial types and keep
them in a lifestyle they believe they deserve. I recall once going to
the campus of the Red Cross, outside DC, and seeing what looked like a
luxury car dealership. It was the executive parking lot. At the time,
Bob Dole’s old lady was President of the “charity” and she was pulling
down a million per year. It’s called “doing well by doing good.”

This is a feature of the managerial state. The people running big
charities, not-for-profits, think tanks, NGO’s and so on, have no real
way to make money outside of stealing via taxes. They make nothing
anyone wants to buy. They create nothing anyone needs. They have no
salable talents that the private sector demands. Instead, they create
demand for their labors by turning society’s virtues into vices. In the
case of charities, that means exploiting American generosity and civic
mindedness.

This is most evident in our elections. We now have armies of people who
make their living entirely from elections. Many of them work for both
parties. Not so long ago, these were jobs handled by low paid staffers
and volunteers. I’m old enough to remember when my Congressman had three
staffers and relied entirely on volunteers for his election staff.
Today, your local congressman has at least a dozen staffers, many making
six figure salaries. Most have law degrees from prestigious
universities.

When people in the political class get bored, they hop over into the
media for a while. The cable channels are littered with “veteran
campaign consultants” and former elected officials. We live in an age
where it is no longer possible to draw a line between the rulers, the
people working for the rulers and the people reporting on them. American
public life is an amorphous noisy blob that serves no obvious purpose
other than to exploit people’s desire to be well informed citizens.

The ugly part of this is that the politics industry, in the process of
exploiting the citizen’s desire to be informed, generates massive
amounts of false information to fill in the gaps in the narrative, in
order to promote the interests of the managerial class. As a result,
public trust declines, not just in the media, but in the institutions of
society as well. We live in a age of seemingly unlimited media, yet
people are not only less informed, they don’t believe anything they see
in the media.

The counter to these observations is that people have been finding ways
to profit from the good intentions of others long before the concept of
the managerial state. This is true, but it was always small scale and ad
hoc. What we are living in today is large scale and systematic. The tax
code, for example, has been warped to provide for the existence of
not-for-profit organizations that do nothing but politics. All of the
big foot opinion sites are now non-profits. Many of the campaign
organizations are now non-profits, calling themselves educational
organizations.

The rapaciousness of the managerial state is a feature. It must bend all
of a society’s institutions to the perpetuation of the managerial class,
because it has no other way to generate income. If the boys and girls of
National Review, for example, had to rely on paying customers, they
would starve to death. If candidates could go directly to rich people
for funding their campaigns, there would be no need for the campaign
industrial complex and its money laundering services.

Human societies go through periods where they create and accumulate
surpluses of wealth. Similarly, they go through periods where they
consume their surpluses until they reach a crisis. This is when there is
no more surplus to consume. It very well may be that the emergence of a
managerial class is the signal that a modern society is heading into the
consumption phase. Given the fiscal health of the West, it is not
unreasonable to think that we have consumed the benefits of the
technological revolution and we are now hurtling toward crisis.
