---
title: "President Napster"
date: "2016-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6915"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6915"
---

Over the weekend I checked in on the news and saw that a Soros
rent-a-mob was causing trouble in Arizona, trying to disrupt a Trump
rally. I did not see this on TV. I saw it on Twitter. I then went to
Drudge who had some links. I then went to some other sites and then
finally back to twitter to see and join in on the snarky commentary. I
still have a TV subscription, but it did not occur to me to turn it on
for the news.

I am a big sports fan and I will watch just about anything. I used to
joke that I would watch ants wrestle if they put it on TV. There was a
time when that was true, but as you get older the endless hype and
proselytizing in games is tough to take. ESPN has become unwatchable
because of it. The solution for me is I follow games on-line via various
score sites and, of course, twitter. Once the game gets to crunch time I
can watch it, often on-line.

The NCAA tournament is a great example. I used to love watching this
thing and I still do, but I do not watch it like I once did. Instead, I
have it on-line so I can keep tabs on the games and jump to the one that
is going to have a tight finish. That way I skip all the nonsense hype
and I can do other things while tracking the games. Again, part of it is
age, but the bigger part is technology. I can now easily filter out the
proselytizing and hype so I do.

In the political realm, I have not watched the Sunday chat shows in so
long I no longer know their names or the performers they have playing
the various roles. The evening shout shows are just about unknown to me
now. I can consume all the political news I need on-line from sources
that are more intelligent and interesting than anything conventional
media has to offer.

There is one other little thing to ponder before I get to the point. I
have a vast music collection. Much of it came from the days when
Columbia House would send you ten CD’s just because you filled out a
card and gave them a fake name. Another big chunk came when “sharing”
music got hot in the 90’s. I have also bought a lot of music too. I
still do through Amazon, but as individual mp3’s, not physical disks.

I am a Pandora user so when I hear a song I like, I will add it to my
list and either buy it from Amazon or rip it from YouTube. I prefer to
buy it, but if it means buying a whole CD then I steal it like a normal
person. The only exception is classical or maybe some old blues where
you want the digitally mastered quality, but otherwise I buy songs, not
bundles of songs. I do not want or need the extra. If it adds no value,
I do not buy it. Music has become commodified.

The music industry was collapsed by the mp3 and
[gnutella](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gnutella). Suddenly, the layers
and layers of expense around the single song could be stripped away,
unless it brought value. Most of it did not so it was slowly sloughed
off. It did not happen without a fight, but it eventually happened.
Performers are back making money performing and the music business is
much smaller. The songs are now the marketing expense for the live shows
in many cases.

We are seeing something similar with the news media. A 40 minute podcast
from John Derbyshire can be consumed anytime and anywhere. John is a
super smart guy with a real talent for podcasting. He works out of a
tree-house. Anthony Cumia is running a radio network from his basement
now. Adam Corolla is a millionaire from podcasting. A lot of what is on
new media is crap, but the best parts are vastly better than anything
offered by traditional media. Most important, they are cheaper.

That is the thing. The cost of reaching each customer is collapsing,
which in turn is dropping the barrier to entry. Fox News exists because
it can tax you through your cable bill. Cord cutting and ad hoc,
on-demand video is the response to that, which drives up their cost of
reaching each customer. On the other hand, a guy like [Mike Cernovich
can quickly raise money for a media
project](http://www.dangerandplay.com/2016/03/19/kickstarter-analysis/),
because his costs are collapsing.

This brings me to Donald Trump. He posted something on twitter over the
weekend about Obama’s trip to Cuba. Every news personality retweeted it
and it probably reached ten million people in an hour. Donald Trump has
7.1 million twitter followers. The echo effect means he can reach tens
of millions of people from his phone, blowing past the media industrial
complex. In fact, he has enslaved them with twitter, turning them into
his PR firm.

In some respects, Trump is the Napster candidate. He may not win, but he
is blowing a hole in the system. The layers of barnacles on the news
industry are a lot like the layers of waste in the music business.
Technology is going to force a scraping off of these barnacles for the
underlying entity to survive in the new mass media age. If you are one
of these barnacles. Trumpster is Satan, just as Napster was the great
evil of the music business. But when it comes to technology, the news
always displaces the old.
