---
title: "My Trouble With Libertarians"
date: "2016-08-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8252"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8252"
---

I was out on my bike, riding through the countryside, when I came upon a
group of deer grazing near the edge of the road. I was riding where it
is mostly woods and fields so there’s not much car traffic. As a result,
the woodland critters are often in plain sight. I took the opportunity
to stop, drink some water and enjoy the magnificent beauty of nature. At
these times it is easy to see why men believe in a just and loving God.
I was also reminded of why I hate libertarians.

To be fair, I don’t really hate all libertarians. As is the case with
“conservative”, the word “libertarian” has been expanded to include
things that the original libertarians never would have imagined. The
word itself was coined by a French communist from the
word *libertaire,* to mean an advocate or defender of liberty,
especially in politics. The guy most consider to be the founder of
libertarianism, Claude-Frédéric Bastiat, was a classical liberal in the
line of John Locke and Adam Smith.

It used to be that libertarians were property and contract guys. They
argued that the state existed to protect property rights and enforce
contracts. These were the neo-classical liberals, who believed
government had been created by individuals to protect themselves from
one another. Since all property was either owned by an individual or
owned collectively, the state existed to protect property and sort out
disputes that arose over property. There’s really nothing wrong with
this as an argument against socialism and communism.

The trouble is that somewhere along the way, this rather sensible rebuke
of socialism curdled into a weird fusion of Cultural Marxism
and laissez-faire globalist economics. To be a libertarian today means
to abandon the field as soon as the Left assaults the culture in some
new way. They always have some excuse for hiding under their bed when
the Left goes on a rampage. At the same time, they fall into
<a href="https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/I,_Pencil"
target="_blank">lectures about pencils</a> as soon as the topic of
global capitalism is raised. Listen to a modern libertarian and you get
the sense they really think the point of life is cheap consumer goods.

Ironically, modern libertarians are fond of talking about the Founders
and they even argue that early America was a libertarian country. That’s
ridiculous, but it also misses a critical point. The American colonies
were doing well economically and the taxes and levies the King wished to
impose were minor. Despite this economic realty, the colonies revolted
anyway. It was early proof that *homo economicus* has always been
nonsense. Humans as not rational and narrowly self-interested agents.
Humans, individually and collectively, are *biological*.

When the Brits went to the polls and decided to leave Europe, they did
not do so with economics in mind. That was part of it, but patriotism,
identity, class and other non-economic factors were at the front of
their mind. The winners were not waving the Union Jack because it happen
to be handy. The Brexit forces were not talking about sovereignty and
self-government by accident. Libertarians are so blinkered <a
href="http://reason.com/archives/2016/07/12/why-libertarians-should-be-wary-of-brexi"
target="_blank">they could not comprehend what was so blazingly
obvious</a>. They remain convinced that humans are just moist robots.

It used to be that libertarians understood this.
<a href="http://archive.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/ir/Ch5.html"
target="_blank">Murray Rothbard cooked up something he called Right-Wing
Populism</a>, which was a not so subtle attempt to hook libertarianism
to biology. Guys like Ron Paul and many Paleo-Conservatives embraced
something that is the foundation of the emerging Alt-Right. That is, the
chain of causality, which is shorthanded this way:
Biology-&gt;Culture-&gt;Politics-&gt;Economics. Iceland has the culture
of Iceland because it is full of Icelanders. Nigeria is the way it is
because it full of Nigerians.

Modern libertarians appear to embrace the Progressive claim that humans
are a blank slate so the chain of causality is reversed. They run out of
the room as soon as biology is mentioned. Talk about crime, for example,
and they break into a sweat and start looking for a way to escape. When
it comes to culture, the modern libertarians are too quick to come up
with some bit of dogma that prevents them from facing off with the Left.
Usually that means another lecture on why we need to legalize weed and
prostitution.

Like most sensible people, I like low taxes and limited government
interference in my life. I’m a maximalist when it comes to personal
liberty, but I also understand that human society is about trade-offs. I
give up some liberty in exchange for the benefits of living in a society
to my liking. My liking and that of my fellow citizens is not always
going to be logical or fit into a tidy economic model. I also know that
a certain segment of the population is going to require extra help and
extra restraint. That requires trade-offs too.

Those rolling hills where I sometimes ride may one day be slated for
development or a chemical plant. Maybe I’ll be all for wiping out
Bambi’s playground or maybe I’ll be on the other side. My arguments will
be no more rational than why I prefer chocolate ice cream over vanilla.
The people on the other side will be just as irrational. That’s the way
it goes in politics. It is two sides fighting over what to love more and
what to hate more. It is about who we will be, together, as a society.
It is what we want our kids to remember about us.

Libertarians have nothing to say about any of this, but like a pebble in
your shoe, they keep finding a way to be an irritant. In the current
crisis, they have plenty to say, but they refuse to pick a side. They
have their principles and their well crafted arguments, but most of it
feels like a call to inaction. They clearly believe, but faith without
works is dead. A faith that can never work because it runs counter to
biological reality deserves to be dead. That’s how I feel about
libertarianism.
