---
title: "Ruminations on The Shadow Party"
date: "2016-03-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6773"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6773"
---

One of the favorite gags among the hate thinkers is to mock the
Republicans for their indifference to 40% of Americans. Every election,
characters from the GOP drama club come out with elaborate plans for
lower capital gains taxes, eliminating taxes on carried interest and
increasing the pool of cheap foreign labor. How can the under-employed
carpenter resist such a platform?

That’s not entirely fair, of course, The Republicans will also drone on
about the need to restart the Cold War and drop more bombs on the
muzzies. Hilariously, they never put it that way, instead insisting they
love Islam and welcome a flood of Muslims into the country, because
“that’s who we are as a people.” That’s usually when they launch into
promises to expand the surveillance state.

America in 2016 is a three-party system. One party is made up of people
who fantasize about murdering white people. The other party is made up
of people who fantasize about helping the other party. Then there is
this third, unofficial shadow party for normal people who increasing
fear voting for either of the two official options. Trump is officially
a Republican, but he is unofficially the shadow party candidate.

I find myself in an odd position. I’m enjoying the mayhem caused by the
Dirt Monster, but Donald Trump is hardly my idea of a good leader of a
rebellion, much less leader of a sane nation. At the same time, either
of the two official parties winning the election most likely means
something really bad awaits us around the next corner. Sometimes there
are no good options.

There’s a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_War_(90%E2%80%9388_BC)"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Social War</a> vibe to what is happening
in that one group of Americans has finally had it with the other group
of Americans. The GOP has been a Cavalier/Deep South/Appalachian party
for 25 years now, but it still retains a Yankee leadership with a
Yankeedom sensibility. The people voting Trump are, whether they know it
or not, demanding a place at the table.

<a
href="https://ricochet.com/an-open-letter-to-the-conservative-media-explaining-why-i-have-left-the-movement/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This “Open Letter”</a> has been bouncing
around Twitter for a few days. The gag among the hate-thinkers is that
an open letter is the asshole version a regular letter. The reason is an
“open letter” is usually written by a Cloud Person excoriating his
fellow Cloud People for not enthusiastically applying the lash to the
Dirt People. This is one of those rare occasions when it is a Dirt
Person appealing to the Cloud People.

*Let me say up front that I am a life-long Republican and conservative.
I have never voted for a Democrat in my life and have voted in every
presidential and midterm election since 1988. I have never in my life
considered myself anything but a conservative. I am pained to admit that
the conservative media and many conservatives’ reaction to Donald Trump
has caused me to no longer consider myself part of the movement. I would
suggest to you that if you have lost people like me, and I am not alone,
you might want to reconsider your reaction to Donald Trump. Let me
explain why.*

The rest of the letter is a recitation of facts and an explanation of
why support for Trump is actually a proxy vote sending a message about
the Dirt People unhappiness with their masters. Clearly, the writer is
hoping his letter will cause the Cloud People to reform and welcome his
kind into their midst. The villagers are appealing to the Lord for
relief, a phenomenon as old as man.

What’s interesting to me is the Cloud People had not bothered to look
out the castle windows at what’s been happening.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bpsZ3que0nA" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">They finally decided to send out Rubio to suppress the
brigands</a>. Yesterday his head was sent back in a box. What comes next
is an organized response from both parties to put an end to Trump’s
campaign and suppress the Dirt People. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/432376/donald-trump-endorsers-hall-shame"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">National Review is creating a
proscription list</a> as a warning to their colleagues about what’s
coming.

Pessimists are betting that the Cloud People will agree to let Cruz run
as the GOP option and lose to Hillary Clinton. That will allow the
Buckley Conservatives, the outer party, to purge their ranks of anyone
remotely sympathetic to the plight of the Dirt People. They will rush to
help the Democrats, the inner party, pass amnesty and legislation
eliminating citizenship. The Brazil-ification of America will
accelerate.

Maybe that’s how it plays out. The fact that whites are offing
themselves in record numbers suggests they are not all that interesting
in fighting the tide of history. The fact that blacks are fine with
having 25% of their ranks either in jail or on parole suggests they are
fine with being zoo animals for the Cloud People. Latin America makes
clear that Hispanics are not going to put up a fight.

Still, the Shadow Party will still be out there for a while no matter
what happens in this election. The Social War ended when the Romans
welcomed the Italians into the club. The guy who wrote that letter is
hardly alone. He represents maybe a third of the population. These
events have surely been noticed by men with better political skills than
Trump. The string of unforced errors by the Cloud People suggests this
insurrection is just the beginning of a period of instability.
