---
title: "Big Fat Phonies"
date: "2016-05-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7499"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7499"
---

Like most people, I became aware of Jonah Goldberg in the Clinton years.
I’m going to guess and say it was during the Lewinsky stuff, but I could
be mistaken. He was the guy who started the Corner on National Review
and that’s where I started reading him with any regularity. His act in
those days was as the slacker conservative, a sort of proto-hipster who
wrote about TV shows, comic books and right-wing politics.

It worked for him because most conservative writers to that point wanted
to be Bill Buckley so their style was dull, humorless and unnecessarily
complex. I grew up on Buckley too, but by the 90’s his writing was
incomprehensible at times. Goldberg went a different way. He was like
Seth Rogan if Seth Rogan could read and write and had the slightest idea
what was happening outside.

Jonah’s goofy and accessible style made him the Bart Simpson of the
commentariat. In fact, he used a lot of references to the Simpsons when
writing about politics, which was part of his hipster-doofus act. In the
90’s, the cool kids made Simpsons references. It’s hard to remember back
that far, but in the 90’s the Simpsons were the leading edge of cool kid
comedy. If you quoted lines from the Simpsons, you were cool.

That was then. Two decades on he is no longer the snarky Bart Simpson.
He’s more like the bloated has-been, Krusty the Klown. He’s long past
being funny, but he has been around long enough where he feels like a
fixture. Instead of the cheeky prankster, he is the jaded hack. It’s not
hard to imagine that <a
href="http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/435686/donald-trump-republican-nomination-vote"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the guy who wrote this</a> did so after
yelling at the neighbor kids about making too much noise.

*The Alt-righters. The less said about these creatures, the better.
Mostly composed of Twitter and comment-section trolls, this coprophagic
phylum is convinced Trump is the tip of the spear of some new
white-nationalist takeover of the party and the country. They think it’s
hilarious to bait Trump’s critics with Klan-vintage racism and
Nazi-style anti-Semitism. Probably my biggest complaint about the
benighted is the degree to which they make apologies for the bigots or
don’t care that the bigots speak in their name.*

Goldberg was an original anti-Trump for petty personal reasons. Trump
used to make fun of him on twitter and guys like Goldberg don’t take
criticism well. The carefully cultivated funny guy act he does on TV
hides a thin-skinned narcissist. Goldberg earlier went full-on David
Brock and participated in a <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/432047/donald-trump-and-kkk-does-he-deny-it"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">smear campaign run by National Review</a>,
claiming Trump was in the KKK. Goldberg has made the trip from goofy
conservative to sneering social justice warrior.

The panic over Trump is not just petty and personal. Trump by himself
can be dismissed, which is what they were all prepared to do a year ago.
The issue is his success, because it reveals things about the Right they
would just as soon not face. The truth is, guys like Goldberg are not
all that interested in small government, traditional solutions and
cultural stability. Those are just lines in his script for his role as
the Seth Rogan of TV conservatism.

Goldberg popped out of college and landed in a job at American
Enterprise Institute assisting Ben Wattenberg making PBS specials. He
then went over to National Review, which, as
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7178" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">I a pointed out the other day</a>, is like every
political magazine in that it lives off tax deductible grants from rich
people. That got him into cable news, which exists solely off its right
to tax every home in America a buck a month, whether they watch or not
and 95% don’t watch.

The point here is that Goldberg has spent his life living off
government. The million dollar home in the swank DC suburb is paid for
by government in that his livelihood is entirely dependent on
government. His wife,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jessica_Gavora" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Jessica Gavora</a>, worked in the Bush administration
and you can be sure the two of them were rubbing their hands together
thinking about her next gig in the third Bush administration.

Big sprawling government has given Jonah a 1% lifestyle. How serious is
he about shrinking government? Put that reality next to the results of
the Bush years and the conservative response to Obama and people can be
forgiven for thinking guys like Jonah are just big fat phonies. These
are cocktail party conservatives who were toted to the party by their
traveling buddies, the limousine liberals.

Washington DC is Hollywood for homely people. It is a company town and
everyone works for the company in some capacity. They may bitch about
the company, in the same way actors and writers bitch about the big
studios, but they will defend it to the death in the same way Hollywood
tries to choke off independent film. The \#nevertrump loons are the
circus performers of DC baring their fangs, warning the rest of us to
stay away from their turf.
