---
title: "Stupid CoNT’s"
date: "2016-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6837"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6837"
---

Most people think of cults as being a collection of suicidal weirdos led
by a madman, who thinks he is Jesus. That’s understandable as they are
the most colorful and therefore get the most attention. David Koresh and
the Branch Davidians are the gold standard. Before him Charlie Manson
was the guy Americans thought of whenever the subject of cults came up
in conversation. The suicide cult is a regular feature of television
police dramas for this reason.

The truth is cults don’t usually end in mass suicide. In fact, it is
rare. Usually they run their course, eventually running out of steam and
the adherents wander off to other things. People are natural believers
and the more intense the inclination to believe, the more likely they
are to sign onto mass movements, even wackadoodle nonsense like UFO
cults and recycling campaigns. They go from one to another, looking for
salvation, sometimes even signing onto a movement built on the negation
of their prior cult.

Think of the nutty aunt who is always into some new age nonsense. Maybe
she was into crystals and then it was a fake shaman that helped her
discover her aura. Then it was off to volunteer for one social cause
after another. We all know these sorts of people, yet we seldom think of
them as members of a cult, but that’s what’s going on with them. Cults
are just small, temporary mass movements.

The assumption is that cults always have a charismatic leader, but that
is not the case. Scientology is a cult and it lacks this feature. Modern
American liberalism latches onto temporary leaders like Barak Obama and
now Bernie Sanders. The Obamasoxers of ten years ago are BernieBros
today. Buckley Conservatives have been calling every GOP nominee
“Reagan” since ’92. It’s a type of cargo cult where they think if they
pretend their man is the Gipper, they will be transported back to the
80’s.

This brings us to the **C**ult **o**f **N**ever **T**rump, known on-line
as \#nevertrump and billeted at on-line sites like the Federalist,
National Review On-line and The Blaze. Like every cult, the adherents
are convinced beyond all reason that their cause is based in
indisputable mathematical truths. These truths are so obvious, they
repeat them with a regularity that resembles a chant. Every CoNT I’ve
encountered says the exact same things, like they rehearse them.

This was something visitors to Maoist China and Stalinist Russia noticed
about the bureaucrats. They always said the same things in response to
questions. In most cases, it was simply pragmatic. The party stalwarts,
the spear catchers for the cause, they chanted the party line with the
enthusiasm of the fanatic. They did not just believe the party line,
they were defined by it and defined by their adherence to it. They would
die for it.

As an aside, I knew an Iranian that served in the Iran – Iraq War. He
told me a story about how his unit came up to a minefield. The
Revolutionary Guards in their unit ran into the field, sacrificing
themselves to clear a path through the mines. For these men, their life
was only useful in service to the cause. They had given themselves over
completely to the cause and the proof of it was their willingness to die
for it. Before they stepped on the mine, they were already dead to
themselves.

The other thing every mass movement requires, particularly cults, is the
bogeyman. To quote the go-to source on these things, Eric Hoffer, “Mass
movements can rise and spread without belief in a God, but never without
belief in a devil.”  The Nazis had the Jews, the Stalinists had the
Kulaks and now the CoNT has Donald Trump. The enemy is what comes to
define the cult and gives it a reason to continue on, even when all the
prophesies fail.

The interesting thing about the CoNT is that it started a lot like a UFO
cult, rather than a mass political movement. Last summer, they dismissed
Trump as a ridiculous showman and not a real candidate. Then he was a
vanity candidate who would drop out by fall. Then he would be crushed in
the debates. Then Iowa was going to be his demise. This has been a
pattern right up to now. After each setback, the CoNT rejiggers the
prophesy and comes up with a new date for when the Dirt Monster will be
slain.

The gold standard on this type of cult is the study, [When Prophecy
Fails: A Social and Psychological Study of a Modern Group That Predicted
the Destruction of the
World](http://www.amazon.com/When-Prophecy-Fails-Leon-Festinger/dp/1614272905).
The group they studied was a UFO cult led by a woman named Dorothy
Martin. It eventually disbanded, but she went on to start other fringe
spiritual movements. I’ll just note that she was initially involved with
Scientology. Again, true believers tend to move from one mass movement,
one cult, to another.

Like a UFO cult, the CoNT becomes hyperactive as the next big date
arrives. For the last week they have been waging a campaign to prove
that the Dirt Monster is Hitler, hoping to bring about the great
reckoning this Tuesday. This will surely go on until Trump clinches the
nomination in a month or two. What happens at that point is tough to
tell. I doubt we see a mass suicide, like the People’s Temple, but they
will have to contend with what experts call “dis-conformation.”

This is when the true believer is presented with irrefutable evidence
that contradicts their belief. In the famous Dorothy Martin case, the
Seekers explained that the aliens did not come and destroy humanity
because the faith of the Seekers convinced the aliens to relent. My
guess is the CoNT will come up with something similar, maybe claiming
Trump has changed and their efforts to stop have reformed him and made
him acceptable.

Others will never go along with this. Neo-conservatives like Max Boot
and Bill Kristol can never reconcile themselves to Trump. These are
Trotskyites, who have a vision of the world wholly incompatible with
anything one can call conservative.  The smart money says they head back
over to the Left and find some way to reconcile themselves to their old
friends on the

Either way, we are bedeviled with CoNT’s for a while longer, then it
will be something else.
