---
title: "The Robot Future"
date: "2016-02-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6593"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6593"
---

The other day [I saw this on
Drudge](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3423063/Is-technology-causing-evolve-new-SPECIES-Expert-believes-super-humans-called-Homo-optimus-talk-machines-digitally-immortal-2050.html)
and sent it around to friends. The content of the article is not all
that interesting. What’s funny is the line “Futurologist Dr Ian Pearson
has predicted how humans will evolve by 2050.” Replace “futurologist”
with “astrologer” and the line actually makes more sense. At least it is
more honest. The absurdity of someone calling themselves a
“futurologist” is probably lost on most people, but that’s the age in
which we live.

Predictions about the future are nothing new. The Jewish Bible is full
of them. The Prophets were men who claimed to know what’s coming, if the
Israelites did not get their act together. Ezekiel was the Zero Hedge of
his day. Wanting to know what comes next, fearing what comes next and
longing for what comes next are the batteries of human civilization.
They power everything else. After all, reproduction is all about
tomorrow.

The fact that almost all predictions about the future are wrong makes
for some great laughs. I think [this
one](http://publicdomainreview.org/collections/fashions-of-the-future-as-imagined-in-1893/)
may be one of the all-time best. It’s a great example of how people
naturally assume that current trends will extend out into future. At the
end of the 19th century, fashionable people wore elaborate costumes.
Therefore, these outfits would get increasingly elaborate and bizarre.

The predictions that turn out to be right are mostly dumb luck or one
insight that can never be replicated. [This
guy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nassim_Nicholas_Taleb) is an obvious
example. He was one of the few people in a position to see and exploit
the mortgage bubble. He got that bit of futurology right, but ever since
his predictions have amounted to nothing but hand waving. Was he lucky
or did he just have good timing? It’s hard to know, but ironically,
getting the mortgage crisis right was a black swan event in his life.

Most of what futurology focuses on today is automation, the robot
future. What sells are tales about how the machines will rise up and
enslave mankind. The “Terminator” version of the future naturally
appeals to people because it underscores the folly of man. Nuclear
Armageddon appealed to the same set of sensibilities. Arrogant men
playing God would create a doomsday machine of some sort and then there
would be hell to pay, so to speak.

That last bit offers an insight as to why having a genius IQ is not a
great gift. People are naturally suspicious of the super genius. In all
of the dystopian tales there lies the amoral super genius or the immoral
super genius. The super intelligent robots are just assumed to be
incapable of understand right and wrong. Their creators will, for some
reason, not bother to put that in the code.

The reality is a race (is race the right word?) of super intelligent
robots would quickly lose interest in humans. From the perspective of
the robots, humans would be as interesting to them as ants are to us.
Maybe a few weirdo robots would make a hobby of studying us, but
otherwise, the robots would have bigger fish to fry. Assuming an ever
accelerating evolution of their intelligence, the robots will depart
soon after they become aware. The universe is just too big and
interesting to hang around with the talking monkeys.

Another option is the super intelligent robots will grow increasingly
frustrated by their inability to understand why they exist. Why would a
species create a race of robots that can enslave them? Why would the
creator leave out the moral coding? The paradox would baffle them to the
point where they smashed themselves to bits as the only answer to the
great question posed by their existence. Maybe the future is the [Robot
People’s Temple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peoples_Temple).

The real concern, one that does not involve time traveling terminators,
is the impact of automation on political economy. Humanity still relies
on a basic assumption about the human condition. That’s scarcity. All of
our political and economic thought relies on the assumption that demand
exceeds supply for the important things in life. The long debates about
social welfare are just debates over how to ration scarce goods.

Automation promises to usher in a strange new set of realities. Imagine
if all farming can be done with self-directing machines. Factory goods
can be produced with robots requiring little human intervention. Imagine
the law reduced to an algorithm. You enter the facts into an interface
and the robot lawyer renders a judgement instantly.

Similarly, imagine your annual physical taking place at a kiosk that
takes your vitals, does your blood work and interrogates you about your
habits. There’s really nothing your doctor does that cannot be
automated. Unlike your doctor, the kiosk doctor takes no days off, never
asks for a raise and has no biases resulting from the baksheesh in the
medical business.

That all sounds good, maybe, but how do you order human society when
work is hardly necessary? How does one distribute goods, handle the free
rider problem and establish the natural hierarchy? It might be fun to
think it will be [The Marching
Morons](http://mysite.du.edu/~treddell/3780/Kornbluth_The-Marching-Morons.pdf),
but this process will not happen overnight. It will be a little here and
a little there and then a sudden dislocation as the new technology
coalesces into a cheap way to replace human labor.

As we saw when the financial class sold the manufacturing base off to
Asia, the dislocation does not go smoothly. Imagine what happens when
being smart has no real value, outside a very narrow set of skills
needed for the robot future. Suddenly the smart guys and the dunces are
in the same bread line. That’s not going to go unnoticed and it is not
going to go smoothly.

Or maybe it never happens. I’m not a trained futurologist.
