---
title: "We Need New Words"
date: "2016-11-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-11-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9028"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9028"
---

I was in the [Imperial
Capital](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hNv5sPu0C1E) yesterday and that
meant sitting in traffic for long periods. I tuned into talk radio and
some guy was going on about how Trump is not a conservative. He was not
being critical, he was simply making a point. The people who hold the
rights to Official Conservatism™ have declared Trump outside their club.
A caller claimed that Trump is a liberal because that’s the only other
option, if you are not a conservative. I was not paying close attention,
but there’s no denying that Trump does not fit into either bucket.

Of course, most people don’t fit neatly into either bucket and that’s
mostly because the labels have meanings that no longer make sense.
Hillary Clinton is a liberal, a Progressive! That’s supposed to mean she
is a socialist that wants to take from the rich and give to the poor.
Not only does she live like royalty, she had the backing of the nation’s
billionaires, as well as the billionaires from other nations. It’s a
very strange world where the socialist is the preferred candidate of the
Billionaire’s Boys Club.

That’s one of the many things revealed about this recent election. The
party of the working man is no such thing. They are the party of
government hoping to rally the *not working* men to their banner. When
Democrats talk about “working families” they really mean welfare queens
with five kids from five strange men they met at a party. This has been
true for a long time, but it is now so blazingly obvious that even the
staunchest of union men have to accept it. Still, the Democrats
retain the label “party of the working class.”

I’ve written a lot here about the ridiculousness of calling the modern
Right “conservative” on the grounds that they have managed to conserve
nothing. When looked at in the tradition of Western conservatism, it is
even more ridiculous to keep calling these people “conservative.” Bill
Kristol, for example, is just an old school liberal with a propensity
for violence. The National Review crowd is a Buckley Mystery Cult at
this point. It’s impossible to tease anything out of that dog’s
breakfast of assertions that resembles a political philosophy.

Even the terms Right and Left have outlived their usefulness. Most
people don’t know the origin of these terms and just assume they mean
Socialist versus Capitalist or Liberal versus Conservative. Like so much
else about Western politics, these terms come down to us from the French
Revolution. The aristocrats sat on the right side of the Assembly and
the commoners sat on the left side. Ever since, radicals and trouble
makers have co-opted the term “Left” because they want to pretend they
are on the winning side of history and champion of the people.

Calling modern Progressives “the Left” turns history on its head.
Progressives are the champions of privilege and advocate what amounts
to the return of active and passive citizenship. They and their
attendants will be the active citizens while the rest of us, including
whoever happens to wander in from who knows where, will be the passive
citizens. The only difference is the 18th century aristocrats were
honest about what they wanted. The modern aristocrat prefers to lie
about his intentions.

Of course, the trouble makers on the alt-right are hardly the defenders
of the status quo. They can’t even be called supporters of the status
quo ante. The examples from history are simply used as a critique of the
current year and the people fond of saying “current year.” The alt-right
is thoroughly modern, drawing on information from genetics and cognitive
science, while the Progressives are still stuck in the age of blank
slatism, that is both anti-science and regressive. It is the
Progressives who cannot get past 1955.

As the great Walter Williams was fond of saying, the radicals are the
people arguing for the rollback of the welfare state. The radicals are
the ones arguing for the ending of foreign adventurism. The radicals are
the ones questioning the prevailing orthodoxy on race, sex and culture.
The people being purged from social media would have been much more at
home with the Jacobins than the defenders of the *Ancien Régime.* Given
their skepticism regarding global capitalism, many of the alt-right
would be better termed alt-left.

It may not seem important to fret over labels and terminology, but
language is the primary tool of war. Progressives weaponized the word
“racist” to the point where it became a Medusa head they could wave
around, turning their opponents into stone. Even mentioning the word
race causes so-called conservatives to cry. If this thing that is
rumbling through the West is something bigger than a minor disruption in
the force, we’re going to need new words and labels that work to the
benefit of the new radicals.

More important, sabotaging the verbal weaponry of the other side. The
new twitter feature that lets users block key words is a no- so subtle
attempt to ban certain words and phrases. After all, if you ban the
word, you ban the idea  behind the word. That’s just as good as banning
the person behind the idea. The challenge for the trouble makers will be
to evolve an esoteric way of saying the same things. Winning the war of
words is just a proxy for winning the war of ideas. One is a reflection
of the other.
