---
title: "Being Wrong"
date: "2016-05-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7550"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7550"
---

When I read the founding texts of Western Liberalism, I’m often struck
by how right they were about some things. Read Rousseau and you see that
the men of the Enlightenment were figuring out evolution long before
Darwin came along. They did not call it evolution and they were not
approaching it from a biological perspective, but they understood there
was a period before human settlement. They knew that period of human
organization required different men than the world at that time
produced.

That said, they got some big stuff wrong too. The “state of nature” was
nothing like Hobbes imagined. It was not men in a constant state of
warfare against one another. Of course, the blank slate stuff upon which
Rousseau built his moral philosophy is, we now know, complete nonsense.
We are what our DNA instructs, for the most part. There’s not only
variation between people, there’s diversity between groups of people due
to generations of inherited traits, within isolated groups of humans.

There are two things to learn from that. One is that tens of millions of
people were murdered because Rousseau was completely wrong about the
nature of man. That’s a big mistake. The other take away is that even
when a theory seems to explain what we observe, it could still be wildly
wrong. For instance, <a
href="http://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/gobekli-tepe-the-worlds-first-temple-83613665/?all&amp;no-ist"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the ruins at Gobekli Tepe</a> are forcing
archaeologists and historians to rethink the civilization timeline.

*On the day I visit, a bespectacled Belgian man sits at one end of a
long table in front of a pile of bones. Joris Peters, an
archaeozoologist from the Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich,
specializes in the analysis of animal remains. Since 1998, he has
examined more than 100,000 bone fragments from Gobekli Tepe. Peters has
often found cut marks and splintered edges on them—signs that the
animals from which they came were butchered and cooked. The bones,
stored in dozens of plastic crates stacked in a storeroom at the house,
are the best clue to how people who created Gobekli Tepe lived. Peters
has identified tens of thousands of gazelle bones, which make up more
than 60 percent of the total, plus those of other wild game such as
boar, sheep and red deer. He’s also found bones of a dozen different
bird species, including vultures, cranes, ducks and geese. “The first
year, we went through 15,000 pieces of animal bone, all of them wild. It
was pretty clear we were dealing with a hunter-gatherer site,” Peters
says. “It’s been the same every year since.” The abundant remnants of
wild game indicate that the people who lived here had not yet
domesticated animals or farmed.*

*But, Peters and Schmidt say, Gobekli Tepe’s builders were on the verge
of a major change in how they lived, thanks to an environment that held
the raw materials for farming. “They had wild sheep, wild grains that
could be domesticated—and the people with the potential to do it,”
Schmidt says. In fact, research at other sites in the region has shown
that within 1,000 years of Gobekli Tepe’s construction, settlers had
corralled sheep, cattle and pigs. And, at a prehistoric village just 20
miles away, geneticists found evidence of the world’s oldest
domesticated strains of wheat; radiocarbon dating indicates agriculture
developed there around 10,500 years ago, or just five centuries after
Gobekli Tepe’s construction.*

*To Schmidt and others, these new findings suggest a novel theory of
civilization. Scholars have long believed that only after people learned
to farm and live in settled communities did they have the time,
organization and resources to construct temples and support complicated
social structures. But Schmidt argues it was the other way around: the
extensive, coordinated effort to build the monoliths literally laid the
groundwork for the development of complex societies.*

The model of human development has been based on the idea that humans
began to learn how to farm and domesticate animals while living as
hunter gatherers. Groups of humans figured out that they could improve
their prospects by cultivating wild crops, thus providing a hedge
against the bad times. This led to the slow development of cooperative
societies and eventually settled agriculture-based communities. Large
scale social organization beyond blood relations happened after
agriculture, not before.

The existence of large structures requiring lots of people working
together over a long period of time, perhaps across generations, before
the advent of agriculture is a big deal. It means cooperation is the
result of something other than economic necessity. In other words,
people started cooperating for some reason other than it made for better
living conditions. The theory presented in the linked story suggest the
motivation was spiritual. The people who built Gobekli Tepe did it to
please the gods in some way.

This may not sound like a big deal, but consider that the last 300 or so
years of Western political debate has been between Team *homo
economicus* and Team *homo reciprocans*. If both are just manifestations
of a basic human drive for spiritual salvation, then basing economic and
political systems on either is only going to end in tears, which would
be a good way to describe the 100 million or so dead trying to prove
Rousseau was right. It means our self-interest and cooperation are bound
by something else.

I’ve written a lot about how our ideological impulses are just channels
through which our natural religious impulse flows. Those of us less
inclined to believe, tend toward political skepticism. Those more
inclined to believe, tend towards mass movements like socialism,
communism, libertarianism, etc. Much of what vexes the modern West is
the deluded belief that we have evolved past our superstitions and
spiritual impulses. Maybe that’s all wrong and maybe it is important.
