---
title: "The Null Party"
date: "2016-02-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6153"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6153"
---

One of my gags I like to use in the comments sections of “conservative”
opinion sites is to point out that the Republican Party is the land of
unwanted toys. About a third of elected Republicans are traditional,
middle American conservatives. Another third is just time serving
barnacles who are in the best job they can ever hope to get. The other
third would rather be Democrats, but circumstances put them in the GOP.

Sensible Americans often make the mistake of taking what the
Progressives say about the GOP at face value. Who has not been harangued
by some madman hooting and bellowing about the extreme right wing
extremist Republicans? Turn on MSNBC and that unbalanced lesbian is
always carrying on like Ted Cruz is at the door, threatening to fill her
uterus with Bibles and sew her legs shut.

Reading the campaign websites yesterday for my screed about Rubio and
Clinton, I was reminded of this reality about the parties. If you are a
normal, traditional American of any race or religion, the Democrats hate
you. Yeah, they hate white men with a purple passion, but they had
middle-class black guys and Korean shopkeepers too. Their appeal is
exclusively to poor minorities, plutocrats, government employees and the
upper reaches of the managerial class.

If you are a mailman, the Democrats are the good bet, even if you are a
pale penis person. If you are running a UPS Store franchise, the
Democrats are your enemy, even if you are a one-legged black lesbian
Elvis impersonator. That’s the thing. Their appeal is really just a
relentless assault on an ever widening array of enemies. It’s a party of
old rich white people promising to smash up the while middle class and
give the bits to those who vote Democrat.

The point here is that for the majority of Americans, there’s nothing on
offer from the Democrats. For a sizable minority, maybe even a majority
now, the Democrats are a threat to them personally, professionally and
culturally. Strip away the old white people who grew up voting for FDR
Democrats and the party probably represents just 25% of the population.
Given that 20% of whites are Progressives, 30% is probably the ceiling
for the Democrats.

What this means is that for those with anything on the ball, voting
Democrat is suicide so they have to find an alternative. The Republicans
have nothing much to offer, but at least they are not threatening to
pull the roof down on society. GOP majorities in state legislatures,
governorships and the Congress are entirely due to there being no third
option. When the option is slitting your own throat or voting for the
Republicans, most people have no trouble pulling the lever for the GOP.

The problem with being the Null Party is twofold. When the other party
has anything to offer, they end up looking magisterial. Bill Clinton
was a vulgar clown, but he had an issue and he had a purpose. That was
enough to beat an old patrician with no reason to keep his job. The same
was true of Obama. Compared to McCain and Romney, Obama looked like
Churchill. Something, even something stupid, is more than nothing and in
a democracy, that’s what wins.

The other problem the Null Party faces is that when they are in the
majority, as they are today, they have nothing but idle time. Since they
never had a reason to win the majority, they can’t come up with anything
to do with it. Instead of a strategy to roll back the excesses of Obama,
for example, they spent years squabbling over trivialities and then
finally conceded everything in order to gain some peace during the
presidential election.

Given that they have become the default option whenever the Democrats go
bonkers, which is often, the Null Party keeps drawing the wrong lessons
from each election cycle. There are furtive attempts to confront Obama
were blamed for their loss in the 2012 election. Curling back into a
ball is credited with their stunning victory in 2014. That’s why
they gave away the store in the last budget. Like a cargo cult, they
just assumed more concessions meant another victory. Instead, they have
a revolt.

At the end of the last Great Progressive Awakening in the late sixties
and early seventies, there was an intellectual counterculture forming
that culminated with Reagan winning the White House. The spiritual
energy may have been drained out of the Democrats as the New Left burned
out, but there were still plenty of sensible people in the party to give
it some reason to exist. This carried us into the Bush years when
everything fell to pieces again.

Today, there’s is nothing to fill the void now that the latest
Progressive wave is receding. The Null Party may fill the seats in
Congress, but they have nothing to offer the voters other than
platitudes, references to Reagan and technocratic programs that amount
to busy work for the bureaucrats. Nature and politics abhor a vacuum,
which why the leading candidates in both parties are from well outside
the mainstream. Something, even something stupid, is more than nothing
and in a democracy, that’s what wins.
