---
title: "Carny Folk"
date: "2016-07-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8188"
---

Some people are reportedly upset that [actor Bradley Cooper is with
Her](http://www.usatoday.com/story/life/people/2016/07/28/conservatives-decry-bradley-coopers-dnc-appearance/87653544/).
Given the age in which we live, the smart bet is that no one cares
enough about Bradley Cooper to have noticed so his PR team authored the
story and sent it out to the media. That is often how celebrity news
gets created. The PR team sends e-mails to the media telling them their
client will be doing something and included in it will be suggested
story lines. A big chunk of sports “news” is cooked up by player agents.

Cooper’s people want the big shots in Hollywood to know that he, despite
being a Pale Penis Person, is still firmly on the reservation. Another
one of the strange parts of our current age is that those who make
movies popular with the normies immediately fall under suspicion.
American Sniper was a big hit with normal whites so the lunatics
naturally suspect that Cooper may be some sort of spy for the enemy or
even a heretic. Dressing him up and sending him to the old witch’s
speech sends the right signal.

Now, actors are often quite stupid so their handlers do not want
them performing off-script. Even the smart ones, Cooper went to
Georgetown, often have psychological problems that can lead them to say
and do strange things when not on their leash. Cooper has suffered from
mental illness and addiction. Putting him in a box so the cameras can
see him and then planting the phony victim story gets the coverage they
want without risking an embarrassing off-the-cuff comment from the
celebrity.

Logic says entertainers should avoid politics. There is no upside. On
any given issue, close to half the public is on one side and the rest
are on the other side. On the other hand, people do not really care what
these people think so maybe there is no downside either. People make
sport of the Hollywood moonbats because it is easy, but it does not seem
to alter anyone’s viewing habits. Susan Sarandon is nutty as an outhouse
rat, but in her prime she was easy on the eyes and a popular actress.

Politics in America is entertainment, at least that is how it is sold to
us, so it makes sense for entertainers to be drawn to it. The people in
charge assume we prefer things sold to us the same way Hollywood sells
actors and they are probably right. Barack Obama won in 2008, despite
being a foreign weirdo with a funny name. He is a good actor and he
reads his lines flawlessly. For all anyone knows he was hired out of a
community theater somewhere as he never had a job prior to politics.

Up until last week, none of this would have mattered. For the bulk of
human history carny-folks were at the bottom of the social ladder.
Perverts, deviants and troublemakers ended up in the entertainment
business. That is true today, except we used to have the good sense to
keep the carnies out on the fringe. They would come in, do their shows
and then be told to move along. Decent people understood that you did
not want these dirt bags hanging around too long. Now, the carnies are
in charge.

Most actors are crazy liberal. They stake out positions that suggests
they are divorced from reality. The rich, famous ones embrace
third-world authoritarian politics, which if implemented, would land
them in a work camp. The minor actors embrace the latest Progressive
fads, usually in the most degrading fashion. People like [Lena
Dunham](http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/07/27/sexual-predator-lena-dunham-speaks-dnc-sexual-assault-survivor/)
seem to invest most of her time finding new ways to humiliate herself on
behalf of a cause. It turns out that stupid, crazy and liberal is not
much of a handicap in Hollywood.

My guess is that there is a lot of overlap in cognitive qualities
required to be an actor and be a loony-tune liberal. They say there is
no dignity in television, because you will inevitably be required to
degrade yourself on camera. To do that means you cannot have a high
opinion of yourself. A healthy self-loathing and a desire to obliterate
one’s own is going to be a necessary skill for an actor. Similarly,
joining a mass movement like a political cause is best done by those
seeking to exchange their identity with that of the group.

People in show business are always on the prowl for affirmation. They go
on stage because they want the applause. What makes American
Progressivism enduring is it imbues the adherent with the sense of
intellectual and moral superiority. To be a liberal is to be super-smart
so if you are a super-smart good person, you are a liberal. That is the
belief. It is why dimwits like Janeane Garofalo and Sarah Silverman kit
themselves out as bohemian intellectuals. They just assume that their
ability to remember the lines from the liberal catechism makes them
intellectuals.

The wisdom of putting carny folk at the top of the social ladder is open
to debate. My sense is the only people who think these people are at the
top of the status structure are the actors and people who want to be
actors. Everyone else gets that actors are low-lifes and fairly stupid.
While there are exceptions, the public is conditioned to assume their
favorite actor is nutty as a fruitcake in real life. Then again, the
people running for office are often worse than the carny folk so maybe
it is a good idea to put the carnies in charge.
