---
title: "Revenge of the Dirt People"
date: "2016-02-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6459"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6459"
---

One of the things I have been looking at in the polling data is the fact
Trump seems to have a steady vote share across demographics, excluding
race. Despite all the blather from the Conservative Industrial Complex
about Trump relying on low-skill angry losers, he polls well with the
college educated and he does well with higher income earners. In the GOP
field, Trump is the broadest based candidate running.

That said, he seems to be locked into a range from 25% to 35%, with some
polls in some places ticking up a little higher. Members of the CIC have
started to look at this and cheer, thinking that once the field narrows,
their guy will get the other 65% and charge to victory in the later
primaries. It’s a comforting thought, I bet, so it is easy to see why
they are clinging to it. Whether or not that happens is debatable.

Humans tend to emulate one another, which is why candidates get a “bump”
after doing well in public opinion surveys, early primaries and the
on-line polls after a good debate performance. If a lot of people like
Candidate X, you will at least give Candidate X a look. Trump winning
New Hampshire and then winning South Carolina would send a powerful
signal to other voters that it is OK to vote for Trump.

Putting that aside, the question no one wants to ask is whether the GOP
can win without the Trump vote. If you look at a Trump rally, it looks a
lot like the Buchanan and Perot rallies back in the early 90’s. By that
I mean there are more garden variety white guys than you typically see
at a political rally. No notices that rallies are mostly middle aged
women and young people bused in so the campaign can seem hip.

Trumps’ rallies are much more a normal mix of adults, which means more
males than you usually see at these things. These are the people Sam
Francis described in his essay, Message From MARS, with “MARS” meaning
**M**iddle **A**merican **R**adicals. (I don’t have a link for it, but
you can probably find if you look for it.) These are normal people who
try to ignore politics until they have no choice.

I don’t want to get too deep into the anthropological weeds, but there
are a class of men with varying degrees of economic and cultural
success, rooted in what we used to call working class values. These are
men who get married to one biological women, have kids and do what was
necessary to make sure the wife and kids have a good life. They may have
been in the service, some went to college, while others went into the
trades. These are the Dirt People

In 1992, the GOP pissed off these voters and many either skipped the
election or voted Perot. Enormous effort was put into denying this
reality to the point where the Conservative Industrial Complex
internalized it as part of their dogma. They did not need to be more
like Reagan. No, they needed to be more like Clinton! Eventually,
Democrats offered up a bad candidate and we got George Bush the Minor, a
sort of booby prize for Dirt People sticking with the party.

That’s the real lesson of 2000 and 2004. Al Gore appeared to be having a
nervous breakdown during the debates with Bush. That and his loopy
policy proposals allowed an otherwise uninteresting George Bush to win
the election. In 2004, the Democrats offered up a ridiculous gigolo that
no one in their right mind would elect to dog catcher. The fact that it
was still a close election says a lot about what people truly thought of
George Bush the Minor.

Regardless, the Conservative Industrial Complex drew a different lesson.
Seeing waves of little brown guys washing up on our shores, changing the
ethnic mix of the nation, they decided that the lesson of the last
quarter century was that white guys were finished. Their time had
passed. The future of the party and country was a Latin Yugoslavia with
as many Africans and Muslims that could make the swim.

The Right concluded that in order to keep pace with the Left, they had
to race into the vibrant future where the only pale penis people that
matter are the homosexuals. For over a decade they have been yapping
about how immigrants are natural conservatives, apparently not
understanding the glaring contradiction in that assertion. The result
was a push for amnesty, open borders and the whole buffet of
multicultural nonsense.

The disaster that is unfolding for the GOP and the CIC is not simply due
to getting too far over their skis. Mitt Romney built his campaign
around polling, and he knew he needed to be against amnesty. He tried to
split the difference between what the data said and what the party
leaders said. The result was no one believed him, and he lost a winnable
election.

The GOP concluded, amazingly, that the reason Romney lost was he did not
embrace amnesty. Trump, for all his defects, was smart enough to see
that the future is not now and America is not yet the vibrant
multi-culti paradise. This revolt of the Dirt People is based on the
obvious fact that a growing majority of people are thinking it is time
to put the brakes on the madcap dash to the vibrant future.

Whatever the long term outcome, some basic math says the GOP can’t win
without the Trump vote. Even if 10% of it abandons the GOP, it means
millions of votes that never materialize. Given that Trump has enjoyed
far more success than Perot or Buchanan, you have to assume that the
potential boycott numbers could be quite large if the party screws the
Dirt People.

Tonight, the Dirt People have spoken.
