---
title: "The Democrat’s Dilemma"
date: "2016-01-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6275"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6275"
---

I’m firmly in the camp that says Hillary Clinton will skate on the
espionage and corruption issues hanging over her head. That’s right, I
said espionage. The very act of setting up this secret e-mail system
puts that into the discussion simply because there are only a few
reasons to be spiriting away classified data and all of them are against
the law.

Allowing unauthorized people access to this server, which has been
established, means she violated the Espionage Act. 18 U.S. Code & 793
subsection f reads:

*“Whoever, being entrusted with or having lawful possession or control
of any document, writing, code book, signal book, sketch, photograph,
photographic negative, blueprint, plan, map, model, instrument,
appliance, note, or information, relating to the national defense, (1)
through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper
place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of his trust, or to
be lost, stolen, abstracted, or destroyed, or (2) having knowledge that
the same has been illegally removed from its proper place of custody or
delivered to anyone in violation of its trust, or lost, or stolen,
abstracted, or destroyed, and fails to make prompt report of such loss,
theft, abstraction, or destruction to his superior officer—Shall be
fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.”*

That’s the technical aspect, but there is the question no one is willing
to ask and that is why she was removing classified data and storing it
off-site? Why was she working with a civilian, Sydney Blumenthal, on
national security matters? The most obvious answer is he was a street
agent, arranging contributions to the Clinton slush fund in exchange for
useful information culled from the American security services. Bubba
would show up and give a speech, so it looked like the money was for the
speech.

That’s my hunch. Talk to people familiar with these types of
investigations and they will say the same thing. A standard scheme in
public corruption is to disguise kickbacks as something else. A pol may
have a company hire a relative or friend in exchange for getting a
contract. Maybe the company arranges for the pol to make a killing on a
real estate deal or perhaps a futures contract.

This is all very serious and in a better age Clinton would be in leg
irons waiting for the hangman. Of course, in a better age she never
would have gained access to the position. The Clintons should never have
made it out of Arkansas. In our current age, nothing will come of it
other than a drag on her quest for the White House. Civilian justice is
for chumps, not managerial class types. The beautiful people handle
their issues internally.

I was talking with someone the other day that used to work at Justice in
the Public Integrity Section. I think he was also with the FBI, based on
some things he said, but I did not ask. He’s “retired” now, working for
a government contractor, but I got the impression he worked a lot of
these sorts of cases.

He said something interesting that I’ve been mulling over ever since.
“The FBI has 150 agents working this case and they have expanded this to
be a public corruption case. That means they found much more than just
mishandling of classified information. At some point, she will have to
suspend her campaign and the party will be forced to find someone else.”

While I remain skeptical about this, it’s not out of the question. Even
if she avoids prosecution, the steady drip of bad news seems to be
dragging her campaign down to the point where even a clown like Bernie
Sanders can beat her. I feel pretty confident that the Democratic Party
will not let Sanders win the nomination by default. They will find
someone respectable to try to salvage some dignity. Bernie Sanders makes
[Jeremy
Corbyn](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/pmqs/12111086/Jeremy-Corbyn-is-getting-crushed-at-PMQs...-and-theres-no-hope-in-sight.html)
look like a sober realist so he cannot be allowed to win.

Thinking about it further, I can’t think of a plausible alternative. Joe
Biden is the only guy who comes close to being respectable. [Fake
Indian](http://www.warren.senate.gov/) is not giving up her safe Senate
seat to run. There’s no one in the Senate that is famous enough to make
it work, unless someone is willing to run just to help the party avoid
embarrassment.

That leaves governors and there are a few who could be thrown to the
wolves as they are nearing the end of their careers. Mark Dayton from
Minnesota comes to mind. He hates Americans and has nothing else going
on. Jerry Brown would be entertaining, but he’s basically Bernie Sanders
with an interesting life. There are no good options so they may be stuck
with some old fool like Brown.

All the attention has been on the Republicans due to Trump, but also for
their buffoonery and corruption. Most of the chattering classes are
snickering at how they have staggered around trying to find an
alternative to Trump. The result is no one is paying much attention to
the collapse of the other party. Look at their elected members and it is
all geezers and wackos who are marginally less crazy than Bernie
Sanders. Their one “fresh” face is Lizzy Warren and she’s a year away
from a pension.

The way it is shaping up, the Democrats may not have a choice but to run
with Hillary, even if she has to run her campaign from the penitentiary.
