---
title: "Observations From The Front"
date: "2016-10-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8823"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8823"
---

Yesterday, professional conman David French posted <a
href="http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/441319/donald-trump-alt-right-internet-abuse-never-trump-movement"
target="_blank">this ridiculous sob story</a>, where he nails himself to
the cross, claiming he was sent to save mankind from Donald Trump. The
result of his efforts has been a journey of suffering. It’s all
nonsense, of course. Put yourself or your opinions out into the pubic
and you will attract all sorts of nuts. I get on-line stalkers and
weirdos all the time and I’m just running a blog. Go on TV and the pool
of potential jerks and meanies goes up exponentially. It’s one of the
trade-offs.

I’ve been pointing out for  along time that French is a nutter.  He’s
the sort of guy that lives by the credo, “whatever is worth doing is
worth overdoing.” These sorts of people can never dabble in anything,
They get into something and it becomes all consuming. They begin to
organize their lives around the obsession. Then all of a sudden, they
lose interest in it and find some new obsession. You see that with
French, who lurches from one fanaticism to the next. In every case, he
goes well beyond what is reasonable.

Glenn Beck has this same defect. He could not be just a guy at the bar,
he had to be a legendary drinker. Then it was drugs. Then it was
religion, politics, history and I think now he is working on the details
for his planned Utopia. The thing you see with Beck, that you see with
French, is that their obsessions are not internal. They get into things
that they can make a grand show of in order to impress people they see
as their betters. Beck’s Blaze operation is an obvious attempt to
replicate what Roger Ailes did with Fox News.

Whether or not nutjobs like French and Beck possess the self-awareness
to know what they are doing is debatable. My hunch is the guys with the
religious aspect to their lunacy secretly see themselves as the second
coming. Beck and French both pitch themselves as prophets sent to save
mankind. It’s not explicit, as that would get them locked up, but it’s
just under the surface. If Beck’s thing ends like
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peoples_Temple"
target="_blank">The People’s Temple</a>, no one would be surprised as he
increasing sounds like a cult leader.

The only reason I’m aware of French piece is Jonah Goldberg was flogging
it on Twitter last night. Goldberg used to wave Beck around like a
Medusa head back in the day. Before that he was fond of using Rod Dreher
as his spear catcher. The fact that both were becoming religious nuts at
the time suggests something. Now he is using French to step on mines for
him, suggesting it is getting near the end of French’s run in the big
foot conservative press. Maybe Beck has an extra purple shroud for him.

Anyway, what I pointed out on Twitter is that this is pretty much a
classic response from a conman when his scheme falls apart. They also
play the victim card. Their whole raison d’être is to exploit the
virtues of others. They prey on the trust of good people. When that runs
aground, they prey on the sympathy of good people. The game here is to
shift the focus away from the traitorous behavior of the NeverTrump
loons and onto a few potty mouthed villains on Twitter. It’s just
another grift intended to victimize good people.

One of the responses had a pic of French on one of his TV appearances.
<a
href="http://www.adweek.com/tvnewser/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2016/05/DavidFrench.jpg"
target="_blank">This was on MSNBC</a> and it occurred to me that a good
lesson for the alt-right, one the Left learned long ago, is to punish
collaborators mercilessly. All of the big shot “conservatives” have a
habit of working for media outlets at war with decent Americans. If you
are working for the enemy, regardless of your reasons, you are working
for the enemy. After liberation, the French shaved the heads of women
who slept with Nazis.

That’s the lesson from the failure of Conservative Inc. They sold their
collaboration as part of their clever plot to convince the enemy of the
rightness of their cause. They were not collaborating. No! They were
going into the lion’s den to confront Lefty in his own lair! We know now
that that was always bullshit. They were paid actors in league with
Progressives to fool decent people into quietly going along with the
madness being foisted on us. It’s why these rocked ribbed conservatives
are now on the side of the Left opposing Trump.

The alt-right and affiliated movements are suddenly getting many new
recruits from the disbanding armies of the Official Right. With a bigger
audience, the opportunities to make money inevitably creep into the
minds of the entrepreneurial. There’s nothing wrong with making a
living, but anyone doing so by going on the cable shows or collaborating
with the major media should be assumed to be a collaborator. If Mike
Cernovich wants to sell books and videos, that’s fine. When he starts
turning up on Fox News, he should be assumed to be
<a href="http://matrix.wikia.com/wiki/Cypher" target="_blank">Cypher</a>.

All wars are media wars and all wars require sacrifice. If the people
offering themselves up as leaders of your thing are easily tempted by
offerings from the other side, you can never trust them. No man is so
virtuous that he can resist the highest bidder. If being on TV is your
goal in life, you will sacrifice your cause for it. That’s what happened
with National Review and the rest of Conservative Inc. Like petty nobles
bribed with a few extra acres of land or merchants bought off with
title, they decided it was better to live a lie than suffer for the
cause.
