---
title: "Do They Know?"
date: "2016-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8333"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8333"
---

Watch the news, follow politics and pay some attention to the hate
community, of which I am a part, and you have to deal with the
disconnect. That is the weird feeling you get when watching a newscast,
seeing confirmation of something you read on a hate-site and then the
newsreader explains it all away with appeals to magic. <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2016/08/14/milwaukee-rioters-hunt-down-attack-whites-video/"
target="_blank">The rioters hunting down whites</a> are not the racists.
No, the newsman tells you. the honkies are the racists, because they
failed in some way to do right by the dusky fellows chasing them.

Watch the Olympics and you see the commentators in a life and death
struggle with reality, forever fearful that the audience may notice
what’s happening in the events. Because reality simply refuses to
comport with the approved narrative, the broadcasters create short
documentaries to be played during the coverage, explaining how the
events you are seeing do not contradict the one true faith. In
fact, they confirm it! The black people winning all the footraces really
just train hard, despite racism and Hitler.

I’ve been reading Steve Sailer for decades and he loves commenting about
the Olympics because it confirms much of what the biological realists
have to say about the human animal. Boys are bigger, faster and stronger
than girls. West Africans are faster on average than everyone else. He’s
right, of course. <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-single-most-amazing-number-in-human-biodiversity-studies-72/"
target="_blank">When the finalists for the 100 meter sprint</a> have all
be of West African origin going back nine consecutive Olympics, nature
is telling us something. Or at least trying to tell us something.

Sailer has often argued that many in the cognitive elite see the same
things he and the other HBD’ers see, but they prudently refuse to
mention it. Instead, they rely on esoteric language and alternative
social constructs to arrive at the same point, but without openly
challenging the prevailing orthodoxy. A guy like Ross Douthat, for
example, is not going to throw his career away by pointing out the
obvious, so he crafts social constructs that give his coevals a way to
express reality within the confines of the faith.

I must admit that it feels like it is true in certain cases. I enjoy
reading Mark Krikorian, who does the Lord’s work in the area of
immigration studies. He often says things that suggest he accepts the
basics of human biology, but he always stops short, way short, of
running afoul of the morality police. I follow him on twitter and it
often feels like he slams on the brakes as soon as he gets near that
electrified fence that divides orthodoxy from heresy. I wonder. Is this
conscious or subconscious? Does he know or is he simply trained?

This may not seem like an important question, but it is probably the
most important question. The cognitive elite in Europe knew Galileo was
right. It was not like he popped out of nowhere to announce his new
model for the solar system. The image of the churchman as a narrow
minded fanatic is pretty much of the opposite of reality in the Middle
Ages, or any other age for that matter. For most of Western history, the
church was the storehouse of human knowledge and the engine of
intellectual progress.

Progressives have retconned Galileo to claim the Church was too
enthralled with oogily-boogily to understand him, but that’s
nonsense. They knew he was right, at least many in the Church knew, but
they did not know how to proceed with the new knowledge coming from guys
like Galileo. The Church, as well as the civil authorities, were primary
concerned with civil order and making sure people had food to eat. The
practical challenges came before the theoretical ones.

The emergence of genetics, as well as evolutionary biology, which is
increasing reliant on genetics, certainly is comparable to the emergence
of science in the late Middle Ages. The main point of comparison is that
science discredited much of the prevailing orthodoxy about the natural
world and genetics is discrediting the blank slate orthodoxy of today.
Egalitarianism will only survive if the study of human biology,
particularly genetics, is shut down and that’s not going to happen. The
question is whether anyone in the cognitive elite knows or accept this.

Watching the Olympics the other might I was struck by the sense of
desperation during one of the *Girrrllll Power!* segments. This is where
the males are forced to tell the audience about how wonderful it is that
so many women are competing in sports. I concluded that you have to be a
true believer to participate in the making of such nonsense. Only a
sociopath could fake that much enthusiasm for something they think is
wrong. That or the presenters are so dumb they are incapable of
self-awareness. Either way, the people in charge are in no way prepared
to surrender to reality.

That does not really answer the question posed here. I think guys like
Steve Sailer are, despite their chosen fields of study, optimistic about
humanity. They hope there are some sensible people in the ruling elite
who will, in the fullness of time, find a way to incorporate the reality
of biology into their policy making. Any hints that suggests someone is
in on the gag, so to speak, is held up as proof. Maybe he is right and
maybe their use of esoteric signalling is so advanced that rubes like me
can never see it. On the other hand, the shrillness of the screeching
from the media suggest they really, really belief their nonsense.
