---
title: "Travelogue: Dubliners"
date: "2016-09-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8497"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8497"
---

On the plane ride into Dublin, I sat next to an older man, who was from
Kilkenny. He consumed half of the flight boasting about his hometown and
his country. The Irish are very proud of being Irish and they are not
ashamed to boast about it. People with a strong culture are prone to
this and I find it appealing. He was coming back early so he could watch
his hurling team in a big match. This allowed him to tell me that the
national game of Ireland was the greatest thing in the world. I feel the
same way about baseball so I could relate.

The other half of the flight, the back half, he spent asking me about
American politics. I got the impression that he wanted to talk
politics from the first moment he saw that I was an American. The
glories of Ireland stuff was just to butter me up. Of course, he wanted
to know about Trump. My assumption was that he thought Trump was
terrible, but he was going to be polite until I revealed my allegiances.
There was an *Ivy Day in the Committee Room* quality to our
conversation, when another person joined in the discussion of Trump.

The Irish love their politics and I got the sense they were mystified by
Trump or maybe mystified as to why Americans are considering him.
Alternatively, they may simply have been wondering why a country as big
as America is unable to find better options. That’s not an unreasonable
question, but there is no answer. Every country can ask the same of
their political leaders, so size has nothing to with it. For some
reason, politics attracts the sort of people no sensible people should
ever want involved in politics. It’s a paradox.

My response when asked why Trump might win was , “Because what comes
next would be much worse.” At first I assumed this would elicit
questions, but people seemed to understand. Perhaps they were simply
being polite, but I came away from every political discussion with the
impression that the Irish are fully aware of the dangers that loom just
over the horizon. Something has gone wrong and no one knows exactly how
to make it right. Tossing out the people currently in charge is simply
the option available.

The puzzle they left me was that they never once spoke of Hillary
Clinton. They both agreed that Trump was a typical American, by that
they meant big and boisterous, as well as a bit silly by their
reckoning. Even so, Hillary Clinton has been in politics for almost
three decades now. Her husband was president and made a big show of
coming to Ireland and pretending he was Irish. I would have expected
them to be pro-Clinton and dismissive of Trump. Instead, all they cared
about was how a TV guy could become President.

I chewed on that mystery a bit as I walked around the city. Dublin is an
old city that does not like being old. All over the city you see efforts
to show that Dublin is a modern, hip city, equal to any of the hipster
cities around the world. The young people are fully engaged with their
phones and seem to be divorced from their past and the past of the city.
All over people were quick to tell me that Dublin had the latest of
whatever I was inquiring about at the moment. Maybe the locals simply
get tired of stupid Americans asking them where the Shire is located.

The the thing about Dublin that will stick with me is the whiteness of
the place. There were about 25 thousand Americans in the city for the
college football game. In the pubs, you could hear them marveling at the
whiteness of Dublin. In America, cities are very diverse and some are
dangerously diverse. Portland Oregon is the whitest city in America at
about 65%. Dublin is probably 95% white as their immigrants are mostly
from eastern Europe. The only blacks I saw were tourists from America.

That is, of course, why you don’t see the police presence you see in
other cities. I was at a pub and noticed that the street was packed with
young drunk people, but I could not see any cops. As a cab driver told
me, if you want trouble you can did it in Dublin, but you have to look
for it. In more diverse cities, trouble is always on the prowl so the
cops have to be out showing the colors in an effort to keep the peace. I
would be lying if I said I thought for a minute that Dublin needed more
diversity. It manages to get along just fine without it.

The funny thing I noticed in Ireland was how the city had turned itself
into a tourist trap. By that I mean everyone is hooked into Ireland
Inc., a community enterprise to sell everything Ireland in an effort to
boost tourism. I saw this in Iceland too. I was told by a cabby that
after the bust, they figured it was the best way to make money, so the
local economy converted quickly to tourism. In fact, the cab drivers
were all hilariously over the top in their tourism pitch. Everyone of
them I encountered sounded like he was working for the department of
tourism. Perhaps they had all been real estate agents.

One of those cab drivers said a funny thing to me. He was pointing out a
section that caters to students, when he said it is the one thing he
dislikes about driving a taxi. He has to witness the debauchery of the
young. “It’s as if they have no respect for themselves, particularly the
men. They treat women like whores. How could they ever marry one of
them?” Every city, every country, is a city of the dead. We live in the
shadows of those who came before us. What spurs on progress is the
desire to get out of those shadows and make our lives our own. It’s not
without its consequences though, as often the past is where the future
lies.

My taxi driver was one of 14 kids. His best friend was one of 18 and his
father had a second wife with whom he produced a handful of kids. The
taxi driver, a man in his fifties, had four children, but his kids were
childless. The Irish fertility rate remains the highest in Europe, but
it stands at 2.02. The average age of new mothers is close to 30. The
young, those in their 20’s, are not getting married and that is of
concern. When you tease out the births to immigrants, the Irish youth
seem to be following the same path as the rest of Europe.

A people without children is a nation of dead people, soon to be a
forgotten people. It is not a guarantee with the Irish and perhaps the
debauchery of their youth is just a temporary phase, but I wonder if I
had not just visited a museum without realizing it. Joyce supposedly
said Irish history is a nightmare from which they never wake up. That’s
no longer the case as Ireland is prosperous and free of the sectarian
violence that came to define them for close to a century. Even so, they
may have woke from their nightmare to find the future does not include
them.
