---
title: "Dismal Quackery"
date: "2016-07-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8051"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8051"
---

The other day, I made a crack about the soft sciences, psychology,
sociology and so forth, comparing them to astrology and economics. It
was in the context of the [replication
crisis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Replication_crisis) that is
roiling fields like psychology. The soft sciences are trying hard to
pretend it is problem in all science, but that is not true. Anyway,
someone gave me grief for slandering astrology, because the
early strides in astronomy and even astrophysics were due to people
trying to improve astrology. If you believe in that stuff, precise
measuring of the movement of stars and planets is important.

I think most empirically minded people have long ago concluded that
psychology is quackery. When I was a kid, talk therapy was the rage. The
schools were hiring “counselors” and having kids sit down and talk about
their problems. Even as a kid I knew it was nonsense. Talking someone
out of being insane or depressed is slightly less nutty than
slaughtering a goat and reading the entrails. Imagine if someone claimed
they could talk you out of a broken leg or cancer. Quackery seems to
stick around much longer than logic says it should.

That is the pattern we are seeing with economics. The colossal errors in
the field should have discredited it a long time ago, but economist are
still the court magicians of the modern state. [This post by Tyler
Cowen](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/06/why-brexit-happened-the-lens-of-japan.html)
is a good example of dressing up uninformed opinion with the jargon of
economics to make it sound like science. As Steve Sailer pointed out in
the comments, economists have yet to offer a plausible explanation for
how the post-nationalist world could operate. [The only possible
answer](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7935) is that it would be based
on force.

Europe is a great example of just how wrong modern economics has been
about pretty much everything. The totality of mainstream economics has
been cheering the Euro project for decades, even when it was pretty
clear that the single currency was a disaster for many of the members.
It has all the cyclical defects of hard money and none of the benefits.
The open borders part of the project has resulted in a flood of
non-Europeans, who have upset the social order, threatening the
stability of the Continent.

This is not the first time modern economics has been outlandishly wrong
about Europe. [This post by Greg
Cochran](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2016/07/02/economists-and-the-reds/)
is a great reminder of just how absurdly wrong the field was about the
realities of communism. The best estimates by the court magicians
overstated communist economic output by two or three times reality. This
despite the fact they had firsthand observations of the state of these
communist countries. Westerners, including western academics, traveled
throughout these countries and could observe the squalor firsthand.

In the 80’s, an acquaintance was getting sent to Moscow on government
assignment. His family held a going away party as he was expected to be
there for two years. Everyone was asked to bring something he could use
in Russia. He got things like cartons of cigarettes, blue jeans and
small bottles of liquor. The Russians turned a blind eye to this type of
smuggling because they wanted the stuff too. The customs agent would
take something for himself and maybe set you up with his cousin Yuri to
sell the rest. Everyone, except economists, knew the score.

Of course, the birth of economics as a distinct field from
political-economy was roughly one hundred years ago, with the
publication of an economic textbook by Alfred Marshall. Economist were
just as wrong about reality then as they are today. Prior to the Great
War, globalism was all the rage, just as it is today. A 1910
best-selling book, *[The Great
Illusion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Great_Illusion),* used
economic arguments to demonstrate that territorial conquest had become
unprofitable, and therefore global capitalism had removed the risk of
major wars. A few years later Europe was murdering itself in the worst
war in human history.

Science gets lots of things wrong. The scientific method assumes this,
which is why test results are published, along with the methods, so
others can challenge the results. Negative results are still results and
add to the stock of human knowledge. In economics, they get fundamental
elements of their field wrong and manage to subtract from the stock of
human knowledge in the process. The problems facing Europe today are
problems people understood well 50 years ago. Thanks to economics,
policy makers are now forced to relearn what their grandparents took for
granted.

The root of the problem is that statistics are not science and economics
is pretty much just statistics applied to commerce. It is not worthless,
but it is limited. Probability and correlation can point real scientist
in the right direction, but they do not explain the mechanics of cause
and effect. We know that smoking correlates with emphysema, but
biologists figured out why one causes the other. [Per capita chicken
consumption correlates with US oil
imports](http://tylervigen.com/spurious-correlations) and only an
economist would suggest one causes the other. Know what is happening is
different from knowing why.

Calling back to where we started, most quackery manages to have some
benefit, even if it is to just some make people feel happy. Astrology is
right about the movement of the stars, at least as far as charting them.
Horoscopes are stupid, but a harmless way for people to feel good about
the uncertainty of life. Alchemy was a confidence racket, for the most
part, but it eventually gave us chemistry. Even climate science has some
utility, despite the [massive
fraud](http://www.meteo.psu.edu/holocene/public_html/Mann/index.php).
Economists are fond of calling their racket the dismal science, but that
is not fair or accurate. It is really just dismal quackery.
