---
title: "A Culture of Lies"
date: "2016-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7735"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7735"
---

*“In my study of communist societies, I came to the conclusion that the
purpose of communist propaganda was not to persuade or convince, not to
inform, but to humiliate; and therefore, the less it corresponded to
reality the better. When people are forced to remain silent when they
are being told the most obvious lies, or even worse when they are forced
to repeat the lies themselves, they lose once and for all their sense of
probity. To assent to obvious lies is…in some small way to become evil
oneself. One’s standing to resist anything is thus eroded, and even
destroyed. A society of emasculated liars is easy to control. I think if
you examine political correctness, it has the same effect and is
intended to.”*  
― Theodore Dalrymple

I’ve often wondered if it were possible to devise a metric for the
measure of madness in a society’s ruling class. We know that the people
ruling Canada, for example, are much further from reality than the
people running Poland right now. You can tell that by the things they
say.
<a href="https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CcjMWaoXIAAKByw.jpg" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Justin Trudeau says things that suggest he is a
schizophrenic</a>, while the ruler of Poland says sensible things about
the troubles facing Europe. The former ruler of North Korea often made
announcements so outlandishly crazy, it’s hard to believe they were
intentional.

If you could create a scale measuring the distance between the things
the rulers say in public and reality, you could then compare one regime
to another on the crazy scale. North Korea would probably be the gold
standard of crazy so the “nork” could be the measure of ruling class
lunacy. Turkmenistan would be seven “norks”, while France would be three
“norks.” It’s an impossible thing and maybe a bit batty, but if I ever
have the time, maybe I’ll try to work it out just for fun.

There’s little doubt, however, that the Dalrymple quote relies on the
observation that authoritarian regimes rely heavily on spouting nonsense
at their citizens and having the citizenry repeat it. Every society has
“pretty lies” that help grease the wheels, but authoritarian societies
almost always jump into that other category, where clearly false things
are declared official truths. It’s not a matter of degree. It is a
category difference.

I was thinking about this yesterday listening to the coverage of the
Orlando shooting. The facts are familiar at this point. A second
generation Muslim goes bonkers and kills people in the name of Jihad. In
this case, the killer had a deep hatred of homosexuals and blacks so he
shot up what is usually a gay club, but on this night it was Latin night
so it just looked like a gay club. This is now becoming a familiar
pattern and we all know the general reason for it. The contours of Islam
are now familiar to everyone.

That’s the reality of this event. Barak Obama, on the other hand, blames
it on Magic Shape Theory™. He claim this man was exposed to metal and
plastic formed into mystical shapes that imbued them with the power to
take over the mind of this one guy, turning him into a murderer.
Therefore he is calling on his chief sorcerer to cast a level three
wishing spell to prevent this particular shape from forming again. That
way, no one will ever be possessed by this shape and turned into a
killer.

OK, he did not mention a sorcerer, but calls for gun control are about
as honest and fact based as calling for the Court Wizard of the kingdom
to cast a healing spell. It’s utter nonsense. Obama knows it is nonsense
and everyone in the media repeating it knows it is nonsense. The proof
of that is they refuse to even talk about the obvious issue in this
case. When that’s mentioned, Obama declares it immoral to even discuss
it and the press is directed to spend their time talking about how Trump
is firing up Christian bigots.

Lying used to be something that damaged reputations, even with
politicians, but we have reached a point where lying in public is so
common, it is considered part of the normal. Everyone knows Hillary
Clinton is lying about the pay-for-play scam she was running from the
State Department. We have video proof of her lying repeatedly, but no
one in the press bothers to press her on it. After all, lying is just
the new normal and only weirdos care about the truth when it comes to
politics or anything else for that matter.

That’s part of what the ruling class finds so horrifying about Trump. He
exaggerates for effect, but he does not say things that anyone can see
as outright lies. You may disagree with his opinion on the Orlando
shooter, but he’s not out there blaming it on Christian bakers or Magic
Shape Theory™. It’s why they call him a bully. He’s not playing by the
rules. We have reached the point that Orwell called the time of
universal deceit. Trump is a radical merely for stating the obvious in
public.

As a geezer, I’m old enough to remember a time when things were
different. In my youth, homosexuals were still kept on lavender farms in
the South and Muslims were kept over in their territories, so things
like Orlando were impossible. I also remember when Trump’s plain
speaking was not uncommon. Politicians exaggerated, for sure, but they
were not competing with one another for who could tell the most
outlandish whoppers in public. A folksy candor was a popular way for
politicians to distinguish themselves from the crowd.

I’m going long here, but maybe this is a byproduct of mass media. The
only way to break through the noise is to be outrageous and what is more
outrageous than telling outlandish lies that everyone knows are lies?
The foundation of Western civilization is social trust. The ultimate
affront, the ultimate outrage is to be thoroughly and complete
untrustworthy. To point out the obvious, to acknowledge the real means
getting lost in the noise. Instead, the only way our rulers can get our
attention is by embracing a culture lies.
