---
title: "No Country for the New Men"
date: "2016-03-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6872"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6872"
---

Going by my own experiences, my sense is Europeans fall into
three groups with regards to the Muslim invasion of Europe. There are
those who are moderately xenophobic about the whole thing and are not
afraid to say it, even if they are called Hitler for their trouble.
These are people who have long ago grown tired of explaining the basics
of human behavior to their betters so they no longer bother. They just
oppose immigration. These are the Old Europeans.

The second group are those who are emotionally moved by immigration to
the point where they seek out positive immigration stories in their news
so they can feel good about it. They see a story of a European being
kind to a migrant and they are filled by a warm glow, like the feeling
you get when you drink liquor on a cold day. Like the first group, these
people no longer bother explaining their position. If you do not get it,
you are probably a racist so who cares what you think?

These are folks who call themselves New Europeans, but like everything
else about them, that is a lie. Their imagined future does not include
Europeans. Instead, it is a mythical world where dusky fellows speaking
gibberish operate the machinery of Western civilization, without any of
the hard work and intellect that is required to maintaining it. The
European is just an avatar, forever basking in the grace of the world
he created for the benighted.

There is a third group that never gets into the news, because they do
not participate in the great debates over the Muslim invasion. At least
they do not show up on the street waving banners or on the television
screaming at members of the other group. This is the silent majority, so
to speak. Most Europeans are in this group and most would just as soon
never discuss this issue. *These are the New Men of the New Europe*.

On the one hand, generations of hectoring by the beautiful people have
made these folks instinctively fearful of being lumped in with the
xenophobes and racists. They do not think about it. Like trained
animals, they simply react to commands. Their logical parts can hear the
arguments against immigration, comprehend them and agree with them,
until they hear the cry “racism” and they hit the panic button, erasing
everything they have in their mind on the topic.

On the other hand, [these folks look at the trial of Geert
Wilders](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/mar/18/dutch-far-right-leader-geert-wilders-goeson-trial-for-inciting-hatred)
and they know this cannot end well. Whatever one wants to say about his
positions or how he goes about stating them, you cannot have a civilized
country while throwing people in jail for holding an opinion. The only
difference between what the fascist did and what is happening now is the
fascists were honest about it. The Dutch authorities are slathering on a
frosting of lies to go along with their thuggery.

The New European has grown accustomed to working out these
contradictions. It is what defines him. There is always a good reason
for not joining on one side or the other. Generations of abuse by their
betters have left them unable to look their betters in the eye. At the
same time, generations of groveling have made them too weak in the fight
against the xenophobes. They are dispensable Europeans.

And they are being dispensed with at an accelerating pace. When European
leaders are not coming up with news reasons to snuff out their own
people, [the Muslims are taking a more basic approach to clearing out
towns and
villages](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/23/world/europe/brussels-airport-explosions.html)
they would like to occupy. Set off enough bombs and those still alive
get the message. That message is, “You’re not welcome. This is our
country now.”

There are dozens of families who will never see their loved ones again,
thanks to the leaders of Europe. They created this. They invited this
and they refuse to address it. They want that warm feeling so bad they
are willing to sacrifice as many of their people as is necessary to get
it. Like heroin addicts, they cannot get enough of the opiate of
multiculturalism. It is always more and more, while life gets worse and
worse.

The New European Man will read these words and wave them off. “Our
leaders will figure it out eventually. They are just trying to do the
right thing, the humanitarian thing.” That is what is called wishful
thinking, the thing you cling to when you got nothing else or you are
unwilling to consider anything else. It is why the New European Man will
not be a part of what comes next for Europe. They may not even be in the
stands for the big game.

The Muslims have figured out that European leaders are paper tigers.
They will not fight. Eventually, the xenophobes will figure this out as
well. The guys joining Pegida, Sons of Odin and similar groups will
learn the same lessons the Muslims have learned. Then they will adopt
the same tactics. This is a civilizational disaster unless the New
European Men figure out that the future belongs to those who show up.
