---
title: "Brexit"
date: "2016-02-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6653"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6653"
---

Fortune favors the bold is one of those expressions popular in political
circles because it tends to confirm things people want to believe about
themselves. The guy who wins wants to see himself as a swashbuckling
risk taker. The guy that loses wants to see himself as an exception, a
bold swashbuckler who was not rewarded by fortune. That way, he can try
again another time.

The truth is politicians are risk adverse in the extreme. They hate risk
and it is what often gets them into a jam. When one choice has a 90%
chance of success, they will get hung up on the 10% and not act swiftly.
Alternatively, they fixate on hugging the shore to the point where they
are blind to looming danger. The Republican Party made this error with
regards to Donald Trump.

There are two types of acceptable risk taking in politics. One is when
the fix is in and the politician knows something before the public sees
it. He comes out and takes a “bold stand” on X and has his media arm
champion him as a great risk taker. When X happens, he is vindicated and
promoted as a bold leader. Not everyone falls for this, of course, but
enough people do. Bismarck was a master of this sort of risk taking.

The other type of risk is the reverse of this, when the pol figures out
he is going to be on the losing end of something. With nothing to lose
in the campaign, for example, he will champion some controversial policy
so he can pretend to go down because of his bold fight against the
forces of darkness. The whole point of this gambit it to set up the next
fight. It’s putting your last chip on seven at the roulette table.

Smart politicians figure out that in uncertain times, even the safe bet
is a gamble. In Europe, the turmoil created by the Million Muslim March
makes all positions a risk. The public is unhappy, but not ready to
break into a full nationalist mood. At the same time, the cultural elite
is still drunk on the sangria of multiculturalism. There are no safe
choices other than keeping a low profile and letting the greater fool
theory play itself out.

That’s what makes David Cameron’s move to hold a referendum on the EU so
bizarre. His own past election should have been a clue that he is living
in very uncertain times. No one predicted he would win a majority and
that the other main parties would implode. Unexpected results, even when
welcome, should always be cautionary. If you don’t know why you won, you
can’t know if you will win the next time.

[The betting markets show
volatility](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/newstopics/eureferendum/11617702/poll.html),
which tracks with the polling. The “deal” Cameron negotiated with the EU
has been laughed off as worthless so the vote is between the status quo
and exit. That would seem to favor Cameron as people tend to like change
in the abstract but hate it in practice. You could argue that Cameron is
looking at the polling and figuring the fix is in so he can afford to
look like a risk taker.

That brings us back to why this is happening in the first place. The
nationalist waves roiling Britain forced Cameron and the Tories to
promise this referendum in order to stave off the challenge of UKIP. The
stunning result of the election was due to the public rallying to the
two parties most identified with national identity. The Scots went for
SNP and the English went for the Tories.

That dynamic should scare the hell out of Cameron. Every day his voters
see pictures of migrants clustered on the other side of the channel,
trying to get a ride to England. Rotterdam could very well be the
[Lindisfarne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lindisfarne#Vikings) of the
Muslim Age. There’s nothing more patriotic than defending your women and
children from foreign barbarians. Voting for Brexit is the sort of thing
people under threat will naturally do, no matter the promised cost.

The polling at the moment suggests most people are open to both sides of
the debate. It’s tempting for a normal person to think this bodes well
for Cameron, but the old lawyer line about never asking a question
unless you already know the answer applies here. A wide open public, in
a time of great uncertainty, where the conventional wisdom is routinely
proved wrong is prone to vote on emotion, rather than logic. Donald
Trump says hello.

One of the striking things about the ongoing crisis in the West is just
how many unforced errors the political class is making on a regular
basis. Merkel inviting the young men of Islam to pour into Europe is an
obvious example of something that was easily avoided. All across the
West the politicians seem to have lost their footing and this gambit by
Cameron feels like another blunder, assuming Cameron wants Britain to
remain in Europe.

It’s hard to know if this string of unforced errors is just randomness,
ineptitude or an indication of a systemic failure. Republicans running
on amnesty after 2012 can be written off to stupidity, given their
history, but what about Merkel? She was making sensible noises about
multiculturalism in 2010. Did she lose her marbles in the interim? Is
there some disconnect in the normal feedback loop between politicians
and the public?

This brings us back to a familiar theme around here. The feedback loop
used to have the media trying to sell news to the public. Those market
signals led them to pressure the political elite correspondingly. This
was an indirect market signal to the polls. It may not have been perfect
and the liberal media often scrambled the signal, but the pols could at
least feel the heat of an angry electorate before they saw the flames.

Today, the press is just a megaphone for the political class. The
feedback loop is broken. David Cameron is surrounded by people who read
the Economist. Everyone they know in the media thinks Brexit is just a
sop to the UKIP types. Consequently, he really has no idea what the
people are thinking and that means he has no idea how to pitch his plan
to them. Brexit could easily end up being yet another unforced error.
