---
title: "Unsocial Media"
date: "2016-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8785"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8785"
---

The coining of the term “social media” was not the observation of a new
phenomenon or some new way for people to interact. Bulletin board
systems had been around since the early days of the internet. By the
early 1990’s, there were millions of people posting on these systems.
Newgroups and e-mail lists were also around in the early 1990’s, as
cheap modems rolled out to the public. Message boards came along in the
mid-90’s and soon took over as the dominant community platform on
websites.

The new term to describe what was happening was the signal that new
controls were coming to discourse on the internet. Something that is
social, community owned, must have *community standards*. Those
standards must be enforced and that means people must be given the
authority to enforce those standards. In other words, it was the
starter’s gun unleashing the totalitarians and pink skits to goose step
in and start pushing people around on-line. Now, everywhere you go,
there are posting rules and moderation.

What was fun about the internet in the olden thymes was the lack
of rules, at least in terms of what you could say and how you could
say it. Debates on bulletin boards or news groups were <s>viscous</s>
vicious (It was late and one “slipped” through editing) and no holds
barred. The term “troll” used to mean a poster who trolled for attention
by posting provocative things. That’s what made these things fun. The
early on-line communities were experiments in social dynamics, without
the usual social
limitations.<a href="http://messybeast.com/dragonqueen/newsgroup-users.htm"
target="_blank"> This old list of Usenet types</a> gives you a flavor of
it.

Un-monitored and unregulated arenas for people to speak freely are a
danger to the established order, so it did not take long for the usual
suspects to start looking for ways to put an end to it. There was also
the fact that millions of people were getting on-line, without knowing
that internet culture was a bit rough. Polite always triumphs over right
and before long all but the underground sites were heavily regulated.
Sites like Faceberg and Twitter were built on the idea of pleasing the
easily offended.

The trouble with policed communities, is the old saw about who will
police the police. The sort of people that go in for being site
moderators, are exactly the sort of people you never want in those
positions. It’s not long before they start abusing their power and
people start getting banned. It’s why Faceberg is mostly for old people
to view pics of their grandchildren. <a
href="http://www.inc.com/john-brandon/why-youll-be-deleting-your-twitter-account-in-the-next-six-months.html"
target="_blank">It’s also why Twitter is imploding</a>. When milquetoast
users like Instapundit are deemed out of bounds, it’s a matter of time
before all the interesting people are gone.

It’s also why alternatives to the mainstream options are growing up all
of a sudden. Gab is the first alternative to Twitter with any chance of
succeeding. Quitter is actually a better platform, but it has not caught
on with English speakers. Gab is targeting the alt-right and
troublemakers like me, promising an anything goes environment. They are
also improving on the concept, rather than trying to please the
managerial class. Longer message lengths and a better interface are the
two obvious improvements over Twitter.

Vox Day is behind the alternative to Wikipedia. It’s called
<a href="https://infogalactic.com/" target="_blank">Infogalactic</a> and
it is intended to be the non-PC version of an on-line encyclopedia. Like
Gab, they are using better technology to improve the user experience,
but the real point of the effort is to be an alt-right alternative to
Wikipedia. To quote the associated blog, “The single biggest problem
with Wikipedia isn’t Jimmy Wales or its outmoded 1995 technology, but
the fact that it is patrolled by 532 left-wing thought police who
aggressively force their biased perspective on the rest of the world.”

My bet is someone is plotting an alternative to Facebook or simply
something better, that serves a similar purpose, but without the social
justice warriors. The fact is, Facebook is not doing anything all that
clever from a technological point of view. There’s also the alternative
media sites with open comments, that are the intellectual engine of the
rebellion. <a
href="http://www.the-american-interest.com/2016/10/06/how-the-golden-state-became-the-intellectual-capital-of-trumps-gop/"
target="_blank">This story in the neocon magazine American Interest</a>
about the boom in high brow sites catering to heterodox opinion is worth
a read.

I think what we are seeing is two things. One is the Progressive
enforcers have squandered their legitimacy enforcing rules that are
unenforceable. People get tired of being treated like children by
depressed women taking revenge on the world as forum moderators. So,
there is demand. There’s also the fact that people trafficking in the
ideas popular on the fringe want to debate with others into the same
things. There’s nothing more dull than reading a comment section filled
with mainstream drivel.

The downside of this, and the inevitable consequence to the current
social unrest, is a balkanizing of social media. Gab will be Twitter for
hate thinkers, while Twitter will be the home of the establishment,
assuming Twitter remains in business. There will be those who get their
news and analysis from hate thinkers like Sailer and those who read
establishment sites. The internet will be a world of fractured reality
and that will inevitably show up in society as a whole. To some degree,
that already exist in terms of who watches which cable news channel.

The downside of this process is it means the alt-right, Dissident Right
and whatever else this thing we’re doing is called, is going to
self-ghettoize. The people who still read National Review, for example,
will not see comments from hate thinkers like me. At the same time, hate
thinkers will stop reading the mainstream press and lose perspective
about the greater world around them. Instead of “bringing people
together” social media will end up amplifying the balkanization of
American society.
