---
title: "Honky Ball in Bodymore Murderville"
date: "2016-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8623"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8623"
---

I had the chance to attend a sportsball game last night in the city of
Baltimore. My Red Sox were in town to play the Orioles, so I got a
chance to see the Olde Town Team in person. I don’t attend many live
sporting events these days. It was a nice change of pace, even if it
meant the hassle of getting into the downtown area at rush hour.
Baltimore has a reputation for being gangland, but people still do
work in the city and that means traffic at the predictable times. The
downtown area that caters to tourists, both local and foreign is easy to
navigate so it is not too bad.

Many on the alt-right are encouraging normies to boycott sportsball and
I get why they say it. It used to be that a normal man could get a few
hours away from the preaching of the loons by watching a baseball game
or football game. That’s no longer the case in football, as they have
filled the broadcasts and the games with proselytizing for the New
Religion. The players protesting the anthem may be at the heart of why
the NFL is suddenly having a <a
href="http://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2016/09/20/monday-night-ratings-down-again/"
target="_blank">TV ratings problem</a>. It would be nice if that were
true, but we’ll never know as the media will cover it up.

Baseball has so far been immune to the efforts of the loons to turn it
into an instrument of the New Religion. The reason for that, according
to one of the players, is that <a
href="http://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/mlb/columnist/bob-nightengale/2016/09/12/adam-jones-orioles-colin-kaepernick-white-mans-sport/90260326/"
target="_blank">baseball is the white man’s game</a>. That’s true in
many respects. The players are mostly white and Latin. Just 8% of MLB
players are Afro’d Americans. The NFL is 70% black and the NBA banned
the pale face years ago. Further, baseball is a turn based, rules game
that does not favor running and jumping. There are few opportunities for
attention getting antics during the games, so it tends to appeal to
honkies.

Still, the Cult of Modern Liberalism is trying hard to ruin baseball for
the white man. ESPN has destroyed their Sunday night broadcast by having
a screeching powerskirt as part of the announcing team. She pretends to
have played the game and have the same depth of knowledge as a former
player, but does so in a way that reminds every man of his first
ex-wife. <a
href="http://theundefeated.com/features/finally-the-first-female-mlb-player-and-shes-black/"
target="_blank">A TV series</a> has been created featuring a female
baseball player making it to the majors. Of course, she’s black,
because, well magic. Taken together, it is a warning that the crazies
are coming for honky-ball.

Then again, the Cult has been at war with baseball for a long time. When
I was a kid, they tried to make us play soccer, instead of baseball.
That flopped as bad as the metric system. Soccer became the sport for
effeminate white kids, who lacked the athletic ability to do anything
else. Then they tried to force boys and girls to play together, but
girls, and their parents, liked softball much more and that effort
failed. Finally, the last two decades have seen a PR campaign to tell us
that baseball is dying and basketball is the future, despite the the
facts on the ground.

Even so, baseball has held up pretty well. In the 70’s, when the culture
war began, even the most popular clubs struggled to attract fans to
games. Today, even bad teams can get 15,000 to a weeknight game. Some
clubs do better than others, but overall, baseball remains well attended
compared to the past. A lot of it has to do with the excellent ballparks
and the family friendly atmosphere at the games. A bigger reason, I
suspect, is the ballpark is one of the last places where old weird
America still exists.

The players look like us, the crowd looks like us and the customs are
the same as they were when we were kids. The game starts with everyone
standing for the anthem. There is the seventh inning stretch. The
players embrace the customs and unwritten rules that have defined the
game for generations. I walked in the park and I remembered my dad
taking me to my first game. I could remember my grandfather, as if it
were yesterday. That’s not something that happens at football or the
human flea circus that is the NBA.

One example last night was the response to a rookie the Orioles just
brought up from the minors. The crowd was mostly Oriole fans, naturally,
but there were many Red Sox fans too. Everyone cheered loudly, knowing
that the kid was getting his first at-bat as a major leaguer. When he
hit a home-run in his second at bat, the whole place stood until he came
out to tip his cap to the crowd. Even the Sox fans stood as that is the
way it is done. The cycle of life has always been a part of the game, so
you cheer the rookies and honor the veterans, as they pass out of the
game.

If you want to understand what went wrong in America, walk around
Baltimore, where you see what it is, what it should be and why it is not
what it could be. It is a city where the people that know better are
vastly outnumbered by those largely incapable of maintaining modernity.
There are pockets of beauty and excellence, but they exist in a sea of
degradation. Baltimore is what is happening in South Africa.
Civilization has retreated into pockets the tourists see, hoping to hold
out until the world comes to its senses.

But, the Olde Town Team carried the day, with the legendary Big Papi
hitting a three run blast to seal the game. The Red Sox are headed for
the post-season for the first time in a few years, and they have a good
shot of winning another title. I get why the alt-right kids reject
sportsball, but for old guys like me, who still remember when normal
people had hope that this craziness would pass, it is a nice reminder of
how things used to be. Perhaps the kids sitting there with their fathers
and grandfathers will carry with them the seeds to restore the world
long after I’m gone.
