---
title: "Dealing With Con-Men"
date: "2016-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7955"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7955"
---

One of the few benefits of growing up poor is that you are exposed at an
early age to hustlers, grifters and criminals. Everyone has someone in
the family who is working an angle. It could be as simple as a
disability fraud or as complicated as running drugs. Maybe it is just
turning people’s virtues into vices in order to con them out of a few
bucks. At the bottom of the economic scale the paydays are small, but
the stakes are always high. That brings out the best in a hustler. They
trust no one and they are always working some angle.

The thing you learn early on is that there is no beating these people at
their game. You can be the smartest guy in the world, but you do not
think like a hustler. The grifter has a different mind. They are
motivated by different desires. More important, they are always working
some angle, looking for a flaw, a weakness they can exploit. It is not
*what* they do, it is *who* they are. Lying is as natural to them as
breathing. The best thing to do is put as much distance between yourself
and them.

That is a lesson, I suspect, the people around Barak Obama wish they had
known back in 2008 when they decided to have Hillary Clinton as their
Secretary of State. They thought they had found a clever way to keep the
Clintons in a box after the election. They did not want them running
around criticizing Obama to their friends in the press, so they put her
in a job that would keep her inside the tent, but outside the country
most of the time. After all, the action was going to be on the domestic
side. What harm could she do?

That would keep Hillary from running against them in 2012 and it would
make it impossible for Team Clinton to criticize Obama. They also had
the issue of campaign debt. Team Obama promised to help Team Clinton pay
off the debt so she could have a chance to run again once Obama left
office. This looked like a great way to sideline the greatest threat to
Obama’s position in the party and within the Cult of Modern Liberalism.
It looked like a modern way of having the defeated king join a
monastery.

The Clintons, being what they are, immediately looked for how they could
exploit this new appointment. The news tells us that before she set foot
in the place, she had her people working on the secret e-mail server. I
would not be surprised to learn that when Team Obama was negotiating the
surrender of Team Clinton, it was the Clinton side who suggested the job
at State. They hit the ground running with their grift as soon as she
got the job, suggesting they were a step ahead of Team Obama.

The reason you never try do business with a grifter is, in the end, they
always find ways to compromise you. They keep working you and anyone
around you so that at some point, you are left with two choices. One is
you help them. The other is you hurt yourself. People being what they
are, the default is to help, hoping that will be enough to be free of
the problem, but that just gets you in deeper. It is why victims of
con-men often refuse to go to the police. They either feel like morons
or they fear they are compromised.

In this case, Herself was allowed to run this secret e-mail system,
which the White House had to know about, but they looked the other way
and now they are compromised. If they let the justice system take its
course, Team Obama gets their dirty laundry exposed in the process, so
they have to make all sorts of compromises to stymie the legal process.
By looking past the server in the first place, they left themselves
exposed and as a result, they have no choice but to help Clinton stay
out of jail.

The meeting between Bill Clinton and Loretta Lynch the other day is
bringing out all the conspiracy theories, but all of them miss the mark.
The point of it, from the perspective of Team Clinton, was to let
everyone know that no one is without sin in this matter. My guess is
Lynch was flattered to be invited to meet with her old boss and
foolishly took the meeting. Clinton knows she is not terribly bright so
he played on her vanity and used her to remind Team Obama of their
exposure.

The lesson, once again, is that you never do business with con-men.
Whatever choice presented, always take the one that gets as much
distance between them and you. Team Obama should have left the Clintons
out in the cold back in 2008, but they let themselves get talked into
what they thought was a clever solution. Instead, they invited a cancer
into their administration. Having Bill Clinton say bad things about
Obama looks fairly good in comparison to years of blackmail from Team
Clinton.
