---
title: "The End of Radicalism"
date: "2016-10-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-10-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8845"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8845"
---

In the middle of the 19th century, European politics was about the role
of the monarchy, nationalism, democracy, capitalism and the emerging
political consciousness of urban working classes. The latter is where
communism found its opening. In America, politics was about slavery,
sectionalism, the territories and protectionism. Monarchism was
obviously not of any interest to Americans, but neither was communism.
It is a good reminder that politics is always local to both time and
place.

It does not always feel that way though. If you were a Frenchman in
1970, the big debates were about the same stuff as they were in the
1940’s. Sure, the Algerian question was a hot topic in the Fourth
Republic and not so much in the Fifth Republic, but the ideological
landscape was the same. Similarly, US politics settled into a
center-left consensus after World War II and remained so throughout the
Cold War. The topics changed from decade to decade, but the ideological
landscape did not change very much.

I picked these two periods for a reason. The Revolutions of 1848, or the
Springtime of Nations, was a time when old ideological frameworks were
collapsing and new ones were emerging. The remaining feudal arrangements
were being toppled in favor of nationalist arrangements.The post-war
period a century later was a time when the new arrangements, the Pax
Americana, were settling in across the West. The point being is that all
epics have a start and a finish, with the former beginning in the
latter.

It is generally assumed that we are living in an age where the old order
is under pressure and new challengers are rising up to offer an
alternative to the status quo. Is this just the the Pax Americana
unraveling as the United States staggers along into decline as the
world’s remaining super power? Are we seeing the emergence of a
post-liberal consensus built around supra-national organizations
controlled by global elites? If so, is the nationalist reaction just a
rearguard action? Or is this the end of the liberal era entirely?

One thing seems clear and that is American Progressivism is dead as an
ongoing ideological movement. The managerial class still uses the
language and tactics of the Left, but they are fully committed to global
capitalism. Hillary Clinton is the face of the Left and she is wholly
owned by Wall Street. Her embrace of open borders cuts what is left of
the cord linking Progressives with the labor movements out of which they
grew in the prior century. A liberal from the 60’s, looking at the
current Left, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BbLdAWef9C8"
target="_blank">would be horrified</a>.

The remaining radicals on the Left are just posers. These are the people
who embrace things like structural racism, gender identity, sexism,
climate change, and economic inequality. Guys like Ta-Nehisi Coates are
just ornaments for managerial class types to decorate their cultural
institutions. Since most of what these people say and write is nonsense,
they can be indulged. Again, a Hillary Clinton can be seen with a copy
of a Piketty book, on her way to give a speech at Goldman Sachs.

Similarly, the European Left is a dead man walking. The British Labour
Party now looks like a comedy skit from Monty Python. The Lib-Dems have
collapsed entirely. The two main British parties are the SNP and the
Tories, both embrace technocracy. It is a similar story on the Continent
as the the main stream parties, both Left and Right slowly fuse together
in defense of Europe against the rise of nationalist parties. As in
America, the European Left is married to global finance and
managerial authoritarianism.

What the 19th century made clear is that constitutional monarchy was
just a transition phase, from aristocratic rule to liberal rule.
Something similar may be true about social democracy. The Left has
always dreamed of one-world global socialism. Communism was always
intended to obliterate national borders. Socialism, in its various
national manifestations, may simply have been a transitional phase. Once
the nations of the West are ruled by like minded technocrats, the next
logical step is merger.

Alternatively, this could be the end phase of the radicalism born in the
French Revolution. The rise of traditionalist, reactionaries and
nationalists all over the West could be a classical liberal reaction to
the restoration of a new aristocratic system of rule. Instead of a
ruling elite selected by magic blood, the restored aristocracy will be a
mandarin system based on the acquisition of credentials, only attainable
by the sons and daughters of the managerial elite. Instead of inherited
titles, they have legacy admissions to elite colleges.

This is all idle speculation, of course, but like the people of the
mid-19th century, in the midst of the revolts, we are witnessing a great
transition away from the old system to something new. The Left that has
been a feature of the West, the cornerstone of the ruling consensus, is
going away. Socialist economics are dead. Communism is a museum piece.
National liberation, a staple of post-colonial radical politics in the
last century, has been thrown down the memory hole. All that’s left of
radicalism is nostalgia.
