---
title: "The War On Biology"
date: "2016-03-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-03-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6887"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6887"
---

Feminism, we are told, comes in three forms. The mild form, or
First Wave Feminism, was all about expanding basic legal rights to
women. The self-destructive form, Second Wave Feminism, was about
busting up the cultural protections for women. This was based on the
ludicrous idea that women are simply men lacking a penis. Finally, the
absurd form, Third Wave Feminism, is a shrieking tantrum against
biological reality, largely the result of the destruction caused by
Second Wave Feminism.

When looked at in its totality, particularly with the human genome and
mountains of anthropological data in mind, feminism is about as sensible
as humoralism and that’s probably being unfair to the Ancients. Humans
don’t just come in two sexes for the mechanical purpose of
reproduction. Males and females are cognitively and physiologically
evolved to serve very different roles in human societies.

Despite lots of feminists demanding we know how much they “bleeping love
science!” by posting this phrase on their Facebook pages, feminism
remains an extended tantrum against biological reality. Feminist women
are bitter because they lack a penis. Feminist men are bitter because
they have one. The result of this is feminism is just endless harping
about men and <a
href="http://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2016/03/wow-new-video-proves-michelle-fields-not-even-bumped-vy-trump-campaign-manager-lewendowski/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">slimy attempts to accuse men
of misdeeds</a>.

This ridiculous war on men is at the heart of the homosexual activism we
have seen over the last couple of decades. It’s never been about
homosexuals or their rights. It is about the war on men that has been
waged by feminist nutters and their Progressive enablers. Normal men are
mildly intolerant of homosexual males, with many men openly hostile. The
whole point of pushing homosexual rights is to irritate and marginalize
normal men and their opinions.

<a
href="http://espn.go.com/mlb/story/_/id/14987597/st-louis-cardinals-look-allegations-former-pitcher-tyler-dunnington-anti-gay-comments"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here’s an example of what I mean</a>.

*The St. Louis Cardinals said they are taking allegations from a former
pitcher in the organization that he quit baseball because of anti-gay
comments “very seriously.”*

*Tyler Dunnington, who is gay, told Outsports.com he did not come out
while he was pitching for the Cardinals in rookie and Class A baseball
in 2014 but eventually left baseball after overhearing derogatory
comments from teammates.*

*“I was also one of the unfortunate closeted gay athletes who
experienced years of homophobia in the sport I loved,” Dunnington wrote
in an email to the website. “I was able to take most of it with a grain
of salt but towards the end of my career I could tell it was affecting
my relationships with people, my performance, and my overall happiness.*

*“I experienced both coaches and players make remarks on killing gay
people during my time in baseball, and each comment felt like a knife to
my heart. I was miserable in a sport that used to give me life, and
ultimately I decided I needed to hang up my cleats for my own sanity.”*

*Dunnington, 24, spent most of his career with the Cardinals
organization at rookie-level Gulf Coast League. He left the organization
after the 2014 season and retired before 2015 spring training.*

*The Cardinals said they will look into Dunnington’s allegations and
work with MLB ambassador for inclusion Billy Bean, a former major league
player who came out as gay after his playing days were over. No active
major leaguer has ever publicly come out of the closet.*

*“This is very disappointing and our hope is that every player, staff
member and employee feels that they are treated equally and fairly,”
Cardinals general manager John Mozeliak said in a statement. “Given the
nature of these allegations, I will certainly look into this further.”*

Men on a sports team, in a military unit or just hanging out drinking
beer can and will be rotten to one another. It’s a normal part of male
behavior. Sadly, some men are born homosexual. Others are cowards or
wimps. Nature does not dispense her gifts equally. What this means is
that in all-male environments, some men will find themselves on the
receiving end of some unpleasant hazing. It’s as much a part of human
biology as eye color.

Now, it would be nice if all men could be conditioned at an early age to
know when to back off their natural instincts so that homosexual males
like Tyler Dunnington don’t feel blue, but that’s like training lions to
be vegetarians. The lion will only go along with it until the trainer
makes the mistake of stepping into the enclosure. All the brow-beating
that goes on in schools and the workplace will not alter 200,000 years
of evolution. Instead, it’s these endless witch hunts and shaming
sessions.
