---
title: "Life in a Theocracy"
date: "2016-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8123"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8123"
---

In Saudi Arabia, getting caught with alcohol can get you the lash.
Maybe. It sort of depends upon where you are in the social order and who
is determining your guilt. In Iran, listening to western music can get
you sent to prison or perhaps cost you a job in the government. Again,
it all depends upon who you are and who is judging your violation. It
can also depend upon who is accusing you too. This was true in colonial
New England where accusations of witchcraft were arbitrary and the
trials mostly based on things other than religious doctrine.

We have the image of theocracies as places with long lists of precise
rules governing morality, public conduct, social relations and so forth,
but the reality is always the opposite. Written rules can be debated by
anyone with the ability to read. There is not much fun in being a priest
if anyone can read the rules and render a judgement. In a theocracy, the
religious order educates the public, handles the violations of morality
and makes sure the laws comply with the official religion. The result is
a high degree of arbitrariness for those who live in the theocracy.

Going back to Saudi Arabia, members of the royal family regularly [head
off to
Dubai](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3586208/Shabby-Saudi-prince-10billion-oil-fortune-parties-green-activist-Leonardo-DiCaprio-hundreds-models-renting-swanky-New-York-bowling-alley.html)
to drink, do drugs, fornicate with women, fornicate with men
and otherwise [live like rock
stars](http://nytlive.nytimes.com/womenintheworld/2015/10/30/rowdy-saudis-are-running-riot-from-l-a-to-london/).
Everyone in the Wahhabis world knows about this, but they like living
more than they like Allah so they say nothing. On the other hand, if you
are a foreigner, who can be a bargaining chip for the royal family, then
[you can get jammed
up](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/12/world/europe/karl-andree-british-saudi-arabia-alcohol.html) for
some [pruno](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pruno). Anyone that is a
nuisance to the government can expect to have the religious police
snooping around in their life, looking for a reason to send them to
jail.

Theocracy is arbitrary. It is this arbitrariness that encourages
neighbors to spy on neighbors, associates to rat on each other and even
children to report their parents to the morality police. Being a rat
brings grace. You see that in [this
story](https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/colleges/gw-basketball-players-report-coachs-verbal-and-emotional-abuse-many-fled-school/2016/07/21/b7d5bd12-4dae-11e6-a7d8-13d06b37f256_story.html)
about the George Washington men’s basketball coach.

*In early April, shortly after his team celebrated a postseason
championship, a George Washington men’s basketball player visited a
campus Title IX coordinator to log complaints about Coach Mike Lonergan.
Lonergan, the player believed, had created an offensive, intolerable
environment, evidenced in his mind — and in the minds of many of his
teammates — by the spate of transfers during the coach’s five-year
tenure.*

The first thing to notice is the code words for morality. Title IX has
become holy writ in the Progressive faith. Like the Bible, it is a
mysterious source of authority to the adherents. Most Christians never
bother to open their Bible and few Progressives can tell you anything
about Title IX. They just know it is the highest of law on the holiest
of sites, the college campus. To be the Title IX coordinator is no
different from being the Mutaween in Saudi Arabia. This person is the
supreme moral authority on campus.

Then we have the complaints lodged against the coach. Notice the
vagueness here. On the college campus, “offensive” is the same as
blasphemous. Any word or deed can be called offensive if it is deemed to
have violated some tenet of the faith. Since these tenets are arbitrary,
just about anything can be offensive, as long as someone in good
standing with the religious authorities is willing to say they were
offended. Again, you will notice that it matters *who* is accusing and
to whom the accusation is being leveled.

Read the whole 2400 word article and you struggle to figure out what
exactly the coach had done to warrant being thrown off the roof by the
PC enforcers. That is probably why the writer resorts to quoting various
shaman in the Title IX sect.

> “They have an obligation to make sure the school is operating an
> environment where there is no sexual harassment,” lawyer Nancy
> Hogshead-Makar, a Title IX expert and a former Olympic gold medal
> swimmer, said when apprised of the players’ complaints. “He is
> sexually harassing both the athletic director and the athletes.”

Notice the language again. They never say who is obliging us in this
quest. The God of Puritanism is now just a mysterious blank space, a
void that can never be mentioned, but must always be acknowledged. In
other words, if you know you are obligated to enforce the one true
faith, you are an elect. Of course, the quest to which we are supposedly
obligated is equally mysterious. What does “an environment where there
is no sexual harassment” look like? How do we know we are in one? The
answer is one of the priestesses of the faith will tell us.

“Priestess” is the right word. In the America theocracy, women run the
cult. Take a look at [the bio of Nancy Two
Names](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nancy_Hogshead-Makar) in the Post
story. The hyphen is the first clue. She is or was married to a cuck.
People assume that hyphen indicates feminist, but it is a gang symbol
within feminism to indicate the adherent has bagged and tamed a male.
Second, her bio tells us she went from college into the order and has
spent her life as a professional nuisance. Hassling men is her all
consuming passion. It is what defines her life.

As with Iran or Saudi Arabia, the accused in the America theocracy often
make the mistake of thinking they can beat the charges. After all, if
they have done nothing wrong, what do they have to fear? In a theocracy,
however, the unwillingness to submit and confess is proof of guilt.
Coach Lonergan is a dead man; he just does not know it. He will play by
the rules, or at least the rules written down, but the Inquisitor is not
bound by rules so the coach will be broken on the wheel and cast out of
the campus.

That is life in a theocracy.
