---
title: "The Low-Trust State"
date: "2016-09-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-09-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=8504"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8504"
---

Social trust is one of those things that we know is important to
economic growth, sound government and social stability. When the people
of a society generally trust one another and wish to be trusted by
others, their society prospers. The question that always arises is over
causality. Some would argue that altruism is a biological trait that
scales up to social trust. Others would argue that good government and
the rule of law encourages positive economic growth, which in turn
increases social trust. It is one of those topics that keeps academics
busy.

The distinguishing characteristic of low-trust societies is a near total
lack of trust in the state by the people. Russians, during the old
Soviet Union, understood that everything that was said by the state was
a lie of some sort. In fact, the only thing they could trust from the
Bolsheviks was that whatever they said was untrue. This amplified the
natural distrust of Russians as they did not have an authority to which
they could appeal in order to arbitrate disputes. Contracts have to be
enforceable before anyone will enter into them.

The point here is that you can debate the causality of social trust, but
a society with a corrupt and untrustworthy state is going to be a
low-trust society. Alternatively, to use the language of the
pseudo-sciences, social trust correlates with public corruption. The
causal arrows may point one way or both ways, but public corruption is a
good proxy for social trust. There are measures of public corruption and
the most popular is from [these
guys](http://www.transparency.org/cpi2015), who publish downloadable
statistics every year for the pseudo-sciences.

Trust in the state is always going to drift over time, but you can spot
some trends. Just take a look at the US over the last few decades. In
the 1980’s, the savings and loan crisis put a lot of people in prison.
Even some [politicians](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keating_Five) got
dinged for getting too cozy with the crooked bankers. A decade later we
had the dot-com bubble and the accounting scandals, but no one went to
jail. They just lost money. Less than a decade later we had the mortgage
crisis and the crooks got bailed out by the government with taxpayer
funds. This is a trend worth noticing.

Now, look around at what we are seeing today. The Clinton e-mail scandal
is so outlandish, it is now threatening the rule of law. In the 70’s,
Nixon was run from office from 18 missing minutes of tape. Clinton
erased 17,000 emails, [some may have been under
subpoena](http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/from-fbi-fragments-a-question-did-team-clinton-destroy-evidence-under-subpoena/article/2600969).
It is blazingly obvious that she and her cronies violated Federal law by
mishandling classified information. The most logical explanation for all
of this is they were selling it for cash through that ridiculous charity
they run. [A charity that has systematically violated the law with
regards to accounting for
donations.](http://www.newsnet5.com/longform/exclusive-clinton-charities-ignore-law-requiring-them-to-disclose-millions-from-foreign-donors)

How is it possible that this woman and her flunkies are not in jumpsuits
waddling around [Danbury
FCI](https://www.bop.gov/locations/institutions/dan/)?

The first problem is the [head of state appears to be a pathological
liar](http://circa.com/politics/us-gave-17-billion-to-iran-as-hostages-were-released-four-times-original-amount).
This Iran story is the sort of thing that used to bring down
governments. It was certainly the sort of thing that should have
administration officials hiring lawyers in preparation for the FBI
visit. That would require [an FBI that is not equally
corrupt](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/rick-perry-comey-clinton_us_57c6dee4e4b0e60d31dc4ee7).
Of course, the FBI is a product of the political class and ours is
proving to be astonishingly corrupt. Today we learn that the
[politicians are conspiring to rig public
hearings](http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2016/09/06/wired-it-emails-suggest-clinton-aide-stage-managed-benghazi-hearing-questions.html),
which are the bedrock of popular government.

A certain amount of public corruption is to be expected. Politics will
always attract shady characters, but it should also attract honest
characters too. These are the folks that enjoy the boring work of good
government. They police the system, enforce the rules and make public
appeals for cleaning up the problems. Today, those people either do not
exist or they have become too afraid to speak up. The American political
class looks a lot like a corrupt police precinct. The crooks are in
charge and they have inverted morality so that the honest fear detection
by the corrupt.

It is not unreasonable to think that we may have passed the point where
the political class can be expected to reform itself. Their
unwillingness to even try to thwart the rise of these vulgar grifters
from the Ozarks suggests the the political elite has lost the capacity
to feel shame. Anyone willing to defend Hillary Clinton to the public is
someone, who will lie about anything, violate any law, violate any
taboo. That is a person lacking in anything resembling a soul. A
political class populated with such people is a ruling class at war with
itself, the very definition of a low trust state.

The truly frightening thing is that the only institution the public
trusts is the military. Take a look at what is happening with the sports
ball players protesting during the national anthem. This coming Sunday
is 9/11 and even the most reptilian of Progressives are saying such a
protest on that day would be a slap in the face to the men and women who
serve the country. When no one trusts the ruling class, and the military
is the only institution in which the public has faith, there is always
one result. It does not have to be that way, but that’s the way it has
always been.

At some level, some portion of the public understands this. The Trump
phenomenon is not about Trump in the conventional sense. There’s a lot
not to like about the man, but he is honest, he loves his countrymen and
he is not doing this for the money. Whether or not he understands his
role and the movement he is leading is unknown. Maybe his election will
just be a false dawn and what follows is what always follows the onset
of a low-trust state. If things are going to turn out different for us,
Trump will win and usher in an era of reform.

Otherwise, what comes next will be much worse.
