---
title: "The Case of the Citizen Truly Stated"
date: "2016-06-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7935"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7935"
---

In the English Civil War, a group of renegade soldiers, along with
political supporters in London, began demanding radical reforms like
universal suffrage, religious tolerance, equality before the law and
popular sovereignty. [The
Levellers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levellers) did not last long,
but they remain an important turning point in Western history. Their
radical idea was that a man must consent to be governed and therefore
have a say in how he is governed. This is a seminal moment in Western
history. A nation would be defined by its people, while empires would be
defined by their territory.

Another way to look at it is that a nation is a group of people, who
decide their borders, their customs and how they will govern themselves.
The consent is not just from citizen to the state, but from citizen to
citizen. An empire, in contrast, is whatever land the ruler can hold and
the people within it. His relationship to the people is transactional.
He guards the people, enforces the rules and the people pay taxes. The
people have no obligations to one another, at least in a legal sense.
Their only duties are to the king as a subject, while they remain in the
kingdom. *L’Etat, c’est moi.*

The critical thing here is that a citizen has obligations to his fellow
citizens, while a subject only has obligations to his ruler. The former
is the model we have had in the West for a long time now. In America, it
has been the only model. All the blather about the propositional nation
stuff obscures this fact in an attempt to justify mass immigration, but
even within that mythological concept of America, the citizen is defined
by his relationship to his fellow citizens. It’s not the government who
defines the citizen. It is the citizen that defines the state. As such,
the citizens get to decide who is and who is not a citizen.

That’s the problem the open borders types refuse to address. The
government of a nation is just an extension of that agreement between
the citizens. It’s even written into the American Constitution, right at
the very beginning.

*We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect
Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the
common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of
Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this
Constitution for the United States of America.*

In a nation, the government is defined by the people – literally. The
people decide who is and who is not “the people” by whatever means they
find agreeable. As with any contract, social or otherwise, the parties
enter into it voluntarily. We don’t think of it that way, because we are
born into our citizenship in most cases, but the fact that we can
renounce our citizenship means it is always voluntary. Further, the fact
that the state cannot revoke it means it is not a contract with the
state. It is a contract with our fellow citizens.

In a land of no borders, there can be no social contract. What would be
the point? If anyone can wander in and get the benefits of the contract,
without first consenting to the terms of the contract and gaining the
agreement of the counter party, what value can there be in citizenship?
Citizenship becomes a suckers deal, just as it was in the Roman Empire
when citizenship simply meant you paid taxes and had to provide men to
the military. In the world of open borders, citizenship is all
obligation and no benefit.

In such a world, it will not take long before the calls of patriotism
fall flat. After all, what is patriotism but the moral obligation of a
citizen to his fellow citizens? Patriotism is the spirit of the social
contract. To their credit, the open borders crowd agrees that their
vision of paradise is one where all human relations are transactional.
Everyone acts in their self interest. So, why would people serve jury
duty? Volunteer at their kid’s school? Serve in the military? All of
these things assume a moral duty to your fellow citizens. In the
borderless paradise, no one owes anyone anything.

Even in the paradise of open borders, order must be maintained and the
interests of the wealthy protected. When calls to patriotism and culture
are no longer tools available to the state, force is what’s left. This
custodial state we see being rolled out by our rulers is not due to a
breakdown of the citizens willingness to uphold their part of the social
contract. It is the breakdown of the social contract that is causing the
growth of the custodial state. Put another way, the state is not just
failing in its obligations, it is nullifying the compact between
citizens. In fact, they are obliterating the very concept of
citizenship.

In response to the Leveller’s call or democratic rights, <a
href="http://bcw-project.org/church-and-state/second-civil-war/putney-debates"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Henry Ireton</a> responded,

*No person hath a right to an interest or share in the disposing of the
affairs of the kingdom, and in determining or choosing those that shall
determine what laws we shall be ruled by here — no person hath a right
to this, that hath not a permanent fixed interest in this kingdom.*

How is this different from the arguments of the open borders proponents?
They argue, that no one has a right to say who can walk into your
country. They say, no one has a right to determine who is and who is not
entitled to to the blessings of liberty. Ireton rejected the concept of
citizenship. Those who demand open borders are doing the same thing.
Instead of a king, they promise a custodial state to rule over us, to
keep us safe, accountable only to those with a permanent interest in it.
