---
title: "The Fate Of Europe"
date: "2016-06-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7918"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7918"
---

Earthquakes are caused by the tectonic plates that make up the surface
of the planet rub against one another. When the stress on the edge
overcomes the friction, there is an earthquake. Energy is released in
waves that travel through the earth’s crust and cause the shaking that
we associate with an earthquake. In America, the most famous place for
this is where the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate meet.

It is a useful image to keep in mind when looking at current events. The
great rumblings we see are not just linear events. Often, they are due
to multiple forces working in series, parallel or even in direct
contradiction to one another. The rumbling, in the case of direct
conflict, may be a warning of what is coming next. When the rumbling is
due to friction between two unrelated forces, the quake is just an
adjustment period that will last a short time until the friction points
are worn away.

There are at least two great forces in human events. One is the drive
for larger units of organization. Early humans were organized in small
groups of related people. Later, we got villages where these groups
would live in larger organizational units together with other groups.
Then we got cities and then city-states. This tendency for ever larger
organizational units eventually gave us nation states that are bound
together by a common language, culture and heritage. Our current rulers
believe the next step is regional super-states governed by multi-ethnic
global elites.

The other great force is working in a different direction. Here we see
ethnic groups expanding and contracting their territories and reforming
into atomizes sub-states, relative to the modern notion of super-states.
The Brits voted to leave the EU. The Czechs split from the Slovaks. The
Kurds want to leave the Turks. Catalonia wants independence from Spain.
The Scots wish to go on the EU welfare system, rather than the English
welfare system.
The [Uighurs](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_kyd6BBesF2Y/SwF_ufgZBNI/AAAAAAAAALA/lM7TA6WJNfI/s1600/wiggers.jpg)
seek independence from China. All over the world we see these ethnic
movements for greater autonomy.

What we have, on the one hand, is a drive toward larger organizational
units and the obliteration of ethnicity as the building block of
sovereignty. On the other hand, we have movements toward greater
atomization of the organizational units of society, based on narrower
definitions of ethnicity. The rumblings we are seeing in world politics
could be the first sounds of a collision between these two forces or the
smoothing out of the rough edges between these two forces where they
bump up against one another. From where we sit today, it is hard to
know, but history suggest the former is the right answer.

With that in mind, [this
story](http://www.express.co.uk/news/politics/683739/EU-referendum-German-French-European-superstate-Brexit)
coming out of Europe suggests the people in charge of the super-state
movement see the calls for autonomy as a threat to their thing. It is
why they kept this concealed until after the Brexit vote. It is also why
they are now thinking it is time to hit the accelerator and impose their
vision on the continent, before any other rebel groups get crazy ideas
into their heads about leaving. From the response of European elites, it
is clear they do not see a possible reconciliation of these two great
trends. They want to crush the “smaller is better” movement.

Of course, the [Brexit vote has given every nationalist party on the
continent a shot in the
arm](http://www.newsweek.com/nearly-half-voters-eight-eu-countries-want-own-brexit-referendum-457412),
as well as a shot in the groin to the main parties. [François Hollande
did not invite the queen of the French Dirt
People](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjV_czN9MvNAhUITCYKHZ7jDVYQFggeMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ft.com%2Fcms%2Fs%2F0%2F6cd15008-3ac9-11e6-8716-a4a71e8140b0.html&usg=AFQjCNFEJoh0siKCY7h8fn23VpP-CTpubg&sig2=tm5NuG-Dad6pETtphuZeIQ)
in for a meeting because he is full of confidence. Across Europe, people
are wondering why it is they cannot just manage their own affairs, based
on local custom and through their traditional methods. After all, if the
Brits can decide for themselves whether or not to remain in Europe, why
can’t the French people or the Greeks or the Italians? It is not an
unreasonable thought.

It was on June 28 in 1914 that the Archduke Franz Ferdinand was
assassinated by Serb nationalists. The Austrians believed they had no
choice, that the tides of history were on their side, so they issued an
[ultimatum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/July_Crisis#Content_of_the_Austro-Hungarian_ultimatum_to_Serbia)
to the Serb government. To accept the terms of that ultimatum would mean
Serbia ceased to be an independent nation. They could never accept that.
The plate of nationhood was colliding with the plate of empire. Over the
next month the best minds of Europe tried to figure out how to keep the
earth from trembling. It was 4 years, 3 months and 2 weeks later that
they finally stopped trying, for a little while.
