---
title: "The Weirdness of Anti-Darwinism"
date: "2016-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Religion
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6381"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6381"
---

A long time ago I decided that discussing biology with creationists or
Intelligent Design believers was just a waste of time. Back in my
schoolboy days, the Jesuits made clear that you can believe in God and
accept biological science, but only if you reject
[occasionalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occasionalism). God was
the watchmaker, perhaps, but not the cause of all things in a direct,
active sense of causality.

In fact, we were taught that human understanding of God had evolved and
that was evident in the Bible. The God of the Old Testament was active
and involved in the affairs of man, no different than the pagan gods of
Greece, Rome and Mesopotamia. The New Testament showed a more mature
understanding of God as a first mover, but otherwise not constantly
tinkering with creation. The laws of nature were fixed and discoverable.

Many people calling themselves Christian think Catholics are all wrong
and a corruption of Christianity. Many Catholics, maybe most, think the
Jesuits are nothing but troublemakers and heretics. That all may be
true, but the point they taught me is still correct. If you believe God
is tinkering with the natural world and the direct cause of everything
we see, then you have no choice but to reject science.

Bear in mind that I think most people can get along just fine believing
God is watching over them, directing their lives and helping them win
football games. A world in which everyone accepts Intelligent Design
would look just like the world today, because most everyone, whether
they know it or not, believes in God the fiddly watchmaker, who is
always tinkering with creation. Otherwise, [no one would
pray](https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/americans-continue-to-pray-even-as-religious-practices-wither-survey-finds/2015/03/06/89cbb99a-c37f-11e4-9271-610273846239_story.html).

You’ll note I never say I *believe* in evolution. To my way of thinking,
that’s akin to saying I *believe* in gravity or I *believe* water is
wet. These are not things that require a leap of faith. I *believe* I
will die having sex with a super model. That requires a leap of faith. I
know water is wet, gravity is 9.7536 m / s<sup>2</sup> and evolution is
the best explanation of the fossil record.

What I have always found odd is that some (many?) ID’ers have made a
fetish out of Darwin. It’s as if they think Darwin is the Moses of the
Church of Evolution. If they can somehow discredit this false god, they
will bring down the whole evolution business. What’s even nuttier is
they seem to think that discrediting evolution automagically makes their
flapdoodle into accepted science.

You see that from the writer [John C Wright in this
post](http://www.scifiwright.com/2016/01/darwin-and-genesis/#pq=rYrvUx)
I stumbled upon a while back. The implied claim that Darwin thought man
evolved from apes is a popular bit of nonsense from these people. I
guess it makes them feel good, but it is simply not true. Go back far
enough and we share a common ancestor with apes. Go back further and we
share an ancestor with goldfish. No one thinks humans are goldfish.

Wright did not have to mention Darwin to make his point, but his brand
of Christianity has an obsession with Darwin. They imagine he is not
just the beginning of evolution, but the end. If you look at the ID’er
sites they are shot through with “proof” that
[Darwinism](http://www.discovery.org/a/10661) is a false religion. [Some
guy wrote a
book](http://www.amazon.com/Darwins-God-Evolution-Problem-Evil/dp/1587430118)
influential with ID’ers that claims Darwin was the original L. Ron
Hubbard.

[This post from the Fred
Reed](http://www.unz.com/freed/impossibility-theory-an-advance-over-mere-indeterminacy-by-werner-fredsenberg/)
the other day is a good example of the other bit of weirdness with the
anti-Darwin people.

Let us begin with Samuel Johnson’s response when asked whether we have
free will. He replied that all theory holds that we do not, all
experience that we do. A similar paradox occurs in the realm of
Impossibility Theory. Many things occur in biology that all science says
are possible, while all common sense says that they are not.

Fred’s argument is basically backwoods occasionalism. It sounds pleasing
and folksy, but the central claim is that the natural world is
unknowable. Science is bunk and therefore Fred’s crackpot theories are
just as plausible as genetics or the carbon dating of fossils. It’s a
weird blend of paganism and nihilism that is always under the surface of
certain flavors of modern Christianity.

For me, at least, it is the deliberate ignorance at the heart of this
brand of Christianity, if you can call it Christianity, that I find so
weird. It’s as if the adherents believe ignorance is next to godliness.
Like rhinos stamping out fires, they run around trying to make
themselves and everyone around them dumber by casting science as
religious cult with Charles Darwin at the head.
