---
title: "All They Have Left is Vengeance"
date: "2016-06-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7785"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7785"
---

The holocaust looms large, in part, due to recency bias and the fact
there are still people who lived it. There are people alive who claim to
have been victims of the Nazis and there are people who were allegedly
Nazis. There is big money oin finding these people and putting them in
the media. In fifty years, there will be no one alive who thinks much
about Nazis or their victims.

That said, Western Radicals will never forget and never let the world
forget. At least that seems to be the plan. <a
href="https://ca.news.yahoo.com/ex-auschwitz-guard-convicted-german-trial-judge-121738359.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The interwebs tells me the Germans just
convicted a 94-year-old former Auschwitz guard</a> of being an accessory
to the murder of at least 170,000 people at the concentration camp in
Nazi-occupied Poland.

*A 94-year-old former Auschwitz guard was sentenced to jail in Germany
on Friday by a judge who branded him a “willing and efficient henchman”
in the Holocaust.*

*In what is likely to be one of Germany’s last trials for World War
Two-era atrocities, Reinhold Hanning was convicted of being an accessory
to the murder of at least 170,000 people at the concentration camp in
Nazi-occupied Poland.*

*Rejecting the defense argument that the former SS officer had never
killed, beaten or abused anyone himself, Judge Anke Grudda said Hanning
had chosen to serve in the notorious death camp and had helped it run.*

*“It is not true that you had no choice; you could have asked to be
transferred to the war front,” Grudda told Hanning as she read out the
verdict.*

*She said it was impossible that he had been unaware of the murders
since he spent two and a half years at the camp and had been promoted
twice during that time.*

*“That shows that you had proven your value as a willing and efficient
henchman in the killings,” Grudda said.*

*The white-haired Hanning, dressed in a gray suit and tie and seated in
a wheel chair, listed to the verdict impassively. His lawyer, Johannes
Salmen, said they would appeal.*

*During the 20-day trial that dragged on over four months, the court
heard testimony from around a dozen Holocaust survivors, many extremely
elderly, who detailed horrific experiences, recalling piles of bodies
and the smell of burnt flesh in Auschwitz.*

I have no doubt that the death camps were horrible. Russian prison
camps were horrible. The Andersonville prison in the American Civil War
was monstrous. The Japanese did horrific things to Allied prisoners. I
had family die in the Bataan Death March. Of course, the Rape of Nanking
and the Turkish genocide of Armenians killed unknown numbers. The point
being, war is horrible and industrial war is the most horrible. It’s why
we should do what we can to avoid it.

Vengeance after war for the “crimes” of the losers is understandable.
Hanging German officers and leading political figures for their crimes
during the war made perfect sense. In this case, what the Nazis did was
the logical end of Rouseau-ist moral philosophy and that scared the hell
out of people in the West, as it should. They needed to find a way to
pretend it was an aberration. The Nuremberg trial was an effective way
of “proving” that the Nazis were outside the scope of Western moral
philosophy.

Still, prosecuting a 94-year old guy, for anything, is of dubious value.
It’s not like there had been a 70 year manhunt for this guy. He lived
his entire life in plain sight. He did not go around bragging about his
time in the war, but he could have been put on trial years ago if it was
so important to justice. Clearly, it was not important enough 70 years
ago or 50 years ago or even 20 years ago. It’s not like this old man was
a danger to anyone or a flight risk.

It’s important now because the people in charge only have a
list of bogeymen. They no longer have an affirmative argument for why
they should rule and why their preferred system is best. The main
argument against Trump, for example, is to chant “Hitler” or “Racist”
over and over. The argument for maintaining the monstrosity that is the
EU is, well, “Hitler!” Putting a corpse on trial for the Holocaust is
just a morality play to remind everyone that the night is dark and full
of terrors.

In the US, the Civil War often fills the role of the Holocaust. A
mentally ill kid shoots up a black church and the people in charge
restart the Civil War, tear down some Confederate flags and topple over
some old statutes in the South. The message was clear. Do as we say or
the KKK will be riding through the streets and Union Army will be
forming on the Potomac. It’s a histrionic madness that is wildly out of
proportion to the triggering event, but all they have now is this
pointless vengeance.
