---
title: "Kristol Nicht"
date: "2016-06-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7654"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7654"
---

[In a hilariously absurd
post](http://www.global.nationalreview.com/article/436222/david-french-not-running-president),
the \#nevertrump fanatic David French declined to be the nominee of Bill
Kristol’s new political party. French is prone to drama so this is
pretty standard stuff from him. I take some pride in having spotted him
as a loony-tune a long time ago. I could just tell he was, in the mold
of Glenn Beck, one of those guys who careens from one cause to the next,
always overdoing it in a quest for grace. In a better age, these sorts
were turned into missionaries and shipped off to Africa.

That said, I am a little surprised that Kristol’s scheme has been such a
disaster. He is a smart guy and a very connected guy in the GOP. He has
been a made-member of the Bush crime family for decades. His ideological
inclinations may not be my cup of tea, but I respect his IQ. He had to
know that going third party was suicide. He may be willing to commit
suicide for his cause, but unless your name is Mohamed, it is not easy
to get volunteers for your suicide mission. As a result, I assumed he
was up to something else, like leveraging access to Team Trump.

Even smart guys screw up and smart guys who think they are smarter than
everyone tend to make big mistakes. There is also the fact that Kristol
is no spring chicken. He is sixty-three, which is not ancient, but that
is when some men start to slip. I am not saying he is ready for the
home; it is just that he is not going to be as politically nimble as he
was twenty years ago. There is also the fact that he has been in the
bubble for a long time and his connections to the currents of American
life are now entirely indirect.

He and many other neo-cons seem to be trapped in 1995, unable to
appreciate that the world has changed, the culture has changed and, most
important, neo-conservatism is not so “neo” anymore. Their ideas all
seem dated and out of sync with 2016 America. Listen to Kristol or his
half-orc sidekick John Podhoretz talk about America and it is as if they
just awoke from a twenty year nap. They keep repeating the same slogans
from two decades ago as if the last two decades never happened. It is
cringe inducing.

That is probably the biggest error Kristol made in his attempt to
unhorse Trump. The Bill Kristol brand of conservatism was a horrible
flop that nearly killed the Republicans Party and turned the word
“conservative” into an epithet. In 2000, conservatives had full control
of government for the first time in a century. Instead of rolling back
the welfare state, they expanded it and launched into a massive war with
Islam that we still cannot figure out how to end. We have been dropping
bombs on Muslims for a quarter century now and things are worse.

People can be forgiven for thinking that maybe these neo-cons were
never all that conservative. You can only scold people for so long about
your principles before they expect to see you act on those principles.
It seems like the only principles the neo-cons hold dear are the ones
that allow them to take a powder when it is time to take on the Left.
The last time conservative won back any ground against the Left was in
the mid-90’s. Since then, it has been a long bloody retreat.

There is also the issue of tactics. Kristol’s claim to fame was the
purging of Pat Buchanan and the remaining paleo-cons from the party. His
trick in the 90’s was to bait them into saying bad things about Israel
or the Israel lobby in Washington. Many fell for it and were tarred as
anti-Semites. That made throwing them out of the party an easy task.
There is nothing that strikes fear in the heart of the Republican like
being called an anti-Semite. They would rather be associated with
pedophiles like Denny Hastert than tied to someone who is an
anti-Semite.

Trump is too smart for that and he is very pro-Israel in the typical
American spirit. Most Americans support Israel because they are
Christian and they see the Israelis as the underdog, facing a billion
lunatics who want to murder them. That is Trump. He does not have deep
thoughts on the subject, but he instinctively backs Israel. Having spent
his whole life working with Jews in New York real estate, he is
extremely comfortable around Jews.

Finally, I think Kristol, like many neo-cons, has forgotten the whole
point of their movement. It was always intended to be a sales pitch. It
was an effort to stitch together the various strains of American
conservatism into a political force that could win elections. To their
credit, it worked quite well, but it failed to deliver anything more
than hollow election victories. In the end, a viable political movement
has to deliver and 85% of GOP voters tell pollsters that their party has
not delivered.

It is the old saying from the drug game. Do not get high from your own
supply. That is what happened with the neo-cons. They started believing
their own sales pitch and soon forgot that it was just a sales pitch.
They stopped thinking about the practical reality of politics which is
that the coalition that wins expects to get something for it. The
neo-cons got swank offices and additional quarters added to their public
pension, but the spear catchers and water carriers of the party got
nothing. Pleas to ideological purity are not going to work on people who
feel burned.
