---
title: "The Nature Of The Cult"
date: "2016-06-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-06-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7890"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7890"
---

It is natural to think of cults as being filled with gullible people
bamboozled by a charismatic confidence man. It is popular to portray the
cult leader as a deeply cynical, maybe even evil, person, who is using
his flock to inflict harm or make himself rich. The Nazis are often
described as the quintessential cult and Hitler as the ultimate cult
leader. The implication of this way of looking at things is that the
people who get caught up in a cult are dupes, fools or gullible
innocents. Because they were well-intentioned, they can be forgiven, to
a point, for falling in with a bad crowd.

The truth is a bit different. The true believer seeks out movements to
join. They do not need convincing. They are filled with self-loathing so
they seek out groups to join in order to swap out their identity with
that of the group. By immersing themselves in the movement, they
obliterate their sense of self and assume the identity of the group. It
is why within five minutes of meeting a vegan, they tell you they are a
vegan, because it is, literally, their identity. It is also why cult
members ferociously defend the group. It is self-defense.

Being in a mass movement or a cult only works if the logic and beliefs
of the cult explain the world to a satisfactory level. If the cult says
the world is going to end tomorrow, it better end tomorrow. Otherwise,
the cult collapses as it fails to comport with observable reality. Since
reality never fully comports with the worldview of a mass movement,
there has to be a method to deal with dis-confirmation. This either
means filtering out contrary data or finding a method to fold it into
the beliefs of the group.

A good recent example is the Afghan Muslim, who shot up the gay club in
Orlando. For the modern liberal, Muslims and gays are always victims of
bad whites. Therefore, this event creates a paradox for the Cult of
Modern Liberalism as it means two of their beliefs are mutually
exclusive. To resolve this, they created a backstory claiming the
shooter was actually gay and this was gay rage. The extreme homophobia
of the bad whites finally sent this poor gay Muslim over the edge.
Therefore, he is just another victim of the bad whites.

It did not take too long before it was clear that this guy was not gay
or struggling with being gay-curious. Because the liberal media kept
promoting the idea, the FBI eventually had to announce that they found
no evidence to support the claims. It was also clear that Mateen was a
Muslim lunatic with ties to other Muslim lunatics. None of that mattered
as the Cult had their narrative and every Lefty now believes this had
nothing to do with Muslims. It was all the fault of white America,
homophobia and Islamophobia. The *dis-confirmation* was turned
into *confirmation*.

Normal people wonder how it is that liberals so quickly cook up these
weird theories and then agree on the story, as if it is coordinated.
Look at how quickly they produced the gay rage stuff and how every
liberal was saying the exact same lines within hours of the incident.
Well, look at a school of fish. There is no head fish calling the shots,
but they move in concert, responding to perceived dangers, as if they
are under a uniform command. The school swarms in one direction and
then, in an instant, veers in another direction, as a big fish
approaches.

Liberals work similarly. They are always looking to one another for
signals as to how they should respond. As soon as one lefty pulled the
gay rage card, the rest started repeating it as it felt like the path
away from danger. It is why they watch the same shows and read the same
news sites. They are constantly watching one another for cues as to
which way to swarm. Being in a mass movement is first and foremost about
blending seamlessly into the whole. Again, the adherent is there to swap
their identity for that of the group so they are hyper-sensitive to the
direction of the group.

When faced with dis-conformation, the members of a mass movement will
first look to one another in order to reinforce their beliefs. This
“circle the wagons” instinct is clear with the reaction we are seeing to
the Brexit vote. Instead of wondering what they did wrong, the Remain
crowd is blaming it on the moral degeneracy of the Leave voters, calling
them racists and xenophobes. The Remain people are locking shields to
clearly set themselves apart form the evil Leave voters. Their instinct
is to first defend the faith, and then look to each other for the
correct response.

You will also note something else in the response to the vote. They are
blaming it on old people. We see this in the States after every
Democratic loss. When they win, it is young people who carried them to
victory. When they lose it is those grubby old racists, who were driven
by fear and hatred that defeated them. Mass movements make a fetish of
the youth. At least a dozen times since the vote in Britain I have heard
a liberal say “the delusions and fears of an aging population have
thrown away the future of the young in Britain.”

What is going on here is the process of turning contrary evidence into
proof that their cause is righteous. Further, they are turning the loss
into a reason for hope. After all, those horrible, racist old people
will be dead soon. Then the young and righteous will inherent the earth
and usher in the promised utopia. Since there can be no doubt about the
validity of their beliefs, focusing on the alleged weaknesses of their
adversaries inspires the faithful to keep up the fight. And they always
keep up the fight. They never quit. They never change their minds. They
just keep at it until they get their way.
