---
title: "Non-Whites Only"
date: "2016-01-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-01-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=6225"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=6225"
---

Years ago, I was skimming the want ads on Monster, or a similar site and
I kept seeing some version of “minorities and women are encouraged to
apply” listed prominently in the ads. Like a lot of people, I thought
this was just the new bullshit way for companies to announce their
wonderfulness. This was back in the early Bush years, so we were not
full-tilt Afro-worship yet. We were just at the start of this Great
Progressive Awakening.

Just for laughs, I contacted one of the companies that listed a real
e-mail address. I asked if the position was open to white men. I never
expected a response as I was obviously trying to stir the pot. At least
I thought it was obvious. I got back a nice reply from some woman
explaining to me that as part of their diversity programs they would be
looking for a “well-qualified” minority applicant.

In other words, they were not just displaying their piety, they were
telling the honkies they were no longer welcome. The causal, matter of
fact way it was written was what got me. The same people hooting and
bellowing about racism thought it was just wonderful to openly display
their hatred of white men, like it was a sign of enlightened thinking.

Anyway, I thought about that when I read [this story linked on
Drudge](http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/live-feed/cbs-nancy-drew-will-be-854972).

*CBS’ new Nancy Drew will look very different should the network move
forward with the reboot.*

*CBS Entertainment president Glenn Geller revealed Tuesday that the
network’s reimagining of the iconic character will be diverse.*

*“She is diverse, that is the way she is written,” the executive
told THR immediately following his time in front of the press at the
Television Critics Association’s winter press tour Tuesday. While Geller
said it was too early in the process to explain just what he meant by
diverse — whether Nancy is African-American, Asian-American or Latino,
he said it would hinge on finding the right actress for the part. “\[She
will\] not \[be\] Caucasian,” he stressed. “I’d be open to any
ethnicity.”*

Any ethnicity except one with white skin. Imagine the reaction if the
guy said, “we’re not going to cast a negro in the part.” After the
requisite “storm on social media” the idiot would spend a week begging
for forgiveness and then lose his job. Yet, hanging a sign out that
reads “non-whites only” is celebrated like it is an achievement to be
copied everywhere.

The only thing new here is the brazen way in which it is publicly
stated. This Glenn Geller guy could very well be an idiot, but you see
it everywhere in the media. The one group it is OK to shit on are whites
and especially white men. The people who invented civilization are being
run out of town in favor of people who have yet to figure out how to
stack one brick upon another.

The foaming at the mouth hatred for while men is so over the top it is
starting to feel like satire. Every TV commercial either features a
mixed race couple (white women – non-white man), has a black guy cast as
the hero or has the white guy as a dufus. The dopey white guy has become
such a stock figure in the media, it looks strange when a normal white
guy pops up on screen. It’s like seeing a leprechaun.

It was only a matter of time before white women joined the ranks of the
unwanted. The phony-baloney rape hoax culture at colleges hilariously
ignores assaults by black guys on white women. In fact, those are
covered up because black trumps white, regardless of the sex involved.
We’re seeing that in Europe where the elites are throwing a
rape-a-paloosa so European girls can be assaulted by Arabs.

This will not end well.
