---
title: "Reality 7, Fantasy 0"
date: "2016-05-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2016-05-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=7547"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7547"
---

One reason to be optimistic about the current madness is that reality
does not go away when you stop believing in it. Eventually, all of this
crackpottery we see from our rulers will crash into the jagged rocks of
reality. Now, a lot of us may get thrown over the rails or go down with
the ship, but eventually this spasm of insanity in the West will end. <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-3609949/Matildas-lose-7-0-Newcastle-Jets-15s-Rio-Olympics-warm-up.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> from the land down under,
as reported by the Mail Online is a nice little pick me up.

*Australia’s national women’s soccer team have suffered a devastating
defeat in the lead up to the Rio Olympics – going down 7-0 to the
Newcastle Jets under-15 boys side.*

*What is particularly concerning for the Matildas is that despite
resting some regulars, they were still able to field experienced
international stars including former AFC player of the year Katrina
Gorry.*

*Despite the embarrassing defeat on Wednesday night at Valentine Sports
Park in Newcastle, the Australian team will travel to Brazil as one of
the gold medal favourites.*

*While the Matildas played with a rotating squad, there is no denying
losing to a team of school boys is far from ideal preparation for the
world’s fifth ranked team in their quest for Olympic gold at Rio.*

*Assistant Matildas coach Gary van Egmond was as surprised as anyone
about the result admitting his side were outplayed.*

*‘To be honest we didn’t expect that,’ Egmond told the Huffington Post
Australia.*

I suppose the coach could be forgiven for this. Maybe he has been so
immersed in girls soccer he can no longer compare the girls to the boys.
It’s also possible he is just telling a white lie in order to avoid
embarrassing his players. They can pretend they did not take the match
seriously and the boys team was better than they expected. It’s a lame
excuse, but it avoids facing reality.

*‘The Jets boys were very good, all credit to them, they moved the ball
around very well and were excellent all night.’*

*Egmond said that the Matildas are often forced to play against boys
teams as trying to find quality female opposition can be difficult.*

*It may not be the first time that the Australian team have suffered a
heavy defeat against school boys with claims that they were ‘smashed’ by
an under 16 Sydney FC team last year circulating.*

*The social media reaction to the defeat has been condemning with many
claiming that the result is not good enough for a team that is expected
to challenge for a medal at the Olympics.*

Maybe that’s true, but it would be amazing to me if that many humans
were walking the earth unaware of the stark differences between male and
female athletes. A woman in her prime years has the cardiovascular
capacity of a man in his 50’s. It’s why girls cannot pass the same
physical tests as males in the military. Many male recruits also fail
early on, but a month or two of training and even the least fit males
are well beyond the female recruits. Imagine the differences when we’re
talking years of training.

Of course, the difference between boys and girls are no limited to
physiology. All the stuff that makes up personality and intelligence is
rooted in the same stuff as physiology. We are what our DNA says we are
and human DNA makes boys difference from girls cognitively, physically
and emotionally, etc. These differences cannot be wished away or
hectored away. Most of what we call liberalism is at odds with
biological reality and that can only end one way.
