---
title: "The Disaggregation"
date: "2017-10-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11195"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11195"
---

Living at the end of a great historical cycle, we take for granted that
the way things are currently organized, is the way they have always been
organized. Ours is the natural order of things. One reason we think this
is that we can only really know our age. We can read about prior epochs,
but we cannot truly know what it was like to be alive in those times. It
will always feel alien to us. The other reason is that a product of our
epoch is the linear theory of history. All of the events of the past led
to this point in time.

The linear thinking of our age is why a guy like Francis Fukuyama could
write a book titled [The End of
History](https://www.amazon.com/End-History-Last-Man/dp/0743284550) and
not be laughed out of the room. The truth is, the West has gone through
a number of cycles, which had a beginning, middle and end. The feudal
period is the easiest example. It was born out of the ruins of Rome,
flourished through the Middle Ages and then collapsed in the
Enlightenment. The period between the scientific revolution and the
French Revolution, was the great transition from old epoch to the new.

To flesh this out a bit, think about the natural trajectory of human
organization. The trend has always been for larger and larger
organizational units. First settlements were a few tribes making up a
few hundred people. The first settlements were small but grew into
villages and then towns. The more successful became cities and
eventually, the political units we call city-states. The first empires
were collections of city-states, but in Europe, that model never scaled
up very well, which is why counties were the maximum unit.

This is one of great forces in human history, the natural tendency for
human societies to “level up” by getting bigger, taking over neighboring
societies. The Han Chinese are a great example of this phenomenon.
[The Huaxia ethnic
group](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0125676)
is believed to be the ancestors of the Han, who formed into a tribe and
slowly dominated the neighboring tribes. They moved north and south,
eventually occupying most of what we think of as China today. Put
another way, a bunch of small tribes combined into one big tribe.

We see a bit of this at the end of our epoch. The great industrial wars
of the 20th century made war for territory unacceptable. Borders were
drawn and respected. Changes to borders were to be negotiated. Then the
idea of eliminating borders entirely became the default position of
elites. Europe was to combine into a single political unit. Asia would
slowly combine into an economic unit. North America was to be the glue,
binding it all together. Human organization would be global and managed.

Just as the Bronze Age empires collapsed with the coming of the great
migrations and the Iron Age, our commercial empires are showing signs of
stress. That is because of the other great force in human
history. Disaggregation is when a large entity breaks into its
constituent parts. The simplest example is a big company splitting into
a bunch of specialized little companies. Men have gotten extraordinarily
rich figuring out how to break apart large companies into many smaller,
more valuable little companies.

In history, the most obvious example is the Roman Empire. The Romans
managed to stitch together people from the Levant to Britain, but the
cost of holding it together exhausted them and it broke apart into more
logical units. First the Britons, then the various German tribes broke
free of Rome. Eventually, the Western Empire collapsed into its tribal
parts. Even the Italian peninsular broke into its parts. The end of the
Western Roman Empire was also the end of a great historic epoch.

Today, the signs of disaggregation are appearing in all over Europe.
[The Catalonian revolt](http://news.trust.org/item/20171004112122-805c3)
is one good example. It has deep historic roots, going back to the Roman
Empire, but it is boiling over now for a reason. The same is true of the
Visegrad Group. There is more history in those lands than the rest of
Europe, but that is not why they are in dissent from the rest of Europe.
The reason for the break ups is that the underlying logic of these great
combinations no longer makes any sense. The EU is a solution to a
problem of the past.

From the Enlightenment through the end of the Cold War, the great
debates were about how whites would deal with whites. How would whites
organize their lands politically? How would whites describe and maintain
borders between groups of whites? How would whites manage commerce in
their own lands and between other groups of whites? These were the great
questions. The answer was social democracy, separate borders for
separate peoples and regulated markets for goods and services.

The end of an historical epoch is not just when the great questions of
that epoch are answered. The end comes when new questions arise that the
old answers cannot address. The EU is proving to be less than worthless
in the face of mass migration from the south. The Yankee Imperium over
America has no answers for the demographic challenges facing the white
population. It is why the arrangements of the old era are showing stress
and beginning to break.

In the European world, large countries and supra-national organizations
are solutions to past problems. The new problems, like how Europe will
deal with four billion Africans to their south, demand new solutions. If
the current social arrangements do not address the coming problems, then
those arrangement will fall apart and be replaced by new ones. That
first means tearing down the old arrangements to make way for the new.
The era of disaggregation will be about the old organization units
breaking into their parts.
