---
title: "The No State Solution"
date: "2017-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11262"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11262"
---

One of the reasons our rulers are cracking down on speech is that even
the most tepid debate will lead to uncomfortable questions. Just look at
a public discussion of immigration. You cannot get into the discussion
unless you agree that immigration is always good. The reason for that is
no one in charge ever wants to address the one question that is never
asked, which is, how many? How many immigrants should we take? Should
Germany take a million Arabs or ten million? How about 100 million?

There are two reasons to avoid the numbers question. If you agree that
one million is a reasonable cap for Germany, the implication is that
there is a level where you have too many Muslims or Africans. Then the
debate is why is one million Arabs too many, but 75 million Germans not
enough? In other words, you can quickly move from a place where
questioning immigration is taboo to a debate about how and why it is
necessary to limit the number of migrants. The last question, of course,
is the nuclear question.

The other reason to avoid talking about numbers is it would reveal a
truth that our betters would prefer remain concealed. If the goal is to
move to a post-national world where borders are meaningless, then
talking numbers would give the game away. The people who dream of a
borderless world have to admit the numbers don’t matter to them. The
right number of migrants for Germany is simply the number who physically
make it to Germany, because “Germany” is just an historical fiction
anyway,

Muzzling debate in America is possible because the people in charge are
smart enough, at least for now, to silence anyone who has questions.
Most Americans see immigration debated on TV and assume the “two sides”
are both in favor of unlimited immigration. Only bigots and racists
question the sanctity of immigration and dare challenge the edicts of
the Giant Green Statue. But, that’s not the case everywhere as we see in
<a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/texas/2017/08/15/un-trump-stop-detaining-illegal-aliens/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story from the UN</a>.

*In a 23-page report by the U.N. Human Rights Council, Trump is
requested to set free all foreign nationals who are currently awaiting
immigration hearings in the United States,Reuters reported.*

*“The Working Group is of the view that all administrative detention, in
particular of immigrants in an irregular situation, should be in
accordance with international human rights law; and that such detention
is to be a measure of last resort, necessary and proportionate and be
not punitive in nature, and that alternatives to detention are to be
sought whenever possible,” the panel said.*

What you see here is the core issue between Poland and the EU over
accepting migrants into Poland. It’s not about whether Poland or the EU
gets to determine how many and what type of migrant Poland must take.
It’s whether *anyone* can set any limits on immigration at all. The UN
is making clear that no country can determine who may enter its lands
for settlement. The issue here is whether countries should exist and the
UN is making clear they think the future is post-national.

Part of what you see with the open borders people is their belief that
their unique situation can scale up to the stars. The UN is a heavily
guarded playpen for the rich brats of the world’s political elite. These
brats look around and see a rainbow of colors getting along like old
chums. They jump from there to assuming that this can be done
everywhere, not realizing the global elite can only get along when there
are men with guns keeping the peace.

Another aspect to this is simply spite. Ruling elites have always, at
some level, been at odds with those over whom they rule. The “burden of
leadership” means giving up time and energy to the maintenance of order
and the perpetuation of society. It’s only natural to resent it a
little. What we have today is a ruling elite that hates the majority of
the people, namely the white people. Notice the UN is not making open
borders arguments for Africa or China. Open borders only applies to
white countries, never anywhere else.

Christopher Caldwell famously pointed out that “One moves swiftly and
imperceptibly from a world in which affirmative action can’t be ended
because its beneficiaries are too weak to a world in which it can’t be
ended because its beneficiaries are too strong.” The same thing is
happening with whites in their own lands. At first, the number of
nonwhites was too small to make a strong case against immigration. Now,
the numbers are too large to do anything about it. The West is about to
be over run.

Of course, the question sensible whites ask is how exactly the
borderless world is going to function. The West exists because whites
buy into the system. As America careens into a dystopian nightmare where
feral mobs pull down the symbols of the nation, how much longer will
those Constitution loving, patriotic Americans, who keep the country
running, buy into the system? In Europe,
<a href="http://brilliantmaps.com/europe-fight-war/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">hardly anyone is willing to fight for their country</a>
when asked by pollsters. Why would they? Their countries no longer
exist.

In a borderless world, why would anyone have any loyalty to anyone or
anything outside their tribe? How could there even be a state? In
theory, the custodial state solves this by having corporations police
the people, but as we see with the high tech firms, tribalism begins to
rot them out from the inside. The cost of propping up cash furnaces like
Twitter eventually becomes too much to bear, even for the true
believers. Large scale social institutions can only exist in a world of
large scale social trust.

The cucks can mew about identity politics, but tribalism is the
inevitable politics of multiculturalism. In fact, in a multi-ethnic,
multicultural world, there can *only* be identity politics. Everyone is
forced to root for their own team exclusively. The only way to prevent
identity politics is to prevent multiculturalism and that can only
happen in a world where each people has their own nation and
well-defined and enforced borders. The alternative is the no state
solution where it is every tribe for themselves, or else <a
href="http://www.newsweek.com/zimbabwe-president-robert-mugabe-white-farmers-651326"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this happens</a>.
