---
title: "Civic Religion"
date: "2017-10-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11848"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11848"
---

Proponents of the propositional state often make the claim that America
is held together by a civic religion. Usually, but not always, the
argument in favor starts with the first line of Lincoln’s Gettysburg
address. “Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on
this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the
proposition that all men are created equal.” The emphasis is on the bit
about all men being created equal, from which flows the ideals of
political liberty, equality before the law, democracy, etc.

It is wise to start with Lincoln, as there is no evidence that the
Founders were fond of the idea or even aware of it. Rousseau coined the
term in 1762 and many of the Founders would have read his work, but
there is no evidence they embraced the idea. In fact, they largely
rejected the idea of a unifying state, as a cultural force. Their words
and actions contradict the modern interpretation of “all men are created
equal” so it is impossible to argue they intended it as currently
interpreted. Lincoln is a much better starting point.

That said, it is doubtful Lincoln or anyone alive at the time would have
embraced the idea of civic religion. The first guy to talk about America
having a uniquely religious quality was Alexis de Tocqueville, but he
did not think *Americanism* was a civic religion or anything close to
it. He thought America’s uniquely Christian nature is what allowed for a
diverse people to form a single nation. For a 19th century American,
especially in the aftermath of the Civil War, the idea of a unifying
creed would have been laughable.

The earliest mention of America having a unique civic life, held
together by something resembling a religion, is by Chesterton. He wrote
that America was “the only nation founded on a creed” and was “a nation
with a soul of a church.” This observation was probably not unique to
Chesterton. Europeans have always viewed Americans as being moralistic
and impractical, with regards to the affairs of state. This is something
our rulers encourage. Just look at the war on terror. It is entirely
framed in moral terms.

The fact is the idea of a civic religion and an American creed is a
fairly new one. The guy credited with promoting it is sociologist Robert
Bellah. He formalized the concept in a 1967 article titled [“Civil
Religion in America.”](http://www.robertbellah.com/articles_5.htm)
According to Bellah, “Americans embrace a common civil religion with
certain fundamental beliefs, values, holidays, and rituals, that
transcend their chosen religion.” It is what allows a diverse people to
fight under the same flag, cooperate economically and maintain a
multi-ethnic society.

As is often the case, theories of history require the wholesale
rewriting of history. That is what has happened with the civic religion
claims. The most generous interpretation is that this new civic religion
was born after the Civil War, as a result of the North defeating the
South. The “new nation” that came out of that was formed around this new
creed. That is reasonable, but it also disconnects us from the Founding
and the Founding documents. What it means is that the Constitution is
largely meaningless.

A less generous reading is that this was part of a marketing campaign by
certain elements in 1960’s America to de-legitimize the dominant
American culture. After all, this was the peak of the cultural
revolution when the New Left had embarked on its long march through the
institutions. It was also around this time that Congress began to fling
open the borders and invite the world into the country. If America is
not a nation of Americans, but a concept, why not invite in the world,
so they can learn the concept too!

The ahistorical nature of the civic religion is not troubling to the
believers because they simply want to believe, as long as the civic
religion serves their purpose. For Buckley conservatives, libertarians
and others, the language of the civic religion is useful as an argument
against the Progressive ruling class. It lets them stand in opposition
on moral grounds, but also accept defeat, without violating their
principles, which they claim are rooted in their Americanism. It is the
political get out of jail free card.

The bigger problem with this civic religion stuff is the problem with
civic religions in general. If they mean anything, they end up in a
blood bath. The reason is a religion has rules that are non-negotiable.
For example, you cannot be a Catholic and support abortion on demand. In
order to be a member in good standing, you have to be in line with the
teachings of the religion. Otherwise, you are a sinner, and maybe even a
heretic. No religion can tolerate heresy among its members and remain an
active religion.

In theory, you can quit a religion and join another one. You can also
not participate or maybe just do the barest minimum to keep everyone off
your back. You cannot realistically quit your country and join a new
one. You cannot become agnostic as a citizen. Similarly, the leaders of
the civic religion cannot easily exile you for heresy. The result is
usually concentration camps or worse. That is why all other efforts at
building a civic religion have ended up in wholesale murder. It is the
only practical way to handle dissent.

There is another problem with the civic religion idea, which is
particular to America. This has never been a country with a single
culture or even a single people. The founding of the colonies was by
distinct groups of English. New York City was not even founded by
English. If you read the book [American
Nations](https://www.amazon.com/American-Nations-History-Regional-Cultures/dp/0143122029),
it does a pretty good job of describing the different cultural groupings
of the country. Imposing the cult of Lincoln on the nation sounds good
to the ruling class, but it has never sat well with the rest of the
nations.

This cult of Lincoln promoted by our betters has another defect and that
is they are compelled to impose it on the world. This seems to be
another problem with all civic religions. The French exported radicalism
around Europe. The Soviets exported Bolshevism around the world. The
American empire is the story of imposing the American creed on every
nation of the world, always against their will. Civic religions, like
all religions, do not seem to play nice with other religions, seeing
them as competitors.

That is why America has gone from a republic full of active Christians
to a “meritocracy” at war with anything resembling Christianity. A
century ago, Progressives were Christians, who were Progressive
reformers. Then they were Progressives, who could also be Christians.
Then they were just Progressives. There was a time when “liberal
Catholic” was a real thing, but no one can chase two rabbits at once.
Eventually, the American civic religion won out and is now being imposed
on all of us, by force.

The best you can say about the supposed civic religion of America is
that it is what the ruling class uses to keep the plates spinning. There
is something to say for economic progress and domestic peace. It is not,
however, natural or normal, and therefore it must eventually yield to
reality. That is what we are seeing today. Americanism is a luxury item
for an America that was 80% white and free of economic and political
inequality among the white population. That is not today so the civic
religion is losing its salience.
