---
title: "Guns and the Prog"
date: "2017-07-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10865"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10865"
---

A useful way to experience the lunacy of Progressives is to discuss guns
with your local lefty. Most people understand that gun control is
worthless as a tool to control crime or even reduce gun accidents. The
people using guns in crime are by definition not the sort to obey gun
laws. Similarly, the people inclined to shoot themselves or friends
while playing William Tell will find some way to off themselves, no
matter what you do. The only result of gun control is to harass honest
citizens exercising their rights as citizens.

The mountain of data in support of liberalized gun laws is beyond
dispute. Even if you are not inclined to dig into the details, the
fundamental logic is manifest. People who abide by the laws are, by
definition, not the sort to break the laws. That means people who break
the law are not interested in any new laws you are passing. Therefore,
passing gun laws will only inconvenience those who follow the law and do
nothing to stop the criminals. At best, gun laws are just a tool of the
state to go after the more clever street gangs.

Despite all this, Progressives obsess over gun laws. <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2017/05/30/pennsylvania-republican-doubles-down-defends-bill-outlaw-private-gun-sales/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> from a few months ago is a
good example. The people who support this sort of stuff know nothing
about guns, gun culture or gun shows. Yet, they remain convinced that
gun shows resemble an arms bizarre in the Middle East, where bearded men
buy and sell military gear. Further, they remain convinced that gun
shows are exempt from the thousands of gun laws on the books. They are
convinced that “gun show loophole” is a real thing.

That’s what makes guns a useful topic for understanding the Prog mind.
All of us have had the experience where the Prog friend or relative
starts going on about guns. Someone then steps forward to correct all of
their errors about guns and gun laws. Then someone gently explains to
them the anti-logic at the core of gun control. The Prog will take
correction, nod along and seem to understand the material, but then soon
after they will be repeating the same gun control slogans they were
saying the last time.

It’s tempting to think it is a mental illness and to some degree it is.
It’s just the nature of the fanatic. They see only that which confirms
the nature of their fanaticism. That simple and seemingly effective
conversation you had with the blue haired girl at the office about guns
may as well have been in Swahili. As soon as she confronted
disconfirmation, her receptors shut down and she went onto autopilot,
appearing to comprehend what you were saying, but not really hearing any
of it. You were Charlie Brown’s teacher.

It’s why it is an error to think they are stupid or dishonest. Those
things may be true, but the reality is, they don’t know they are doing
it. It’s as natural to them as blinking is to the living. Gun control
has become an obsession with Progs, because they are convinced it harms
white people, particularly white men. Again, this is not malice of
forethought. It is instinctual as the Prog faith is an explicit
rejection of the culture created by western white males. Gun control
reminds them of this and it makes them feel good, so they embrace it.

This is why gun control has been a political topic for more than fifty
years. G. Gordon Liddy, when he was in the Nixon administration, worked
on gun control. That was the early 1970’s. His task was to help craft
regulations to get the so-called “Saturday Night Special” off the
streets, particularity the streets of DC. That term came into the
lexicon via the Gun Control Act of 1968. In other words, like the “gun
show loophole”, 1960’s Prog fanatics invented a phrase to market gun
control, despite the fact there was no such thing.

That’s what makes the gun issue useful in understanding the Prog mind.
Gun control as a social policy has been thoroughly discredited, but that
does not dissuade the Left from pushing gun control. It’s why it is
pointless to think you can change their mind or get them to reconsider
their position. The Prog is beyond the reach of facts and reason. They
are the truest of true believers committed to a cause they put above all
else. You can no more talk them out of their beliefs than talk a Muslim
out of his faith.

This applies to all issues, not just guns. Take a look at
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BHPX_3U1W2M" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this video of Tucker Carlson</a> talking with the neocon
nutter, Ralph Peters. The neocons have been wrong about everything with
regards to foreign policy. Despite the disastrous results, they continue
to advocate for the same polices that have been discredited by reality.
At one point, Peters admits to having been wrong about Iraq, but then
seamlessly presses the case for repeating the mistake in Syria. It’s as
if he tuned out his own admission of failure.

The lesson here is that there’s no point in trying to reason with a
fanatic. Whether or not the neocons are the Trotsky wing of the Progs or
the Buckleyites is debatable, but there is no debate about their
fanaticism with regards to Muslims and the Russians. The endless fake
news about Russia and the election is rooted in neocon fanaticism. They
are sure Putin
is <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_III_of_Russia"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Tsar Alexander III</a> threatening to
impose the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/May_Laws" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">May Laws</a> on Manhattan. The abject lunacy of it, like
the lunacy of gun control, has no effect on the mind of these fanatics.

There’s another lesson here. The NRA has been the one effective
organization in the culture wars of the last half century. They do not
win every fight, but they have managed to claw back territory after
having lost some fights in the 60’s and 70’s. The reason is they avoided
party politics and the temptations of political access, They stuck to
building majorities in favor of their issues. They win because they
transcend Washington politics and build large coalitions in favor of gun
rights. Our team can learn a lot from the NRA.
