---
title: "Donald Herbert Walker Trump"
date: "2017-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9991"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9991"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, conservatives during the Reagan years had
a real fear that the Rockefeller Republicans would not only undermine
the conservative agenda, but find a way to corrupt the Reagan
administration. It was an unwarranted fear. Those Progressive
Republicans were a dying force in politics. Reagan was a man of his age
so his conservatism does not always make sense to the modern ear, but he
stuck to his guns for the most part. He was a politician, so he
compromised when he had to.

Then George H. W. Bush was ready to take the reigns of the movement and
the party, despite being a Rockefeller Republican. Bush was a
Progressive by any measure, but he supposedly got religion in the
1980’s, and to be fair, a lot of people went through that
transformation. There were even old Jewish guys, who used to support
communists, that were suddenly changing teams to join the new emerging
majority. Bush spent a lot of time convincing the voters he was just
like Reagan and they had nothing to fear.

The ’88 election was a landslide for Bush and a lot of sensible people
thought that he would be the finishing touches to the new conservative
majority. He would smooth out the rough patches and put a shine on other
aspects to it. His famous pledge to never raise taxes was the
cornerstone of his pitch. Wiser heads, the paleocons, saw what was
coming, but most did not. That’s why when Bush broke his promise, a year
into his presidency, his voters were crushed. Bush was a liar.

History is written by the victors and that means the Left, so we’re
always told that Bush lost in ’92 because Clinton was sent by the void
where God once existed, to bring joy and bliss to the blessed and smite
the wicked. The truth is, Bush lost because the core of his voters
rightly saw him as a liar and a fink. Many people I know, including
myself, voted third party as a protest. Yeah, it meant a degenerate
would win the election, but at least we knew what we were getting. Liars
like Bush always find new ways to screw you.

Unless you have been in a cave, you know where this is heading. Trump
won the nomination and the presidency on one core issue. He would be the
President of the United Sates, not the President of the world. That was
his line. He repeated it often. It allegedly captured his one core
belief. What is good for America is what is good for Americans and the
government should always be working to further the interest of
Americans, over the interests of foreigners.

The fact that something so obvious and sane has to be explained speaks
to the the degeneracy of our age. But, we live in a time when we have to
debate physical reality with people who insist things like biology and
math are a plot by a mystery cult of white men to keep down women and
non-whites. Still, Trump running on a platform of rationality, and
winning on the platform, gave a lot of people, including me, a spark of
hope. Maybe what comes next does not have to be what always comes next.

Yesterday, the alt-right and even many seasoned geezers like me took a
body blow when Trump abandoned everything he said over the last two
years and embraced the idiocy of yet another war in the Middle East. Not
only is he embracing the lunacy of the traitorous neocons, he is risking
war with Russia. His “reason” for condemning himself to ruin is that his
daughter got the sads over seeing pictures of dead kids in Syria. She
takes to twitter over this latest agit-prop and in a day daddy is
launching missiles at Assad.

The United States has no interest in Syria. There are no good guys to
back. There’s no “solution” to what ails that part of the world, short
of another flood. Syria is a mess because it is full of Syrians. The
only sane policy is to make sure it remains full of Syrians. Let them
kill each other there, not in Paris or Portland. If the Russians want to
build their pipeline there and pay the price for it, good for them. If
the Saudis want to stop them, best of luck with it. This is not an
American problem. It is their problem. Let them own it.

This brings us back to Bush. He spent the remainder of his presidency
trying to rebuild his standing with conservatives. He even scored what
was pitched as a stunning victory in the First Gulf War. But, you only
get one shot to piss away your integrity and Bush did not miss that
opportunity. He entered the general election as a weak incumbent and
Clinton used his broken pledge in commercials to remind everyone that
Bush was an untrustworthy liar. Imagine that. Clinton beat Bush on the
integrity issue.

It’s not too late for Trump. This may be one of those times where a
President learns that his advisers are not politicians for a reason.
They lack political sense. Trump does have a habit of learning quickly
from his errors. That’s not the way to bet. He is now getting
tongue-kissed by the Establishment. Like all men with out-sized egos,
vanity is his greatest weakness. If Trump is enjoying the praise from
his adoption of the “invade the world” position, imagine what happens
when he accepts the “invite the world” half.

Maybe Trump recovers and avoids the fate Bush I, but
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9061" target="_blank">I have my
doubts</a>.
