---
title: "The Life of Bugmen"
date: "2017-12-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12307"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12307"
---

I take some pride in having pegged David French as a nutter as soon as
he started turning up in so-called conservative publications. In all
candor, I came to that conclusion before there was hard evidence to
support the claim. He just reminded me of every fanatic I have ever met.
He had the crazy eyes and the fanatic’s tendency to go overboard. The
lack of an internal governor is the hallmark of the fanatic. Now, of
course, French is well known as a NeverTrump loon, with a bad habit of
wrapping himself in the flag.

In addition to being a crank, French is a good example of the soulless
bugman that is now a feature of Conservative Inc. These are
establishment men, who stand for nothing, because they traded away
whatever integrity they possessed for a small salary and place in the
system. In addition to peddling conspiracy theories about President
Trump, they are now tasked with convincing conservative voters to vote
against their own interests. Now, [that means voting for Doug Jones over
Roy
Moore](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/454542/roy-moore-election-conservative-case-against-him)
in the Alabama Senate race.

The trouble is there has never been a starker choice for conservative
voters. Roy Moore is staunchly pro-life, while Doug Jones wants to put
abortion mills in the nation’s grammar schools. Moore is an immigration
patriot, while Jones is an open borders absolutist. Moore is a social
conservative, while Jones embraces the Progressive social agenda. Of
course, the big issue is that Moore will be a reliable vote for Trump’s
judicial nominees, while Jones will be another vote against anyone to
the right of Chuck Schumer.

This glaringly obvious set of facts presents a problem when trying to
convince conservatives to not vote for Moore. The first card played by
the bugmen is always to dismiss the target as unqualified. That was the
game they played with Trump, dismissing him as a reality TV star. In the
case of Roy Moore, they keep insisting that he has wacky ideas about the
law and government. Unsurprisingly, that is the first point in that
French column. David French is not clever enough to be anything but
ham-handed in his work.

If they cannot use their claims to authority as a means to dismiss the
target, they resort to character assassination. This was the tactic they
tried on Trump, by trying to paint him as a sexual predator and abuser
of women. Somewhat comically, the bugmen played this card on Moore,
[planting absurd stories about him from 40 years
ago](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2017/12/08/report-never-trump-ex-jeb-bush-staffer-admits-planting-anti-roy-moore-story-washington-post/).
Bugmen lack a spine, as well as a soul, so they just assume everyone is
as weak-willed as they are, when it comes to standing up to pressure.
They always get this wrong.

In the end, the only thing left for these guys is to lie, and that is
the one thing that comes naturally to them. Somewhat amusingly, French
finishes his column with:

*Anyone who tells you that your choice is limited to pro-abortion Doug
Jones or an incompetent, unfit apparent child abuser like Roy Moore is
simply lying to you. If you are a faithful conservative, you can write
in a different name or stay home. You can reject the choice served up by
the plurality of Alabama GOP primary voters and simply say, “If you want
my vote, you have to do better.”*

Elections in America are almost always binary choices. This election is
a binary choice between the Democrat and the Republican. If
conservatives listen to the bugmen and stay home, Jones will win. That
is how it works. The inescapable logic of French’s argument is that he
wants Jones to win. He lacks the guts to say it, but that is what he is
doing. The whole point of his effort against Moore, and the work of
other bugmen his handlers have deployed, is to damage Moore so that
Jones is able to win the election.

That is the irony of these efforts. Conservatism is, if nothing else, a
practical acceptance of the world as it is. The choice in an election is
between two less than ideal options. If there is ever a time when you
have the perfect candidate in a race, it means you are dead and are in
heaven, where you get to vote for Jesus Christ. On this earth, the
choice is always between two flawed men. French’s argument, in addition
to being childish and stupid, is the exact opposite of the conservative
position with regards to political choices.

Moral nullities like French like to bang on about their principles. He
has the habit of posting pictures of himself from when he was a rear
echelon guy in Iraq. It is a cheap tactic he learned from John McCain.
He is the type of guy Ralph Waldo Emerson had in mind when he
wrote, “The louder he talked of his honor, the faster we counted our
spoons.” That is because the talk of principles from bugmen like French
is just another tool of the trade. His job is promoting the interests of
his masters. That is the life of every soulless bugman.
