---
title: "Privileged Identity Exploration Model"
date: "2017-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12377"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12377"
---

Twenty-five years ago, I was sitting in an education camp, run by a
lesbian and a Ghanaian. We had been force marched to the camp by our
company’s human resource department. Everyone in the camp was white, but
most of inmates were women. The point of the exercise was to lecture us
about discrimination and racism. I came very close to being sent to the
hot-box for pointing out to the Ghanaian that he chose to leave a black
country and come to America. He was welcome to return, if he did not
like it in America.

All joking aside, the funny part of the exchange was that the Ghanaian
obviously never thought much about what he was doing. The company
offered him this cushy gig where he spent a few hours a month lecturing
white people about racism. It was better than working so he never
bothered to think it through until I confronted him. The poor guy was so
upset by the experience that he quit being the diversity counselor. It
turned out that having the whip hand on whitey was more work than he was
willing to do, so he quit.

The other thing that I recall about the camp was a women with a last
name that looked like an eye chart. She was pretty and very polite, but
she did not like being in diversity camp one bit. She tore into the
lesbian about the fact it was just an excuse to lecture white men, which
at the time was a keen observation. The prevailing opinion at the time
was that the diversity movement was just a cover for giving blacks jobs
they could not do, in order to make the company brochure look good. This
gal saw where it was heading right away.

Here we are in the current year and that’s a reality that most everyone
has figured out, even if no one bothers saying it. In fact, the casual
acceptance of this reality is quite remarkable. The most under
represented group in America now is white men. Look around the college
campus, the government office or the workplace and that is the reality.
One-legged trans-black Elvis impersonators have a box they can tick, but
the straight white man has no box. This is the thing everyone knows, but
no one dares mention in public.

All mass movements need a bogeyman, but the anti-white crusaders are
struggling to find examples of evil white men, who are oppressing the
the good people. Sure, the perverts, who decorate the news of late all
look white, but, well, you know. Larry David tried to point this out,
but we are so far down the taboo cul-de-sac that it is impossible to
turn back. The white women will keep yelling “he touched me” until the
last white-looking man is driven from the media, even if it is starting
to look like a scene from Schindler’s List.

That’s what I suspect is at the root of the white privilege nonsense.
Rather than locate an actual bad white man and haul him into the public
square to be pilloried, they have invented this miasma they call
“privilege.” It’s not actually privilege, as in a special right or
immunity from certain laws. Instead it is a mysterious force that can
only be realized through a set of sacred rituals. A shaman of sorts,
usually called a diversity counselor, guides the white person through
the process so they can see their privilege.

That’s what you see in
<a href="http://www.thecollegefix.com/post/40145/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this article</a> about <a
href="https://wiki.uiowa.edu/download/attachments/31756797/WRACHandout-Watt.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Privileged Identity Exploration Model</a>
being used at universities, to help white people overcome their
whiteness, so they can engage in social justice causes. It’s a lot like
brainwashing, where the initiate is forced to deny reality to the point
where they no longer trust their own eyes. Instead, they accept whatever
the cult leader tells them. It’s also reminiscent of the Cultural
Revolution, where intellectuals were forced to confess to crimes that
they did not commit, because they did not exist.

It is easy to be offended by this stuff. That’s intentional. As Theodore
Dalrymple observed about communist regimes, the point is to humiliate.

*“In my study of communist societies, I came to the conclusion that the
purpose of communist propaganda was not to persuade or convince, not to
inform, but to humiliate; and therefore, the less it corresponded to
reality the better. When people are forced to remain silent when they
are being told the most obvious lies, or even worse when they are forced
to repeat the lies themselves, they lose once and for all their sense of
probity. To assent to obvious lies is…in some small way to become evil
oneself. One’s standing to resist anything is thus eroded, and even
destroyed. A society of emasculated liars is easy to control. I think if
you examine political correctness, it has the same effect and is
intended to.”*

Modern society is riddled with special privileges. We even have a term
in the law, protected class, which is the name for groups that have
special rights. The trouble is those special set-asides and carve-outs
only make sense if there is the evil white man lurking around every
corner. The stunning lack of evil white men has forced these people to
create a mystery version, one that only exists in the imagination of the
offender, after they are properly coached in the Privileged Identity
Exploration Model.

I should note the Maoist flavor to all of this campus activism. It is
rather stunning just how similar the social justice warriors are to the
Red Guards in the Cultural Revolution. What that suggests is the
non-whites launching these campaigns on campus see themselves as the
victors of the culture war. Their aim now is to solidify their position
by sweeping up the remaining pockets of resistance. Mao Zedong did not
launch the Cultural Revolution from a position of weakness. He thought
he was working from a position of strength.

Strangely, that’s the glimmer of hope. While the Red Guards were running
wild, reformers were quietly organizing to put an end to Maoist
communism. These reformers, led by Deng Xiaoping, took over after the
death of Mao and set about the task of rooting out Maoism. Five years
after Mao died, the Party declared that the Cultural Revolution
was “responsible for the most severe setback and the heaviest losses
suffered by the Party, the country, and the people since the founding of
the People’s Republic”.

<a href="https://education.uiowa.edu/person/sherry-watt" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Professor Sherry K. Watt</a> should enjoy her time on
campus.
