---
title: "Lawfare"
date: "2017-07-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10836"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10836"
---

The weaponization of the law, particularly the civil courts has become
so common, that we no longer notice it. The most obvious example is when
 someone gets acquitted of a crime, but then the alleged victim goes to
civil court for damages. Alternatively, some hate thinker gets off in
state court, but the the feds come in and charge the guy with civil
rights violations. It’s an obvious abuse of the law in order to get
around the jury system, but it is now just another feature of a system
more concerned with vengeance than justice.

The college rape hoax phenomenon is another variation on this. A
mentally unstable coed makes claims that can never be proved, but the
school, fearing Title IX litigation, punishes the accused anyway. The
SPLC is doing something similar with their litigation against the
website, The Daily Stormer. The point of the suit is to shut down the
site, because the people at the SPLC don’t like the content. Even if the
case is eventually tossed, the point is to intimidate the owner and
anyone who holds similar opinions.

<a
href="http://nypost.com/2017/07/11/tumblr-releases-info-of-users-who-shared-revenge-porn/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This bizarre story</a> is a new twist on
how the lawfare game is being played.

> Tumblr has released account information for close to 300 anonymous
> users to a revenge porn victim in what online privacy advocates say is
> a major violation of the First Amendment.
>
> The 27-year-old New York victim, who first learned that an
> unauthorized video of her having sex with a boyfriend when she was
> just 17 had been posted on Tumblr ​​last winter, plans to sue the users
> for disseminating child pornography.
>
> “The ultimate goal is to expose these people,” said attorney Daniel
> Szalkiewicz, who represents the Bronx victim.
>
> “There is no First Amendment protection for child porn,” Szalkiewicz
> said.
>
> On Monday​,​ Tumblr complied with a June 7 order issued by a Manhattan
> state court judge to release the email addresses and account names of
> 281 Tumblr users.

You’ll notice the legal base stealing. Is this woman a victim? We can’t
know that until it is established that the video was shot without her
consent. If she agreed to the filming, which is most likely, then she is
the victim of her own stupidity. Then you have the legal fiction that
this is child pornography. No one in their right mind would call this
child porn. Clearly, her lawyer is hoping that fear of being tarred with
“child porn” is enough to coerce a settlement. The Mafia would be
envious of this maneuver.

What we have now is litigation in the shadow legal system. The lawyer
has coerced the company into aiding him in what amounts to a shakedown.
The lawyer is also using the media to threaten his targets with exposure
and all that comes with it, unless they agree to pay him off. It is a
clever legal trap. In order for these people to defend themselves, they
first have to admit to viewing the material. A First Amendment defense
would argue that they had a right to look at what was posted on the
site, even if it was illegally posted.

Once you admit to viewing the material, you run the risk of losing the
initial claim and then having to argue about whether it constitutes a
violation of child porn laws. You don’t have to be a graduate of Harvard
Law to see that the easiest way out of this trap is to settle as a group
and get some sort of non-disclosure in place. In other words, this case
is not brought in the interest of justice or to mitigate harm done to
the alleged victim. It is a shake down and what most people would
consider extortion, even if the court does not.

This goes back to the
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10804" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Servile State post</a>. No one in this sordid
relationship is free in any meaningful way. The big bad company is being
forced to supervise its users, to make sure they do not violate the ever
shifting morality of the people in charge of the state. If they fail in
that duty, they are forced to help punish the users they did not
properly supervise, by ratting them out to the state. The result here is
that everyone is responsible for everyone else. It turns everyone into
both a slave and slave master.

That’s the other aspect of lawfare. It is uncivilized. Into the Middle
Ages, tribes in Europe still practiced the wergeld. This was the price
put upon a man’s life based on his rank. If a rich man killed a poor
man, by accident or on purpose, he could pay the victims family in gold
for the value of his life. You can see how this can quickly get out of
hand. Not only would rich people feel free to kill inconvenient poor
people, they would be tempted to kill their families too. No family to
pay, means to no wergeld to pay.

That’s what we have with lawfare. Instead of the law determining if a
crime has been committed and then determining the guilt or innocence of
the accused, the process is about determining the price of this woman’s
honor, as it were. In the future, the courts may be forced to post
prices for posting revenge porn so that angry ex-boyfriends know in
advance the risk of hitting send. At the same time, young women will now
know what they can get for agreeing to be filmed having sex with that
guy they picked up at the bar.

That’s sarcasm, obviously, but lawfare is not a good thing for a
society. What cases like this do is undermine the respect for law. It is
why the bar associations used to forbid advertising on TV. They knew
that greasy sleezeballs in their ranks would go trolling for slip and
fall cases and phony disability claims. That’s been the result and as a
consequence the public’s respect for lawyers has declined. If you want
to have a low-trust society, erode public faith in the law. That’s
exactly what lawfare is doing in America.
