---
title: "Devlin Reviews Hawley"
date: "2017-11-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12108"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12108"
---

One of the items on my vacation list is to read [Making Sense of the
Alt-Right](https://www.amazon.com/Making-Sense-Alt-Right-George-Hawley/dp/023118512X),
by Alabama political science professor George Hawley. His book,
[Right-Wing Critics of American
Conservatism](https://www.amazon.com/Right-Wing-Critics-American-Conservatism-George/dp/0700621938),
was well received. It is refreshing when someone from the academy looks
over the walls of the hive and not only sees what is on the other side
but makes an honest effort to understand it. I do not know anything
about the man’s politics, but he does not appear to be a guy spending
his nights howling at the moon.

That came to mind reading [F. Roger Devlin’s review of Hawley’s
latest](http://www.vdare.com/articles/prof-hawley-tries-to-present-alt-right-objectively-but-fails),
posted on VDare.com the other day. Devlin is a serious guy, who is
largely responsible for the whole man-o-sphere subculture. [He literally
wrote the book on critiquing
feminism](https://www.amazon.com/Sexual-Utopia-Power-Roger-Devlin/dp/1935965891).
That is not a small accomplishment. He has also been involved with the
alt-right from the start, so he has observed and interacted with all of
the big shots of the movement. That positions him to be a good critic of
a book written by an outsider, attempting to understand the alt-right.

The review is worth reading, even if you are not interested in a book
length treatment of the alt-right. Devlin’s four key points that define
the alt-right are excellent and precise. I think the fourth point cannot
be emphasized enough, mostly because it is a point I often make about
dissident politics. When I write about peaceful separation, it is not
intended to be a road map or political treatise. The point of the
exercise is to break free of the old moral paradigm and get readers to
start thinking outside of those restrictions.

Before I get off onto another point, I would take some issue with
Devlin’s criticism of Hawley’s use of scare words like “racism” to
describe the alt-right. Paul Gottfried, in [reviewing Hawley’s previous
book](http://www.vdare.com/articles/academe-finally-discovers-right-wing-critics-of-conservatism-inc-will-msm-be-next),
made the point that it is a requirement of every academic. “If I were
young enough to be considered for tenure in the average political
science department at an American university, I too would spray my books
with PC bromides in order to keep the Leftist lunatics off my back.”

This is a point that cannot be overstated. Every university is infested
with feminist rage-heads, writing autoethnographic “research” papers
about how toxic masculinity makes them angry. In departments like
political science, feminist “scholars” demand that the white males take
a version of the Voight-Kampff test, to make sure they *are* replicants.
“If you see a white person and black person in a photo, how much do you
hate the white person?” My guess is Hawley salts his lunch orders with
PC jargon, just to be safe.

Putting that aside, Devlin makes a point that is always missed when
people discuss the alt-right or the larger ummah of the dissident right.
There are layers to it. The guys posting frog cartoons into the
timelines of Progressive media people are not the alt-right or any part
of the dissident right. They are part of this cultural phenomenon, in
the same way that hippies were part of the 1960’s counterculture.
Hippies played no role in the intellectual side of the New Left, just as
Milo has no role in the intellectual side of the alt-right.

It is one of the things I learned over this past year, attending the
hate festivals of the dissident right. There are a lot of smart people
having second thoughts about the modern world and the intellectual
traditions that created it. Roger Devlin is a good example. He is not
spending his evenings trying to promote his brand on Periscope. He’s
reading books and writing essays on sites like
[AmRen](https://www.amren.com/) and
[Counter-Currents](https://www.counter-currents.com/). There is a lot of
intellectual capital in this thing that is concealed by the pranksters
and self-promoters.

That said, I would take issue with this bit in Devlin’s review:

*The Alt-Right is a political movement which seeks to ensure the
continued existence and well-being of European descended people. As
such, it neither implies nor precludes any particular religious beliefs.
We are not opposed to Evangelical Christianity as such, but some figures
the Evangelical leadership (notably Russell Moore of the Southern
Baptist Convention) are our declared enemies and we treat them as such.*

The alt-right, like the larger dissident right, is a *cultural*
phenomenon, not a political movement. Smart young males, mostly out of
necessity, are picking up paleo-conservative ideas and questioning the
prevailing orthodoxy. These ideas are being extended to question the
core assumptions of modern American political order. It is more akin to
the Scientific Revolution than a political movement. The former was
about rethinking our place in nature. The latter is about rethinking who
gets to be in charge.

It is why it feels like the alt-right is hostile to Christianity. It has
to be. What is generally understood to be mainstream Christianity in
America, has been hollowed out by Progressivism, and is now worn like an
animal skin by [crackpots and degenerates from the fringes of the
Left](https://www.churchmilitant.com/images/uploads/news_feature/2016-01-15-RP.jpg).
Even the more culturally conservative parts of the country practice a
form of Private Protestantism than embraces extreme egalitarianism,
anti-racism and universalism. It is not an accident that these churches
are deep into the refugee rackets.

I think most big names in the alt-right avoid the subject, mostly
because it results in howls about how this is not *real* Episcopalianism
or this is not *real* Christianity. It is reminiscent of the days when
academic Marxists would say the Soviet Union was not *real* Marxism. It
may be theologically true that the current iterations of Christianity
are outside the traditions and teachings of the faith, the fact remains
that the people running mainstream Christianity these days look a lot
like the faculty of your local gender studies department.

That is not a small thing. The reason the New Left was able to sweep the
field in the culture war, which included deposing the Old Left, is that
their thing took on a quasi-religious tone. Humans are built to be
believing machines. That is a part of biological reality our side has
yet to face, but it must be faced eventually. Something is going to have
to fill the spiritual vacuum if this cultural phenomenon is going to be
a cultural and then political movement. An Alt-Right form of
Christianity would be a welcome development.

Those quibbles aside, the review is worth reading if you are interested
in a sober rendering of alt-right thinking. A part of the development of
an intellectual movement is learning how to engage with critics. If your
thing cannot hold up to scrutiny, your thing is not going to be a thing
for long. Having intellectuals from outside this thing engage with
elements of the alt-right is healthy. When serious people start to take
dissident politics seriously, it means these ideas are starting to
penetrate the mainstream.
