---
title: "The Rackets"
date: "2017-12-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12327"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12327"
---

There was a time, back in the 1990’s, when it was fun to read the
[American Spectator](https://spectator.org/) magazine. Three things
stick in my head about it. One is the fact that they would fail to print
some months or it would be late. They always had money trouble. The
other thing was the irregular size of the thing. Of course, in the 90’s,
the distinguishing feature was the Clinton-hating. The only person who
hated the Clintons more than R. Emmett Tyrrell, was his financier,
Richard Melon Scaife. Those two really hated the Clintons.

I think the last time I bothered to subscribe was maybe a decade ago. I
hit the website once a week, but a search through my logs tells me I
have never posted about anything contained in the American Spectator.
The only writer I recognize while scanning the site is Ben Stein, who I
am glad to see is still alive. For some reason I was under the
impression he was dead. Apparently, it remains popular. [I checked the
Alexa](https://www.alexa.com/siteinfo/spectator.org) rankings and it is
ranked \#13,562 in the US. That means it is as popular as the most read
alt-right web sites.

That is a good entry point for understanding the commentariat. The
Spectator is actually owned by a 501(c)(3) named The American
Alternative Foundation. That appears to be a trade name. The real name
is The Alex C. Walker Educational and Charitable Foundation, founded in
1968. [A look at their tax
returns](http://walker-foundation.org/Files/walker/2016/2015990PFTaxWalkerFdn.pdf)
says they have about nine million in assets and they take in about half
a million in contributions. There are no paid employees listed on the
tax return, so it is probably run by family members of the founders.

The interesting thing is the foundation’s mission, according to the
website, is to promote environmental cleanup in Pittsburgh. How the
American Spectator fits into that is a mystery, but it is a reminder
that that these sorts of organizations take on a life of their own,
usually becoming something the founder never intended. The reason for
that is they are vehicles for rich people to funnel money into
activities that they would just as soon not see their name attached.
Then there is [Robert Conquest’s Second
Law](http://www.isegoria.net/2008/07/robert-conquests-three-laws-of-politics/).

Anyway, that is one reason publications like the American Spectator
survive, despite not having many paying subscribers. They exist as a
platform to promote ideas popular with rich people. It is not just the
underlying funding mechanism. It is the nexus of not-for-profit think
tanks and educational outfits. For example, [here is a story that I
spotted in the
Spectator](https://spectator.org/american-test-scores-decline-gee-wonder-why/)
the other day, about the decline in test scores. This is an increasingly
popular topic with the [people highly skilled at not to noticing
things](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2017/12/flynn-effect-reverse-rot-start-top.html).

At first blush, it looks like the sort of banal political blathering
that makes up most of the commentariat. “We have to fix the schools” is
one of those phrases that has become a bit of joke on the Dissident
Right, but it remains wildly popular with Progressives and Conservative
Inc. One reason for this is it helps finance that nexus of non-profits
and unread publications that keep an army of liberal arts majors in six
figure positions. The article in question was produced by an outfit
calling itself the [American Principles
Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Principles_Project).

The American Principles Project is a 501(c)(3) think tank founded in
2009 by Robert George, Jeff Bell, and Frank Cannon. According to their
mission statement, they are organized to promote immigration reform,
education reform and religious liberty. I will note that what they mean
by immigration reform is open borders. The foundations Latino Director
is former Bush hand Alfonso Aguilar, who argued after Romney lost that
immigration restriction positions would cost the GOP the 2016 election.
Ooops!

[If you look at their tax
filing](http://990s.foundationcenter.org/990_pdf_archive/264/264613397/264613397_201512_990O.pdf),
you will see they take in a couple million a year in grants and
donations. This is enough to pay six “scholars” an average of $140,000
per year, plus expenses. One of the scholars appears to be [Maggie
Gallagher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maggie_Gallagher). Double and
triple dipping is a common practice in the think tank game. Having a
spot at a foundation, plus a contract with a cable outlet and a range of
side projects, means even a C-list chattering skull can live a
comfortable life, without having to work hard.

Normal people wonder why the media is so corrupt and the answer lies in
the financial arrangements. Cable news channels exist only because cable
monopolies exist. The monopolies exist because they are sold by the
government. The rich people who own these channels hire people to extol
the virtues of rich people. The think tanks and foundations provide the
content and experts, so the news presenters can have an easy time
celebrating the rich people. It is a closed loop designed to close off
alternatives.

The same is true on the print side of the media. The small sites like
the Spectator cannot afford to pay writers, so they let think tanks post
their agit-prop on their site, posing it as commentary. This helps
promote their causes and it helps promote the people, who can decorate
their CV with a long list of publications that have found their work so
compelling, they just had to publish it! The media, at all levels, is a
racket financed by monied interests in order to promote the policies and
programs that are good for rich people.

There is a lesson here for the alt-right. The reason the people in
charge are so desperate to demonize critics and declare their issues
taboo is they want to scare away the financial support. There are a lots
of rich people who sympathize with the alt-right, the Dissident Right
and immigration patriots. What they need is a way to support the people
they wish to support, without it being very obvious. That is the reason
the 501(c)(3) was created. The political class wanted to conceal their
money laundering from the public.
