---
title: "The Olden Thymes"
date: "2017-04-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10117"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10117"
---

I was watching <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YLY1p0kx2xM"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this episode of the Mark Steyn
Show</a> on Sunday and they made mention of Casablanca. It occurred to
me that it had been so long since I watched these old movies, I no
longer remember much about them. My generation was probably the last to
grow up seeing these old films on television. They would turn up on the
UHF channels at night or on weekends. In the 70’s, black and white
movies looked almost as good as the color television shows, so the old
films seemed to hold up OK, at least to a ten year old.

I decided to fire up the Kodi and watch Casablanca, while I was catching
up on some office work. I was a bit surprised at how well it holds up
today. Being in black and white probably makes it work by tricking my
brain into viewing it through the eyes of my youth, rather than as a
jaded old man. The acting is the part that does not work as well today,
as the old films were acted like stage plays, which required the
audience to use their imaginations. Modern technology lets the
audience drop into a coma while watching a film.

Anyway, Casablanca is a classic film for a reason. The story is well
done and even 70 years on, the stars are still stars. Maybe it was how
they made the movies back then, but Bogart fills the screen in his
scenes. Of course, Ingrid Bergman was a stunningly gorgeous women, but
even the lesser stars seemed to have a presence. Peter Lorre has a small
role early in the film, but you remember it. It’s probably due to how
they made movies back then, but the stars don’t have the same screen
presence today.

The funny thing about this movie is the plot is very simple and the
imagery is a bit heavy handed. In fact, everything about it is simple
and rough-hewn, but there’s a moving depth to it. Watching it, I could
easily imagine a 1940’s audience, sitting in the dark theater as the
movie ends. The women would be teary eyes, maybe squeezing their man’s
arm a little harder than normal. The men would be sitting stiff-backed
and stony-faced, enjoying their date getting close, while imagining
themselves as the honorable Rick Blaine.

Of course, Hollywood in that age made movies that celebrated the higher
values of their intended audience. There were some commie writers trying
to work their message into films, but by and large the industry liked
its customers and sought to appeal to their better natures by
celebrating America and American values. The point of movie making in
those days was to get people to the theater. That meant making movies
that appealed to the majority population, which meant the native stock.
No one bothered with virtue signaling.

There was also a degree of respect for the audience. It was assumed that
the people in the theater could use their imagination. They did not need
a 20-minute sex scene to know that Bogart and Bergman were having a
physical relationship. The audience was treated like adults, rather than
teenagers. Hollywood often relied on high-brow culture in their films,
even though their audience was mostly working class. People read more
and they were expected to know about classic stories and characters from
Western culture.

Today, the people making movies largely despise the native stock of the
country and they really hate the white men. A remake of Casablanca would
most likely have the story set at Ellen’s Place, rather than Rick’s Café
Américain. The proprietor would have to be a gender fluid lesbian of
color, hounded by white males trying to oppress her. The whole thing
would be a carnival of degeneracy intended to rub the nose of viewers in
a steaming pile of cultural Marxism, as a reminder of who is in charge
now.

The world view of the people in charge of movie making is different too.
When they made Casablanca, they knew those honkies taking their dates to
see Bogie were going to be relied upon to save Western civilization from
itself. The people running Hollywood today are convinced they would be
better off if the honkies would hurry up and die off. It’s not just that
foreign audiences are so important either. There’s a real visceral
hatred that screams through the product pumped out by Hollywood today.
They hate us a lot.

What I’m always struck by in the old movies is the maturity of the male
leads. Bogart was in his 40’s when he made Casablanca and he looked like
it. His character was supposed to be middle-aged. He was an adult.
Today, the male leads are cartoons, often literally cartoons. The real
flesh and blood male leads are steroidal freaks, who look like float
decorations at a gay pride parade. More important, they lack maturity.
Instead of playing characters that anchor society, they are emotional
wrecks who need saving.

I hate this age.
