---
title: "Sweet Home Venezuela"
date: "2017-05-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10282"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10282"
---

News brings word that things in Venezuela, over the last few weeks,
have gotten as ugly as a West Virginia tailgate. Instead of people
throwing bags of urine at one another, which is the custom in
Morgantown, <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/world/2017/05/09/venezuelans-new-weapon-against-riot-police-poopootov-cocktails.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the locals are throwing “poop
bombs” at the police</a>. In the age of fake news, this could be a
totally made up story, but it is not implausible. For some reason,
flinging crap at people is something that comes naturally to people. I
guess it is the ultimate sign of disrespect. Or, maybe some people just
like throwing poop.

Searching the archive, I see I have never written a post about Venezuela
and I have mentioned the place just eight times in three years. Given
that I have cranked out 1.4 million words in three years, it is same to
assume that Venezuela does not rank very high on my list of interests.
The one interesting thing about the place, at least to me, is they have
some of the most dangerous prisons on earth. Each prison is a
self-regulating island, where the prisoners run everything inside, and
the guards make sure they stay inside.

For a while, American libertarians tried hard to make Hugo Cavez a
bogeyman worth our attention and Venezuela an example of what happens
when you anger the god’s of Von Mises. Chavez tried hard to do his part,
but the day of the macho socialist dictator has past, at least
for American elites. The ideal leader for the managerial elite is the
childless powerskirt or the sexually ambiguous fop. Chavez just reminded
the swells of the guy that cuts their grass. It’s hard to make a
bogeyman out of Pablo the lawn guy.

Chavez was a ridiculous gasbag, for sure, but Venezuela is not exactly
Wellesley Massachusetts either. When Chavez came to power, the per
capita GDP was roughly $5,000. The average IQ is 84, which is in the
same band as most Arab countries. There’s not a lot of human capital,
but they have oil that is easy to access. By the time Chavez shuffled
off this mortal coil, per capita GDP was over $12,000. How much of that
made it to the people is another story. In all probability, <a
href="http://nypost.com/2013/03/10/rfk-son-is-oil-broken-up-over-chavez-death/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the oil profits
were stolen</a>.

This is a familiar pattern in low-IQ countries. The relatively small
cohort of smart people have no illusions about their ability to
elevate their people. In fact, they are usually taught this from birth.
Instead of making their country better, they make their own lives better
by exploiting the mass of stupid people around them. The per capita GDP
of Equatorial Guinea is the same as Venezuela, but the people live like
cavemen, while the Esanguii clan of my good friend Teodoro Obiang Nguema
Mbasogo live like royalty.

The point is that the ceiling for places like Venezuela is not very
high, relative to the West and their capacity for honest government is
also limited. Strangely, countries like Venezuela are not made better by
vast natural wealth. Instead they are made worse because they have
something worth stealing and something worth stealing is worth killing
for too. The result is the people running the place will kill as many
people as possible to maintain control of the nation’s oil wealth.

It’s not the policies or institutions. It’s the people in charge of the
place. It’s not that they are misguided or in error. They know exactly
what they are doing. They are big fish and they are doing what big fish
always do and that’s eat the small fish, which happen to be the
population of low-IQ Mestizos. The fact that they are willing to starve
their own people tells you they are not the sort of guys worried about
the nuances of tax policy. They are hard men running a rough country the
hard way.

The other thing worth mentioning is Venezuelans are not campus
snowflakes. The murder rate is twice that of our worst cities. It’s hard
to know the exact figures. The government is so corrupt, no one can
trust their numbers. Even so, it is one of the most dangerous
countries on earth. It is safe to assume that the people are willing to
employ rough justice, but somehow they are unable to do anything about
their government. There are protests and minor street rebellions, but
not at a level high enough to destabilize the government.

Maybe things just need to get a bit worse before the people throw over
their rulers or maybe the people in charge have such an edge that the
people can never throw over their rulers. Perhaps we have reached a
point where technology has allowed even a wildly corrupt ruling class to
maintain power in the face of popular unrest. They can use spies, mass
media propaganda and control of commerce to keep a lid on things. We may
have reached a point where revolution is impossible, even in a craphole
like Venezuela.

The news tells us that <a
href="http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/08/19/hungry-venezuelans-break-into-caracas-zoo-and-butcher-a-horse/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Venezuelans are eating zoo
animals</a>. Again, it could be made up, but there is no doubt there are
serious food shortages. If a relatively violent people are eating their
pets, yet unwilling to turn on the local officials, what are the odds
that the pampered pussies of Western nations will push back against
their rulers? Our superiors are smarter and better able to keep us fat,
dumb and happy. The lesson of Venezuela is that our rulers can probably
get away with a hell of a lot more, if they want.
