---
title: "A Post About Fake News"
date: "2017-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11079"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11079"
---

Like a lot of people, I developed the habit of going to the Drudge
Report as a one stop shopping experience for political news. His
penchant for sprinkling in some news of the weird helped keep it
interesting. He also is obsessed with extreme weather which I find
amusing for some reason. The result is that it has been my first stop
for general news going back to the Clinton years. Most mornings, it is
my first stop just to see if anything important blew up while I was
off-line.

The thing that always worked for Drudge is that he simply linked to the
news stories in the mainstream press. He operated as a senior editor and
headline writer. The New York Times may have decided to put something on
page three below the fold, but Drudge would make it front page and give
it a spicy headline. As these organizations became more dependent on web
traffic, they became more Drudge friendly. That was true of writers as
well.

Drudge was also the first to notice that the foreign press was often
better at reporting on America than our local press. Many Americans now
regularly read the British tabs because they were introduced to them
through Drudge. While probably not intentional, it has opened the eyes
of many Americans about the realty of the mainstream media in the United
States. When the Guardian is doing a better job covering your hometown
than your hometown news site, you notice it and you begin to wonder why.

That is the reason the Left has always claimed Drudge is a right-wing,
even though his site is just links to left-wing publications. It is the
editorial discretion. The people running the New York Times know they
are shaping the news. They have always lied about it, but at some level
they knew they were advocates for the Left. That was reflected in their
choice of stories to cover and how hard they promoted those stories on
their front pages. Drudge used that against them by re-prioritizing
their stories.

The important thing though, is Drudge has always existed like an
oxpecker. His site sits atop the mainstream media, plucking from it the
stories that should be publicized. In return for this service, the
mainstream media gets lots of traffic from Drudge. They could live
without him, but it would be less pleasant. On the other hand, he cannot
live without them. His existence depends on their existence. Drudge can
thrive as long as most people think the news is largely true, but mostly
biased to the Left.

What happens when the news is not true, but instead is mostly false and
often just propaganda? How can Drudge work in the age of fake news? That
keeps coming to mind every time I visit the Drudge Report lately.
Yesterday he had a headline that read, “Dem Dream: Take Back House” and
another, “Support Surges.” Both linked to stories that are entirely made
up. The claim that there is a wave of support for Democrats right now is
so ridiculous it should be in the Onion. That is obviously fake news

That is the reality of the Drudge Report now. He is working hard to add
a tabloid gloss to the news, but the news is already well past being a
tabloid. We are in the era of fake news, where political sites just make
stuff up, claiming “anonymous sources.” Mike Cernovich has figured this
out and he now has an army of anonymous sources of his own. On occasion,
some of them have been right, which puts him ahead of the so-called
journalists, who work in Washington politics. Drudge is now a fake news
portal.

That is not the fault of Drudge. My recollection is that he hires people
to help maintain the site, but he may be completely hands off now. It is
that his business model is built upon the assumption that the news, to a
great degree, is true. He then takes their news stories and adjusts out
their bias by filtering and ranking them to highlight that which is
often hidden by the mainstream press. If the news is fake, then he is
doing what he set out to avoid, which is peddle bias.

This post is too long already, but there are two points that arise from
this that are worth considering. One is that the fake news and its
impact on sites like Drudge will have further collateral damage. Just as
Drudge relies on the news being true, but biased, so do the
conservatives. The hysterical pearl clutching at National Review looks
even more ridiculous when it is clear they are reacting to fake news
stories. In other words, fake news further reveals their complicity.

Another issue is that the prevailing orthodoxy is built around a
superstructure composed of things like the mass media. Our progressive
masters get to sway the public by filling the air with approved
messages. The advertising model assumes people think the ads are there
to sell product. If the public begins to see them as agit-prop, then all
of those ads on TV peddling miscegenation take on a different color.
Having a mixed race couple peddling camping gear then looks like an ad
for race mixing, not camping gear.

In other words, a lot of other efforts depend upon the public accepting
that the mass media is on the level, at least in terms of intentions. If
people start assuming the news is fake, they are not going to be fooled
by the ad men peddling the one true faith, dressed as product
promotions. It is a short trip from there to questioning all of the
other arrangements. Like the kids game Jenga, removing one key peg can
cause a whole bunch of other things to come tumbling down as well.

Again, this is way to long, but the point is this. You do not have to
red pill your honky friends on everything, just whatever they are ready
for at the moment. The mass red pilling on the media is leading a lot of
people to question all sorts of things that are only tangentially
related. As the number of people aware of fake news grows, the number of
people doubting the ad men and the intentions of corporate America grow
as well. It means more people turning against the controlled opposition
and their wealthy patrons.

Doubt is on our side.
