---
title: "Sargon of Blockhead"
date: "2017-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11648"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11648"
---

The reason that Buckley Conservatism completely failed to halt the
advance of Progressivism is that the Buckley-ites eventually came to
accept the moral framework of the Left. Libertarians have gone down the
same road, embracing the morality of Progressives, while trying to find
a way to carve out a place for individual liberty within that moral
framework. It is why the differences between libertarianism and what
passes for conservatism are trivial now. They both operate in the same
narrow space.

A good way to illustrate this is with [this interview Carl Benjamin
conducted with Jared
Taylor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jLUZ4uJlkvQ). Benjamin is a
British provocateur who goes by the handle Sargon of Akkad on social
media. He describes himself as a liberal, but to Americans that should
be understood as libertarian. His views are consistent with what you see
from the Reason Magazine types. That means he embraces the libertine
social polices of the Progressives, but he likes getting cheap stuff
from Amazon without paying sales tax.

He is also an incandescently obnoxious troll, who goes out of his way to
pick fights with people on-line. His go-to move for years was to post
gay porn into the twitter feed of people he was trying to provoke. He
used to spend his days attacking alt-right people on twitter with this
tactic, but they largely ignored him. He has also made a habit of going
after feminists, who always take the bait. He styles himself as an
intellectual, but he is just another shallow end of the pool
libertarian, afraid to venture into deeper water.

In the video, Jared Taylor makes the reasonable point that race
relations in America are at a standstill because blacks are
fundamentally different from whites. Compulsory integration over the
last 40 years has done nothing to improve the lives of blacks and
nothing to improve relations between the races. If anything, relations
are worse now. The logical solution is to junk the compulsory
integration and let people do what they do naturally, which is
self-segregate. At some point, a peaceful divorce will be arranged.

In theory, libertarians like Benjamin should embrace freedom of
association. After all, what can be more basic to personal liberty than
the right of association? If you can stuff your body with illicit drugs,
because you own it, you should have the right to put your body near
whomever you like. That means having the right to *not* be around people
you do not like, for any reason or no reason at all. Places where you
need to get permission from authorities to be around other people are
called prisons.

There are no modern libertarians who embrace this as it runs afoul of
official orthodoxy on race. Progressives have declared private
discrimination to be a mortal sin. You see this in the interview at
about the 10 minute mark. Benjamin starts spinning around like a top,
trying to re-frame Taylor’s point as compulsory segregation. When that
does not work, he then says that everyone he knows loves diversity and
they want to forget about the whole race and ethnicity stuff. In other
words, there is no need for freedom of association.

This is why libertarians have been forced to embrace egalitarianism.
This let us them wriggle free from the vice of freedom and anti-racism,
by claiming that systematic social inequity is the cause of racial
differences. Therefore, fixing the social problems will let everyone be
treated the same and the gaps between the races will close. Everyone
will embrace diversity and multiculturalism. This is now orthodoxy with
“conservatives” like [Ben
Sasse](https://twitter.com/BenSasse/status/913512382185525248), as well
as most libertarians.

At about the 20 minutes mark, Benjamin gives the game away entirely by
trying to tie the bogeyman of Richard Spencer to the reasonable
arguments in favor of freedom of association made by Jared Taylor. You
can see the wheels turning as he tries to square his own self-righteous
disdain for guys like Spencer with the reality that Spencer is to the
right of him on the issue of personal liberty. Benjamin rattles on a few
minutes trying to square that circle, but then gives up and changes the
subject.

That is where is gets a bit amusing as he makes the ridiculous claim the
Islam has somehow managed to overcome tribalism. This would be quite
shocking to the practitioners of Islam in the Arab world, who have been
in waging tribal warfare since the birth of Islam. Sure, Islam has no
racial component, but the practitioners certainly do. This is the same
with Christianity and Judaism. The same is true of sports and gardening.
Just because tribes can have much in common, does not make them any less
tribal.

Libertarians and conservatives have the same problem. They have been
forced to embrace the moral framework of Progressives. Benjamin starts
from the bedrock assumption that racism is evil and that race is an
artifact of a prior age. From there he tries to reach classical liberal
conclusions, but that is an impossibility as classical liberalism
inevitably runs afoul of Progressive morality. This is why Progressives
have been able to roll the opposition. They set the rules so the results
are inevitable.

Benjamin lacks the intellect to grasp this reality, so he flounders
around trying to self-righteously condemn race realism, while smugly
pretending to be outside of Progressive orthodoxy. He is a big admirer
of himself. Because there is no way to make his brand of libertarianism
work while embracing things like anti-racism, he is reduced to having
personal squabbles with heretics. He was unable to do that with Taylor
so he just came off as a smug blockhead, which is a fairly good
description of the modern libertarian.
