---
title: "Narcissistic Altruism"
date: "2017-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11811"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11811"
---

One of the great unanswered questions of our age is why Western rulers
are obsessed with importing tens of millions of unassimilable foreigners
into their lands. In the US, the conventional wisdom among immigration
patriots is that one side of the political class wants cheap votes,
while the other side wants cheap labor. In Europe, the theories range
from female hysteria to poorly conceived economics. The one common
thread is that across the West, the ruling elites appear to be trying to
crash their cultures.

The trouble with these reductionist theories is they do not make much
sense at the individual level, so they cannot very well scale up. For
example, the cheap labor argument does not hold up very well when you
examine it. Helot labor is great for the business owner, just as long as
he is the only guy doing it. When every landscaper is using Aztec
workers, there’s little benefit to the landscaping companies. That is
not to say there is no benefit, but does it warrant the suicidal drive
to import Mexico into the US?

In Europe, the cheap labor argument makes less sense. Depending upon who
is counting, between 80% and 90% of migrants are on public assistance.
Even if these migrants wanted to work, there is little demand for low-IQ
unskilled workers. Even if there was some demand, the labor laws in
Europe would make it impossible to hire them. One of the vexing problems
the Euros have are restricted labor markets, which prevent the sort of
labor mobility we have in the US. There’s just little demand for cheap
foreign labor.

The cheap voter argument is a better one, but even so, the returns are
spotty. In the US, Latin voters have been unreliable. They have low
turnout numbers, relative to other groups. Unlike blacks, they are not
easily agitated into rushing out to stage big protests or shoot white
people. There is also the fact that they tend to cause the white vote to
coalesce around white candidates regardless of party. That or it results
in white flight, as we see in California. So far, open borders have been
a disaster for white Democrats.

A similar result has been seen in Europe. The Brits are the example
closest to the US for obvious reasons. Open borders have destroyed the
party that advocated for it. On the continent, the anti-Euro movements
are entirely driven by the immigration waves triggered by Merkel. Even
docile countries run by cat ladies and cucks are starting to see the
rise of nationalism and anti-immigrant parties. Exactly no where is
immigration helping the political class. Yet, the ruling class is
universally in favor of open borders.

The fact is, there are no good political or economic arguments in favor
of mass immigration. In some places, the arguments have some
plausibility, but even the best nuts and bolts arguments in favor of
elevated immigration levels do not justify the high political and
cultural costs. Yet, our political classes have an unshakable loyalty to
foreign migrants. In every Western nation, the smart political play is
to oppose high immigration levels. In many countries, banning all
immigration is overwhelmingly popular.

There must be something else at work, beyond money and power. Even if we
extend the bounds of the ruling class beyond the elected class and their
attendants, there is no upside for the elites. Why is Mark Zuckerberg
berserk for high immigration? He is even in favor of importing Muslims.
The same is true for Hollywood people. They get nothing from open
borders, other than fewer job opportunities. Ditto the mass media. About
the only thing the self-actualizing classes get from open borders is
domestic labor.

That may be the key to it. I’ve pointed out before that the
self-actualizing class may prefer Spanish landscapers, as it avoids them
having to see blacks raking leaves, while singing [old fashioned negro
work songs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4G5KtQynWvc). It also avoids
seeing downscale whites, who remind them of the tenuousness of their
position. Asian and Caribbean domestics not only avoid those problems,
but everyone can pretend they make better workers in those roles. The
Korean nanny is like a tiger mom for hire. It makes the deception more
palatable.

The underlying cause here may be [narcissistic
altruism](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4911756/). It is
generally assumed that altruism is *selfless*, while narcissism is
*selfish*. That may not be the correct framing, as lots of people do
charity work because it makes them feel good. Similarly, lots of
self-absorbed people commit public acts of piety because it makes them
look good and elevates their status. The guy funding the museum and
demanding his name be over the front door is not acting from pure
selflessness. He wants glory too.

It has always been known that men often become more religious as they
grow older, often returning to the religion of their youth in a serious
way. The pattern is not as obvious with women as they are much more
likely to stay in their church as young adults. Young mothers will often
get involved with their church for family services and socializing with
other mothers. Men, on the other hand, often have a religious awakening
in their middle years and not only return to their religion but do so
with vigor.

[George
Vaillant](https://www.amazon.com/Aging-Well-Surprising-Guideposts-Development/dp/0316090077)
was a researcher at Harvard and did a 50 year study on men, tracking
them from their teens to old age. One of the areas he studied was
altruism and he found that as the men aged, their altruism increased
significantly. This was not simply due to selflessness. Helping others
becomes increasing rewarding as we age. Neuroimaging has revealed that
helping others brings pleasure to the person providing the help.
Altruism activates brain centers that are associated with selfish
pleasures like sex.

Organized religion, obviously, provides a ready made structure into
which this selfish desire to help others can flow. Not only does
organized religion have structured charity, but it also comes with a
spiritually rewarding purpose and generations of others who have
followed the same path. The female desire to provide charity is funneled
into activities that support the community the church serves. The late
onset male altruism follows on providing money and intellectual capital
to society-strengthening altruism.

Again, this is not pure selflessness. When you volunteer at your church,
you feel good about it, because the pleasure centers of your brain are
stimulated. It could simply be that as we age, the vanity of youth is no
longer effective. To get the same pleasure from life, that desire for
selfish pleasure (sex, wealth, status), is redirected into other areas
like church participation and charitable giving. Doing good makes the
person feel good for having voluntarily done a good work on behalf of
their fellows.

The collapse of organized religion, particularly among the Cloud People,
is leaving them with no structured outlet for this normal human impulse.
The reason a Lyndsay Graham cares more about Dreamers, than his fellow
South Carolinians is he feels like he is helping those who need help. It
is why John McCain spent the last three decades chanting about “causes
greater than yourself.” Without a structure into which his narcissistic
altruism could flow, he searched around for causes and purposes, most of
which were destructive.
