---
title: "AmRen Diary Part I"
date: "2017-07-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11027"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11027"
---

I went into the event not knowing if it was for me. The stuff I do here
does not fit neatly into the general categories of the Dissident Right.
I’m a race realist and a biological realist, but I don’t do much on
white identity. As I told Jared Taylor, I thought that AmRen was an
older crowd who wanted to go back to the 50’s. On the other hand, I also
went into it prepared to be wrong in ways I could not imagine. The event
sold out so it had to be more than old guys telling war stories, but
what that actually meant was a mystery.

Well, I was amazingly wrong. The age of the crowd was the first thing I
noticed. There were many people there in the under-30 age bracket. There
were lot of guys in their 40’s and 50’s too. The average age was
probably early 40’s and there were quite a few women in attendance. Most
important, the crowd was smart. AmRen is full of smart, well read
people, more interested in the right answer than anything else. I’ll get
into more detail later in this post, but AmRen is a gathering of the
best minds on the Dissident Right.

The reason for this is Jared Taylor. Some men are impressive for what
they have done and others impress for who they are. Taylor is both. He
has worked tirelessly for a quarter century promoting pro-white ideas,
often at great personal cost. He is also a man of great decency,
integrity and accessibility. He has a presence. Spend a few minutes
talking to Taylor and you get the sense you will be telling your
grandchildren one day, about the time you shook the great man’s hand at
the conference he founded…

The most exhilarating part of the trip was meeting John Derbyshire. He
will be embarrassed for me after reading this, but having the great man
say, “I am a big fan of your work” was the thrill of a lifetime. It’s
like having the Pope say, “I envy your piety.” Many men have made the
intellectual journey to this place because of the writing of John
Derbyshire. There is a long list of imitators, like me, who came into
this thing because we’ve read and understood his stuff. It was an honor
to meet you, John…

I am not Derb’s \#1 fan. J’onquarious Williams holds that title, in
addition to the title of “second greatest quantitative blogger.” He’s
also a brilliant and charming guy. Most quantitative guys are terrible
conversationalist, but JW is an exception. There’s a genuineness to him
that is striking. Within five minutes of talking to him, you feel like
you have known him for decades. It also helps that he knows his stuff
and he is a super smart guy. There’s something to say for getting the
right answer and then embracing it.

I think both of us came away understanding that a lot of people are
reading us and therefore, we have a duty to be good at what we do. JW
told Derb that he was thankful that guys like Sailer and Derbyshire were
there when he was ready for it. I think he hit the nail on the head. We
both now see that one day someone will be saying the same thing to us.
That means we have a duty to do our best work. Speaking only for myself
here, I find that incredibly humbling and motivating. It’s good to have
a team again…

On a slightly different note, I walked into the Friday night reception,
hoping to see one of the famous guys and maybe buy them a drink.
Instead, someone stopped me to say he was a fan. Then someone else did
the same. That’s flattering, of course, but it takes getting used to. I
watched guys like Richard Spencer spend hours getting his picture taken
and shaking hands with admirers. He is incredibly accessible and he
seems to enjoy talking with the young guys who look up to him. That’s
hard thing to do well.

He invited me and some others to a late dinner and he was just one of
the guys, debating the topics and soliciting opinions. There are some
big differences between the two of us on philosophical matters, but he
was very interested in discussing them. My take away is he is a guy
fully aware that he has to keep growing into his role as the movement
grows, so he is eager to sound out people on these topics. Not a lot of
people can do that. I came away with considerably more respect for who
he is and what he is doing…

I was at dinner with Spencer, because of a fellow I’ll just call the
International Man of Mystery. This mystery man introduced me to all the
big hitters at the conference. It seems that he knows everyone and they
think it is important to know him. In addition to being the most
connected guy in the universe, he is a wonderful conversationalist and
an extremely intelligent man. Walking through the darkness to a party,
feeling one another out about our politics, I sensed more was going on
that meets the eye.

Every cultural movement needs people, who know how to put people
together and put people at ease. Otherwise, they fall into factionalism
and petty jealousy. Guys, like our International Man of Mystery, keep
everyone working together. Of course, conspiring in the Tennessee
darkness with an International Man of Mystery makes doing this a lot
more fun. On the other hand, if I step out of line, I’ll have to hire
someone to start my car in the morning. But, life is full of trade-offs…

Our International Man of Mystery put us at dinner on Saturday with Greg
Johnson of [Counter-Currents
Publishing](https://www.counter-currents.com/). I must admit I’m not as
familiar with these guys as I probably be, but that speaks the wealth a
breadth of content coming out of the Dissident Right. The banquet had a
lot going on so I did not have nearly enough time to talk with Greg, but
my first impression is that he is a very smart guy, who has spent a lot
of time thinking about his set of issues. I came away thinking I need to
make a point of reading his stuff…

At lunch on Saturday, JW and I were joined by a young guy, a teenager I
think, who made us feel a little dumb. The kid is very smart and he has
read a lot. He asks great questions. What struck me about the conference
is that the Dissident Right is now the place for smart white males and
not just old guys. Young guys are coming into this because they can be
smart without someone screaming at them for noticing things or their
toxic masculinity. Having a bunch of smart guys on our team is
encouraging…

Regular reader **Rurik** was kind enough to buy me a beer and make a
point of impressing upon me how much people enjoy what I’m doing here. I
truly appreciated the kind words…

I met a brilliant young guy, who is emblematic of what I observed at the
conference. He had a sense of race realism, but only after watching a
Jared Taylor video did it all come together for him. This is a common
story. The conference, at some level, had the feel of a group of people
coming out from a cave to see the stars. That’s encouraging as it means
something is genuinely happening.  He posts under the handle “scotty” so
if he starts turning up in the comments here, bring your A-game….

I’ll be doing some more posts on the conference. I don’t want to go too
long, so I’ll stop here for now…
