---
title: "Which Side Are You On?"
date: "2017-03-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9777"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9777"
---

Last week Charles Murray went to the Middlebury College to give a talk
about his latest book and other subjects. For those unfamiliar with
Middlebury College, it is a very preppy private college in New England.
It is one of the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_Ivies"
target="_blank">“Little Ivies”</a> and ranked in the top-10 of national
liberal arts colleges. For those unfamiliar with Charles Murray, he is
most famous for <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Bell-Curve-Intelligence-Structure-Paperbacks/dp/0684824299"
target="_blank">The Bell Curve</a>, a controversial book 20 years ago
that described the mountain of data on IQ and its relevance to social
outcomes. He’s also a fixture at the think tank AEI.

I’ve never met Charles Murray or been in the audience for one of his
lectures. I’ve seen him on television a few times and he seems like a
nice person, but for all I know he could be a monster. I do know he was
cravenly dishonest about the last election. Like the rest of the
NeverTrump loons, he refused to acknowledge that the election was a
choice between two options, not a choice between Trump and the model of
perfection. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/435805/donald-trump-hillary-clinton-why-hillary-is-even-worse-doesnt-cut-it"
target="_blank">He believed that gave him a free pass to work on behalf
of Hillary Clinton</a>, by working against Trump.

Anyway, Murray went off to Middleburry to give his speech and the campus
lunatics shut down the event. They even managed to assault one of the
professors, who sponsored the thing. <a
href="http://www.aei.org/publication/reflections-on-the-revolution-in-middlebury/"
target="_blank">Murray wrote up his reflections on the event</a>, as if
it was a seminal moment in the history of the republic. Normies have
been getting the business from the lunatics for a long time, but no one
cares about them. When Ann Coulter gets screamed at on campus, guys like
Murray just shrug, because after all, Coulter deserves it. She’s a bad
thinker.

That’s the thing with these guys. They don’t care about free speech or
the open exchange of ideas. They care about *their free speech* and
*their access* to the marketplace of ideas, which means staying in good
with the Left. When a <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2016/02/20/john-derbyshire-gets-banned-from-williams-college-told-his-opinions-are-hate-speech/"
target="_blank">John Derbyshire is shut down by the campus lunatics</a>,
Conservative Inc is silent. To defend Derb or anyone else the Left has
ruled out of bounds would risk their standing and that can never happen.
The only core principle of these so-called conservatives is to remain on
the good side of the Left.

This is not supposed to happen to good thinkers like Charles Murray, so
it is a big deal to <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/445528/charles-murray-middlebury-college-speech-protests-shouted-down-academic-freedom"
target="_blank">the people who pretend to be on our side</a>. It also
offers another opportunity for Conservative Inc. to pretend they are on
the front lines fighting the Left.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9720" target="_blank">As
I pointed out the other day</a>, these guys are looking for a way to
insert themselves at the front of the movement they claim to lead, at
least until things get serious. You just know that one of them will be
declaring himself the “respectable” version of the Dissident Right.

The incident is a good reminder of Official Right’s worthlessness.
Murray’s piece reads like an apology. That’s because it is an apology.
The boys and girls of Conservative Inc have always worked to position
themselves at the edge of what the Left considers the respectable Right.
Twenty years ago, the Bell Curve was right at the edge. Now, the Left
considers it heresy and Murray knows it. It’s why he invested so much
effort into advertising his opposition to Trump. It’s part of the long
apology for his past heresy.

Murray is fond of the label *Establishmentarians *to describe his peers.
While it is true that they are forever defending the establishment, they
have no say in what is and what is not the “establishment.” That’s
decided by the Left. Since that is always changing, most of these guys
spend their days trying to justify the latest movement of the Overtone
Window as conservative. It’s why a
<a href="http://www.amnation.com/vfr/archives/018279.html"
target="_blank">Jonah Goldberg was out declaring homosexuality a core
conservative principle</a>  It’s why a <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/443153/transgender-bathrooms-conservative-defense-transgender-rights"
target="_blank">National Review is pro-tranny</a>.

It’s also why the most important project of the Dissident Right is
discrediting those palace guards of the Progressive establishment. Guys
like Charles Murray are useful opponents for the Left and not just
because they are always willing to take a dive. Like the tomato cans
that fill up the fight card for a weak champion, Conservative Inc
insulates the Establishment from a real challenge. Instead of having to
face off against people who are willing to punch back, the Left likes
these journeyman who are just happy for the payday.

Yeah, its a shame Charles Murray got heckled in preppy-ville, but it is
important to keep in mind that these guys never do anything about it,
other than complain. If Murray, or any of the others, gets an invite to
speak at Middleburry tomorrow, they are volunteering to jog there if
that’s what it takes. It’s why they deserve no sympathy and no support.
I have more respect for
<a href="https://twitter.com/BasedStickMan" target="_blank">Based Stick
Man</a> than any of the cowards of Conservative Inc. That guy is willing
to fight back. <a
href="https://www.wesearchr.com/bounties/based-stick-man-legal-defense-fund"
target="_blank">That’s a guy who deserves support</a>, not Charles
Murray.
