---
title: "American Vendée"
date: "2017-05-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10311"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10311"
---

When we had schools, Americans learned about the French Revolution,
mostly as a peasant uprising against the king. The storming of the
Bastille is usually characterized as the riff-raff reaching their
breaking point and taking control of a the dungeon the king used to
imprison his political opponents.  While the fortress was a symbol of
royal authority, it was hardly a tool of royal oppression. The Bastille,
when it was stormed, had just seven prisoners. There were four forgers,
two lunatics and one degenerate aristocrat inside.

The truth is, the French Revolution was a cosmopolitan affair, led by
men who were educated and well off, relative to the peasantry. The
Jacobin Club was not for hod carriers and sewer workers. It was lawyers
and academics. These were the men who had internalized the ideas of the
Enlightenment and began to think about the political framework that
should spring from those ideas. Of course, it was centered in Paris,
which was where the cognitive elites were centered. These were urban
revolutionaries.

That does not mean the countryside had no role in things. It’s just that
the waves of change radiated out from Paris.The key insight of the
Jacobins was to send representatives out into the smaller towns and
cities to organize radicals and incite rebellion. It was a stroke of
genius that has been copied by radicals and revolutionaries ever since.
Many rural peasants welcomed the revolution as it meant some degree of
freedom and the redistribution of lands seized from the Church and
aristocracy.

As is always the case with radicalism, they went too far and were soon
alienating the people they claimed to champion. The Civil Constitution
of the Clergy was passed on July 12, 1790, requiring all clerics to
swear allegiance to the French government. The radicals could get away
with seizing Church lands, but when they seized the priesthood, the
people in the countryside began to resist. The Church was the center of
rural life and the foundation of French rural traditional. The radicals
were now making war on this.

Imagine you’re living in a farming community and government officials
show up and haul away your parish priest because he refuses to swear an
oath to the state. Further, those government agents closed the local
churches. It would be a lot like the state coming in and telling the
Christian baker that they had to celebrate gay marriage and pay for
their employee’s abortions. Imagine the government one day saying that
your mother and father’s life is no different than two men sharing rent
and a bed. Crazy.

The revolt in the Vendée region, on the west coast of France, began with
the March 1793 conscription requiring Vendeans to fill their quota of
300,000 men for the army. The enraged populace took up arms and quickly
formed a Catholic Army. What started as a demand for reopening the
churches and getting their priests back, turned into a Royalist counter
rebellion against the Republic. Initially, the Republicans were caught
off-guard and the rebels enjoyed some success, even though their army
was ill-equipped.

The Republic got its bearings and sent a 45,000 man army to suppress the
rebellion and by the fall of that year the rebel army was defeated. The
Committee for Public Safety decided that beating the army was not enough
and opted for pacification. Whether or not the word “genocide” is
appropriate is debatable. Some estimates put the death toll at 400,000
for a population of 800,000. Then there was the “scorched earth” policy
of razing the homes of anyone suspected of being a rebel, which was
anyone who owned a home.

<a href="https://infogalactic.com/info/War_in_the_Vend%C3%A9e"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The War in the Vendée</a> is
interesting for a number of reasons, but one important lesson is the
fervor of those protecting their way of life is no match for the zeal of
the Utopian fanatic building his paradise. The romantic rustics of the
countryside were beaten by the savvy fanatics of Paris. It was not just
the numbers or the resources. The people of the Vendée were people
defending the limits of human conduct, while the Committee For Public
Safety was limited only by its imagination. They would do anything to
reach the promised land.

Another important lesson is the savagery of Louis Marie Turreau, the
French officer sent by the Committee for Public Safety to pacify the
region, was the result of righteous enthusiasm for his task. The
radicals were murdering their enemies not as a means to end but as an
end in itself. For the radical, murder becomes a sacrament. When Turreau
inquired about the limits of what he could do to pacify the region, the
answer from the committee was “eliminate the brigands to the last man,
there is your duty.”

This is something to keep in mind when thinking about the present
crisis. The revolt that put Trump in office is a revolt of the
provincials. Plenty of Trump voters went to college or have office work.
It’s not the old class divide. It is the new class divide. The
revolution over the last 25 years has been led by a cosmopolitan elite,
based in the coastal cities of America. These are the people dreaming up
gay marriage and transgenders, not because they make any sense, but
because they offend the sensible provincials out in the suburbs.

It’s comforting to think that the pendulum is swinging back toward
normalcy, but it could simply be a rearguard action. The radicals
running the American “republic” are no less bloodthirsty and malevolent
than those who razed the Vendée. They may not unleash genocidal
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infernal_columns"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">infernal columns</a> on the
suburbs, but they are plenty enthusiastic about importing hordes of
foreign peasants to <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/texas/2017/05/15/three-illegal-aliens-arrested-allegedly-kidnapping-texas-attorney/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">wreak havoc on the people</a>. They
are also smart and savvy, masters of the tools of power. But most of
all, they have no sense of restraint.
