---
title: "Essential Knowledge: Part V"
date: "2017-02-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9572"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9572"
---

Rome is such a big topic, it not only deserves a post of its own, but it
can be studied in isolation as it encompasses so much of Western
history. The most obvious reason for this is the Romans were around for
a long time. The traditional dating of the start of the Republic is 509
BC and the end of the Western Empire is 476 AD. That’s roughly one
thousand years and it was an action packed and dramatic thousand year
run too. Rome features some of the most colorful characters in human
history.

There is something else. The Greeks were a culture, but the Romans were
a civilization that incorporated the culture of the Greeks. Culture is
the spirit of the people, the world view that results from their
shared history. The Greek culture was a product of the people and their
place in the eastern Mediterranean. It is their literature and
philosophy, their understanding of man’s relationship to other men and
the world in general. It is the structure of their language, which is a
reflection of how they thought about the world.

Civilization, on the other hand, is the end point, the destination of
culture. It is the tangible product of cultural yearnings. Culture is
the belief in self-governance. Civilization is a constitutional
assembly. The Romans adopted Greek culture and built a mighty
civilization. Because Rome carried the spirit of the Greeks throughout
the known world, planting its seeds throughout Europe, knowing the
Romans is to know the essence of Western culture. You cannot know the
West, without knowing Rome.

Traditionally, you learned about Rome by reading Gibbon. You can buy
the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Decline-Roman-Empire-Everymans-Library/dp/0307700763/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1486563519&amp;sr=1-1&amp;keywords=gibbon"
target="_blank">The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire</a> from Amazon
for $133.00 or if you want to read it from a tablet, you can get it for
two dollars, which is one million Canadian dollars.There are many better
options than this, which we will get into next, but having some
familiarity with Gibbon is a good idea, as you will find that later
writers refer to him regularly. Spending a couple of dollars to have him
in your digital library is a good idea, even if it is just as a
reference work..

Then there is Latin. Learning some Latin is a good idea for anyone who
likes knowing stuff. One of the worst things to happen to education in
the modern age is the end of Latin instruction in the schools. Knowing
even a little bit helps expand your language skills as an English
speaker. In the case of Roman history, it is a good idea to have some
basic knowledge of Latin, which means buying <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Started-Latin-Homeschoolers-Self-Taught/dp/0979505100/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1486564726&amp;sr=1-1&amp;keywords=beginning+latin"
target="_blank">a primary school grammar</a> used by home schoolers. You
are not going to be reading Caesar in the original, but you get enough
of the basics.It’s not necessary, but recommended.

The most basic way of thinking about Rome is to break up its history
into three periods. The founding through the Republic, the Empire
starting with Augustus and then the late Empire, when things got
squirrely and the Empire was in decline. A recent book that will take
you from the founding through the Empire, but stopping at the Late
Empire, is Mary Beard’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/SPQR-History-Ancient-Mary-Beard/dp/1631492225/ref=sr_1_4?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1486684349&amp;sr=1-4&amp;keywords=roman+republic"
target="_blank">SPQR: A History of Ancient Rome</a>. It was a best
seller and it a great read. An excellent study on the transition of Rome
from a Republic to an Empire is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Breakdown-Roman-Republic-Oligarchy-Reprint/dp/1107657024/ref=sr_1_10?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1486684349&amp;sr=1-10&amp;keywords=roman+republic"
target="_blank">The Breakdown of the Roman Republic: From Oligarchy to
Empire</a>.

A particularly important period in Roman history is the third century,
when the Empire was staggering from one crisis to the next. This is the
period that gave rise to Diocletian and Constantine, two people who have
cast a very long shadow over Western history. It used to be a topic of
study in the US Army War College for both military tactics and crisis
management. It is fair to say that without Constantine, there is no
Christian West. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Roman-Empire-Severus-Constantine/dp/0415239443/ref=sr_1_6?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1486685397&amp;sr=1-6&amp;keywords=Diocletian+and+Constantine"
target="_blank">The Roman Empire from Severus to Constantine</a> is the
only book I know of that focuses just on this period.

A controversial book on Late Empire Roman military tactics is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Grand-Strategy-Roman-Empire-Century/dp/1421419459/ref=sr_1_3?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1486685668&amp;sr=1-3&amp;keywords=luttwak"
target="_blank">The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire: From the First
Century CE to the Third</a> by Edward Luttwak. It is controversial for
two reasons. One is that Luttwak is not a historian or classicist, so he
is treading on people’s turf. More important, he offers an alternative
to the dominant view of how the Roman army managed to keep the
barbarians at bay, despite the numerical advantages of the barbarians.
It’s an interesting read on a topic that has implications for the modern
era.

Finally, for those who like podcasts, one of the best history podcasts
ever is also on the history of Rome. <a
href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-history-of-rome/id261654474?mt=2"
target="_blank">Mike Duncan’s podcast</a> is incredibly well done and it
covers the entire history of Rome to the fall of the Western Empire.
 For those who like a long, dramatic retelling of history, <a
href="http://www.dancarlin.com/product/hardcore-history-death-throes-of-the-republic-series/"
target="_blank">Dan Carlin’s Death Throws of Rome</a> is fun and
informative. You can always get the narrated version of <a
href="https://www.audible.com/pd/History/The-Decline-and-Fall-of-the-Roman-Empire-Volume-1-Audiobook/B002V0QDLM"
target="_blank">Gibbon from Audible</a>, which is becoming a popular
alternative to podcasts. Think of audio books as long play podcasts.

Finally, this brings us back to Joseph Tainter’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Collapse-Complex-Societies-Studies-Archaeology/dp/052138673X"
target="_blank">The Collapse of Complex Societies</a>. The collapse of
the Western Roman Empire has two interesting angles to explore. One is
why it lasted so long despite the external stresses and the internal
conflict. History books do a good job of covering that material. The
other angle is why did the Western Empire collapse when the Eastern
Empire continued on? That’s a subject that offers some insights into why
a thousand years later the West was ready to roar past the rest of
humanity.
