---
title: "The Proposition"
date: "2017-10-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11795"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11795"
---

The other day, a long time reader and frequent commenter made the
argument that America is a “propositional nation.” This is a popular
assertion, one that has no basis in American history, but popular
nonetheless. Its popularity on the Right is largely due to neocons
peddling it as a part of their efforts to redefine and co-opt the Right.
It has also been useful in justifying open borders and endless military
adventures. These days, the biggest fans of this idea are the Civic
Nationalists.

The argument is that America is an exception among nations because it is
organized around a set of ideas and principles, rather than blood and
soil. The foundation of the proposition comes from the Declaration of
Independence. “We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable rights that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness.” To be an American means accepting those claims.

Over the years, lots of smart people have pointed out the errors in the
propositional nation argument. The fact that the Declaration has no
legal standing and that it is full of obvious contradictions should be
enough to kill the idea. The Founders had plenty of time to figure out
how to bake the argument into the founding documents but were never
inclined to do so. The “proposition” is nowhere in the Articles of
Confederation, the Constitution or the Bill of Rights. The proposition
is nowhere in their deliberations or commentary on them.

There is, of course, the fact that America was a Christian nation at the
time of the Founding. The men who wrote and signed off on “all men are
created equal” rather obviously did not believe it in the modern,
secular sense. They were Christians so they believed that only two
people were ever created, everyone else was born. They certainly did not
think people were born equal. To believe that all people are equal in
the corporal sense or the political sense is to believe that reality is
a social construct.

The Founders were not academics in a gender studies department. They
were practical men of their age. They crafted practical legal documents,
the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, to establish the political
order of the new country. The men who wrote the Constitution did not
craft a metaphysical framework, so the people would behave in a virtuous
manner. They assumed a certain type of people with a common morality and
common culture. They accepted reality and built a political order to
reflect it.

Even so, nations create their own myths and legends in order to bind
themselves together emotionally, as well as practically. Rather than
dismiss the “propositional nation” idea, let us take it at face value
and say we accept that whatever the origins, America of today is a
nation of ideas. The glue that binds one American to another is a common
belief in that mythological founding creed. Regardless of race, religion
or national original, you can be an America as long as you accept and
believe in the civic religion that defines America.

The implication is that no one is born an American. You cannot be born
in agreement with a proposition. At some point, you reach an age and
level of understanding that allows you to accept the deal on offer. This
assumes that the deal is offered, and that is the underlying assumption
of the propositional nation. It is available to anyone. You get to be an
American as long as you accept the organizational ideas that make up the
civic religion of America. That is not the law or present reality, but
that is the theory.

The other side of this coin is that you can stop being an America as
soon as you no longer accept the national creed. For example, if you do
not accept that all men are “endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable rights” then you are not an American. If the propositional
nation is going to be anything more than lip service, the proposition
better have some teeth. That means someone like former President Obama,
who is an atheist and rejects the idea of natural rights, is not an
American and he never was.

The bigger implication of the propositional nation is that it argues
against having a country at all, at least in the physical sense.
Rejecting the blood and soil definition of a nation does not stop at the
blood. If America is just a collection of people, who agree on the same
set of principles about the nature of man and his political relationship
to other men, what is the reason to maintain a physical space? The clear
implication of the propositional nation is that the physical aspects of
the nation are, so to speak, immaterial.

Finally, the nation of ideas cannot be a nation of permanent ideas,
unless the Founders were gods, who handed these ideas down to us.
Agreements among men, even deeply principled agreements, are open to
revisions over time. That is central to the propositional nation
argument. It is how the promoters get around things like slavery,
limited suffrage and indentured servitude. If the propositional nation
evolved, it means it will keep evolving into the future. That is the
Progressive argument in favor of a living Constitution.

To return to where we started with this post, the commenter stated that
you cannot have a nation without a common set of organizing principles.
This is obviously false but let us assume nation in this context is
limited to those with a consensual government. If those principles are
arrived at by consensus, it means they were arrived at by men. The
nature of that consensus and therefore the resulting principles must
spring from the nature of the men who forged them. In other words, we
are back to a nation of men, not ideas.
