---
title: "The New Barnum"
date: "2017-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9561"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9561"
---

The Latin proverb *audentes Fortuna iuvat* is usually translated into
English as “Fortune favors the bold.” It has been used by a variety a
martial organizations in the West over the centuries. For example, it
appears on the regimental insignia of the
<a href="http://www.marineparents.com/units/logos/105.jpg"
target="_blank">3<sup>rd</sup> Marine Regiment</a>. The British SAS uses
“who dares wins” as their motto. The American idiom, “he who hesitates
is lost”, is a mistranslation of Cato, but again, the appeal is obvious
so it’s easy to see why it has become common.

The point being is that acting boldly has always been seen as a benefit.
We associate it with the successful. It’s why mothers tell their sons to
stand up straight. It’s why fathers teach their sons to have a firm
handshake. The confident guy, who bounds into a room and takes charge
will get little push back, because people naturally pick up on his
confidence. Boldness is an essential element of leadership. Men will
follow a leader who is confident, even if they have their private doubts
about the plan.

Boldness is also a good way to rob people.

Victor Lustig was a confidence man living in Paris after the Great War.
He read in the newspaper that the city was having trouble
maintaining the Eiffel Tower. Lustig came up with an outlandish scheme
where he would use that story to sell the Eiffel Tower for scrap iron.
He forged some documents and cooked up an elaborate story about how he
had been tasked to secretly find some buyers. He found some interested
parties, had them picked up in limousines for a tour of the Tower and
then convinced one of them, Andre Poisson, to make a bid.

That sounds quite ballsy, but he went further. Poisson’s wife suspected
that Lustig may not have been on the level. Lustig decided to use this
to his advantage so he met with the couple and confessed that he was
actually a government employee, not an agent hired by the city. He made
it clear that he was not paid well and was hoping to improve on that by
finding the right buyer. In other words, he wanted a bribe. This sealed
the deal and Andre Poisson, not only bought the Eiffel Tower, he paid
Lustig a bribe to do it.

Every time I see <a
href="http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-4195704/Elon-Musk-tweets-photo-giant-tunnel-boring-machine.html"
target="_blank">a story about Elon Musk</a>, I think of Victor Lustig.
The reason for that is Musk often turns up in the news attached to some
bold new scheme to do something most people see as futuristic or
massively complicated. He’s sort of
a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Around_the_World_in_Eighty_Days"
target="_blank">Phileas Fogg</a>, that is always announcing some grand
new adventure. The publicity stunts have no real bearing on his alleged
project, but he puts a lot of effort into getting public notice for
them. There is a P.T. Barnum quality to it that does not quite square
with the official story.

The tunneling under Los Angeles story is a good example. There’s nothing
new about this idea.
<a href="http://www.crossrail.co.uk/construction/tunnelling/"
target="_blank">The Crossrail</a> is a giant rail tunnel under the city
of London that was done using boring machines. It is a 26-mile tunnel
that was threaded between the exiting tunnels under the city. There was
a recent documentary on it, which is probably where Musk got the idea.
The London tunnel is an amazing bit of engineering because there’s a ton
of stuff under the city that the tunnelers had to dodge as they dug the
thing.

That’s not to say doing such a thing under Los Angeles would be easy,
but it is hardly a brilliant futuristic idea. In fact, people have
suggested this in the past, but such a project would require tens of
billions in tax money. More important, there’s no real reason to do it,
other than the fact California is a failed state so building roads and
bridges the old way is impossible. Musk is levering that reality to
propose his futuristic “solution” for the transport problems of Los
Angeles. What a guy!

That’s probably the point of the hype. Tesla, Musk’s one big
“successful” scheme is entirely dependent on tax dollars. Take away the
subsidies and it goes bust. The same is true of the battery schemes, the
solar plant, the space program. <a
href="http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-hy-musk-subsidies-20150531-story.html"
target="_blank">According to the LA Times</a>, Musk has netted close to
$5 Billion in government money. Not all of it is tax money, of course. A
lot of it comes in the form of grants for research and credits for doing
government approved projects, like making solar panels. It’s not
unreasonable to say the Musk is a tax sink.

There’s also a good chance that like Lustig, Musk works both sides of
the street. He gets a bunch of attention for some new project, like
digging a tunnel under Los Angeles. He then gets investors lined up,
promising tax schemes that will multiply their investment, in addition
to getting government support for the project. Since Musk appears to
have skin in the game and is wildly confident his plan will work,
investors line up. Once it all comes together, Musk is a minority share
holder, but in full control of the project.

The formula is to use the media to promote the idea to the public. He
then gets some other billionaires to back it on condition that Musk can
get the government invested. That is used to pure the state into the
scheme, which seals the deal with the private equity guys. From there it
is just a churn as Musk and his buddies get their seed money out with
interests as new investors demand to get in on the action. Since these
projects take decades, the risk of it unraveling in the short term in
minimal.

The best part of a scheme like this is he can get his seed money out
early and still have equity in the new project. The investors and the
government are on the hook and they will keep putting money into it no
matter how many times a Space X rocket explodes or a Tesla bursts into
flames. That’s not to say Musk is a con man like Lustig. The main
difference is that Lustig was breaking the law, while Musk is well
within the law. In fact, his innovation is to make the law his partner.

Musk is a modern incarnation of P.T. Barnum, pitching the attractions of
the technocratic state via public-private partnerships. Barnum would
find exotic acts to put inside his act, while Musk finds big technology
projects. Instead of getting the public to buy a ticket to see the
bearded lady or wolf boy, Musk gets the public to support the
expenditure of public funds for his latest whiz bang idea. In the
process, he and his associates get an exclusive investment opportunity
and make millions from schemes that tend not to result in much of
anything, other than hype.
