---
title: "Utopian Misanthropes"
date: "2017-06-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10628"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10628"
---

It probably says something about us that we accept the dystopian future
of Orwell as being to some degree inevitable, despite the fact he has
proven to be wrong about most things. He was not wrong about everything.
He got communism right in Animal Farm.
<a href="http://www.orwell.ru/library/essays/politics/english/e_polit/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">His critique of writing is timeless</a>
and is probably more applicable today than in his era. On the other
hand, the future is not “a boot stamping on a human face — forever.” Not
even close. The future is a bot making sure you never get your feelings
hurt or have a bad day.

In that regard, Huxley has proven to be the more prescient. Brave New
World was much more accurate, especially with regards to the upper
classes. Whether or not we will ever be “decanting” humans is
questionable, but science may be closer to genetically enhancing people
than maybe is proper. Similarly, H. G. Wells understood the arc of
humanity was toward a softer end than Orwell imagined. His depiction of
the Eloi, and his explanation for why they existed, is being <a
href="http://www.star-telegram.com/news/nation-world/national/article156906859.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">proven out today</a>.

Even so, Orwell is what resonates with us even today, as we drift into
the soft authoritarianism of the custodial state. The most likely reason
is that at some level, people understand that at the core of every
Utopian scheme is a coldness toward humanity that eventually leads to
the sort of ugliness we associate with Orwell. Huxley’s future is eerie
and disconcerting, but Orwell’s gets right to the heart of it. There is
no hope and there is no joy, because in Utopia, those things have been
banned.

This has always been obvious with the global Left. They have always
imagined a world that, at best, could work for a slim majority of
people. The rest of humanity was not going to be a good fit. There are
only two ways to solve this problem. One is to “fix” those people who
can’t seem to go along with the program. The other is to get rid of
those people who don’t fit the new society. It’s why re-education camps
have always been a fixture of left-wing societies. It’s also why mass
murder is where they always end up.

The assumption is that what drives this is an absolute belief in the
blank slate. If people are infinitely malleable, then all of those bad
thinkers can be adjusted. Since some defects are beyond repair, the only
solution is to remove the defective from the population and the gene
pool. In reality, the effort at re-education is always ceremonial. The
people in charge go through the motions in order to justify the
inevitable. There’s also a fair amount of sadism at work. Leftist
regimes seem to take pleasure in culling the herd.

In fact, what may be the main attraction to Utopianism is its underlying
antipathy toward humanity in general. Human existence is messy, dirty
and frustratingly irrational, but this is also the source of its beauty.
There is nothing rational about falling in love. There is nothing
orderly about laughing at your own stupidity or your screw ups.  What
drives the people dreaming up the perfect society is a hatred of this
reality. They hate the apparent randomness, the part that makes life
worth living, so they seek to eliminate it.

It is why <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/213298/big-sister-watching-you-whittaker-chambers"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Whittaker Chambers recoiled in horror at
the philosophy of Ayn Rand</a>. Chambers had spent most of his life as
an atheist and a communist. He fully understood the materialism at the
heart of every Utopian scheme. He saw it right away in Randian moral
philosophy. The libertarian dream world is one in which everything about
the human condition is squeezed out. The libertarian Utopia is one in
which everyone is an isolated economic unit with no emotional ties to
anyone.

Libertarians deny this because they hate this truth about themselves. It
is the one thing that distinguishes them from the other Utopian
dreamers. They flinch at the idea of shoving the deviants into the
ovens. Instead, they dream of the isolated colony populated by the
productive. What drives the Leftist is a hatred of mankind. They dream
of a place where anything resembling humanity is gone. Libertarians, in
contrast, are driven by self-loathing, so their dream is to be isolated
away from humanity, like prisoners.

Libertarians will dispute this, but they are wrong. They think because
they have opposite ends than the Left, they must be the opposite of the
Left. It is a form of hive mindedness, though, as things can be
different without being opposites, just as things can have similarities,
without being the same. It is another feature common to all Utopians.
That’s a binary worldview. There are those inside the walls and those
outside the walls. It’s why libertarianism, particularly Rand variety,
is not of the Right.

It is one of the ironies of the Enlightenment. The people who came out
of it with a head full of ideas about eliminating the human condition
are cast as the friend of mankind, while those skeptical of these
schemes are cast as the misanthropes, the reactionaries. The truth is
exactly the opposite. The social reformer, the proselytizer and the
Utopian fanatic are all driven by hatred of humanity and themselves. The
skeptic, in contrast, is motivated by an appreciation of and a love for
humanity and the human condition.

Whatever you care to say about the alt-right and the fellow travelers in
the Dissident Right, they at least maintain a healthy respect for the
diversity of the human animal and the need to respect that diversity.
Throwing a tribe of Somalis into Lewiston Maine is not helping anyone.
Diversity plus proximity is misery. The Somalis need their place and the
Mainers need theirs. It’s why man invented borders and has always been
willing to die maintaining them. Only the sociopath dreams of a beige
future and what it would take to achieve it.

The Utopian dreamers start out thinking about all the things they hate
about humanity, which if often everything about humanity. They have no
respect for people, only disgust which is why they are consumed with
changing everything about human society, including the people in it.
This why Orwell remains the go to guy for dystopia, over more accurate
people like Huxley. The Utopian *hopes *the future is “a boot stamping
on a human face — forever”, while the skeptics suspect he may be right.
