---
title: "Alt-Jew"
date: "2017-08-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11355"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11355"
---

Someone contacted me saying they were starting a site called
[Alt-Jew](http://www.alt-jew.org/) and he wanted to know if I knew any
right-wing Jews that would be interested. You never know about these
things. It could have been [a terrorist
organization](https://lawyerscommittee.org/) trying to get some names of
people they could terrorize. Anyone can register a website. Well, not
anyone, thanks to terrorist groups like the SPLC and ADL. Still, you
never can be sure. [The Reagan Battalion was an elaborate Soros
fraud](http://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2017/08/reagan-battalion-unmasked-leaders-anonymous-anti-trump-activist-group-exposed-video/).

Regardless, it provides a reason to write about a subject that gets zero
attention. That is the schism among American Jews, one that is looking a
little bit like the divide within the white world. There are a growing
number of right-wing Jews, who are wondering if liberal Jews are bad for
Jews. It is not just politically, but culturally and racially. They look
around at the demographics in America and see greater out-marriage,
lower birth rates and the telltale signs of assimilation and
secularization.

Anyone who has engaged with Orthodox Jews knows they regard Liberal Jews
with a high degree of hostility. They are not as bad as the Hasidim, but
they view Reformed Jews as fakers, getting the benefits of being Jewish
without the commitment. Their relatively small numbers have made them
easy to ignore, but demographics are changing quickly. Orthodox are 10%
of American Jews and a full decade younger than the median age of
Reformed Jews. They also have many more children per female.

Now, the Orthodox are famously ethnocentric. They also vote for
conservative white candidates in elections. When it comes to identity
politics, the Orthodox favor it over consensus. They may not be talking
about ethno-states and separatism, but their revealed preferences run
strongly in that direction. Like the Amish though, their numbers will
only grow the old fashioned way. They do not recruit so they do not
attract a lot of converts. Talk to anyone who has converted and they
will tell you it is a long and challenging process.

There is another division, somewhat related to the Orthodox movement,
and that is the Chabad movement. Here’s a [Globe
story](https://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/regionals/north/2015/03/28/passover-and-every-other-day-chabad-always-open/6pDr2yAhj5FrTjSZzQb9CN/story.html)
from two years ago and a [Forward
story](http://forward.com/scribe/346760/the-growing-allure-of-chabad-and-hillel/)
from last year for some background. One of the unique things about
Chabad is they recruit and do so aggressively. They even recruit
gentiles. I have had them put the arm on me more than once, even though
they know I am not a Jew. President Trump’s son-in-law and daughter are
Chabad. Joel Pollak, the Breitbart big shot, is Chabad. This is not an
accident.

As that Globe story makes clear, the Chabad movement is a curious thing.
On the one hand, they are Orthodox, which puts them culturally to the
right of most people and way to the Right of most Jews. On the other
hand, they seem to be following the model of the early Christian church
by letting converts ease into the life. Jared Kushner is not growing a
beard and wearing all black anytime soon. It is hard not to think that
they are first concerned with growing the movement. They will worry
about discipline later.

There is another piece to the puzzle. There are Conservative Jews who
make up about 20% of American Jewry. These are the folks you will not
only see filtering into the Chabad movement, but also on the fringes of
the alt-right. They may or may not consider themselves white, but either
way, they are fine with white identity politics. They think
multiculturalism is madness. It is not just madness for Jews, but for
everyone. Diversity is a cancer to be avoided. These are folks who would
be called Alt-Jew.

The number of Conservative Jews sympathetic to the alt-right is
debatable, depending upon how you define the terms. There are quite a
few Jews supporting Jared Taylor’s work at American Renaissance. I
correspond with maybe half a dozen Conservative Jews who share my
politics. They think their numbers are growing as Jews in America come
to terms with the failings of liberalism and reformed Judaism. To use a
phrase, I picked up at AmRen, these are Jews who are religious, if not
spiritual.

None of this means that Jews are suddenly going to lift Richard Spencer
up and carry him to the throne of the ethno-state. It just means that
demographics and shifting politics spare no one. Liberal Jews are old
and not particularly fertile. Orthodox Jews are young and extremely
fertile. Conservative Jews fall somewhere in between, but probably
represent a much more practical alternative for American Jews who wish
to remain American and Jewish. In a majority-minority world, everyone is
going to have to pick sides.

For a distinct minority, it will also mean a return to strict ethnic
solidarity. That means policing [stuff like
this](http://forward.com/opinion/380664/the-one-thing-jews-should-be-doing-to-combat-white-supremacy/)
that only serves to encourage the worst response from other groups in
the population. Whether or not that happens or how it plays out is a
mystery, but what is certain is that in the future, everyone will be
voting their skin. That is how multiculturalism works. There is no place
for modern liberalism, much less liberal Judaism, in a world of identity
politics. Alt-Jew may be the only way forward.
