---
title: "Springtime in the Ghetto"
date: "2017-05-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10388"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10388"
---

Queenie has an afro the size of a beach ball. It’s more like a head full
of soft, fuzzy springs that wave back and forth as she moves. She also
has an ass the size of a small car, which she manages to stuff into skin
tight jeans. It’s not a pleasant image in the abstract, but her big
smile and sunny, black lady disposition makes it work. People like
Queenie. Even when she is bossy, which is most of the time, it is
impossible to be mad at her, because she fills a necessary role in the
only way possible.

It’s why she is the assistant store manager down at the market. This is
the ghetto market where all of the help is black and most of the
customers are black and Hispanic. There are some old honkies who never
moved away that still come into the store, but that’s during the day
when it is safe. The rest of the time the store is what one has come to
expect from an urban ghetto. In order to keep libertarianism from
breaking out, the store needs a strong authority figure keeping order.
That’s Queenie. She takes no guff from anyone.

The two big challenges for a business in the ghetto are getting decent
workers and keeping the customers from stealing everything. Often times,
the employees will help the customers steal so there is a dynamic to the
challenges. Queenie is able to run herd on the boys and girls hired to
stock shelves and run the registers, because she has no illusions about
them. They are knuckleheads, who have to be watched all the times,
because to do otherwise means they will be knuckleheads.

That’s the thing with young underclass blacks. It is not that all of
them are prone to crime and trouble making. It’s that they have so few
good examples. Hardly anyone is around to impose discipline, so the
worst habits become normal. A black teen working at the market is not
getting respect from his peers. He will get status by letting them steal
some stuff from the freezer case. In other words, the bad influences far
outnumber the positive influences. The ghetto is nothing but temptation.
It’s why so many get into trouble.

That’s not gloss over the biological realities of the underclass.
High time preference, poor impulse control and a high propensity for
violence are all biological factors that are common in the under-class.
There are exceptions, just as there are children born with significantly
higher IQ’s than their parents. Nature is a roll of the dice, but the
math is immutable. Most of the people in the under class are there
because that’s their nature and all the nurture in the world is not
going to over come it.

Anyway, it has been an ugly spring, but it is now warm enough for the
locals to get outside and do outside things. Unlike in suburbia,
Memorial Day is not about cookouts and family get togethers. The
Hispanics will have a party on Sunday night because they are not going
to work on Monday. For the blacks, it just means a change in the normal
rhythms of life. The market has weird hours. Some businesses are
closed., The liquor store is open on Sunday. Otherwise, it is just
another weekend.

On this day, I’m picking up a few items I forgot to get on my normal
trip to the market. I see Queenie in an animated discussion with two
garbage bags. <a
href="http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/state-department-lifts-limit-on-refugees-entering-the-us/article/2624310"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Donald Trump has decided to
import unlimited numbers of Muslims</a> and they have to go somewhere.
That means dumping them into the broken down cities and towns, often
with a Federal check attached, so the local politicians don’t squawk
about it. The greatest human experiment in history is taking place.
Low-IQ Muslims are being dumped into urban American ghettos.

Queenie was built for running herd on the black workers, keeping an eye
on the customers of all races and interfacing with the white world that
could use many more like her. She is not built for talking to a
<a href="http://www.spirit-of-metal.com/cover.php?id_album=184954"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">black Grimace</a> that cannot
even use non-verbal cues to help bridge the language barrier. She has
the exasperated black lady look when she spots me and waves me over to
help figure out what the trash bag is saying. That’s the thing with
blacks. <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2017/05/blacks-more-likely-than-whites-to.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">They accept human
bio-diversity at the visceral level</a>.

A swarthy looking male shows up, probably alarmed that a white man was
now standing near his garbage bags. His English is useless, but I manage
to figure out what they want is to wire money somewhere. This is one of
those strange underground markets our politicians don’t understand. Our
banks make money helping migrants and illegals send money home. Most
convenience stores in this area have a Western Union machine so the
illegal Mexican laborers can send money back home without having a bank
account or ID.

After the garbage bags leave, I chit-chat with Queenie for a few
minutes. She makes the point that she has no idea how to deal with these
new people. She also makes the point that she thinks the garbage bags
deserve no help or respect. It’s not their customs that offend her, I
suspect. It’s their non-person-hood that’s the trouble. Whatever you
think about blacks or black America, people like Queenie have a purpose
in life, a reason to get up in the morning. To her, those trash bags are
just sacks of nothing.

On my way out of the ghetto toward home, I thought about how things will
unfold over the coming decades. Black America is matriarchal. How that
is going to work with highly patriarchal Muslims migrants is going to be
interesting. Throw in the clannishness of the Muslims being imported by
Donald Trump, and it looks like a powder keg. Then again, Islam thrives
where hope is thin on the ground so maybe the result is the
Islamification of the ghetto. I can’t imagine Queenie in a burka, but I
never imagined a burka in the ghetto.
