---
title: "More Devil’s Dictionary"
date: "2017-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11384"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11384"
---

A couple of months ago [this post](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4914)
generated a ton of suggestions. It seems like a worthy project, as our
rulers keep producing new words and phrases to fool us. In the fullness
of time, someone is going to write a book on how marketing techniques
infiltrated the minds of our rulers, like a virus, causing them to
increasingly rely on cheap marketing gags to communicate to themselves
and the rest of us. The result being a ruling elite that sounds like
commercials for laundry soap.

With that in mind, here are some new additions to the list.

**Show your support:** This is always a demand from a company or
organization for you to buy their stuff so they can spend the proceeds
on themselves, while taking credit for some good deed. Currently, retail
chains are having their cashiers harass customers into giving money to
the Red Cross for hurricane relief in Houston. The end result will be a
photo-op of the executives posing with the Red Cross, handing them a big
check, so they can claim to be supporting the community.

**Inclusivity:** The rallying cry of modern terrorism. Every
organization that is about to be assaulted by tackle-faced social
justice warriors gets a committee on inclusivity. This a place where
lunatics plot to destroy the organization. Google started one of these
and is now in free fall.
[Node.js](http://voxday.blogspot.com/2017/08/how-sjws-react-to-defeat.html)
is the most recent to be attacked by the ISIS of the West.

**Affirming:** Lesbians and middle-aged cat ladies are riddled with
self-doubt, because they chose a lifestyle that is at odds with human
biology. This leads them to create organizations, usually within other
organizations, which are designed to tell them that they made the right
choice, even if nature says otherwise. [Protestant
churches](http://firstchurchipswich.org/) have all become *affirming* as
they embrace every anti-Christian lunacy.

**Brave:** The Progressive religion is built around the concept of the
struggle. Prog loonies all imagine themselves as paladins fighting the
monster called fascism. Therefore, anyone who sallies forth into the
public square to preach the good word is called brave. The irony is that
it is safe. Antifa is called brave, while the people they are beating
with clubs are called cowards.

**That is not who we are:** This is one of those phrases that is not
intended for the wider audience. It is almost always said by a so-called
Conservative in reaction to something normal people are doing. The
person saying it is trying to signal to [The
Hive](http://www.sobran.com/hive/) that they are not associated with the
bad thing in question. When Paul Ryan says to his voters, “This is not
who we are” he literally means he is not one of the dirt people in his
district.

**Send a message:** This is another code word that people in The Hive
use in public, but it is not intended for the public. When a politician
talks about “sending a message” he means to signal his virtue to the
rest of The Hive. The message to the rest of us, if any, is that the
person saying it should probably be hurled into the ocean before she
gets us killed.

**Problematic:** This is a favorite of Prog loonies. It means the speech
or act in question could be ruled heretical. The problem is they lack
the words to condemn it and an easy escape route to run away from it.

**Troubling:** This is the same as problematic.

**Vibrant:** This is a favorite term to mean no white people. A
neighborhood is vibrant when it is full of boarded up houses and
gang-bangers with pit bulls.

**Sustainable:** This is one of those words that should be included in
the humor section, but the people who coined it have no sense of humor.
Anything that is labeled “sustainable’ is always something that is not
sustainable. Alternatively, it may be sustainable, like organic farming,
but will require a great die off of humans. Whenever you hear this word,
assume the person using it fantasizes about putting you in an oven.

**Accepted:** This is when some outlier or fringe population forces the
majority to forgo its own preferences for those of the outlier or fringe
population.

**Passion:** This is what happens to Progressive white women in the
modern era. They are suddenly gripped with passion. Like Hitler, whose
passion for killing Jews was all consuming, passionate women are
obsessed with killing erections. Passionate women are always wildly
unattractive and ear-piercingly obnoxious.

**Growth:** This is always used in economic debates to signal that
something is good for rich people. A pro-growth policy is one that
allows the rich to hoover up more money from the middle-class. When
pundits accuse a politician of promoting polices that will hurt growth,
it means the billionaire who owns the pundit is vexed with the
politician.

**Toxic:** Any argument or fact that can be screamed away, because it is
obviously true, is called toxic. The users of this word believe that the
magic of their incantations will make the dis-confirming thing go away.
Normal men being normal in public, for example, is branded as “toxic
masculinity.” White people not robbing liquor stores or shooting one
another over sneakers is “toxic racism.”

**Sharable:** This describes something that appears to be free but is
used by the true owner to harm others or steal their property. Progs
call doxing, for example, a sharable strategy. Tech companies like
sharable technology because it means they get to install their spyware
on your phone or computer.

**Dialogue:** This is when a Prog loony screams at you and you sit and
take it. You are having a dialogue! If you refuse to put up with the
lecture, then you are being divisive and polarizing, which is both
troubling and problematic. It means you could be suffering from toxic
racism.
