---
title: "Tribal Policing"
date: "2017-07-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10704"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10704"
---

Allegedly, an old borscht belt gag was for the straight man to describe
some terrible calamity and then the comic would ask, “Yes, but is it
good for the Jews?” It is a question that Jews claim was common in the
early 20th century. Whether or not that is true is impossible to pin
down, but the sentence does return a lot of good search results,
including a few books and long form articles. It fits into
the self-deprecating humor popular with American Jews. It’s a form of
“owning the insult” common with ethnics 100 years ago.

Like all stereotypes, this one has some truth to it. Jews in the first
half of the 20th century invested heavily in policing their ranks and
inculcating this sort of attitude, with regards to politics and society.
To a lesser degree, Italians, Irish, Poles and other immigrant groups
did the same thing. They formed ethnic societies, had their own
newspapers, encouraged the better qualities among their people and so
forth. Improvement societies were not passive, either. Ethnic leaders
were not afraid to shame those who did not toe the line.

Today, the only ethnic solidarity we see is with blacks and Muslims. The
former is the old fashioned sort common in the last century. Blacks
shamelessly vote their skin in elections and make demands based on group
solidarity. Muslims seem to be following a similar route, embracing the
grievance culture in order to extort benefits from society. Otherwise,
the overt and positive ethnic solidarity, even among Hispanics, is not a
popular thing and in the case of whites, one of the few mortal sins of
our age.

It is assumed that ethnic or racial solidarity is good for struggling
minorities, terrible for majorities and of no use to successful
minorities. Black solidarity is encouraged, while white solidarity is
forbidden. Asian solidarity is never considered, because Asians have no
trouble assimilating and succeeding in modern America. Jewish
solidarity, of course, is a dangerous subject. The surest way to get
hurled into the void is to be thought of as something less than
enthusiastic for the Jews. It’s pretty close to a forbidden subject.

Some on the alt-right see this as proof of a conspiracy by the Tribe to
take over society and rule from their secret lair in Manhattan. Whether
or not 2% of the population should be in charge of a big country like
America is a topic worth debating, but some of what goes on with the
alt-right, however, makes it sound like Jews are super-intelligent space
aliens sent to enslave the goyim. Magic Jew Theory is just a nutty as
Magic Dirt Theory. Even so, placing Jews outside the realm of legitimate
debate is probably not good for the Jews.

The reason, is it makes self-policing nearly impossible. It is
impossible to not notice that when the NeverTrump clown car comes to a
stop, the guys who pile out are wearing beanies. The whole NeverTrump
thing looked like a Chinese restaurant on Christmas, because all of the
outspoken members were obviously Jewish. People notice these things, no
matter how much you scream at them about the sin of noticing. When guys
like <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/16/opinion/only-mass-deportation-can-save-america.html?rref=collection%2Fcolumn%2Fbret-stephens&amp;action=click&amp;contentCollection=opinion&amp;region=stream&amp;module=stream_unit&amp;version=latest&amp;contentPlacement=3&amp;pgtype=collection"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Bret Stephens write things like this</a>,
it’s as if he is trying to elicit
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5724" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Backlash™</a>.

Fifty years ago, Jewish leaders would have put the brakes on their
members going in for the sort of stuff we see from the neocons. We know
this because the guys who invented neoconnery fifty year ago, explicitly
rejected this stuff. Communism was bad for the Jews and a strong and
free America was good for the Jews, so they signed onto Buckley’s thing
and started voting Republican. In other words, worrying about what was
good for the Jews resulted in Jews policing their ranks, which was good
for the Jews.

Put another way, <a
href="http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/05/15/bill-kristol-republican-spoiler-renegade-jew/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">David Horowitz was probably onto
something</a> when he called out Bill Kristol as a “renegade Jew.” The
final paragraph of that piece is an explicit appeal to ethnic solidarity
in the service of policing the ranks. Horowitz got a lot of grief over
it, but he was probably right. Trump is good for the Jews, but reigning
in suicidal crackpots is even better for the Jews. The worst possible
thing that could happen to Jews in America is if the other 98% think the
Jews are not on “our side.”

The predictable retort to this is “How come no one ever says this about
the Finns or the Irish? There are people opposed to Trump and the New
Right who are not Jewish.” If the NeverTrump cult was 90% Irish, people
would notice that too, but it is not and further, the Irish are not
wildly over-represented in the ruling class. There is simply no getting
around the fact that Jews are unique among American ethnic groups in
that they have come to dominate parts of the ruling class and punch way
above their weight in others.

There’s little doubt that the culture is shifting with regards to the
role of Jews in America and how to discuss it. The alt-right has a lot
of well known anti-Semites and the whole Nazi meme thing. The people
doing the most to enable and encourage this are the cosmopolitan
crackpots like Bret Stephens. They are the anti-Semites best friend as
they go out of their way to prove all of their claims. If you were
trying to stir up hostility to Jews, you could do a lot worse than
having <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aRFsATqLjws&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=4464"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Bret Stephens</a> as your poster boy.

It is not just the Right, which has always been accused of harboring
impure thoughts about the Chosen People. The Left are increasingly
hostile to Jewish interests. When a Jewish professor is pilloried for
not groveling to blacks on his campus, it means that identity politics
on the Left will exclude Jews. Democrats are shamelessly hostile to
Israel and they are actively courting Muslim voters, even going so far
as to try and put Keith Ellison in as chair of their party. The result
of this is inevitable.

Not being a member of the Tribe, it is hard to know if a return of
self-policing is possible or desirable by those in the Tribe. Jews may
simply be facing a different sort of ethnic decay that ended Irish and
Italian solidarity. Even so, Jews are different. Unlike other ethnic
groups, Jews are wildly over represented in the ruling classes. That
means they will inevitably be subject to greater scrutiny. There’s also
the natural phenomenon of people mocking and resenting their betters.
Exactly no one loves their boss.

It’s why ruling classes have always tried to hold themselves to higher
standards. It has always been understood that the trade-off for power
and status is scrutiny and public judgement. It also meant public
punishment for those who failed to live up to the elevated
standards. Lucius Junius Brutus, founder of the Roman Republic, stood
stoically as his two sons were executed for treason in
the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarquinian_conspiracy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Tarquinian conspiracy</a>. That is very
high price to pay for power, but it is what is required of those who get
to rule over us.

The example of Brutus is not simply that sacrifice, often terrible
sacrifice, is the price of power. It’s that sacrifice in support of the
culture, in support of the common beliefs of the people, is the price of
power. The unwritten contract between the rulers and the ruled is that
the rulers will do what is required to uphold the cultural structures
that define the people, as they are the foundation upon which the elite
stand. Brutus could not be Brutus, unless he and his blood were subject
to the rules of the Republic.

America has been more than good for the Jews. It has been the greatest
place, in the history of man, for the Chosen People. So good, in fact,
that the country deserves a place next to Cyrus the Great in the
pantheon of non-Jewish heroes of the Jewish people. As a result, Jews
have a special obligation to the country. Like ruling elites everywhere,
in all times, they have a duty to defend the culture that is the
foundation of their status. That means sacrifice. A little self-policing
is not too much to ask. It would be good for the Jews.
