---
title: "Bloody Democracy"
date: "2017-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9290"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9290"
---

One of the more abused words in the English language is the word
“democracy” which has come to mean just about anything. Our politicians
love talking about the glories of democracy, especially after they have
won an election. When they lose, as we are seeing with the Left these
days, well, it is an assault on democracy! The word has become a Western
version of
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juche" target="_blank">Juche</a>,
the North Korean state ideology. It is not a form of government, but a
mystical spirit that is the essence of the people’s goodness.

For Progressives, democracy is one the of the primary abracadabra words
in their book of incantations. Whatever they want, it is almost always
decorated with the word democracy or some reference to it. It’s not that
they have any respect for the will of the people; it is that they truly
believe their whims and causes are imbued with the magic they associate
with the word democracy. Democracy is what they call that supernatural
force that guides history and carries the righteous to the promised
land.

<a
href="https://www.jacobinmag.com/2017/01/constitution-trump-democracy-electoral-college-senate/"
target="_blank">This article</a> from the Progressive site Jacobin is a
good example. America, of course, is not a democracy. It is a
representative republic. In fact, what we have come to know as liberal
democracy in the West is explicitly not democracy. Instead, Western
nations employ various forms of representative government. The reason
for that is experiments with democracy have been disastrous. It turns
out that mob rule is not a great way to run a country. The usual result
is a blood bath followed by a tyrant.

Of course, the Left is not all that interested in democracy as a form of
government. For them, it is trolley they ride from where they are now to
the place they wish to be. That place is where they have an iron grip on
society. Naturally, while they are waiting for that trolley to take them
to the promised land, they sing the glories of the trolley system they
call democracy. If things don’t work out as planned, well, the system is
not democratic and the proof of that is they lost. After all, the
spiritual goodness of the people is on their side.

The linked article is interesting and entertaining for a number of
reasons beyond the less than credible claims about the glories of
democracy. What’s fascinating about it is what it reveals about the
Left. The author, after detailing what he sees as the facts of the
undemocratic outcome, falls back on the example of revolutionary France.
Appropriately enough, for a site called the Jacobin, the author wants
some sort of National Constituent Assembly, where the people can fashion
a new constitution.

The
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Constituent_Assembly"
target="_blank">National Constituent Assembly</a> lasted two years and
can only be viewed as a failure, as it led to the radicalization of the
Paris mob and eventually The Reign of Terror. Roughly 16,000 people were
sent to the guillotine and another 25,000 were hung, shot or beaten to
death by mobs. All of these murders were done in the name of the people.
After all, what is more democratic than murdering people in the name of
the people? Most of those killed were in no way opposed to the
revolution. They either got in the way or failed to do what the radicals
expected.

Nowhere in that long piece does the author mention Maximilien
Robespierre, Les Enragés (“the enraged ones”) or Madame Guillotine. He
later celebrates the Marxist revolts of the 19th century and then the
glories of the Bolshevik Revolution in the 20th century. No mention in
those cases of the bloody outcomes. That would require either a
reconsideration of the glories of radical democracy or the celebration
of senseless murder by angry mobs. It’s better to just skip past those
problems.

That’s the revealing bit in the piece. The Left has learned nothing from
the past, even their own past. The Right is often accused of being
captive to a romanticized past, but it is the Left that is trapped in a
permanent time warp. The first radicals of the Left followed the logic
of Rousseau to its natural conclusion, murdered a bunch of people and
then gave way to a tyrant. They keep repeating this pattern without ever
having learned from past results. The Bolsheviks, for example, looked to
the Jacobins as examples.

Part of this is explained by the radical fixation on the future. The
Left has always been blind to the past as they put all of their energy
into reaching the glorious future. The bigger issue is that radicalism
is an intellectual dead end. When the only acceptable answer to the
natural inequality of man is more democracy, you eventually end up with
pure democracy, but the same natural inequality. That leaves enforced
equality as the logical next step. With coercion naturally comes
political violence and then terror.
