---
title: "No Going Back"
date: "2017-12-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12342"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12342"
---

The other day, someone on Gab said there was a time when he thought PJ
Media was an edgy site on the Right. It seems a bit ridiculous now, but
the venture was a radical thing a dozen years ago. Charles Johnson,
[this one](http://littlegreenfootballs.com/), not [this
one](https://www.wesearchr.com/contact), was the lead on exposing Dan
Rather’s scheme to pass off the forged George Bush National Guard
documents. That was big stuff in 2004. Bloggers in their pajamas,
working from their basements, were able to take down the mainstream
media and finish off the career of Dan Rather.

That was the birth of PJ Media, which was originally called Pajamas
Media, owning the insult hurled at bloggers by CBS news executive
Jonathan Klein. He was the guy who tried to brush off the critics by
calling them losers sitting around in their pajamas. Like the word
“deplorable” it quickly became a badge of honor. In retrospect, that
incident was the start of alternative media and alternative politics.
Initially it was a reaction to the excesses of liberal media, but as is
often the case, it took on a life of its own.

Today, PJ Media is not edgy in the slightest. It serves an audience that
still enjoys the old partisan hooting that was popular through the Bush
years. That is true of all the sites that popped up in response to the
liberal media’s attack on Bush. All of the edgy guys hired by outfits
like National Review have become safe and boring. It is hard to imagine
it today, but Jonah Goldberg was once the bad boy of National Review. A
dozen years ago, snarky hipster conservatism was a thing. All the
hipsters sold out or just got boring.

There is a lesson here. These first generation alternative media
operations followed a pattern that has been observed in the third world.
In Africa and South America, the colonies gained their independence and
the assumption was they would either emulate Western style governments
or implement some local version of democratic rule. Instead, the
post-colonial rulers adopted the exploitative institutions that the old
colonial powers had used to control the colonies. What worked for
Britain worked for [Siaka
Stevens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siaka_Stevens).

In other words, the first generation of right-wing alternative media
sites fell into the same habits as the operations they were challenging.
They could get an audience by challenging the legacy media, but in order
to monetize that audience, they decided they had to adhere to the same
moral framework as the legacy media. That meant running off anyone that
colored outside the lines and assiduously avoiding taboo subjects. In a
short time, they were the same sorts of moral enforcers for the Left
they had criticized at the start.

One of the telling aspects about the Trump phenomenon was just how
over-the-top many of these first wave alt-media types were in their
opposition to Trump. Guys like Erick Erickson and Glenn Beck were such
rabid Trump haters, it was assumed they were being paid to do it. PJ
Media had a gaggle of unhinged Trump haters on their site. Red State
turned itself into such a clown show, they endorsed Hillary Clinton. The
hipster conservatives of a decade ago were now the squares wagging their
fingers at the kids.

There are a couple of lessons here for the people forging ahead with
alt-tech as well as alt-media. One is that to be an alternative, to
truly challenge the status quo, the nature of the alternative has to be
incompatible with the nature of the orthodoxy. Otherwise, the big fish
devour the little fish, so the little fish of alternative media get
gobbled up. This is why Andrew Torba is adamant about his stance on
terms of service. He has correctly discovered that to be a challenge to
Twitter, Gab has to be a break from the orthodoxy.

That is something the Left quickly understood in their march through the
institutions. What was set up to keep the old WASP elite in power, could
easily turn them into shaggier versions of the people they replaced.
That and those institutions failed to defend the old guard against the
radicals. The Left has systematically altered the institutions of
American life to maintain their dominance. The Left did not just march
through the institutions. They altered them, like a virus alters the
host’s healthy cells to replicate itself.

That is another lesson. The people in charge are well aware of how they
gained their position. They are not about to make the same mistakes as
their predecessors. When Siaka Stevens gained power in post-colonial
Sierra Leone, one of the first things he did was destroy the rail line
between Bo and Freetown. The reason is it crippled the economy of his
primary political rivals. Even though it damaged the nation’s economy as
a whole, what mattered to Stevens is it helped him stay in power. The
Left thinks the same way.

What that means for alternative media and alternative tech is they have
to remain independent and hostile to the orthodoxy. A guy like Richard
Spencer, racing to be on liberal media when they call, is going to be
destroyed eventually. He is not as clever as he thinks and Lefty plays
for keeps. The same holds for technology. Again, Gab is a good example
of how to do it right. They are building their own financing mechanism
so they do not have to sell their souls to the Silicon Valley oligarchs.

Finally, the PJ Media experience says something else. Even as these
first wave populist outlets were absorbed by the blob, the audience
continued to grow. This is another lesson of history. Once people break
free from the old intellectual and moral restraints, they do not go back
to the old ways. We are in the midst of an intellectual revolution,
where the old modes of thought are challenged by new modes of thinking
about politics, society and the human condition. Old media has the
money, but new media has the numbers.

In the end, it is always about the numbers.
