---
title: "The Racial Cliff"
date: "2017-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11520"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11520"
---

America has a race problem. For as long as anyone reading this has been
alive, this is something that our betters have preached from their
various pulpits. By race problem, they have always meant that the bad
whites keep finding ways to keep the blacks down and that it is the holy
mission of good whites to root out racism by bad whites. Many whites,
good and bad, have accepted this as true. It is why the diversity
project has thus far received limited push-back. Only stupid racists
refuse to celebrate diversity.

I have been on earth for half a century and I have never known a time
when whites did not tip-toe around blacks. Even during my underclass
youth, whites watched their tongue around blacks. The crackers might
have harsh opinions about their black brothers in private, but stating
it publicly was forbidden even 40 years ago. Even 40 years ago, poor
whites were figuring out that blacks had to be given extra help and they
had to applauded when they managed to behave and make something of
themselves.

The general assumption among whites was that race relations would
steadily improve with each generation. It is what we were told every day
by our betters. That was the driving force behind Obama’s presidency.
Progressive Baby Boomers voted for him as an exclamation point, the
crowning achievement for their generations efforts on behalf of race
relations. Obama was the fulfillment of prophecy, which is why they
talked about him as if he was black Jesus. He was the final sentence in
America’s long struggle with race.

The point here is for more than half a century, good whites in America
have been obsessed with making sure that all whites “come together” to
celebrate and encourage blacks. The assumption is that this stems from
white guilt, but there is no evidence to support this claim. The real
cause is a deep belief that if the white community comes together and is
united in its rejection of whiteness and racism, then through some sort
of magic, the realities of race in America will disappear, along with
the history of race.

This the force behind the frenzy of statue toppling. It has nothing to
do with the Civil War or symbols of past racism. It is an attempt to
immanentize the eschaton. The Progs are sure that in the final
reckoning, all signs of race realism will disappear, including those in
the past. Therefore, they can bring this about by erasing the past!
That’s what is behind the mania that now includes [erasing guys like Ben
Franklin and Sam
Houston](https://www.dallasnews.com/news/education/2017/09/17/sam-houston-ben-franklin-thomas-jefferson-among-dallas-isd-campuses-require-research-possible-name-changes)
from our collective memories. The Progs are trying to erase the past to
bring about the rapture.

This self-flagellation is not happening in isolation. One result of the
rise of [anti-white
politics](https://news.grabien.com/story-emmys-get-political-within-seconds-imagine-if-your-president),
among whites, is that non-whites now feel free to [drop the
mask](http://variety.com/2017/tv/news/issa-rae-at-the-emmys-im-rooting-for-everybody-black-1202561838/). Steve
Sailer calls it the [Late Obama Era
Collapse](http://www.unz.com/isteve/key-event-in-late-obama-age-collapse-fizzles-out-ignominously/).
He trots it out whenever some blacks go crazy and start shooting cops
and making a nuisance of themselves. Non-whites are now taking every
chance they can to tell the world they hate white people. This is
especially true of blacks, who have always hated white people to so some
degree.

A good way to think of race is to tie race to geography. Blacks are
African. Asians are Asian, obviously. Whites are European. Race
correlates pretty well with geography, as the humans evolved on each
continent to meet the demands of the environment. Ethnicity, on the
other hand, is more like an extended family. A couple of tribes settled
in an area like a river valley. They fought, intermarried and traded,
but eventually combined into a single tribe. In time, their shared
biology became a shared history and common language.

It is why wars between tribes are common, while wars within tribes are
rare. It is the same reason a man can publicly criticize his wife, but
never let anyone else criticize her. A Jew can make jokes about Jews,
but never tolerate a non-Jew making the same jokes. The reason is the
Jew mocking other Jews is in the family. The white guy making sport of
Jews is not in the family and is therefore always seen as a potential
threat. Ethnicity is basic family biology that scales up to the maximum
limit.

That is the danger the anti-white Prog bigots have created for
themselves. Fake Indian lecturing other whites about white privilege is
tolerable to whites. [Pampered black athletes, throwing
tantrums](http://nypost.com/2017/09/17/nfl-players-now-taking-their-protests-onto-the-field/)
on the football field and blaming whitey for biology, is intolerable.
Black college students demanding apologies from the school because they
are [offended by the sight of
cotton](http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/09/16/african-american-university-students-offended-by-cotton.amp.html)
is infuriating to most whites. Blacks rampaging through our streets,
making incoherent demands like overly indulged toddlers is creating a
lot of bad whites.

For most of my life, the skins game has been a predictable morality
play. A self-righteous honky lectures the crowd, black and white, about
racism. The people in the crowd quietly tolerate the lecture. Everyone
who has been marched off to diversity training knows the scene. This was
tolerable as long as the whites in the crowd could pretend that the
black people in the crowd were seeing it the same way. That is the main
appeal of the Broadway play Hamilton. The whites in the crowd get a
lecture and a pat on the head.

This sort of theater worked as long as whites were the dominant racial
group and the non-whites took care to not prove the good whites wrong.
As America edges closer to majority-minority status, the non-whites feel
free to make their anti-white rage public, which is putting the lie to
everything whites have been told over the last half century. It turns
out that the prophesies were not true. There is no fixing the race
problem and that realization by whites now leaves us with a much bigger
race problem.

The good white answer to the bad whites, pointing out that blacks tend
not to perform well in modern societies, was “shut up bigot.” Now, the
only public racists are non-whites, mostly blacks and foreigners. The
Progs not only lack an answer to this, but they are actively encouraging
it. The result is America is about to drive off a racial cliff. Prog
appeals to white virtue fall on deaf ears, while the deranged antics of
ungrateful non-whites convince white people that there is no fixing race
relation.

This will not end well.
