---
title: "The Road To War?"
date: "2017-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12237"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12237"
---

The base assumption of the armchair generals and foreign policy experts
is that war on the Korean peninsula is suicide for all involved. The
South Koreans know that the North Koreans have the capacity to inflict
massive damage. The North Koreans know that any war with the South
brings in American air and sea power, which means the end of the Kim
regime. Even assuming the Chinese step in to prevent a North defeat, the
end result is monstrous for all concerned. As a result, we have a
standoff.

That all sounds good, until you read [something like this in the
National
Interest](http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-buzz/donald-trump-getting-ready-attack-north-korea-23443).
Gordon Chang’s analysis may be off base, but you cannot ignore the fact
that Washington keeps pounding the war drums. It really does not matter
if people outside Washington are listening. What matters is that
official Washington seems to be gearing up for war. [The Trump
administration has been slowly building up offensive
assets](https://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/world-news/664240/North-Korea-War-US-Kim-Jong-un-Donald-Trump-Bombers-Fighters-F-22-F-35-Vigilant-Ace-Nuke)
in the region. We now have three carrier groups operating within
striking distance of North Korea.

Maybe it is all a bluff, but why would Washington bluff, if they accept
the various war narratives popular with the foreign policy experts? If
the North Koreans are sure that the South does not want a war, why would
they think that Washington is doing anything other than bluffing? The
whole point of saber rattling is so the other side thinks there is at
least some chance that the guy rattling the saber is serious. More
important, the guy with the saber needs to think he is serious too.
Otherwise, you get Obama’s red lines.

There are also the unknowns. In this case, no one really knows what
South Korean and US military intelligence knows about the North Korean
military. It is a safe bet that the US has had spy satellites parked
over North Korea. It is also a safe bet that the South Koreans have been
cultivating sources in North Korean. None of this information is made
available to the public. In other words, Washington may be responding to
things entirely unknown to the public.

One thing that is known is that North Korea knows they cannot win a war
against the South. The proof of that is how they have organized their
military. Those artillery pieces on the border are a one-time threat.
They get about 72 hours to inflict as much damage as possible, until US
air power takes them out. If they play this card, they forgo their
opportunity to send their infantry and armor south. Instead, the North
will have to wage a defensive war, hoping the South elects a negotiated
end rather than an invasion.

This means their best card to play in this game just about guarantees
their destruction, either from a land invasion or an extended air
campaign. It would certainly end the Kim family dynasty. That makes the
threat significantly less credible. The US can pressure China or make a
deal with China, to get help putting the screws to the Kim regime,
knowing that the Koreans only have a doomsday card to play. In other
words, the doomsday card prevents a US invasion, but does not prevent
economic war.

Of course, it is possible that the math has changed for the Chinese.
Right now is peak China economically and
[demographically](https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2017/10/china-will-grow-old-before-it-gets-rich/).
Now is the best chance they will have to resolve their Korean problem. A
decade from now, when China has an aging population and the North
Koreans have the ability to strike Beijing, the Americans may not be
interested in helping with this problem. The best time to address tough
problems is when you have the resources to address them. There is no
better time than now for China.

There is also the Trump factor. Previous presidents have been willing to
accept the options presented to them by the foreign policy
establishment. Trump is psychologically incapable of accepting the
options presented to him for anything. Everyone who has done deals with
him says the same thing. Trump thrives under pressure, so he puts
everyone under pressure. He is sure he can wheel and deal with anyone
under pressure, so that is how he changes the negotiating table. He
creates uncertainty and puts everyone under the gun.

That seems to be what he is trying to do with Asia. On the one hand, he
is encouraging Japan to build out their military and take a more active
role in policing the region. This puts enormous pressure on China. He is
helping the South Koreans get ready for war, which puts pressure on the
North and on their relationship with China. All of a sudden, the US is
doing things vastly different in Asia. Trump’s willingness to change
course on a dime, adds an air of unpredictability to him, which always
makes Asian leaders nervous.

No one outside the Trump inner circle knows what is in the works, but
the steady buildup of offensive assets in the region is not just saber
rattling. To send a message, you send a carrier group and hold some
joint exercises with the South Koreans. Maybe after a North Korean
missile launch, you pass some more sanctions and give a bellicose
speech. What Trump is doing looks a lot like the preparation for a
decapitation strike or maybe a sustained air campaign to cripple the
North Korean regime. It looks like war prep.
