---
title: "The Title IX Terror"
date: "2017-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9471"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9471"
---

Very early in the French Revolution, France found herself at war with
the rest of Europe. For reasons we will not go into here, the French
declared war on Austria in the spring of 1792 and soon Prussia joined in
on the Austrian side. Eventually England was fielding an army on the
continent as well. One of the many interesting things about the French
Revolution is that the country was radically rearranging itself at the
same time it was defending itself on all sides. The war and the
revolution soon became intertwined.

By the time the Jacobins and the Committee for Public Safety had taken
control of France and the revolution, things looked dire for the French
army. Many of their officers had fled the country as they were of
noble blood. Others fled for lack of pay and support. Those who rose up
to replace them were often incompetent boobs, but loyal to the
revolution. The solution the revolutionaries in Paris found to this
problem was to begin executing their generals for treason. That’s right.
The solution was to murder the generals.

The logic behind this was quite simple. Since the new men of the
Republic were now in charge of the army, the army was a republican army
stocked with virtuous men of the Republic. France was now the first
nation in history mobilized for total war. If the army was now composed
of virtuous men of the Republic, with the full support of the Republic,
the only thing that could stop them was failure at the top and that
failure could only be due to treason. The generals failed because they
wanted to fail or planned to fail.

There is an important lesson here that has been with us ever since the
French Revolution. The Utopian dreamers of the Left always lock in on
two unassailable beliefs. One is their vision of the perfect society and
the other is their ideal citizens for that society. Those two things
become axiomatic, so when things fail to materialize, those two items
are off the table. They can never be questioned. Instead, the hunt is on
for enemies, heretics and schemers, who are actively trying to undermine
the cause.

That’s what has happened on the college campus with regards to the Title
IX jihad against men, particularly white men.The original purpose of
Title IX was to get more women into graduate schools. In the 70’s, when
this odious law was dreamed up, graduate schools, particularly law
schools, were still dominated by men. By the time the law was actually
passed and implemented in the Clinton administration, women dominated
the college campus. They held most of the majority of staff positions,
were the majority of undergrads and dominated most of the post-graduate
schools.

The feminist pushing this law, however, always had other ideas. They had
the radical dream of the female utopia on the college campus and, of
course, the ideal revolutionary co-ed. When reality would not yield to
their particular brand of lunacy, they went looking for enemies. After
all, the dream is perfect and women of virtue were now in charge. The
only reason utopia has not bloomed on campus is there must be enemies in
their midst and those enemies have a penis! As a result, the campus has
become a feminist toxic waste dump.

<a
href="http://www.bridgemi.com/talent-education/unwanted-touch-two-lives-free-fall-dispatch-drive-stop-sexual-assault-campus"
target="_blank">This story</a> is emblematic of the insanity. You’ll
note that tucked away in the story is the reference to a “Dear
Colleague” letter – which urged schools to lower the standard of proof
for sexual assault and misconduct. The reason for this is that when the
feminist nutters found a witch to burn, they were confronted with the
silly problem of actually having to prove their case. Since almost all
of these cases involve either drunk people or crazy people, there was
rarely a way to actually prove anything.

Instead, the enemies of the people were allowed to hide behind those
antiquated rules of justice, which were all written by dick
wielding enemies of the feminist revolution! In other words, the
innocence of the accused is more proof that they are clever and crafty
traitors working to undermine the revolution. It’s why every college
campus has a Title IX officer now. These tinpot Torquemadas exist to
circumvent justice in order to champion the cause of the just.

This too has echos of the French Revolution. The Jacobins sent what were
essentially ideological enforcers out into the provinces. They
sent Representatives on Mission to watch the generals in the
field. During the Terror, Robespierre turned on his former friends, the
Girondins, but making his case against them in open court became
difficult. The solution was to find them guilty first and then worry
about other stuff later. Nothing could stand in the way of the virtuous,
as they furthered the cause of the revolution.

It is this toxic atmosphere that encourages the rape hoaxes that have
become a feature of campus life. The gyno-revolution is not only short
of enemies to persecute, it is short of victims too. That’s why a
patently ridiculous story like the Rolling Stone hoax goes unchallenged
for so long. It’s not just that these fanatics want to believe it. They
have to believe it as to do otherwise means questioning the premise of
the revolution and that is a good way to have your life ruined.

It is foolish to think that the Feds will ever find the balls to repeal
Title IX or even scale back its scope. One reason feminist nutters are
going berserk in the streets is in order to inoculate themselves to the
Trumpian reform efforts. The answer will come in the Federal courts as
more victims of the Title IX Terror press their case and win judgments.
A few fines and the revolution is over. It’s a terrible way to solve the
problem, but
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assemblywomen" target="_blank">it
is what happens when you put women in charge of anything</a>.
