---
title: "The New Romantics"
date: "2017-11-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12154"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12154"
---

One of the forces pushing the alt-right along is a rejection of the
modern, sterile aesthetic that is the technological age. This seems to
be especially true of the younger millennials and Gen Z. They grew up in
a world of glass and stainless steel, smooth edges and shades of gray.
This is also an age that rejects spontaneity. It is why popular culture
is so dull and feminine. There is a drugged dullness to our age. It is
not a rational age, for sure, more like an unromantic age.

That is part of the appeal of the new dissident politics. There is a
danger to showing up at alt-right rallies or associating with hate
thinkers on social media. Men, especially young men, like adventure. For
the generations raised by helicopter parents, thought police and
sensitivity training, the danger of the alt-right is attractive.
Breaking taboos and standing outside the herd is exhilarating, but the
associated brotherhood fills a void the custodial state created in young
men. It is not just fun to be bad, it is liberating.

We seem to be at the confluence of two forces acting on our societies.
One is the hyper-feminization we see everywhere. There are few public
places where men can be themselves or hold a dominant place. In fact,
any sphere of life that is male oriented is under pressure to bring in
girls. Even things like sports are forcibly integrated. We live in an
age where elites want to put girls on football teams and in the boxing
ring. Modern life is covered in a wool blanket, drenched with the fetid
waters of feminism.

The other force is mass media. If you examine modern movies, one of the
odd things is that many are in celebration of old weird America. Boston,
for example, became a popular setting for movies, but almost always the
old Boston of ethnic neighborhoods. Mass media allows young people a
glimpse of the old lost age. They can see a time where the South was
still rural and mysterious, the Northeast had tribal ethnics and Los
Angeles still had Americans. For the young, old America feels like a
foreign country.

The point here is that we are now at a time, at least from the
perspective of a young male, where America is a feminine and deracinated
society. For those of us who have lived through this transformation, it
may be depressing, but it is not jarring. We saw the changes over time.
We heard the warnings of those commentators on the Old Right and we saw
those warnings ignored. It is like driving a new car for ten years. You
know it is old and you remember when it was new, but you also remember
everything in between.

Young people lack that middle part. They came into a world disconnected
from the old world they can still see on TV or in movies. For young
white males, increasingly alienated from the modern culture, it is not a
big surprise that they would look backward for examples of how to move
forward. Spend time following alt-right social media, and you see lots
of references to the fact that the current culture is degraded and ugly.
The past had true diversity, while present is a homogenized, degenerate
slurry of nothingness.

[This interesting story from the Guardian
UK,](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/nov/10/compromises-compromise-merkel-generation-reinvents-german-romanticism)
about something similar happening in Germany, suggests this could be a
pan-Western phenomenon. The difference is that it is still possible to
be a famous intellectual in Europe. You can also be famous as a writer
of fiction, read by men. In the US, public intellectuals are chattering
skulls on cable TV, who spit out vapid platitudes approved by the people
in charge. Literature, of course, is now dominated by women, so it has
no point and no audience, outside the academy.

That said, Europe and America have something in common. Young males,
disconnected from the culture, are searching for something to give
purpose to their lives. A common refrain on the alt-right is about the
uselessness of being a wage slave in a cubicle farm, just so you can buy
useless crap from global corporations. That seems to be a theme of the
new romanticism bubbling up in Europe. It is young people, particularly
young males, reaching back to an age before they were born, for
inspiration and purpose.

The Guardian piece is quick to point out the connections between German
Romanticism and you know who. That brings up a big difference between
the US and Europe. Germans are not about to become minorities in their
own country. The same is true of the rest of Europe. In the US, whites
will be a minority in a generation. The cultural phenomenon may have
many parallels today, but in the fullness of time they will head off in
different directions. It is why the alt-right is less artsy than the new
European romantics.

All in all, what we are seeing is validation of an age old truth. One of
the top-level duties of a ruling class is to keep its young men busy.
Too many alienated and idle young men always spell trouble. What has
happened in the West is the ruling elite has deliberately pushed men out
of the social order. The follow on act was to invite in millions of
foreigners to gloat over the deracinated male population. There are only
so many mixed race couples you can see on TV before you get the message.

This will not end well
