---
title: "Fake News"
date: "2017-06-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10668"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10668"
---

I think I may have watched a grand total of one NBA game this past
season. The games are not geared for middle-aged white guys. The game
has been changed over the years to value running and jumping over
teamwork and developed skills. The result is that basketball looks a lot
like track and field, rather than a skills game. That’s not a moral
argument, just a factual observation. I do follow the game through the
stat sheet, as it is a good study of human bio-diversity and not just
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7805" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">what is on the court</a>.

The other aspect of the NBA that makes it interesting to me is the
conduct of the sports media covering the NBA. It is a good model for
understanding what has happened to the mainstream media, particularly
with regards to politics. The NBA press does very little reporting.
There are still game summaries posted on-line and box scores, but those
are churned out by interns and robots. The professional NBA journalist
does no actual reporting, Instead, he talks about story lines,
personalities and other sport reporters.

The recent NBA draft is a good example. Every year the “reporters” claim
it is going to be a wild week of trades and deals. Then they spend the
week talking about rumors that are made up by other reporters. Those
rumors are often just about rumors. It is not unusual to see a story
about how it is rumored that a trade was rumored to have been mentioned
by someone. Meta-news is news about news. The NBA is now doing news and
rumors about rumors. That’s meta-meta-rumor-news, I guess.

The reason for all this is the news media no longer bothers to uphold
any of its alleged standards. It was not that long ago that editors
required two sources that were actual human beings with a credible claim
to know the material. Newspapers might bend this rule, but they never
went with copy that contained sources unknown to the editor. That’s no
longer the case as editors no long exist in sufficient numbers to police
it and the remaining ones simply don’t care. Anything goes so its all
fake sources now.

Sports reporters have never been terribly bright or hard working so they
have responded to this breakdown in order by doing what comes natural.
Instead of working hard to get good stories, they make up semi-plausible
stories with fake sources. An NBA trade, for example, will involve two
or three people talking by phone. Yet, we’re supposed to believe that
some guy at ESPN was then briefed on it by one of the parties. Even more
absurd, we’re supposed to believe some blogger “broke” the story. Yeah,
right.

The bigger issue though is something that happened in the Jordan years.
It has been thrown down the memory hole, but Jordan decided the way to
help black sports reporters was to give them exclusive access and deny
access to honkies. Guys like Ahmad Rashad and Michael Wilbon were given
special access. This made their careers, but it also ushered in the era
of access journalism. Players granted access to reporters who were
willing to sing their praises in their columns and on TV shows.

Something similar happened around the same time in Washington politics.
The Clinton machine was ruthless in controlling the media. They would
shutout reporters that did not play ball. There’s always been some of
this, as people are naturally going to be nice to those who are nice to
them and not so nice to people they see as adversaries. The difference
was, the Clinton team turned this into a formal policy and the
Washington press corp went along with it. They liked being treated like
players so they acted accordingly.

The Bush people could not play the same game, as the Washington media is
universally liberal, but they did a little bit of it with operations
like Fox and the talk radio guys. Rich Lowry of National Review
remodeled the magazine to be a GOP mouth piece for exactly this reason.
It gave them access to Republicans. The Weekly Standard largely existed
as a public relations vehicle for the Bush family. Much of what has gone
wrong with Buckley Conservatism is due to the perils of access
journalism.

This is why we see the explosion of fake news. The NBA guys want access
or at least the illusion of access. To that end, they tweet out rumors
and fake news in the hope of getting a reply from an agent or front
office guy. That way they can then shoot down their own rumor or fake
news with an actual quote from a real person. “After talking with person
X, I can now report that the rumor I reported is false.” Fake news about
rumors produces gossip that is eventually addressed by a real person in
the news.

That seems to be what’s going on Washington with all the fake news. No
one in the Washington media bothered to develop contacts in the Trump
team. Instead, they mocked and harassed them through the campaign,
figuring they were currying favor with the Clinton people. Now, they
have no access so they create fake stories hoping to get a response from
the Trump people. In lieu of real reporting, it is provocative fake
reporting in the hope of gaining access to real people in the Trump
White House.

Now, that’s not to say it is all innocent. Clearly, the major fake news
organizations are fully converged, as Vox Day would put it. They are so
in the tank for the one true faith, they now resemble a UFO cult. The
point of their fake news campaign is to discredit the Trump people.
Still, this is the logical result of access journalism. When the path to
fame and glory is getting exclusive access to a powerful person, it is
no surprise that the media has now turned itself into a PR firm for the
rich and powerful.
