---
title: "Essential Knowledge: Part VII"
date: "2017-03-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9808"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9808"
---

The great events of Western history almost always revolve around a
revolution or a great war, where the nation, or even the West as a
whole, comes out the other side as something radically different. The
most obvious recent example is the first half of the 20<sup>th</sup>
century, where Europe went in as a collection of empires and kingdoms
and emerged as a collection of vassal states. Wars and revolutions are
more often than not the result of a slow build up of pressure, like two
tectonic plates bumping into one another.

The resulting earthquake reconfigured the map of Europe, not just
geographically, but culturally and spiritually. The European culture of
the 19th century was obliterated and replaced by a bland servitude
culture. The impact of those two industrial wars was so immense that
even today, Europe is afraid to stand up for itself in the face of a
migrant onslaught. Anything that smacks of nationalism sends chills up
the spines of Europe’s elite, as they remain in the shadow of the great
wars of the last century.

One way to approach history is to treat the wars and revolutions like
hubs from which radiate out spokes of history. Some spokes extend into
the past, reaching back to antecedents that led up to the great event.
The Great War, for example, was in no small part the result of the
unification of Germany. Other spokes head of laterally, setting off
events in other countries. The French Revolution, for example, had a
great influence on the Bolsheviks, who studied the Jacobins and built on
their tactics.

The first big upheaval on the list is the English Civil War. Most
everyone knows about Oliver Cromwell, but the consequences of the war
between the Roundheads and Cavaliers is still with us, particularly in
America. One of the more popular recent books is from Peter Ackroyd, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Rebellion-History-England-Glorious-Revolution/dp/1250070244/ref=sr_1_5?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1489090403&amp;sr=1-5&amp;keywords=oliver+cromwell"
target="_blank">Rebellion: The History of England from James I to the
Glorious Revolution</a>. For those with short attention spans, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/English-Civil-War-History-Beginning/dp/1537585177/"
target="_blank">this booklet</a> is actually a pretty good summary. If
you like podcasts,
<a href="http://www.revolutionspodcast.com/" target="_blank">Mike
Duncan’s Revolutions Podcast</a> is a good choice.

The key figure is Oliver Cromwell. He is a remarkable guy in many ways,
but for Americans he casts a particularly long shadow. That’s because
his spiritual followers landed in New England. The reason the University
of Virginia has a Cavalier as its mascot is because of the English Civil
War. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Oliver-Cromwell-Rule-Puritans-England/dp/1533187150"
target="_blank">Oliver Cromwell and the Rule of the Puritans in
England</a> is a pretty good treatment. If you are really serious about
knowing the mind of Cromwell, then you can read <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Cromwells-Letters-Speeches-Elucidations-Carlyle/dp/1402177232/"
target="_blank">his collected letters and speeches</a>.

That brings us to the American Revolutionary War. The challenge here is
in finding books that are not myth making or nonsense histories. One way
around this is to focus on the key people and read biographies of
them. It’s hard to write historical figures into the modern narrative,
because historians tend to be covetous of the figures they have studied
and they are quick to criticize attempts to remake historical figures.
Plus, seeing the event through the eyes of the participants adds another
perspective.

<a
href="https://www.amazon.com/James-Madison-Making-America-Gutzman/dp/125002319X/"
target="_blank">James Madison and the Making of America</a> is a great
place to start. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Autobiography-Benjamin-Franklin-Thrift-Editions/dp/0486290735/"
target="_blank">Ben Franklin’s autobiography</a> is a must read. Of
course, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Thomas-Paine-Collected-Writings-Common/dp/1543261744/"
target="_blank">Thomas Paine’s writings</a> are also a must read because
they were instrumental in two great revolutions. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/John-Adams-David-McCullough/dp/0743223136/"
target="_blank">John Adams</a> is a giant from the period. Of course, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Thomas-Jefferson-Power-Jon-Meacham/dp/0812979486/"
target="_blank">Thomas Jefferson</a> is another giant. An interesting
book on two critical figures is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Adopted-Son-Washington-Friendship-Revolution/dp/0553804359/"
target="_blank">Adopted Son: Washington, Lafayette, and the Friendship
that Saved the Revolution</a>. The serendipitous combination of
Lafayette and Washington is a great story.

Interestingly, several of the key figures in the American Revolution
played key roles in the next great upheaval in the West, the French
Revolution. This is a huge topic with libraries full of books on it. For
a straightforward chronology of events, a book from 25 years ago is a
good choice. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Citizens-Chronicle-Revolution-Simon-Schama/dp/0679726101/"
target="_blank">Citizens: A Chronicle of the French Revolution</a>. It’s
a little dry, but it covers the basics without a lot of gratuitous
commentary. Another older book is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Oxford-History-French-Revolution/dp/019925298X/"
target="_blank">The Oxford History of the French Revolution</a>. There’s
also <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/French-Revolution-Very-Short-Introduction/dp/0192853961/"
target="_blank">a short version</a>.

Again, reading about the people is a great way to get a feel for these
important events and no one is more associated with the French
Revolution than Maximilian Robespierre.<a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Fatal-Purity-Robespierre-French-Revolution/dp/0805082611/"
target="_blank"> Fatal Purity: Robespierre and the French Revolution</a>
is a good study of the guy who was arguably the West’s first fanatic.
The second political fanatic would then be Jean Paul Marat. There are
not a lot of good biographies of Marat. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Jean-Paul-Marat-Revolution-Revolutionary/dp/0745331939/"
target="_blank">This is the only one</a> I know of, but you can probably
learn enough about him from general histories of the revolution.

Yes, Burke’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Reflections-Revolution-France-Edmund-Burke/dp/1617206709"
target="_blank">Reflections on the Revolution in France</a> is a must
read.

The next big event, particularly for Americans, is the American Civil
War. Readers of this blog will know that the long shadow of this war is
a regular topic on the Dissident Right. Like the American Revolution,
the volume of books on the topic is endless. The thing to keep in mind
is that history is written by the victors, so, many books on the subject
are really about modern topics. The go to source therefore is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Civil-War-Volumes-1-3-Box/dp/0394749138/"
target="_blank">Shelby Foote and his three volume series on the Civil
War</a>. It’s long, but it covers everything and it is easy to read.

The official history is that the Civil War was about slavery and the
North was forced to go to war in order to end it, but history is written
by the victors. The root cause was mostly the abolitionist movement. For
a view of the abolitionists, from the Left, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Midnight-Rising-Brown-Sparked-Civil/dp/0312429266/"
target="_blank">Midnight Rising: John Brown and the Raid That Sparked
the Civil War</a> is a good book written by and for the Progressive
audience. Modern historians blame the never ending trouble with race on
the failure of Reconstruction. Eric Foner’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Reconstruction-Americas-Unfinished-Revolution-1863-1877/dp/0060158514/"
target="_blank">Reconstruction: America’s Unfinished Revolution</a> is
probably the best modern book on the topic.

Finally, the last big event to cast a shadow on our age is the Russian
Revolution. This is a funny one because in the fullness of time, the
Bolshevik Revolution may fade away as a seminal event in Western
history. Communism is dead and the Cold War is over, but understanding
the Cold War, and its warping effect on the West, starts with knowing
about the Soviets. A good book from twenty years ago is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Peoples-Tragedy-Russian-Revolution-1891-1924/dp/014024364X/"
target="_blank">A People’s Tragedy: The Russian Revolution:
1891-1924</a>. It’s 800 pages, but it covers everything.
