---
title: "The End of Diversity"
date: "2017-05-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Moonbats
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10233"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10233"
---

The other day, I was chatting with a business acquaintance in San
Francisco. He was unburdening himself about a project that had lingered
on for too long. Apparently the contractor he was using gave him what he
asked for, but not what he wanted. He was going around and around with
them, but they are located in Asia so it was a big hassle for him. He
had to stay up late to talk with them because of the time difference
and, of course, he had to go through the endless haggling that comes
with using Asian firms.

He did not say it, but I suspected he had a cultural issue as well. I
helpfully pointed out that Asian solutions are not American solutions.
Anyone who has done business with the Chinese or Indians knows they have
a very different way of looking at things. For South Asians, a solution
is whatever meets the letter of the request or whatever gets you off the
phone. The Chinese will tell you whatever you want to hear. It’s not
lying as they don’t have enough respect for you to tell a lie. It’s
dismissal through deception.

Anyway, I pointed out the cultural issue and the guy literally gasped.
If he had pearls, he would have clutched them. He started sputtering
about how he had “the same problem with” and then he would sputter
again. He could not say the word “white” or “American” so I volunteered
“white” just for kicks.The way he was carrying on, you would have
thought I said “Hitler was right! Gas the Jews!” It was crazy to see
someone having a physical reaction to my noticing diversity.

We have come full circle in the last 30 years. In my youth, the Boomer
Progs preached tolerance to us. My first class in college, on the first
day, I was harangued by a little French girl, telling all of us about
how America was a racist and sexist society. Americans were intolerant!
The Boomer Prog teacher nodded along until I foolishly pointed out that
the word tolerance means to put up with something you don’t like.
Therefore, the little French girl was telling me she did not like black
people, but was willing to put up with them.

In my first adult job, I was sent off to what they called sensitivity
training. Tolerance was now a bad-think word and sensitivity was the
good-think word. My hunch was everyone figured out what I found to be
obvious in college, with regards to tolerance. Even so, the implications
of all the sensitivity talk was that anyone not a white male was prone
to weird behavior and opinions. We had to be sensitive to this fact. It
also meant treading lightly around them as they were easily offended and
traumatized.

Eventually, of course, the Progs figured out that this was a loser so
they moved onto celebrating diversity. Unlike tolerance or sensitivity,
diversity has the benefit of putting everyone on the same level. One
race is as good as another. Men and women can do all the same things.
All cultures are the same. Modern life was going to be a celebration of
the beauty and variety of life! Well, except the white parts. White
people suck and they better keep their heads down, especially you,
honky-man.

I suppose it is no surprise that the Progs are now freaking out about
anyone noticing diversity. After all, the next stop on the train from
celebrating differences is noticing differences, like the fact that
South Asian engineers tend to have a strange narrowness that causes
them to miss the big picture. Indian engineers will literally build a
road off a cliff if that’s what the spec says to do. That’s why my
acquaintance nearly had a stroke when I admitted to noticing this.
Noticing is the gateway drug that leads to judging.

The internal incoherence of multiculturalism means that they will
forever have to be dashing about in an effort to keep
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zhoos1oY404"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the plates spinning</a>. One
day we’re celebrating diversity and the next day we’re stoning a heretic
for noting that people are different. The reason is there’s no getting
around the fact that humans are just as susceptible to evolutionary
pressure as every other creature. Human evolution was copious, recent
and local, which means people in different places have different
physical and cognitive traits.

It’s hard to know where they go from here. In Europe, even the most
unhinged nutters in the ruling class have stopped celebrating diversity.
In the US, a few crackpots like that dunce Elizabeth Warren will babble
in public about the glories of diversity. All the signs point to them
dropping this as their signature issue. At the same time, the new
catchphrase “scientific racism” to describe the human sciences is
ominous. It’s not hard to imagine mobs of Birkenstock-clad lunatics
smashing up biology labs.

It would be ironic if Progressives meet their demise at the hand of
science. After all, Progs have been using science as a weapon against
Christianity and local customs for as long as anyone has been alive. It
has been their go-to move in the culture war. <a
href="https://static1.squarespace.com/static/524dc5c5e4b09484086fc271/t/54fdf891e4b0705d03291c87/1425930386200/bill3.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Smug idiots</a> on late night
TV still smirk about how they are on the side of science, despite the
fact they cannot count their balls twice and come up with the same
number. It would be poetic if Progressivism crumpled and collapsed as it
ran into the reality of biological science.
