---
title: "The Blinkered Class"
date: "2017-05-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10275"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10275"
---

Since the 1960’s, maybe earlier, the American academy has said that
America is an anti-intellectual country. I first heard this said when I
was a freshman in college. A professor said that America does not have
academics or experts in politics like Europeans. Instead, intellectuals
are kept locked up in the academy. This opinion appears to have formed
in the post war years and became an article of faith in the 60’s. This
was all before my time, but it strikes me as something the Boomers would
have cooked up.

I always associate this attitude with the false worldliness that is
common on the Left, particularly among Progressive politicians.The
Clintons were two hayseeds from the Ozarks, but they carried on as if
they were citizens of the world. Obama has a habit of pronouncing
foreign words with the foreign accent associated with the word. He was
raised abroad and never picked up the basics of another language, just
the funny accents, like a bad comic from the 70’s.

Americans are anti-intellectual, but very much pro-expert. Foreigners
often remark on this weird quirk, which is an English habit we inherited
from the mother country. The Brits are nuts about experts. Have a
problem around the house? Go find a man in a shed, who is a specialist
at that particular problem. We have a bias against generalist and we
have bias in favor of the practical application of knowledge. Learning a
bunch of esoteric stuff just for the sake of learning it strikes most
Americans as a bit pointless and dishonest.

When it comes to the topic of anti-intellectualism, the focus should be
on the chattering classes, which in America operates as the megaphone
for public policy experts. The vast managerial class that controls all
aspects of society listens to these people. Most Americans, for example,
don’t bother watching the chat shows and cable news channels, other than
when something big happens. On the other hand, the managerial class,
particularly the vast army of government bureaucrats, pay close
attention.

It’s why the chattering skulls appear to live in a bubble, divorced from
what is happening in America. Their lives are devoted to those who pay
attention to them. They write and talk about what they know to people
who live and work in politics. It’s why Charles Murray is treated like
Marco Polo by the managerial class. He is one of the few to wander off
campus and visit the country. His observations about Americans are read
like Jonathan Swift, by the intended audience. Most probably think he is
a fiction writer.

This obtuseness is everywhere in the chattering classes. <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/447478/tribalism-rising-us-martin-center-article"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This pos</a>t I saw on NR
reads like a parody. The guy who wrote it gives off a Rip Van
Winkle vibe, as if he has been asleep for the last few decades. The PC
terror campaigns waged in corporations and on social media are well
documented. The people in the chattering classes, on the other hand, are
just noticing. The article that is the subject of the post is worse. It
reads like an essay for the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_management"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Efficiency Society</a>.
Someone should send him <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/SJWs-Always-Lie-Taking-Thought-ebook/dp/B014GMBUR4"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Vox Day’s book</a>.

<a
href="https://pjmedia.com/ronradosh/2017/05/12/time-for-conservatives-and-republicans-to-stand-up-to-trump/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a>, by the retired
Marxist Ron Radosh, is another example of the insularity of the
chattering classes. He is long past his expiry date so maybe he can be
forgiven for not noticing that those “conservatives” are not
conservative. They are Trotskyites just like him. They wandered over to
the GOP because they feared the return of the Tsar, but otherwise, they
retained all of their Progressive inclinations. The only people unaware
of this are those in the chattering classes.

It is not just the B and C level talking heads. <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-05-11/what-democrats-won-t-admit-about-voters-and-health-care"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> by big shot
libertarian economist Tyler Cowen is a master work of juvenile vacuity.
His great insight is that people don’t like paying for their own health
care. He thinks Democrats are refusing to acknowledge this. Everything
about the Democrat Party over the last century has been based on the
free lunch, yet Cowen suspects they are trying to hide this from
us. Cowen is a sheep in sheep’s clothing, by posing as an intellectual
pretending to be an anti-intellectual.

Wu Zetian is credited with expanding and developing the imperial exam
system during the Zhou dynasty. Wu could also be considered the first
power-skirt, or perhaps the first power-gown. The exam system was used
to recruit and train the best and brightest to work in the imperial
administration. During the Song dynasty, the system was formalized
throughout China. It was highly competitive, as it was the only way for
an ambitious person to gain status in Chinese society. China became a
land of scholar-bureaucrats.

The system also became increasing narrow, rewarding the memorization of
select philosophical texts, to the exclusion of more practical
knowledge. The result was a boiling off of the curious and critical. The
one sure way to lose your place was to ask questions or be too curious.
The system was great at promoting and enforcing conformity, but it
resulted in a ruling class lacking the necessary technical skills to
constructively address the world. It resulted in a ruling class that
prized not noticing above all else.

A good example of how this warped the Chinese intellectual class, is the
story of the first telescope brought to China by Western missionaries.
The Chinese were duly impressed, but instead of using to understand the
heavens, they wanted to use it for better fortune telling. This story is
often cited as an example of how centuries of mandatory conformity can
cripple an otherwise smart people. It is also often cited by modern
population geneticist as an example of what is happening today with
genetics.

Pulling the threads together, what seems to be happening in our
chattering classes, and our academic classes as well, is a narrowing of
thought to the point where the most prized ability is never looking up
from the approved text. You cannot comment about the fly on your
friend’s face if you never look at his face. In order to achieve unity
and collegiality, our managerial class is adopting a monocular political
ideology that screens out applicants at the college level, and boils off
non-conformists, who slip by the gate keepers.

Again, it is ironic that the person credited with the imperial exam
system was a woman, given that the modern exam system is increasingly
dominated by women. It used to be that college was for men to acquire
skills. Now it is a place for women to learn the rules and how to
enforce them. It’s not a surprise that our intellectuals, the chattering
classes, are increasingly blinkered. Rare is the scholar who possess
anything resembling useful skills. Instead, they memorize the rules and
how to cleverly restate them.

The imperial exam system served China well, but only after she conquered
all of her neighbors and unified the Han people. The system was about
locking in the gains of the past. What that says about the modern
managerial class is open to debate. Perhaps they are solidifying control
as globalism supersedes the nation state. Perhaps, like we see in modern
business, the arrival of the SJW signals collapse. Regardless, we seem
to be heading for anti-intellectualism, driven by the product of the
managerial exam system.
