---
title: "The Mid-Wife Crisis"
date: "2017-07-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10736"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10736"
---

Here’s an anecdote to consider. In my most recent travels, I was told by
friends about a woman we know. She is about to leave her husband, who we
also know. The two of them are in their mid-to-late-40’s and their
children are teenagers. The man is just a normie, who was happy to live
his live as a conventional man. His wife, in contrast, had sampled the
narcotic of feminism in college. In marriage, she went from being a
college feminist to being a petite bourgeoisie feminist, living in a
comfortable suburb.

The women who never move past college feminism tend toward a strange
hypocrisy in married life. They adopt the lifestyle of
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/June_Cleaver" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">June Cleaver</a>, but rant and rave about women’s issue
to anyone unfortunate enough to be within earshot. During elections, for
example, they are sure that some candidate is plotting to stuff their
uterus with Bibles and sew their legs shut. They also over-indulge in
the artsy lifestyle. The women in question was into local theater and
visual arts, aping the modern carny aesthetic.

In the case of this particular woman, it also meant embracing the latest
Progressive lunacies. Her daughter declared herself a lesbian in high
school and is now demanding everyone pretend she is a male. One son was
put on female hormones, even though he displayed no signs of insanity.
It’s child abuse, of course, but it is the latest thing for middle-aged
feminist loonies. Of course, she has gone overboard into social
activism, almost all of which revolves around the crotch. Feminism is
mostly a crotch fetish now.

We tend to think of feminism as a young woman’s game, but the real
damage done to society is by the middle-aged feminists. They are like
the post-graduate drug dealers that hang around high school kids,
offering them booze and drugs. Not content with having thrown their own
lives away, they give meaning to their lives by helping the next
generation destroy itself. That’s the modern feminist. Her singular
purpose is to pass the virus onto the next generation, while
simultaneously ruining the lives of her peers.

When you step back from the rhetoric, feminism has always been a tantrum
against biological reality. Nature has assigned narrow roles to the
sexes. Men are wired to mate as often as possible with as many females
as possible. Women, in contrast, are built to select a high status male
and keep him around for protection of themselves and their off-spring.
The pair-bonding we see outside of sub-Saharan Africa is a delicate
balance that requires a complex social structure to maintain. Feminism
is a tirade against this reality.

The reason feminism may have such a strong effect on middle-aged women
is a combination of biological reality and modern youth culture. Women
usually start having their babies in their mid-20’s. Some wait longer,
but by mid-30’s most women are done with babies. This means that
middle-aged women, like the one discussed at the start, coming to the
end of their biological road in their 40’s. They created life and
brought it to the point where it can take care of itself, so hey no
longer have an obvious role.

That’s one half. The other half and maybe the real cause of this late
onset lunacy we call feminism, is youth culture. Everyone feels the cold
shoulder of our youth obsessed modern societies. For the longest time,
men were accused of having mid-life crises, where they would get in
better physical shape, buy a sports car and maybe trade the old lady in
for a younger model. This is not all wrong, Most men reading this who
are over 40 know exactly what this means. You’re no longer young and it
kinda sucks, but you deal with it.

Women have a much more difficult problem in our modern youth culture.
Men can still get women well into their old age. All they need is money
and just enough to impress a younger women. There’s a reason old rich
guys have young hot wives or girlfriends. Just ask our president about
that. Old guys can still make babies too. I know a few men who started
having kids in their late 40’s. Their wives were in their early 30’s.
Put less delicately, a man still has a reason to exist well into his old
age, socially and biologically.

The middle-aged woman therefore runs out of road in her 40’s and looks
around wondering why she is suddenly invisible. Young men are not
interested, even if she has money. Men her age are lusting after young
flesh. That’s the biology. Then there is the fact that there’s no longer
an important social role for women in their middle years. In a prior
age, a woman would enter these years helping her children prepare
themselves for marriage and settled life. Today, those tasks are turned
over to schools and pop culture.

Feminism, at least for middle-aged women, may simply be a manifestation
of the mid-life crisis. These females are like wasps in fall. The queen
wasp has stopped laying eggs and the males are no longer needed to
gather food for the hive. So, they go a bit bonkers and that’s why every
public trash barrel has a million wasps around it. They have a brief
orgy of self-indulgence before they die. Middle-aged women, finding
themselves with no obvious purpose, take up the mania of feminism. It is
their mid-wife crisis.
