---
title: "Cars"
date: "2017-01-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9347"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9347"
---

<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-truth-about-cars/"
target="_blank">This post</a> on Sailer’s site the other day struck a
chord with me. I’m beginning the process of buying a car so I have been
thinking a lot about cars of late. I truly hate the car buying
experience for a number of reasons. The biggest one is that it feels
like a waste of time. The dealership model is a carryover from a bygone
era when a man would spend a lot of time on purchases. Most of us buy
on-line now so walking car lots looking for the right car just feels
like a time suck to me.

That last bit reveals a bit of reality with regards to how societies
work. The car selling business has been immune to change and it has a
lot to do with the political power of car dealers. Tesla found that out
when they wanted to sell cars in New Jersey. The state had a law
requiring car makers to have a dealership in the state in order to sell
cars. Tesla finally got the state to yield, but they had to bribe half
of Trenton to do it. Car dealers are a powerful lobby in every state and
they use their influence to make life tough on anyone with new ideas.

That Sailer post reminded me of something I have noticed among my
friends and acquaintances, as I have got into car shopping. It is a very
emotional subject. For instance, I’ve asked people for their
recommendations and to a man they have refused. I always get something
like “You need to test drive them and pick the one you like.” The
alternative to this is to just change the subject entirely. It’s as if
there is a taboo against giving anyone advice on cars.

I think the reason for the reluctance is two-fold. One is people still
view their car as an extension of themselves. If they recommend a car
and you reject it, it is as if you told them they have bad taste. On the
other side of it, thinking it is an emotional experience, people don’t
want to talk you into something you may come to hate. Alternatively, the
people I know may not give a damn about my new interest in cars or they
simply don’t like me very much. You can never be sure about these
things.

The other thing I see, something that turns up in the comments of car
posts like the Sailer one, is the car scold. Whenever someone starts
showing enthusiasm for buying or owning a car, car scold comes along to
tell them he thinks owning a car is a great burden that he suffers
through for the good of mankind. This guy has a lot in common with TV
scold and music scold. It’s as if enjoying life is such a great sin that
the righteous must always be letting everyone know they are in constant
pain.

There are, needless to say, a lot of these vinegar drinkers on the
right. It is an affectation and a silly one in my opinion. You have but
a short time on this earth. Making the most of it, including the fun
bits, strikes me as the heart of conservatism. It is the ultimate
acknowledgement of reality. Every man has his tastes, but if owning a
snappy car brings you pleasure, best of luck with it. I may not share
your passion, but I do share your desire to make the most of our time on
earth. What’s wrong with that?

The root of this, I suspect, is the dominance of the Left in American
culture. The neo-Puritan hags have been screeching at us about how form
must always follow function for so long we have lost our sense of style.
You see that in cars where the goal of designers is to make them more
aerodynamic and pack them with useful functions. The result is a fleet
of well-built cars that look like they came from East German film noir
during the Cold War. Our cars are ugly because inside, we have become an
ugly people.

If you doubt this, look at pics of parking lots from 40-50 years ago.
They were a carnival of colors, shapes and sizes. A person’s taste in
cars said something about him, a form of advertisement. A people
embracing life and its potential were out buying all sorts of cars in
all sorts of colors. We are now a people marching to the inevitable end
of our miserable existences so we buy cars that are suited for the task.
The top three car colors in America are black, grey and white, with dark
gray the top interior choice.

Now, one aspect of this self-loathing has been a focus on the
engineering of cars and that has resulted in some fantastic options. The
cars of my youth were better looking, but they were in no way better
built or better engineered. I test drove a Camaro SS the other day and
it was like flying a jet. It was fast as hell and so packed with
technology it is not accurate to call it a car. It is a transportation
platform. Last year I rented a Cadillac on a trip and I needed
ten minutes to figure out how to operate it. It is an amazing age.

Even so, we have become a cautious and frightened people, like herd
animals waiting to be processed. The sports car buyer in 1965 was
looking for risk. He wanted to rocket down the road in something that
was probably not entirely safe, but that was part of the thrill.
Today, sports cars are packed with safety features intended to let the
buyer know he can have the kind of fun that is permitted today. It is
part of the overall feminization of the West. Engineers today care about
you like a mother.

I saw the other day that a company now sells an add-on for cars that
allows parents to spy on their kids and even take control of the car,
from their smart phone. The ad is not all that clear on the particulars,
but it appears to be a GPS system that also provides some ability to
disable the car, sound the horn and flash the lights. That way, if your
son is out enjoying himself, you can put an end to it from your
couch. Nothing says freedom like having mom watch you as you make out
with your girl in the backseat.

The ultimate expression of this is the self-driving car. The quest to
take all the fun out of life, and all the risk, leads inevitably to the
nanny-state providing a ride service so that you not only get to your
destination safely, you get to the correct destination. People naturally
think the surveillance state will be Orwellian. No, it will be run by
Google and Apple, sold as a market solution to public safety. After all,
when it comes to your safety, we can’t let things like freedom, pleasure
and privacy get in the way. You’re too important to us!

In the end, that’s why I will be buying some sort of hot rod in the
coming weeks. I look around and see that the fun cars are only for the
Cloud People, while the rest of us will be stuck with the dreary
conveyance units. There are not many mid-priced sports cars on the
market. Toyota does not even have a fun car on offer. Neither does
Honda. I figure I better get a sports car before I’m too old and the
before the state decides, for my own good of course, that they are no
longer safe for Dirt People.

 

 
