---
title: "Pseudomorphosis"
date: "2017-08-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11288"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11288"
---

The standard narrative to explain post-WW2 America is that the nation
enjoyed the fruits of victory in the 1950’s, but then lurched into
social upheaval in the sixty’s, starting with the election of John
Kennedy. As a result, the Boomers get all the blame for the social
dysfunction that has been with us for more than 50 years. That is not
entirely fair as much of what happened was done by their parents. The
disaster of the Civil Rights Movement started in the fifty’s. The Great
Society was the early and mid-60’s.

Now, to the people who lived through the fifty’s and sixty’s, it
probably felt as if the youth simply went insane and tried to drag the
nation with them. Just as we are seeing today, it was the ruling elite
that went bonkers, abdicating their duties and letting their rotten kids
go berserk in the streets. That is the important part of it though. The
late 60’s and early 70’s were a multi-generational war on decency. The
youth rampaging through the streets, terrifying the white middle-class,
did so at the behest of their parents.

In this regard, the social upheaval we think of as “The 60’s” was a
*continuation* of a moral evolution in the Yankee elite, which started
in the prior century. In the 19th century, Yankee reformers had
Christianity as a limiting principle. This was largely true into the
early 20th century, but then following the Great War, the Yankee elite
lost its Christianity. Politics became a religion for Yankee reformers
and the nihilism of the 1960’s was the logical conclusion of it. The
Boomers have always been a dead end, as a result.

That is the thing that is increasingly clear as we see the death spasms
of Progressivism in our age. There is no building on Boomer culture. The
60’s are sold as the great achievement of the Baby Boom generation, but
in reality, it was a memorial to the Yankee ruling class. It is why
there has been no second act to the 60’s. What we see today looks like a
cargo cult, played out by a handful a mentally unstable youth, rounded
up from local skateboard parks and heroin dens. It is why the
Millennials are just useless whiners.

It is also why Generation Z is developing into something strangely
different than anyone has expected. As someone pointed out the other
day, this cohort is starting out far to the right of the rest of us. It
is not the vapid “muh constitution” style conservatism either. It is a
radical conservatism that has not been seen in a long time. They wildly
supported the two most anti-establishment candidates on offer in 2016.
It is not just a revolt against their parents rules either. It is a
reaction to their *pseudomorphosis.*

The concept of pseudomorphosis is one that Oswald Spengler developed as
a way of explaining partially manifested cultures. Specifically,
pseudomorphosis entails an older culture so deeply ingrained in a land
that a young culture cannot find its own form and full expression of
itself. This leads to the young energy and promise being channeled into
the old dead cultural forms. Like the animated corpses of a zombie
movie, this youth culture hates the body into which it has been forced
and rages against it and what made it.

That is what happened to the Baby Boom generation. They burst into the
world full of energy, only to find themselves into a fully developed and
completed American civilization. The old culture that built it was dying
off, but it had been so successful that the civilization it had built
was immune to modification by the post-war generations. As a result, all
that youthful energy went into the exercise of the power in the existing
institutions, but in a self-destructive rage against everything that
defined and created those institutions.

What appears to be happening with Generation Z is something quite
different from the superficial posing of youth in opposition to their
parents. This generation rejects the very core of what they inherited.
It is why, like the punks of the late-70’s, they adopt what the existing
civilization considers to be their antithesis. It is also why they
reject liberal politics and the institutions that spring from it. To the
young generation, egalitarianism and the universal franchise are the
problem, not a means to addressing the problem.

As is always the case with the young, there is not a well developed
culture at this stage, just the void that existing culture should have
filled. Since the old Yankee culture has died, something new is evolving
with the next generations. Out of necessity and convenience, it will
borrow the language and structures of the old culture, but only as raw
material for the new. The reason sites like Daily Stormer or The Right
Stuff have huge audiences of young white males has little to do with
ideology. It is the lack of ideology.

That is what is not so obvious about the so-called neo-Nazi and white
supremacist stuff that is associated with the alt-right. These symbols
and language clear the field of the old ideology and the old culture
that created it. It creates a clearing into which the next generations
can build their own culture and their own ideology. That may be why the
dying Left has reacted so violently to these relatively tiny groups.
They could have ignored the Unite the Right rally entirely and 99% of
Americans would never have known about it.

No one likes to be replaced. This is true at the individual level where
you see senile old geezers hang around Washington until death. It is
true of civilizations. The fire that animated them, the culture that
built them, may have gone out long ago, but the people living in their
accomplishments will fight to the bitter end. It is why all great
empires end in rubble. The old American culture, the one born after the
Civil War, reaching its zenith one hundred years later, will end in
rubble too, a rubble of their making.
