---
title: "No Footprints"
date: "2017-04-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9879"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9879"
---

In the 1980’s, companies like Lotus Development Corp were “growth”
companies, which meant they could not sell their products fast enough.
The PC revolution was in full swing and Lotus 1-2-3 was the killer, must
have, application. If you walked into their Cambridge headquarters, it
looked like a bomb went off because no one had time to be tidy. It was
all hands on deck to get product out the door. There were not a lot of
rules either. The game was to grow and that’s what mattered. All the
other corporate stuff was secondary.

That did not last. By the mid-90’s, the desktop computer market was
established and the default platform was Microsoft Windows, which meant
Microsoft Office. It was around this time that IBM was making a hostile
takeover bid, not because they wanted a growth company, but because
Lotus was becoming an asset company. That is, its value was no longer in
sales of its products, but in the value of its patents and technology.
IBM bought Lotus in order to squeeze every drop of juice from it and
then, eventually, toss it away.

That’s the modern economy in a nutshell.

The Technological Revolution is often compared to the Industrial
Revolution, because of the cultural impact. After the steam engine,
people did not just have better stuff. People were different. They lived
different and had different relationships to one another and their
rulers. A similar process is underway in the Technological Revolution.
Mass migration, the elimination of the middle-class and the end of
popular government are three obvious examples of changes wrought by the
technological age.

One difference between the Industrial Revolution and the Technological
Revolution is the trail of breadcrumbs each left behind, as it worked
its way through society. Today, Americans still drive over roads and
bridges built during the peak of the industrial age. Even though our
consumer goods are made by foreigners, they still use the same practices
the West developed for industry. Even in blighted cities, you can still
find old factory buildings that remind us of the past.

The technological age is a different animal. It tends to erase its own
footsteps. Lotus Development Corp is a good example. It was not just
that it lost the competition for desktop productivity software.
Everything about it was consumed and recycled. Walk around Cambridge
today and you cannot tell that Lotus even existed. The tech economy is a
soylent green economy. Once the utility of its creations are exhausted,
everything about it is consumed, erased from existence, as if people are
ashamed of it.

The billionaire, Mark Cuban made his first million selling software. He
worked as a salesman for a software store and then started his own
company, which he eventually sold. Then Cuban founded  Audionet, which
he sold to Yahoo for $2.6 billion. None of the companies Cuban started
exist. The companies that bought his companies are all gone now, with
Yahoo about to be swallowed up in a fire sale. Even the technologies he
championed are now long forgotten.

Unless he uses his billions to have his name carved onto a mountain,
Cuban will leave this world with nothing to show for himself, nothing
anyone can point to and say, “Mark Cuban built that.” It’s unlikely that
Cuban or any of the tech billionaires care about this. It is the way
they want it, or at least it appears that way. That explains their zeal
to erase our culture and replace it with a throw away version based in
nothing but a desire to squeeze a few more drops from the societies they
intend to throw away.

 

Whether you call it the technological age or the global age, these are
just polite terms for cosmopolitanism, scaled to the supranational. In
the city, you don’t build, you hustle. You don’t own, you rent. Nothing
is permanent because a stationary target is an easy target. Instead you
make what you can and you move onto the next thing. If you can shift the
burden onto someone else, all the better. That’s how the game is played
because in the city, everyone is a stranger.

That’s the new economy we are experiencing. No one thinks about the long
term, because that’s a sucker’s play. The money is in the short hustle,
You make your money and move on. The game is to pick the fruit, squeeze
out all the juice and then toss away the rest, leaving it for a sucker
to clean up later. The housing bubble is a good example. Everyone
involved knew it was a grift. They are too smart to not have known. The
game was to make money and not be the sucker left holding the bag.

I used to know someone who worked at Lotus in its heyday, so I had an
interest in the company from the early days. I recall the owners turning
up in local news a lot  and they were brimming with confidence. I wonder
if those folks from the glory days of Lotus don’t look back with sadness
at what happened to their company. They are rich men and did very well
for themselves after Lotus, but still. I bet they would trade a lot to
be able to walk past their old building with their old sign still over
the door.

I could be all wrong and maybe they have long forgotten about their old
firm. Maybe all those people simply made their money and moved on to the
next thing. Men have lived their lives in order to be remembered since
the dawn of time. Maybe as the Industrial Revolution resulted in
different people and different social arrangements, this age is doing
the same and the new man of the new economy is just a stranger passing
through, uninterested in leaving footprints for future generations to
examine.
