---
title: "Theories Of The Crime"
date: "2017-12-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12246"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12246"
---

The recent developments in the so-called Russian hacking case have
proven that it was never about Russia. It was about “other stuff.” This
seemed obvious for a while, but now we know for sure. The two main
figures singled out as part of some conspiracy to do something with the
Russians, were found to have done nothing with the Russians. They have
been charged with unrelated crimes. The public statements of Robert
Mueller make clear that he is not investigating Russian involvement in
the election.

This was not hard to figure out. I posted about
this [here](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11660) and
[here](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11804). The chants of “Russian
hacking” from the Clinton camp were always ridiculous. [Lots of foreign
governments](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d4/Flag_of_Israel.svg)
meddle in our elections. That is not new. What they are not doing,
because it cannot be done, is “hacking” the election. Instead, the
public information has always supported the idea that the people
involved in this probe were trying to hide something. The question is
what are they trying to hide and why would they go to these lengths?

So, what is going on?

The first thing to note is that all of the recent scandals seem to
include one of the people now involved in the probe into the mythical
Russian hacking stuff. [Robert Mueller was the delivery boy in the
Uranium One
deal](https://www.snopes.com/hillary-clinton-robert-mueller-uranium/).
He delivered a uranium sample to the Russians on behalf of the United
States government. He then handled the investigation of the shenanigans
around the Clinton Foundation and the money that came in from Russian
sources, just around the time when Hillary was pushing the Uranium One
deal.

Of course, Mueller was the mentor of James Comey, who took over for
Mueller as head of the FBI. Comey is one of those guys you see in
Washington, who is a lot like the career assistant coach that finally
gets to be head coach. Everyone loved him as the second banana and
assumed he would be a great top banana. He gets the top job and
suddenly, everyone realizes why he was a career assistant. Comey’s main
role was in the Hillary Clinton e-mail scandal, which [he managed to
botch in ways no one
imagined](http://www.cnn.com/2017/12/04/politics/peter-strzok-james-comey/index.html).

Comey’s blundering is reminiscent of Janet Reno. The Clintons picked her
to run Justice because she was stupid, incurious and easily controlled
by assistants. Reno was never bright enough to realize that her
assistants were making sure she never asked the wrong questions or
looked in the wrong places. That seems to be the role Comey played in
the last years of the Obama administration. He staggered around thinking
he was being the good citizen, when in reality he was being controlled
by political operatives in the FBI.

Then there is the infamous “dodgy dossier” that was cooked up by a firm
called Fusion GPS. This firm is run by former Wall Street Journal
reporters. They exist to do opposition research for the political class.
What we know is the [Clinton campaign paid
them](https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-coming-russia-bombshells-1509059214)
for something. [The NeverTrump loons paid
them](https://www.wsj.com/articles/conservative-publication-hired-fusion-gps-to-research-trump-other-candidates-1509153787)
for something. [The FBI relied on
them](http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/byron-york-after-trump-dossier-revelation-fbi-is-next/article/2638540) to
justify their Russia probes. We also know [they are fighting Congress
tooth and
nail](http://dailycaller.com/2017/11/03/fusion-gps-and-house-intel-committee-renew-battle-over-bank-records/)
to prevent any of this being exposed to sunlight. [So is the DOJ for
some
reason](http://www.cnn.com/2017/12/03/politics/justice-department-house-intel-russia-investigation/index.html).

Then there is the fact that [the FBI was bugging Trump
Tower](https://nypost.com/2017/03/21/fbi-bugged-trump-tower-while-probing-russian-gambling-ring/).
Their justification was, wait for it, Russian gamblers. It is surely a
coincidence and there is no reason to think they were listening to
Trump. The fact that [the DOJ was routinely unmasking Trump
people](http://www.cnn.com/2017/09/13/politics/susan-rice-house-investigators-unmasked-trump-officials/index.html),
so they could listen in on their communications, was probably no big
deal. Well, it was important to General Flynn. The FBI charged him with
lying to them, because they had the electronic records contradicting his
statement about his dealings with foreigners.

Then we have Obama appointee Rod Rosenstein, who seems to be in the
middle of just about everything. There is a John Dean vibe to this guy.
He was the one who wrote the long memo to Trump, recommending that Comey
be fired. Then, coincidentally, he was the guy who recommended the
appointment of the special prosecutor. Even crazier, he is the guy who
picked Bob Mueller’s name out of nowhere to be on the list of options
for President Trump. He just happens to be an old friend of Bob Mueller.
What a coincidence!

Finally, the last member of the dramatis personae is [Andrew
McCabe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_McCabe), the second in
command at the FBI. He came to fame when it was revealed that while he
was leading the investigation of Hillary Clinton’s e-mail shenanigans,
his old lady was taking fifty grand from Clinton bagman Terry McAuliffe.
Mrs. McCabe was running for local office in Virginia and the governor,
out of the blue, suddenly took an interest in her political career. He
raised a bunch of money for her, just because he is that sort of guy.

Theories of the crime?

The first thing that is obvious is that the same cast of characters keep
turning up in these different scandals. Rod Rosenstein, Bob Mueller,
James Comey, Andrew McCabe, these names keep popping up in all of the
not obviously related matters. Maybe it is a coincidence, but there is
a Tammany Hall feel to it. No one guy is obviously guilty of anything,
but criminality seems to hang over them like a bad odor. It is possible
that the FBI has become a rotten precinct and infected some in the
Department of Justice.

Another possibility is that these guys were turned by the Clinton
machine and they got sloppy in the year prior to the election. They
assumed Clinton was going to win, so they wanted to show their
enthusiasm and loyalty by going the extra mile during the general
election. After all, everyone in official Washington was sure Clinton
was going to win for at least six months prior to the election. John
Dean went to great lengths to conceal his own perfidy during the
Watergate years. We have a gaggle of John Deans here.

Of course, there is the Trump factor. Maybe these guys figured they
could clever their way out some embarrassment by maneuvering Trump into
appointing a special prosecutor. Then he and his people would not get
too curious about this stuff as no one dares take on a special
prosecutor. They just assumed Trump would be like a normal politician
and roll over for them. Instead, Trump is banging away at them. Suddenly
we have serious people saying [Trump should fire
Mueller](http://www.frontpagemag.com/fpm/268596/flynns-case-proves-its-time-fire-mueller-daniel-greenfield)
and bring in someone fresh.

Back when Trump started running in the primary, I started calling him
[The Mul](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mule_(Foundation))e, after the
character in the Asimov novel. For two years now, everyone who has dared
to take on Trump has been blown to bits, usually by their own hand. It
is quite remarkable. The arc of the Trump political career is littered
with the obituaries of people who foolishly challenged him. The fact
that Trump has maneuvered all of the main actors into the same box now,
suggests he may have been ahead of these guys all along.
