---
title: "Lessons From Racing"
date: "2017-12-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12260"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12260"
---

When I was a little boy, Jackie Stewart, the great F1 driver, was a
household name, despite the fact Formula One is mostly a European thing.
I no longer recall the brand, but a toy maker used Stewart to sell a
slot car toy set. As a kid, it seemed like the greatest toy imaginable.
Open wheel racing was important in the 70’s. It is fair to say it was
the golden age of open wheel racing. My family was not into racing, but
we watched the Indy 500 every year and some of the F1 races that would
be broadcast in America.

There is a great [documentary on Formula
One](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2518788/)  that covers the rise of the
sport after the World War II, especially the outlandish danger that was
a feature of the it well into the 1980’s. Even if you have no interest
in racing, it is worth watching. The men who raced in the 60’s and 70’s
were incredible personalities and incredibly brave. The film is
primarily about how the sport evolved from a deadly spectacle into a
safe spectator sport. It mostly uses vintage footage that really brings
the feel of the age home to you.

The point of the show is that the sport of racing, not just at the
highest levels, but at all levels, was outlandishly dangerous and
unnecessarily so. The track owners could have installed safety items
like barriers and emergency medical services, but they saw no profit in
it. The team owners were only concerned with winning races, so they put
no effort into make the cars safe, beyond what would aid the drivers in
finishing races. The racers, chasing glory, developed a cavalier culture
and proudly accepted the dangers.

This turned out to be an increasingly lethal combination. Even though it
was never said, the track owners knew the paying public was attracted to
the sport, in large part, because of the wrecks. The car builders did
not want to see wrecks, but it was to their advantage to make the cars
as fast and light as possible, which meant eschewing safety features
like fire suppression systems. The drivers, like all dare devils, had an
incentive to take risks, as this is what made their reputations. The
result was increasing carnage.

It reached the point where fatalities were so common, the drivers began
to organize in order to force the car builders and track owners to
improve safety. That is where Jackie Stewart came into the mix. He was
the most famous driver of his day and he took the lead in organizing the
drivers and demanding safety measures. The real advance in safety came
when Bernie Ecclestone gained control of the TV rights. He was one of
the first to realize that TV was going to be the lifeblood of sport.
Control TV and you control the sport.

It is a good lesson that is applicable to all aspects of society. At
some point, someone has to be in charge and have the final word. The
claim that different interests will organically work as a system of
checks and balances is true only in theory. In reality, it takes a
strong leader to marshal the competing interests toward a common goal.
This is where the arguments against great man theory of history fail.
There may be multi-generational forces at work, but it is the great man
who is the inflection point of history.

It has not been all wine and roses for Formula One racing
since Ecclestone seized control of the sport. Having one man run things
means, inevitably, his interests come to dominate, to the detriment of
the whole. What made car racing attractive to adventurous young men was
they could test their wits and courage against others. [The homogenizing
effects of F1’s corporate
governance](http://www.espn.co.uk/f1/story/_/id/21247048/what-2021-engine-proposal-tells-us-f1-future)
is slowly killing that spirit. So much so that [the greatest name in
racing is threatening to
quit,](https://www.motorsport.com/f1/news/ferrari-f1-future-974190/)
unless there are changes to how Formula One is governed.

This cookie cutter approach, which comes with rule by middle manager, is
what is killing NASCAR. Television viewership for stock car racing in
America is in decline and the tracks are seeing lots of empty seats. The
labyrinth of rules governing the building of cars has removed one of the
cool aspects. That is, redneck ingenuity at finding loopholes in the
rules and clever new ways to go fast. Now, the cars all look the same,
the drivers look the same and the familiar PC bullshit is being injected
into the sport.

This is another lesson that is applicable to our age. Human beings are
designed to be curious about the world. Men in particular are by nature
inclined to test the limits, challenge the rules of life. By directing
all energies toward safety, predictability and profitability, racing is
managing only to make itself boring. Most young people today could not
name a single race car driver. Forty years ago, when I was a boy, even
red neck Americans knew the big names in Formula One. Those were men who
you could admire.

Committees are made up of people who naturally fear the world. They
desire to put every animal in a cage, have ever blade of grass the same
height and make sure tomorrow is exactly the same as yesterday. That is
what has happened to racing. it used to be ruled by quarrelsome men led
by an alpha male. Now it is run by bureaucrats, disappointed that they
never became postal clerks. Of course, there are [scads of women showing
up](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1003742/F1-boss-Max-Mosley-exposed-sadomasochist-Nazi-orgy.html)
to preach the gospel of multicultural lunacy. That never ends well.
