---
title: "The End Of The Yankee Imperium"
date: "2017-11-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12097"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12097"
---

At the very beginning of the 19th century, the New England states were
increasingly at odds with the Southern states. One cause of the
discontent was the sense that the slave states had too much power over
the Federal government. Another was the decline in trade with Europe
during the Napoleonic Wars. The Embargo Act of 1807 and the
Non-Intercourse Act of 1809 sharply reduced trade with Britain and
France. There was also the rivalry between the North and South, which
dated to the founding the colonies.

Discontent with the War of 1812 brought things to a head. The Federalist
Party in New England had been agitating for changes in the Constitution,
like eliminating the three-fifths compromise. New England newspapers
openly discussed secession. [The Hartford
Convention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hartford_Convention) was a
series of meetings among representatives from the New England states to
discuss their grievances. The whole project collapsed with the wave of
patriotism that resulted from Jackson’s victory over the British at the
[Battle of New
Orleans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_New_Orleans).

This episode in American history has largely been forgotten, mostly
because the North won the Civil War fifty years later. The winners write
the history books and this bit of history has never fit the narrative.
It’s also why the  [Fundamental Constitutions of
Carolina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fundamental_Constitutions_of_Carolina)
has been erased from the history books. Northern conservatives have made
John Locke and the Scottish Enlightenment their base. The fact that
Locke and Shaftesbury hoped to impose feudalism on the American South is
inconvenient.

The point here is that Americans have been raised up on a history of the
nation written by Yankeedom. The North won the Civil War so they became
the dominant region both legally and economically. Through the 20th
century, the North also came to dominate the nation culturally, writing
the history books and defining the national narrative. That’s how we get
nonsense about the Puritans seeking religious freedom and carving a
nation out of the wilderness. Jamestown has been all but erased from the
nation’s memory.

The dominance of the North over the rest of the country probably would
have petered out in the 20th century, but world events changed the
direction of America. Teddy Roosevelt badgered Woodrow Wilson into
breaking with American tradition, with regards to getting involved in
European affairs. The Yankee desire to dominate North America became a
quest to dominate the world. Once the US chose to get into the Great
War, the old traditional American conservatism was killed off forever.
The Yankee Empire was born.

The aftermath of the Great War, the Depression, World War II and then
the Cold War prevented any change in America’s domestic arrangements.
These were great unifying events; in that they justified the suppression
of anything challenging the established cultural order. The upheavals of
the 60’s and 70’s were based in New England, the Upper Midwest and
Northern California for a reason. American Conservatism was born at Yale
and run out of Connecticut for the same reason. That where the ruling
class lived.

All empires end eventually. Often it is from exhaustion, the cost of
maintaining the empire having long ago exceeded the benefits. Other
times the culture that built the empire runs its course. The empire
remains as a brittle outer husk that eventually shatters. Other times,
it is a slow, ad hoc retreat back to something resembling normalcy. The
Soviet Empire is a good example of this. It’s not been an organized
retreat, but it has been a fairly bloodless one. Russia is now back to
something close to its historic norm.

America was never built to a be great crusading empire. Even after
generations of cultural cleansing, Alabama is still a vastly different
place than Vermont. Regionalism is still the defining feature of
America. Having one region dominate the others was the fear of the
Founders, which is why they struggled to craft a government after
independence from the British. The solution was a small federal
government that handled a narrow set of things, like war and trade, that
could only be done by a central government.

America’s ruling class, especially over the last few decades, have gone
to great lengths to explain why providence has ordained America as the
world’s peace keeper. The usual suspects have twisted this into a
foreign policy of keeping the world safe for the Jewish diaspora. The
truth is, the American Empire was always built on serendipity. The total
destruction of Europe and the technological backwardness of East Asia
left a huge vacuum. The atom bomb locked in the gains of the victors, by
locking out all challengers.

The world that birthed the American Empire is long gone. China is now
taking up her historic role as the hegemonic power of Asia. Europe is
fully recovered, in the material sense, from the 20th century. It is
time for Europe to recover culturally and that can only happen when the
Yankee Empire recedes. Whether or not the European people have the will
to defend themselves from the barbarian hordes to their south, that’s
not something that can be decided for them. Europe must live or die on
its own.

Domestically, it is long past time for a return to normalcy. The Cold
War has been over for 25 years. The rest of the country is economically
and demographically in better shape than Yankeedom. The oldest and most
sclerotic states in the nation are located in the Northeast and Upper
Midwest. The election of Trump and the resulting chaos in Washington
strongly suggest the rest of the nation is ready to step outside the
shadow of Yankeedom. CalExit and similar rumblings from Progressives are
another sign of change.

The fact is, America was never a singular nation. It was a hodgepodge of
nations, thrown together with degrees of overlap. The regions of the
country share a language and share some history, but they are
significant different too. America, maybe even all of North America, is
better run as a federation, like a continent sized version of
Switzerland. The areas where there can be no agreement are delegated to
the regions. The areas where the interests are shared are delegated to a
federal state.

That can only come with the end of the Yankee Imperium.
