---
title: "Orks and Beakers"
date: "2017-05-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10302"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10302"
---

The Orkney Islands are an archipelago off the northeastern coast of
Scotland. If you look at a map, they are pretty much due north of what
most people think of as England, roughly on the same latitude as Oslo
Norway. Archaeologists think the first people to find their way to the
islands were Mesolithic nomads about 8000-9000 years ago. The first
people to set up camp, most likely, were Neolithic people about 5,000
years ago. Archaeologist have found and dated stone structures from that
period so that’s the prevailing theory.

During the Roman invasion of Britain the “King of Orkney” was one of 11
British leaders who is said to have submitted to the Emperor Claudius in
AD 43 at Colchester. Whether or not that’s true is hard to say, but it
is a cool story. Somewhere in the late Bronze Age or early Iron Age, the
islands were either incorporated into the Pictish kingdom or overrun by
the Picts. It could simply be that the people thought of themselves as
Picts all along and no movement of peoples occurred.

As the Picts faded from the scene, the Norse began to arrive. First as
traders and then as raiders, the Norse made the Orkneys a base for their
pirate activity, as it was a perfect place from which to launch raids on
English coastal towns. Eventually, the Norse began to settle in large
numbers. In the 9<sup>th</sup> century, towns and villages began to
change from Orcadian names to Norse names. The assumption has always
been that the Norse, given their reputation, either killed off the
locals or killed the men and took their women.

Recent genetic data tells a different story. The current population is
still about 65% Orcadian, with the rest being Norse. This is not just on
the female line. It is on the male line as well, suggesting that the
Norse just blended into the local population. The thing is, even though
a relatively small number of Norse settled into the Orkneys, they did
not assimilate into the local culture. Instead, it was the Norse who
dominated. Their language, their customs and even their religious
practices displaced the native Orcadian culture.

It is one example of how a small population can conqueror a larger
population by imposing their culture on the vanquished people.  By the
times the Norse arrived, Pictish culture was dying out. Celtic
missionaries had started to arrive, beginning the process of
Christianization. On the other hand, the Norse were bursting at the
seems with cultural confidence. They were sailing forth to raid coastal
cities in England and Europe and they were taking lands from old
Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. The Vikings were on the rise.

The reason this is of any importance is the combination of a fading
culture and the arrival of an ascendant one can result in the former
being replaced quickly by the latter. People go with a winner,
especially the women. When the Nazis occupied the Low Countries, they
found plenty of local women willing to take German lovers. The same was
true in France, despite the centuries long hostility between the French
and German people. Women naturally look for security and that means
picking men from the winning team.

This may seem obvious, but the flat-earth types who rule over us have
been insisting for decades that culture is transportable. People are the
same everywhere and when one group comes up with some new idea, it can
easily be transported to other societies. The big example was Beaker
culture. The archaeological record has their unique form of pottery all
over Europe, but the further east you go, the older the examples. Put
another way, the oldest stuff is found in central Europe, suggesting it
as the origin.

This would suggest these people migrated West, but that would bring
up things about the human condition our betters would prefer were not
true so the official theory was that they lent their cultural habits to
people across Europe. It is known as the “pots, not people” theory. For
some mysterious reason, their unique pot making became the rage of
Europe, like a pop song, and spread West. It’s funny, but a big part of
official knowledge depends upon mysterious, unexplained forces driving
natural processes.

Anyway, the cultural diffusion theory took a big hit when
<a href="http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/05/09/135962"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a new genetic study</a> was
recently published showing that the people in the West were related to
the steppe people associated with the Beaker culture. It means that
humans migrated West from the steppe and either conquered the people
already in Europe or dominated them in the same way the Norse came to
dominate the Orcadians. They moved in and imposed their ways on the
local people or they wiped out the local people, if that was required.

The history of humanity is that humans have migrated from place to place
since the first humans left Africa. When a group of humans encountered
another group, they would at first be on good terms with the people they
encountered, maybe conduct trade and adapt to local customs. But, when
the numbers of the new arrivals reached a certain level, they went from
migrants to invaders and then to conquerors. The progression has always
been traders, raiders and then conquerors.

That’s why when our ruling lunatics howl about being nations of
immigrants, what they are really saying, even though they are too
fevered to know it, is that we are nations of conquerors. The tribes in
place today, at some point pushed out or wiped out the tribes that were
there yesterday. It’s not always the case. Some times the natives muster
the will to thwart the raiders and discourage further incursion.
Sometimes, like the Late Bronze Age Egyptians, they just had the will to
resist the conquerors and maintain their culture.

But first you have to want it.
