---
title: "Uncivil Religion"
date: "2017-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12090"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12090"
---

One of the weirder aspects of the modern age is the endless calls for
unity from our superiors, particularly those in the Progressive camp. It
is weird for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the fact the
Left is endlessly trying to marginalize anyone that disagrees with them.
It is how diversity came to mean rigid homogeneity. Putting aside the
hypocrisy, it is weird because it is fairly new and very un-American. It
also contradicts the very premise of democracy, which is about competing
opinions, jostling for support.

It seems that the calls for “unity” have coincided with the spread of
the American civic nationalism stuff. Thirty years ago, no public figure
talked about “who we are” or made grand claims about a unified America
culture. In fact, the lack of conformity was the gold standard of
intellectual rigor. Democrats used to claim they had so much internal
debate, it was like herding cats. Republicans used to crow about being
the party of ideas, meaning that they had the bulk of free thinkers and
dissident chattering skulls.

It is not a coincidence that the flowering of the civic religion stuff
has coincided with increasing calls for unity and now the un-personing
panics. Religions, particularly in their growth phase, are highly
intolerant of competing religions. It is why the Left, even today,
attacks Christianity. They see it as competition. In order to have a
civic religion, it means stamping out ideas and movements that
contradict it, even if those ideas are rooted in observable reality. In
the name of unity, dissent must be crushed, along with the dissenter.

Related examples of this are Iran and Saudi Arabia. The ruling elites of
both lands are members of sects within Islam. In both countries, the
demands of unity require hordes of religious enforcers making sure no
one has incorrect thoughts. To tolerate any dissent puts the power and
authority of the ruling elite into question. Since the ruling elite are
the embodiment of the religion, any dissent is a direct threat to the
very existence of the theocracy. Unity is a necessary element of
theocracy, even it comes at the point of a gun.

In terms of pure civic religions, ones that expressly reject the
supernatural, the most obvious examples ended in bloodbaths. The French
Revolution is the first real stab at establishing a civic religion.
Nazism, Bolshevism and Maoism, on the other hand, quickly devolved into
murder machines, killing off over one hundred million, but they did so
in the name of national unity. With Nazism and Bolshevism, even well
intended questioning of the prevailing orthodoxy got you killed. Again,
unity abhors anything resembling dissent.

There is a chicken and egg issue here. Is the rise of a priestly class
the inevitable result of a civic religion, or does the elite attempt to
legitimize themselves by peddling civic religion and making demands for
unity? In prior ages, ruling dynasties would claim divinity in order to
eliminate challenges to their reign. Even today, the motto of the
monarch of the United Kingdom is *dieu et mon droit*. I will also note
that the kingdom is united in the body of the monarch. This is a common
element of all European monarchies.

Getting back to modern America, the fetish for unity and the promotion
of the American civic religion looks a lot like a search for a reason to
maintain the status quo. It is reactionary. The very real threat of
nuclear annihilation during the Cold War held the American nations
together, under the Yankee Imperium. Once that was gone, something had
to replace it, or the Cold War arrangements would be replaced. It is not
an accident that “both sides” of the political elite rely on the same
language to quash dissent.

The increasing demands for unity, however, will probably backfire. You
see this with social media. Facebook has instituted polices to silence
unapproved facts. They have been moving much slower than Twitter, which
is aggressively going after anyone who disagrees with the Council of Cat
Ladies running the place. [They have now declared jihad against anyone
who is suspected of thinking bad
thoughts](http://mashable.com/2017/11/17/twitter-hate-speech-symbols-december-18/#YKeTVoIZ0Oq5).
That means they will use your search results and surfing habits to
police your access to Twitter. Think about that.

The unintended result of this is to de-legitimize the Right half of the
ruling class. A so-called conservative with a twitter account,
especially one with a blue check, will now be seen as nothing more than
an organ grinder’s monkey. The civic religion only works when political
debate is confined to the tiny ideological space occupied by
Progressives and their hand-picked opposition. Strip away the legitimacy
of the so-called conservatives and the civic religion is revealed to be
a public relations campaign by the ruling oligarchs.

That is the core reason that American public debate seems so uncivil. In
an effort to defend the status quo, the ruling elites have become
increasingly aggressive at stamping out dissent. The whole “Russian
hacking” nonsense was a thinly veiled way of saying that those who voted
for Trump were either stupid or un-American. The fact that it appears
the purveyors of this story were themselves in cahoots with the Russians
suggests there are no limits to what they will do to crush their
opposition. Torquemada would be proud.

This heavy handedness also legitimizes the dissidents. Gab has struggled
along, but the purges and promised purges resulted in a boost in
membership. The steadfast determination by the owners, in the face of
serious threats and even laughably stupid threats, has given them
legitimacy with people who think a marketplace of ideas is essential to
civil society. Put another way, that which was previously dismissed as
heresy, now has the air of legitimacy. That is the real threat feared by
the ruling class.

Eric Hoffer said, “Fanatical orthodoxy is in all movements a late
development. It comes when the movement is in full possession of power
and can impose its faith by force as well as by persuasion.” It is also
a late phase effort, a rearguard action, intended to defend the status
quo, despite there no longer being an obvious use for it. The current
arrangements in America no longer serve anyone other than the relatively
small number of people who live like royalty in the Imperial Capital and
its satellite cities.

At some point, the cost of maintaining unity among increasingly hostile
tribes outweighs the benefit. The increasingly shrill demands for unity
and obedience, along with the corresponding fissures opening up in
public life, suggest we are following a familiar path that leads to a
break down. [Some social scientists seem to
get](http://robertdputnam.com/better-together/), to some degree, what is
happening, but no one knows what comes next. Maybe it is just too
frightening to consider or maybe it is impossible to know. What is not
coming, though, is national unity.
