---
title: "The End of Anti-Racism"
date: "2017-01-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9321"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9321"
---

I don’t remember when it was, but I have a recollection of John
Derbyshire wondering when racism would become fashionable for young
people. It may have been a podcast or a column, but it was long enough
ago that I don’t recall much about it, other than the question itself.
Everyone is required to think of racism in the same way that people used
to think of devil worship or communism. It is, and always will be, the
worst form of evil so it can never be normalized. Even thinking about it
could be enough to get you in trouble.

I’m not much of a racist myself, but I don’t think about it very much
either. Still, I remember Deb’s query because it was so provocative. We
live in an age where nothing is sacred, so we are told. Being subversive
and outrageous is the highest virtue. Our celebrities exist almost
exclusively on  their ability to outrage. Logically, if racism is the
great taboo, someone will try to make bank on being racist. Young people
with their desire to reject their parent’s morals, would be prime
candidates for this sort of thing.

To some degree, the alt-right, at least the social media version, is the
first green shoots of hip racism to sprout into public view. Edgy
internet personalities like Anthony Cumia and Gavin McInnes dance close
to the edge of racism in their performances. Not being a regular
listener, I can’t say for sure, but I have no recollection of them
saying anything I’d put down as explicitly racist. Like dirty jokes in
the 1950’s, there’s lots of innuendo and wink-wink sort of stuff, but
even the edgiest guys are careful to avoid being racist.

Racism does seem perfect for mockery and derision by our hipsters. I was
reading something the other day about the evolution of people on
different continents. An interesting area of inquiry is why people in
the Indus River Valley evolved different social structures from the
people of Europe or East Asia. Every other paragraph, the writer felt
compelled to write something like, “people have avoided asking this
question for good reason.” The obvious reason is it might come off as
racist and racism is so bad, the writer could be struck by lightning by
even asking the question.

It reminded me of [this
post](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/cross-check/should-research-on-race-and-iq-be-banned/)
last year about banning research into IQ and race because, well, the
void where God used to reside could be angered by it. Or maybe it is bad
juju. Who knows, but the fear of racism is so pervasive that a science
magazine is ready to hold a book burning and maybe throw a few heretics
onto the fire just to prove he is not racism. It’s the sort of thing we
associate with an age when fanatics from the Inquisition were snooping
around, looking for sinners to torment.

When a taboo becomes as ridiculous as this, it is a prime candidate for
mockery. The people who tend to like mocking social norms are young
people. It may not be an accident that the alt-right skews very young.
It’s also probably why a guy like Gavin McInnes mocks the pc-types, who
are forever worried about racism. He is aiming for a younger audience
and lampooning the nonsense young people see from adults is an obvious
way to attract that audience. It’s a short trip from there to what Derb
had in mind.

It’s natural to think that our current taboos are immutable, but think
about the things that used to be off-limits that are now common. In my
youth, men used to be sent to prison for making or distributing
pornographic films. Now, TV is filled with what my parents would have
considered to be pornography. The big New Year story was how Mariah
Carey had some sort of screw up during her performance. No one noticed
that this portly, middle aged mother of two was half naked, wiggling her
goodies around on stage.

There is, of course, homosexual marriage. It went from being the
punchline of jokes to being official dogma in a little more than a
decade. In less than a generation, we went from a taboo on suggesting it
to a taboo on opposing it. It’s a good example of how quickly these
things can turn. There’s little reason to think that such a thing could
not happen with racism. That’s not to say we will be bringing back Jim
Crow, but maybe bringing back Blazing Saddles is not too far off.
Perhaps race realism is the next gay marriage.

Of course, there is the issue of elite opinion, which had a lot to do
with the sudden shift on an issue like homosexual marriage. So-called
conservatives were more than happy to go along with the Left’s latest
fads so things like gay marriage faced no opposition. Racism is
hysterically opposed by everyone in the managerial class. But, this was
true of Trump and that opposition just made him more attractive to
voters. Old fogies flipping out over memes on twitter, they consider
racist, will only encourage young people to do more of it.

It’s hard to know how this will go, but it is not unreasonable that we
are headed into the age of post-anti-racism. The hysterical anti-racism
of Boomers could never survive conflict with reality. The young, who
have no experience with actual racism, are starting to respond with
mockery of both racism and anti-racism. It’s hard to impose moral codes
on people who are laughing at you and mocking your taboos. The great
moral crusade of this age may not survive conflict with guys like
<a href="https://twitter.com/JohnRiversX6" target="_blank">John
Rivers</a> and his tweet storms.
