---
title: "Days Of Estrogen Fueled Rage"
date: "2017-11-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12200"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12200"
---

Like most normal men, I’m enjoying the hell out of seeing the girls go
crazy, accusing every liberal man in sight of being a predator. When it
comes to the media, I’m firmly in the camp that says, “burn, baby,
burn.”  When it comes to cretins like Al Franken and John Conyers, well,
there is no torment that would be too monstrous for them. Of course, the
Hollywood stuff is manna from heaven. The only thing that would make it
better is if they actually start burning men at the stake in the
Hollywood hills. That would be awesome.

As others have been enthusiastic to point out, this is almost
exclusively a Progressive problem. The men being hauled off to pervert’s
island are mostly the male feminist types, who used to delight in
accusing normal men of bad behavior. The Fox News scandal that kicked
this off is the notable exception, but that’s beginning to look like a
special case as the great panic rolls forward. I’ll get back to this in
a minute, but I think the Fox stuff fits into all of this, as does the
Roy Moore hoax. It’s all part of the larger pattern.

As far as the dominant side of this, liberal career women accusing
liberal men of playing grab ass in the workplace, the one thing that
jumps out so far is that no black men have been accused. In fact, no
black women are at the center of these things either. This whole thing
is white women versus white men. If what the Left tells us about the
plight of black folks was true, we would see a lot of black women coming
forward, claiming to be this era’s Sally Hemings. It turns out that
liberal men are just not down with the swirl.

Of course, the “white” men getting jammed up are almost all Jewish men.
Thanks to Seinfeld, the goyim know something about the shiksa fetish,
but now the world is learning that Jewish men have lots of strange
appetites. I’ve had a few Jewish men point this out to me whenever these
stories come up in conversation. As the Larry David kerfuffle revealed,
this is something known to Jews. It does explain the strange fact that
the pornography industry was dominated by Jewish men who looked like
[The Hedgehog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ron_Jeremy).

This raises an interesting possibility. Maybe this is well-plowed land,
but many of the famous second wave feminists were Jewish. Modern gender
studies are also heavy on the Jewish gals. Perhaps the root of feminism
is Jewish women demanding better treatment from their Jewish men. After
all, the description of the patriarchy by feminists sounds a lot like
the HR department at a typical media company. Maybe feminism all along
has been a primal scream for Irv to stop whacking off into the
shrubbery.

Anyway, the charges against conservatives in this are worth considering.
They are unique in that they are vague and non-specific, while the
charges against liberal men are pretty clear and often pretty weird. One
of the things that got Bill O’Reilly canned was that he called a black
woman “hot chocolate.” That’s pretty tame compared to installing a
button in your office to lock the door, so you can trap women. The Roy
Moore claims have fallen apart, as most were obviously fake and the rest
are impossible to substantiate.

What this looks like is the Left set out to accuse their rivals of the
things popular on the Left. All of these Prog-men being jammed up by the
girls were happy to accuse Trump of being bad for women. Meanwhile, guys
like Matt Lauer were planning to build a sex dungeon at 30 Rock. Al
Franken was entertaining his buddies with stories about how he wanted to
drug and rape Leslie Stahl. The Opposite Rule of Liberalism says that
whatever Lefty is hooting about, you can be sure he is the guiltiest.

Of course, these estrogen fueled rages tend to indicate the death of a
business or industry. The fact is, conventional mass media is an old
person habit. The actuarial tables say that most of what we have come to
describe as mass media is headed for the dustbin of history. Young
people don’t watch any of this stuff. Even not-so-young people have
unplugged from television. The smart money is leaving old media and
heading for the new platforms. That means the girls are free to feed on
the carcass of legacy media.

Another angle to this is that the Prog women are directing their anger
over the election to the only target available to them – their men. We
are a year into the Trumpening and it is clear to even the most deranged
Hillary supporter that there will be no do-over. Trump will be President
and there’s nothing to be done about it. I don’t think sane people fully
appreciate how traumatic it was for the feminists to see everything they
believe invalidated in one night. They’ll never recover, but for now
they lash out at their men.

Of course, all of this validates something normal men have known for a
long time and that is “career women” are a cancer on society. Women
should only work outside the home out of extreme necessity or as a
hobby, maybe to save for a nice dress or better sandwich making
implements for the kitchen. Men and women evolved for different roles in
human societies. Putting girls into roles better suited for men is
always going to end in tears, usually for the women, but also for
society as a whole. Feminism is lunacy.

In a way though, this panic will be good for women and for men. If you
are a man, you now know you can easily be victimized by a gold digger at
the office. Even innocent flirting, outside of work in a social setting,
can get you fired. That means men will stop socializing with women at
work. They will no longer put themselves in a position to be accused by
the harpy down the hall. This is already happening in college, where
males have a buddy bear witness to their private time with the girl down
the hall. Mike Pence is the model now.

This new awareness by men, particularly successful men, will create a
real glass ceiling as well as glass walls and a kitted-out glass
basement, where the bros can be themselves without getting jammed up by
the gals. Men in the workplace will respond to this threat by walling
themselves off from the female staff. Sure, there will be dummies who
can’t control themselves, but they will be fed to the lionesses and
serve as a reminder to the other men that it is bad business to have
anything by token dealings with professional women.
