---
title: "The Fourth Stage Of American History"
date: "2017-12-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12101"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12101"
---

Over a century ago, [Robert Lewis
Dabney](https://www.counter-currents.com/2012/11/robert-lewis-dabney-on-conservatism/)
noted that Northern Conservatism never conserves anything. It makes a
show of resisting whatever Progressive fads are currently popular, but
in the end, it always gives in and eventually, embraces the fad as a
principle of conservatism. He was probably not the first to note this,
but his description remains the most famous, among those who traffic in
taboo thoughts. His description of conservatism as a shadow that follows
the Left is a great image that captures their nature perfectly.

The Dissident Right often uses a version of Dabney’s description to
describe the modern conservative movement. What gets lost is the fact
that Dabney was describing *northern* conservatives. This geographic
split has been erased from the modern mind, as the people who won the
Civil War slowly, but surely, erase everything but the history of the
North from the nation’s memory. That last bit is critical. One of the
distinguishing features of 20th century American conservatism was its
*Yankeeness*.

One reason for this, of course, is that Progressivism is rooted in the
North. In fact, it has been pretty much confined to what Colin Woodward
called *Yankeedom*. [This
map](http://emerald.tufts.edu/alumni/magazine/fall2013/images/features/upinarms-map-large.jpg)
is useful for understanding the demographic contours of American
regionalism. Those dark blue areas are where Lefty walks the streets
unmolested. It only makes sense that the loyal opposition would be
located in the same areas. The colleges and universities growing the
next generation of Progressives, also produce their conservative
analogs.

There is another angle to this. There were fifteen presidents before
Lincoln. Six of them were from Yankeedom or the Midlands. The rest were
from the Tidewater or the South. Virginia used to be called the Cradle
of Presidents because seven pre-Civil War presidents were from there.
Only one post-Civil War president, Woodrow Wilson, has been from
Virginia. Of the thirty since the war, twenty-five have been from
Yankeedom or from the Midlands. There have been nineteen from parts of
the country that fall into the dark blue portion of that linked map.

Since the Civil War, America has been dominated by one region of the
country. It stands to reason that politics would be rooted in this
region as well. Because Progressives, in various manifestations, are
dominant in the North, they have been the driving force in America
politics and culture as a whole. Naturally, any reaction to this would
be culturally rooted in the North as well. Put another way, politics in
America has been a lover’s quarrel between the two halves of Yankeedom
since the Civil War.

This arrangement probably would have collapsed a century ago, but world
events interceded to lock things in place. The Great War, the
Depression, World War Two and then the long nuclear stand-off with the
Russians locked things in place. With the nation at risk, any effort to
upset the domestic political arrangements would be quickly swatted down.
The reason our politics are in a flux now, with the old arrangements
collapsing, is there is no longer an exogenous force to lock things in
place. Normalcy is returning.

This is why the gap between Progressives and the Buckley Conservatives
seems so small all of a sudden. The stand-off with the Soviets was not
just a military and political conflict. There was a moral and
philosophical conflict. That magnified the differences because it cast
them against the backdrop of the larger dispute between Eastern
authoritarianism and Western pluralism. Once that backdrop was gone,
what was left was two sides squabbling over trivial items and competing
for the love of financial backers.

It is also why politics turned into a screaming match after the Cold War
ended. There were no big areas of dispute, so they had no choice but to
pretend that the trivial differences between the two sides were enormous
divides. That was the crucial insight of the Clinton people. Bill
Clinton won in 1992 by bellowing about how Bush the Elder did not know
how grocery store scanners worked. Clinton, Bush and Obama were
basically the same guy, but the political class carried on like they
were polar opposites.

What all this means is that we are in the transition period between the
third and fourth phases of American history. The first phase was the
Colonial Period that lasted up to and included the Revolutionary War.
Then there was the Constitutional Period that lasted until the Civil
War. The third period was the Yankee Imperium, which lasted from the
Civil War through the end of the Cold War. What comes next is debatable,
but it is clear that the rest of the country is going to have a say in
the political life of the country.

One thing that is certain is that the political arrangements, both
formal and informal, will change as the nation transitions to what comes
next. The great centralization of power over the last century to
implement the Yankee moral vision domestically and build out the empire
around the world is not made for a world of identity politics,
regionalization and an empire in retreat. We have legal and political
institutions for white people to manage disputes between white people.
Those are useless in a majority-minority country.

One final thought on this. These phases of American history have been
punctuated by violent conflict. The people who settled and founded the
country were not gentle, passive souls. The Colonial Period ended in
War. The Constitutional Period ended with the Civil War. It is
reasonable to think that this transition period will have its violent
elements before we settle into that fourth phase. We live in a low
violence time, so civil war is unlikely, but the coming years will most
likely feature harsh, regional disputes.
