---
title: "La Muerte Blanca"
date: "2017-02-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Immigration
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9524"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9524"
---

The other day, I was told about a young girl who was found dead at her
home by her mother. The girl had graduated high school and was attending
junior college. She had been out with friends and, presumably, taking
drugs. Somehow she arrived home and went to bed, never to wake up. The
girl was otherwise a good kid from a lower class home, but she made a
mistake that turned out to be fatal. The exact cause of her death is
unknown to me, other than it was a drug overdose, but the story is a
familiar one.

The cultural revolution of the 60’s is often celebrated by the Left and
Baby Boomers, but it was a disaster for the lower classes in America.
The most obvious example is recreational drugs. In the 60’s, smoking
weed and experimenting with narcotics was for college kids living off
their parents at a university. By the 70’s, the drug culture had settled
into the lower classes, along with all the other excesses of the
beautiful people. It’s not an accident that crime took off, violence
rates increased and we got an underclass.

Ever since, the great fear facing every parent, but especially those in
the lower classes, has been the call on a weekend night from the police,
telling them their kid was dead or in the emergency room for a drug
overdose. Being poor or working class has never been an easy life, but
the corrosive effects of recreational drugs have put a trap door under
these people. Most are lucky enough to avoid a horrible mistake, but
for many, the drug culture proves too much. They make the fatal mistake
or throw away their lives for a buzz.

<a
href="http://kff.org/other/state-indicator/opioid-overdose-deaths-by-raceethnicity/?currentTimeframe=0"
target="_blank">According to Kaiser statistics</a>, whites make up 82%
of opioid overdoses. Most of the drug overdoses are among the young, but
<a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/17/science/drug-overdoses-propel-rise-in-mortality-rates-of-young-whites.html?_r=0"
target="_blank">older whites are killing themselves</a> at record
numbers as well. That means the spike in drug deaths is not driven by
youthful foolishness or ennui. Instead, it is being driven by more white
people using more potent drugs. The consensus is that the
over-prescribing of pain killers has driven a rise in heroin use. Once
the Feds cracked down on prescription drugs, addicts turned to heroin.

<img
src="https://d14rmgtrwzf5a.cloudfront.net/sites/default/files/styles/content_image_landscape/public/cdcwonder2016_3.jpg?itok=MLNjS3MK"
class="alignnone size-full" decoding="async" width="426" height="320" />

<img
src="https://d14rmgtrwzf5a.cloudfront.net/sites/default/files/styles/content_image_landscape/public/cdcwonder2016_4.jpg?itok=aCgJ-Wg1"
class="alignnone size-full" decoding="async" width="426" height="320" />

The temptation is to blame the culture or blame the profligate
degeneracy of the modern age, but that would not explain the spike in
youth overdoses. A middle age man offing himself is understandable to
anyone who has hit middle age. Young people, even in terrible
situations, naturally have hope. The better answer is that this is a
case where supply drives demand. There used to be high barriers to
potent opioids. Today, they are cheap and you don’t have to jam a needle
in your arm to use them.

All of that means little to that mother who went in to wake her
daughter, only to find her dead from a drug overdose. People can come to
terms with a kid going bad and throwing their life away on drugs and
crime. When a normal kid who seems to be headed in the right direction
drops over dead from something they got at a party, people wonder what’s
going on in the world. They naturally look to their rulers for answers.
If people were suddenly dying from a virus in these numbers, it would be
a national emergency.

That’s not to say that the drug war is a good idea. After decades of
squandering billions trying to stem the flow of drugs into the country,
the result is the opposite of what was expected. Illicit drugs are
cheaper, more diverse, more widely distributed and more normalized than
when the drug war started. By any measure, the war on drugs was lost and
drugs won. That’s why our rulers don’t talk about drugs or the drug war
much anymore. It’s just one of those things that has been quietly
forgotten.

There’s also the fact that drugs are mostly a downscale problem,
something that does not touch the Cloud People so they don’t care about
it. The mothers in Cloud Country are not fretting about junior riding
the dragon. He’s parked in front of his XBox all day, playing the female
character, because he is questioning. The drug issue is mostly a Dirt
People problem now. It’s blacks slinging on street corners and crackers
getting loaded in an apartment complex far away from the people who run
things.

That said, it is important to note the direction of the drug flow.
America has never had a problem with drugs pouring in from Canada or
Iceland. The flood of cheap narcotics into America starts in Mexico.
When heroin had to be imported from Asia, it was not easily attainable
and the quality of the product available to the poor was quite low. Now
that Mexico has take over the production and distribution, heroin is
suddenly cheap, potent and plentiful. This is also true of meth, which
is now made in volume in Mexico.

This sort of thing does not happen in Canada because Canada is a
responsible country with mostly responsible leaders. They would use the
tools of the state to cripple the large scale production of narcotics.
That’s not the case in Mexico, where the political class provides cover
to the drug cartels and helps them violate US laws with regards to
banking and border access. Putting pressure on the Mexican political
class, to crack down on their narcotics trafficking and their human
smuggling over the border, would have an impact on the heroin problem in
the US.

Up until now, our rulers have not seen fit to put any pressure on the
Mexican rulers about the drugs and human smuggling. Real countries with
patriotic leaders have no tolerance for other countries
protecting pirates and drug cartels on their border. They hold the
leaders of those border countries accountable. Globalists have no duty
to their citizens as citizenship does not exist. America’s ruling class
has nothing but empathy for the Mexican ruling class and nothing but
contempt for the Americans people, especially the founding stock.

<a href="https://apnews.com/0b3f5db59b2e4aa78cdbbf008f27fb49"
target="_blank">That may be changing</a> as Trump is the first
pro-American president we’ve had in close to three decades. Trump seems
to get that the way to address the border problems, including the drugs,
is to hold the Mexican elite responsible. They need America much more
than America needs Mexico. If the cost of tolerating the drug cartels
and human smuggling gets high enough, the Mexican government will do
something about it. It can never be eradicated entirely, but it would
not take much to sharply reduce the flow of drugs and people over the
border.

Maybe then the White Death will begin to subside.
