---
title: "The Idiot"
date: "2017-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11514"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11514"
---

The *Idiot* is a novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Like most Russian
literature, it is a big book full of complicated characters, with funny
names. The central character of the novel, Prince Myshkin, is a young
man whose good intentions and decency are taken to be stupidity by the
worldly characters of the novel. The title is intended to be ironic. His
naivete is assumed to be due to stupidity. The novel is a study of what
happens when such a person is put in a world populated by people lacking
basic decency and morality.

Our cultural elites use something similar to promote the values of the
ruling classes through movies and television. The movie *Mr. Smith Goes
to Washington* is the classic example. The twist our betters put on it
is the innocent adventurer taking on the corrupt system holds all of the
values cherished by our actual ruling class. Meanwhile, the fictional
villains are always people who sound like the critics of managerial
state democracy. Even so, the basic theme is the same. We have the naïf
versus the cabal of the cynical.

Whether as propaganda or psychological study, the central question is
whether a corrupt and malignant system can be changed or defeated by a
morally good person. The Hollywood version will on occasion have the
white hat defeated, for the purpose of reinforcing some element of the
one true faith. Usually though, the good guy triumphs over the system.
This propaganda has been so effective, most American honestly think that
by assiduously obeying every rule they will one day have their country
back.

One of those Americans seems to be President Trump. The back story to
his run is that he was motivated to run, after being disrespected by
various on-line propagandists like Jonah Goldberg. Trump could not
understand why a billionaire like him was mocked, by guys like Goldberg,
who are nothing more than servants to rich men like Trump. To Trump,
this made no sense. He was motivated to run in order to prove to these
people that he could do anything they can do, but even better. There is
nothing bigger than President.

Since his victory, Trump has been searching around for some way to be
accepted by the political class. He assumed that winning the election
would also win him the respect of official Washington. Instead, they
locked shields to oppose him, even installing a special prosecutor to
dig around in his life for a way to impeach him. Unable to figure out
why he is treated like a skunk at the picnic, he has flailed around
looking for something to give away in order to get the respect he
craves.

Now, he is willing to fink on his voters by breaking every promise he
made during the campaign. That is why he is dealing with Chuck Schumer.
The sole reason for Schumer to exist in Washington is to guide
troublesome Republicans through the process of committing political
suicide. In the case of Trump, that means going for amnesty, abandoning
the wall and [supporting candidates who hate
him](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2017/09/16/stranger-danger-donald-trump-announces-plans-to-campaign-for-big-luther-in-alabama/).
It is not enough that Trump fink on his voters. He must humiliate
himself in front of them as well.

This is not to say that Trump is just a craven liar. He is one of the
few people in the financial elite who embraces those old ideas of civic
responsibility and fair play that used to define the American elite.
Trump is from an age when it was your duty to uphold the rules and be a
good example to others. He naively thinks that is how things still work.
They do not, which is why the ruling elite looks at him as odious
interloper. They do not hate him as much as they hate what he
represents. They also think he is an idiot because of it.

One of the main critiques, from the Dissident Right, of Buckley
Conservatives, is that they naively cling to ideas that are no longer
applicable. Waving around the Constitution, for example, when the
document is now interpreted to mean the opposite of what the Founders
intended, is idiotic. The foolish embrace of principal, when it means
sure defeat, is proof that the alleged opposition to the managerial
state is either composed of fools, or traitors sent to subvert any real
opposition to the status quo.

Now, much of what comes from the alt-right is ignorant chanting that is
not based in anything but frustration with their fringe status. Even so,
they are not wrong to point out that the Civic Nationalists and the
alt-lite are naive and foolish to think they can talk the other side
into turning away from their suicidal course. Every attempt to affect
change within the system, is bound to fail, as the rules of the system
are designed to protect and perpetuate the status quo. The people in
charge are not going to quit on their stool.

“We’re not voting our way out of this” is a popular way of making this
point. That is not entirely true, but it is a useful way to put it.
Simply electing people who say the right things is not changing a system
that has been corrupted to defend the interests of the two percent. The
system, as it stands, must be subverted and destabilized. That does not
happen at the ballot box. That is what we are seeing with Trump. He is
being swallowed up by a system designed for that purpose. You do not
beat it by playing by the rules.

It is hard to know if Trump will pull out of his death spiral. He has
shown a willingness to reverse course if he feels he has made an error.
It is also possible that he fears Mueller has something on him or his
kids and he is hoping to trade away your future for his dignity and
freedom. Maybe it all just part of the chaos that Trump seems to enjoy.
Regardless, it is another reminder that the people putting their trust
in the system are idiots. The system is not the solution to out problems
as a society. The system is the problem.
