---
title: "The French Election"
date: "2017-05-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10228"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10228"
---

Most people reading this probably have little interest in French
politics so the presidential election today is a bit of a non-story.
Macron will win with 60% of the vote as he has the full backing of the
European establishment and the cosmopolitan class in France. Unlike the
US, French elections are basically a collection of city elections. If
you can win Paris, you win France. Imagine if Manhattan dictated our
election results.

One reason for this is French politics have largely been conducted in a
narrow space of post-war cosmopolitan social democracy. Like teenagers
who define themselves by their contentious relationship with their
parents, European political elites defined themselves by how petulant
they could be toward the Americans. As a result, there is a fundamental
lack of seriousness in French political culture. They vote for the cool
kids, not the smart kids.

Still, it bears watching for those on the Dissident Right as it helps
frame the coming battles in the West over the central conflict of our
age. European elites imagine a pan-European feudalism where the
peasantry has no identity of their own. The resistance imagines a
continent of states governed by national populism that corresponds with
their unique cultural heritage. The flash point is immigration from the
south, particularly Islam.

The last time a non-approved candidate made it to the second round of
the French presidential election was 15 years ago when Le Pen’s father
did it. He got 18% of the vote in the second round, but his success had
a sobering effect on the French political class after what they saw as a
close call with fascism. They started to take the Right more seriously,
which is why the mainstream parties have largely converged on all
issues.

This time, Le Pen is hoping to break 40%, but there is zero chance she
will will win or even make it close. It’s not so much that Macron has
much appeal as that Le Pen is not a great politician for France. Her
cause needs a roguish male to lead the party, someone who has some flare
and has had some success in other areas. France has always needed a man
on a horse to restore order and national pride.

That’s why the final number will matter. If Le Pen does break 40%, that
will open a lot of eyes in the French political class. If you are an
ambitious politician, you will now have a base of 40% to work from
simply by adopting the immigration arguments of Le Pen. Avoid some of
the weird and unpleasant aspects of the National Front and you can
become the great compromise that unites France. That’s the hope anyway,
from the Civic Nationalists.

It’s also the fear of the globalists who keep trying to make this
election look like a horse race. They desperately want a resounding
victory for Macron and they want to have a trophy they can hold up,
claiming the Far Right is now dead. The obituaries for Le Pen and her
issues are all written and ready to go as soon as the vote is
counted. By pretending it is close, they can cast any win as a massive
defeat for the Right.

The reality is something different. France, as a self-governing
political entity, was probably broken in the Great War, but it was most
certainly broken in the Second World War. Getting run over by the Huns
and then having most of your political class collaborate with them will
do that to a country. If that was not enough, being relegated to the
kiddie table during the Cold War finished off what was left of
responsible French leadership.

It’s why Macron winning is probably a good thing for France. He is an
accelerationist, who wants to fling open the gates and invite in
millions of Muslims. He wants to hand over to Brussels what’s left of
 French sovereignty. Nothing undermines the legitimacy of the rulers
like seeing them on their knees, kissing the feet of foreigners. Macron
is Marshal Philippe Pétain, without any of the military success on his
resume.

If there is any hope for a revival of French culture it will only come
through total French humiliation and despair. Once a majority of
Frenchmen no longer see any reason to support the status quo, to remain
loyal to their betters, then things change and change rapidly. It will
not happen through elections and political activism. Democracy is good
at driving a country off a cliff. It is useless in pulling it back onto
the road. France needs to vote itself off the cliff in order to clear
the field for what comes next.

Of course, what comes next may simply be the end of France. There is
nothing magical about the land on which the French people live. When
Caesar conquered Gaul, he did not conquer the French. When the peasants
stormed the Bastille, most people in France did not speak French. The
point being, there is nothing permanent about France. Maybe what comes
next is the slow invasion of Europe from the south and the death of
Europe. It could simply be reversion to the mean and nature is now
reclaiming an exception.
