---
title: "The Others"
date: "2017-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9612"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9612"
---

Prior to the Super Bowl, I was made aware of a television ad from Audi.
The ad was based on the long ago discredited claim that women are
systematically paid less for doing the same work as men.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6u10YPk_34"
target="_blank">Here’s the ad</a>. It’s one of those times when the PC
proselytizing is actually worse than what you expected.  Watching it
through to the end is difficult because the smug radiates from the
screen like a bad odor. It’s not the ridiculous preening that is
repugnant. It is the inappropriateness. Who does Audi think buys their
cars?

It’s not hard to imagine the room where this ad was screened for the
executives at Audi USA. Men and women in snappy business suits
talked about how to target the professional female car buyer. Maybe they
had data showing that Audi lags in this segment compared to its
competitors. Everyone watched the ad, nodded in agreement, felt brave
and wonderful and then agreed it should be the big ad for the big
game. No one bothered to ask if Audi or the ad agency pays their females
less than their males.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43QTjFCPLtI"
target="_blank">This ad</a>, put out by a sneaker company, can only be
described as offensive. It’s hard to imagine a more offensive ad. It’s
also hard to imagine a more ridiculous ad. We just spent eight years
with a black president and his mulatto mafia running the country and we
are suddenly in need of a lecture about racism, from a sneaker
company? They threw a lesbian and some black Muslim women in there, but
the clear thrust of the ad is that whites are not accommodating enough
to millionaire black athletes. Thanks Nike.

Of course, these ads are not whipped up overnight. They take months to
produce, especially ads with multiple stars. Arranging a day for each
star can take months of planning. Ads created for a big event like the
Super Bowl are often started six months before they hit the air. In this
case, these ads were cooked up last summer and put together in late
summer and early fall. That means they were dreamed up before the people
in charge noticed that the world had changed, if they noticed at all.

It’s another reminder that the Cloud People were absolutely sure that
the noises coming from the Dirt People could safely be ignored. Six
months ago when these ads were commissioned, the beautiful people were
locking arms, certain they were heading off to the Age of Aquarius,
where the Dirt People would no longer be a concern. They were so sure
they were on the right side of history, they no longer had to pretend to
be civil to the rest of us. These ads are a reflection of the smug,
arrogant pricks who made them.

Even accounting for the arrogance of these people, the main reason they
thought these were swell ads to run is they have “otherized” themselves,
to borrow a term from the multiculturalists. It’s not that these people
have lost touch with the common man. It’s that they have deliberately
alienated themselves from their country and countrymen. These preachy
ads have nothing to do with selling cars or sneakers. The ads are a
public act of piety by people who are no longer part of the general
culture.

It is why the mass media is becoming increasingly bizarre. It’s tempting
to think it is nothing more than proselytizing and propaganda, and that
is a big part of it, but some of it is due to the insularity of the
people inside the media bubble. To them, having a Valentine’s Day
program featuring homosexual couples is not normal, it is
aspirational and therefore inspirational. The fact that the rest of us
find it grating and a bit offensive never comes to mind. Everyone they
know thinks it is a great idea and those are the people that count.

We live in a strange age, probably not a lot different from the late
feudal period, when the ruling class was largely unaware of the storm
that was brewing. If you were an aristocrat, you may not have a lot of
money, but what you had was social distance from the people who were not
aristocrats. That distance was your currency. The provincial lawyer or
merchant may have been accumulating money and lands, but he was never
going to be you and never be in your circle. Making that clear was of
the highest importance.

The main difference is that the sword nobility was also a defender of
the old order, while the Dirt People of the day were looking to topple
over the old order. Today, our sword nobility is hell bent of toppling
over what’s left of the old order, simply to prove to one another they
are not a part of the old order. Highlighting the distance between them
and us is their primary fixation. It’s why Trump is so hated despite
being a billionaire New Yorker. It’s because he is a man much more
comfortable among the Dirt People because he respects them and crossing
that class line is the great sin among the others.
