---
title: "Private War"
date: "2017-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11162"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11162"
---

When I began my work life, the outsourcing trend was picking up steam in
the United States. I no longer recall who it was, but some guy allegedly
produced the idea of using the phone book to break up his company. If he
could find a company that did a task currently done in-house, he
outsourced that task to a vendor. That was probably apocryphal, but it
was a useful story. Why do something in-house when there was a local
specialist, who could do it better and probably cheaper than you?

To a point, it made a lot of sense. Why would a baker own a fleet of
trucks when he can lease them from a company that is expert at
maintaining delivery trucks? The baker can focus on his specialty and
the truck repair people can more efficiently maintain the bread trucks.
Even in cases where there is no direct savings, outsourcing allows for a
greater focus on core competencies. Whether or not this is true is
debatable, but it is something you heard a lot in the 90’s as companies
unbundled themselves.

This was also the driving force behind Al Gore’s project to “reinvent
government” by moving tasks from the Federal workforce to private
contractors. There was [a
book](https://www.amazon.com/Reinventing-Government-Entrepreneurial-Spirit-Transforming/dp/0452269423)
published in 1993 that was the text book for government reformers. All
over the country, private firms now exist to serve one customer – the
government. There are firms around the Imperial Capital that exist
solely for the purpose of fulfilling a specific contract. Once the
contract expires, the firm will be dissolved or “reinvented” for a new
contract.

Of course, there is another aspect to government outsourcing that is
different from private outsourcing. In the private sector, the baker can
be good at maintaining his bread trucks, if he chooses to put the energy
into it. Government is rarely good at anything, so off-loading work to
the private sector promises to get around the bureaucracy, especially
when it comes to things like work rules. In theory, the government
contractor is free to do what is necessary to get the job done, while
government is tied down with endless red tape.

This sounds good, but it has curdled into something sinister during the
communications revolution. Big tech companies now police speech on-line,
doing what government cannot legally do itself. Human resource
departments evolved to enforce workplace conduct rules that the state
cannot easily enforce. The government cannot tell the males to be nice
to the girls at the office, but they can threaten to sue the company for
maintaining a hostile workplace, so the company does the state’s
bidding.

Now we are about to see this concept taken to the next logical step, as
the [Trump administration prepares to outsource the war in
Afghanistan](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2017/08/08/war-afghanistan-trump-white-house-weighs-bold-plan-privatize/548004001/).
The plan is to have contractors like Blackwater, take over the logistics
of fighting the Taliban. They would provide an air force and thousands
of “contractors”, who would develop and lead militias made up local
tribesman. The “contractors” are former soldiers. We used to call these
guys mercenaries, but that term has fallen out of fashion for obvious
reasons.

The article frames this as a cost saving move, but the most likely
reason to consider doing this is the contractors can do things we no
longer allow our military to do. Blackwater can also recruit a militia
from whatever local forces they like, which probably means the most
ruthless killers available. Put another way, there is a realization that
the US military has become an inefficient and clumsy giant of a
bureaucracy, just like the rest of the federal government. Blackwater
will be more efficient at executing this never ending war.

This is not without precedent. Governments have relied on private armies
and private security forces since the dawn of time. The American West
was often policed by hired guns, simply because they were available and
willing to take the work. The Pinkertons were a security force used by
the government and rich men. Lincoln used them for his personal
security. The railroad used them to infiltrate the Molly Maguires and
they were used in the famous Homestead Strike. Guns for hire are not new
to America.

Still, this is a bit different and looks like another facet of the
modern Servile State. Just as the state has outsourced its coercive
functions to private companies, it is now outsourcing its violence to a
private company. If Trump goes in for this, you can be sure that a
hundred other firms will spring up with plans to do paramilitary work
around the world on behalf of the US government. That is the thing with
outsourcing. Supply has a funny way of creating demand where none
existed. Private war will now get its own [SIC
code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Industrial_Classification).

Eisenhower famously warned about the military-industrial complex and he
has been proven right. The Cold War was used to justify endless spending
on the war machine. Then it was terrorism. Now we have an empire to
police, in addition to the millions of hostile foreigners our government
imports into our lands. There is always some reason to keep shoveling
trillions into the war machine. Now the war machine will have
libertardian economists singing its praises as an efficient new
innovation.

This is not a new problem. The Romans had this problem with their own
armies, as well as the Praetorian Guards. America is not in danger of
the military seizing control of the state or making demands on the
civilian rulers. That is because the global corporations got there
first. Those same corporations are now taking over the policing and war
making roles of the state. In the custodial state, the throne and alter
will be divided once again, with the state serving as the altar and
global oligopolies as the throne.
