---
title: "The Tribe To Emulate"
date: "2017-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12069"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12069"
---

The Asians are often called the “model minority” in America. This is
based on the fact that they have low crime, low welfare dependency, low
social dysfunction and high academic achievement. Some mentally unstable
Asian females have tried to rail against this as racist, but Asians make
terrible social justice warriors. That and only a lunatic could construe
what is an obvious compliment as racism. The thing is though, they are
not the model minority. The most successful minority is the Jews.

If you are in an African tribe and your people are thinking about moving
to the West, the group you would want to emulate are the Jews. They have
figured out how to wildly succeed in all sorts of places, always as a
tiny minority. This is in despite of some serious efforts by majority
populations to keep the Jews from succeeding. Then there was the bit of
trouble in the middle of the last century. Asians cannot hold a candle
to the Jews in this area. In the US, Jews have become the ruling class.

[Steve Sailer has noticed
something](http://www.unz.com/isteve/hello-fellow-straight-white-male-beneficiaries-of-white-privilege/)
that has been an internet meme for some time and that is “Jewish
privilege.” This used to be a gag in response to the cries of “white
privilege” by Progressive lunatics, but it is slowly becoming a
legitimate topic for public discussion. Whether or not you buy into the
whole “privilege” argument, the point is Jews have been wildly
successful in America. The question that should follow is why? What
group qualities have worked for Jews that are unique to Jews in America?

Now, this is usually where people will starting mentioning Kevin
McDonald and [The Culture of
Critique](https://www.amazon.com/Culture-Critique-Evolutionary-Twentieth-Century-Intellectual/dp/0759672229).
The more empirically minded will bring up [the landmark
study](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.163.3711&rep=rep1&type=pdf)
of Ashkenazi intelligence, by Gregory Cochran, Jason Hardy, Henry
Harpending from a dozen years ago. Neither of those are going to help
your African tribe make it work in the West. That’s like [the Koreans
reading the
Talmud](https://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/how-the-talmud-became-a-best-seller-in-south-korea)
looking for the secret of Jewish success. A better approach might be
identifying a few qualities and copying them.

[One is something Steve Sailer
noticed](http://takimag.com/article/curb_your_self_awareness_steve_sailer/print#axzz4xpfMjljn)
during the short-lived Larry David flap. It used to be that Jews were
obsessively self-aware. Thaddeus Russell touches on this in his book,
[Renegade History of
America](https://www.amazon.com/Renegade-History-United-States/dp/1416576134).
Jews used to obsess over the quirks and flaws of their people, and
tirelessly harangue the tribe about the flaws. Shame is taboo these
days, oddly enough. but it makes for an excellent self-policing
mechanism. In fact, it used to be the default way in which the American
ruling class policed itself.

Related to the self-policing instinct is clannishness. A lot of
alt-right people criticize Jews for being clannish. They call it
nepotism, but they really mean clannish. There is no doubt that Jews
throughout the diaspora have always worried about what is good for the
Jews, so much so it is a cliche. The thing is though, unlike, say,
Arabs, Jewish clannishness defends the tribe against all threats,
external and *internal*. Arabs will protect complete idiots, who cause
the tribe trouble. Jews do not do that with their members.

This is something that all identity politics should adopt. Going back to
the African tribe at the beginning, if they have a member, who brings
shame on the group or simply cannot pull his weight, the best course is
to cut him lose. If you have talent and you are Jewish, the tribe is an
enormous asset. if you are a mediocrity or a loser, being Jewish is not
going to benefit you in the least. Clannishness as a reward encourages
loyalty, but it also boils off the losers who drag down the group. Along
with shame, it makes for a better tribe.

Another quirk of the Tribe that could help any tribe is the
unwillingness of Jews to self-marginalize in society. The Ultra-Orthodox
do this, but they are the exception. Generally, Jews engage with the
society in which they reside and are willing to engage at the highest
levels. Gypsies in Europe, in contrast, live on the fringes. Asians in
America tend to gravitate to a little Hanoi or a Chinatown. Jews do not
do that and when forced into a ghetto, and we have the word ghetto
thanks to the Tribe, Jews resist it and try to engage.

This is not just something Jews have done in America. Italians and Irish
are notable examples of groups that would not stay in the ghetto. Unlike
Europe, America has never had a lot of rules about this stuff. We did
not inherent Europe’s class structure. Still, the winning hand
everywhere is to not settle for a quiet little corner of society. The
winning formula is to embrace the greater culture and carve out a place
in the *center* of it. The trouble last century in Germany not
withstanding, it has worked very well for Jews.

Going back to the shame issue, there is a Jewish quirk that is a huge
advantage and that is a form of *shamelessness*. That is, Jews are never
ashamed of their efforts. You see this with the neocons. Guys like Bill
Kristol have no problem walking around in public, despite the things he
has done to the country. Anthony Weiner was out and about, even after he
was caught in the “bing-bing-bing.” It is not always an asset but having
the conscience of a burglar makes it easier to overcome failure and keep
plugging.

The genesis of this post is a conversation I had with a Zimbabwean. We
fell into conversation about his country and one of the things he said
was that his people are the [Jews of
Africa](https://www.amazon.com/Africa-Americas-Nathan-Huggins-Lectures/dp/0674066987/) .
He thinks his people should come to America and follow the same path as
the Ashkenazi. I did not think to ask if he was Lemba, but that’s my
hunch. His general point was that inculcating certain group habits that
have worked for other groups, is a good way forward for tribes, be they
in identity politics on the African bush.

 
