---
title: "Musings On Moldbugism"
date: "2017-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Dark Enlightenment
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10888"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10888"
---

I no longer recall the first time I heard about Mencius Moldbug. I want
to say it was seven or eight years ago, but I’m not sure. What I recall
is someone asking me what I thought of Mencius Moldbug and not having
the slightest idea what was meant by the question. I was soon reading
through his blog, skimming mostly. The person who had asked about it was
younger than me and a fan of Moldbug, so I felt obliged to thank him for
the link and say some nice things about it, even though it was really
not my thing.

My first impression was that it was for young males who were part of
third wave internet culture and gaming. By third wave, I mean those who
came along with mobile computing and immersive on-line gaming. The
second wave were the folks who came along with the PC revolution. The
first wave were the people who built their own computers, started a
dial-up BBS and enjoyed hours of free long distance, courtesy of phone
phreaking. I fall somewhere between the first wave and the second wave.

I would read the Moldbug blog a few times a month and maybe read some of
the other guys in the NRx thing when I had the time or interest. I’m
guessing that peak neo-reaction was half a dozen years ago. That seems
like when the term was popping up all over the internet, associated with
the phrase <a
href="https://habitableworlds.files.wordpress.com/2013/04/darkenlightenment2.png"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Dark Enlightenment</a>, which I think was
coined by <a href="http://www.xenosystems.net/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Nick Land</a>. Since then many of the bloggers big in
the movement have closed up shop and the terminology has mostly fallen
out of usage. NRx seems to be dead.

For those unfamiliar with Moldbug, looking to kill a few days reading
his work, his blog posts are
<a href="https://unqualified-reservations.blogspot.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">archived here</a>. I’ll caution you that they tend to be
long and meandering, bordering on stream of consciousness. For a shorter
and more concise reading of Moldbug and the core of NRx, <a
href="http://thermidormag.com/mencius-moldbug-10-years-on-a-critical-retrospective/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">you can read this retrospective at
Thermodor</a>. People in the movement may quibble, but it strikes me as
a clean and concise summary of Moldbug and the NRx movement in general.
The criticism at the end is also worth reading.

As far as criticism, the most potent and accurate is the simple
observation that Moldbugism, and to a lesser extent NRx, was not able to
outlive its creator. Once Curtis Yarvin gave up blogging, the internet
movement he created quickly faded away. Maybe a better way to state it
is that it was quickly gobbled up by the alt-right, alt-lite and other
manifestations of dissident politics. My guess is a fair share of his
fans simply went back to the safety of techno-libertarianism.
Regardless, Moldbugism is no longer a thing.

As an aside, an indication of just how out of touch and superfluous the
Buckley Right has become is the fact that they never felt the need to
disavow NRx. In fact, they were largely unaware of its existence.
Instead they were still obsessed with rounding up the remaining
paleocons and casting them into the void. National Review finally got
around to addressing neo-reaction and Moldbug, when <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/448323/defending-american-idea-against-alt-right"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">their in-house homosexual took on the
topic</a>, confusing a bunch of things, in the process of trying to make
sense of Buckley Conservatism.

Anyway, there are two possible explanations for the end of Moldbugism.
One is that his arguments were not original, just stated in a new way.
His assertion that Progressivism has its roots in Puritanism, for
example, is not new. I was making that point 25 years ago in Usenet
debates and I know I’m not the first guy to notice it. His criticisms of
democracy have been around since the Enlightenment. Old ideas restated
in modern terms eventually just fade into the tapestry of the
intellectual movement that spawned them.

The other possibility is that the people attracted to Moldbug’s ideas,
including Moldbug, came from the Left ideologically. Young people raised
on Progressivism were attracted by the subversiveness of these old
ideas. They moved right into Left-libertarianism, then
Right-libertarianism and then eventually dissident politics of various
flavors. Put another way, the Dark Enlightenment guys were merely going
through a phase as they first experienced the outlawed ideas from the
outlawed past. Now, they are onto other things.

Moving from libertarianism, often Left-libertarianism to the alt-right
is something you hear a lot on the alt-right. Mike Enoch, of The Right
Stuff, has talked about his political evolution and it matches this
pattern. He was in a Trotsky movement at one point, then moved through
libertarianism and eventually to the alt-right. Maybe neo-reaction is
like withdrawing from heroin. Going cold-turkey from Progressivism leads
to all sorts of reactions, but eventually they fade and the patient can
begin a normal intellectual life.

In this regard, Moldbugism should be a cautionary tale for those into
dissident politics, particularly the alt-right. Discovering outlawed
ideas from a bygone era is liberating and exciting, but there is a
reason that those ideas were outlawed. The reason we find ourselves in a
Progressive theocracy, is that those old guys with all of their sound
ideas about human nature, lost the fight with the Left. Studying their
failure will probably count for more in the coming fights than digesting
and internalizing their philosophy.

Another angle here is that Moldbugism never got much traction from
paleocons, paleo-libertarians and Southern populists. If like me, you
were a Buchanan man in the 90’s, NRx felt more like an echo than a
calling. Further, neocameralism has a whiff of libertarian dreamer about
it that biological realists find ridiculous. Therefore, the more potent
minds in dissident politics were never attracted to Moldbug. Long after
many NRx bloggers were onto other things, guys like Steve Sailer are
still going strong.

In the end, Curtis Yarvin should be remembered as an important part of
this thing, if for no other reason than he normalized and made
interesting, the critique of the prevailing orthodoxy for a generation
of smart people. By calling into question some of the shibboleths of the
ruling elite, he helped make it possible to question all of them,
including their most cherished beliefs. Whether or not Yarvin gets all
the credit for that is debatable, but he was part of an effort to get
smart people asking questions about this stuff.

The lesson of the Left’s dominance is that they institutionalized a
critique of Western civilization. For as long as anyone reading this has
been alive, it has been hip and cool to question the culture and customs
of the West. Like water dripping on a stone for a century, the Left has
eroded Western civilization with an endless stream of small challenges.
If this counter-culture we see forming up is going to succeed, it will
have to develop a culture of endlessly questioning and challenging the
prevailing orthodoxy.
