---
title: "The Death of Hollywood"
date: "2017-10-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11881"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11881"
---

I was listening to sports radio off the internet the other days and I
kept hearing ads for the fall television lineup from CBS. The sport
station is affiliated with CBS Sports, so they do cross marketing of
their content. Like most people, commercials of all kinds are just
background noise to me most of the time. Maybe radio ads have some sort
of subliminal effect, but my suspicion is they are just a waste of
money. I barely listen to the content. Like most people, radio is just
background noise for me.

Anyway, I was about to turn off the radio and do something else when
they were going through the “great new shows” on CBS. Having dropped
television, I stopped to listen to the promos out of curiosity. I cannot
remember the last time I followed a network TV show like a sitcom or
serial drama. Probably Seinfeld 20 years ago. Anyway, the ad was long
and ran through a list of shows, describing each one in exited tones.
What was striking is that each sounded more horrible than the next.
[Here is the list](https://televisionpromos.com/network/cbs/).

I cannot help but notice the number of shows dedicated to defending the
realm. Some of the shows could be anything, but twelve are clearly about
agents of the state defending the state against the bad people. Most of
these are shows about the sorts of people our social media overlords are
trying to create on-line. That is, they use their super goodness powers
to magically identify the crime-thinker. Rather than having a tough guy
doing the hard work of policing the streets, its a dork using brain
waves to zap the bad thinkers.

Looking at the other networks, it is a slightly different trend. ABC
shows are mostly about unconventional families, non-whites and women.
Fox is full of blacks and race mixers, but with a low-brow comedy theme.
NBC is heavy on the fire department shows for some reason. Maybe they
struck a deal with CBS. Again, these are shows about defending the realm
against threats. If you were observing America from another planet, just
using television, you would think America is riddle with crime and fire
bugs,

As a cord cutter, I have no occasion to see any of these shows, so I
could be all wrong about the quality and content. I just know that the
only network show I hear mentioned in my daily life is Big Bang Theory.
I do hear plenty of people talk about shows they follow on cable or
service providers like Amazon and Netflix. Maybe the people I interact
with on a daily basis are not the typical network TV viewers, but my
guess is the audiences for network shows have shrunk quite a bit over
the last decade.

My other hunch, and I may be off base on this, but I suspect these shows
are written by women or at least have lots of female writers. Shows like
[The Good Fight](https://televisionpromos.com/shows/the-good-fight/) and
[Madame Secretary](https://televisionpromos.com/shows/madam-secretary/)
are obviously aimed at cat ladies. The latter was clearly an infomercial
for Hillary Clinton’s Presidential campaign. It is a safe bet they had
shows written about how the main character wins the White House, so they
could retool the show to be about the wonderfulness of having the first
female President. Thank you, Donald Trump.

On the other hand, the apparent crappiness of television shows could
simply be a part of the general crappiness of the mass media culture.
The movie business is suffering from a season of awfully expensive
flops. So much so the whole business model is being called into
question. Bad movies are getting yanked from theaters and the theaters
are offering incentives to people to watch the bad movies. Maybe it is
just a blip, but [the big studios are treating this like a sea change in
the
business](http://www.showbiz411.com/2017/10/21/hollywood-ending-big-studios-cutting-losses-this-weekend-pulling-flops-from-theaters-earlier-than-usual).
Something big is happening.

Maybe it already happened. The last time “everyone watched” a network
show was probably the 90’s with Seinfeld or maybe the Simpsons. When was
the last time you heard someone use a pop culture referenced to a sitcom
or network drama? What is happening to the movie business, may have
happened to network TV and no one noticed because of the cable shows and
cord cutting phenomenon. Put another way, the root cause of all of these
phenomena may be a change in who runs the media business.

It could also be the radical feminization and politicization of the
business, rather than the product. The sexual harassment hysteria
gripping both Hollywood and the news entertainment rackets suggest the
cat ladies are staging a final takeover. Someone named [Mark Halperin is
the latest male to be hurled into the void by the
ladies](http://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2017/10/26/mark-halperin-out-at-msnbc-apologizes-after-sex-assault-accusations.html).
The general awfulness of our mass media could simply be the result of
diving off the talent and replacing it with social justice warriors and
their crazed enablers.

I watched the HBO series Rome recently. It was on about ten years ago
and covered the period from the rise of Julius Caesar to the triumph of
Octavian over Antony. It was a big budget affair with lots of well done
costumes. The story, on the other hand, was mostly about the catty women
and their intrigues. That and overly long sex scenes that were
unrealistic and stupid. Feminists love this stuff, which is why every
tackle-faced cat lady in America camped out to see the film adaptation
of 50 Shades of Gray.

I have argued on and off for a while now that we are at the end of a
great cultural cycle. The old culture that was born and flourished in
the 20 century is dead. We still have the structures and institutions
from that era, but they are husks of themselves. There is no cultural
energy to animate them and give them vibrancy. The collapse of Hollywood
may be a sign of it. Movies and TV are artifacts of the last century.
Like zombies, these institutions shuffle along, searching for brains,
but they are finally collapsing into dust.
