---
title: "Doctor Robot"
date: "2017-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11706"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11706"
---

One of the popular topics among the curious minded is the coming robot
revolution where, presumably, all work will be done by robots. A regular
feature of the news is the story of how some function previously done by
people is now being done by smart machines. The prevailing assumption is
that the sort of manual labor jobs done by the working class will
disappear over the next generations. That may be true, but it will not
be the working man losing out initially. It is going to be the office
people who feel the pinch first.

One of the things everyone sort of knows is that a whole lot of what
passes for office work is not particularly important. Government is the
most obvious example. Everyone is familiar with the image of the road
crew standing around watching one guy work, but that pales in comparison
to the government agency. Thousands hiding cubicles watching porn or
gambling. The paleocons used to make the point that the expansion of
government at all levels is primarily a jobs program. It keeps the
troublesome busy.

Anyone who has worked in big corporations or large law firms knows there
is plenty of busy work going on in those cubicles too. Some of it is
defensive, like human resource departments and safety managers, but a
lot of it just sort of happens. Make-work jobs grow on an organization
like a fungus. The hospitality industry has always suffered from this
more than most. In good times, they hire up, even though the need is not
there, but then come the lean times, the extra is cut loose and no one
really notices.

The robot came to mind when booking my last physical. I have been saying
for years that a good chunk of health care could be automated today.
Yet, the only growing segment of the labor market, outside of
government, is health care. At my doctorâ€™s office, I interact with
probably a dozen people during a physical. I know what two of them do
and one of them could be replaced by a kiosk. The rest are just women in
purple scrubs milling around doing nothing I can identify as medical
work or even clerical work.

What has always been puzzling to me is that I never actually see a
doctor. In fact, I have yet to meet my doctor in person. We have
communicated by e-mail once or twice. Instead, I deal with a nurse
practitioner. Once a year, she asks me the same questions and then types
my answers into a laptop. She then gives me a physical examination,
sticks her finger in my arse and that is the end of it. If I were
allowed to answer the questions in advance, the whole thing could be
done as a drive-thru service.

I noticed when booking the last visit, on-line of course, that the time
slot was now 30 minutes. In the past, I was told to be there for an
hour. Some of that time was waiting for my turn, but most of the face
time with the nurse was the question and answer stuff. The new on-line
appointment process had me answering the questions during the booking,
rather than in person. I even did the insurance work in advance. I just
show up, get naked, get violated, give a blood sample and go on my way.

The truth of it is most people could get along simply fine with Doctor
Google and a routing service to guide people in need of services to the
correct providers. When I hurt my knee a while back, I met with a dozen
people I had no reason to meet, just to get to the correct person.
Frustratingly, I knew the service I needed because I knew the injury. I
even looked up the possible ways to address the injury. But I was forced
by humans to see a dozen of them first. The robot doctor would never do
this to me.

This is just one example of the millions of daily tasks now done by
humans in offices that can easily be eliminated with current automation.
The fact that it is happening so slowly speaks to how resistant work
life is to change. Medical service providers are now being squeezed by
insurance companies so the medical providers are looking for savings via
automation. One day, reality will come crushing in on the insurance
firms and most of those jobs will be automated in the blink of an eye.

The medical services business is a massive racket, which exists as it
does primarily due to government. I have made the point for years that
it would look something like veterinary medicine if not for government.
As such, it should be more resistant to the robots than other fields.
The fact that it is showing signs of disruption due to automation
suggests we will get our first glimpse of the robot revolution in a
white collar field, rather than a blue collar one. The robots are coming
for the office workers first.

That will be bring some interesting socio-political ramifications that
our rulers seem incapable of pondering. Just look at how they struggle
to make sense of the public reaction to wholesale migration. Democrats
abandoned working class whites in favor or cheap foreign labor and they
remained poleaxed over why these voters abandoned Team Clinton for Team
Trump. Imagine what happens when suburban unemployment doubles due to
automation. Signaling over trannies is probably not going to work too
well.

In case anyone is wondering, Doctor Robot gave me a clean bill of
health.
