---
title: "The Reconquest"
date: "2017-05-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10320"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10320"
---

Anthropology tells us that early modern humans slowly populated what is
now sub-Saharan Africa and then began to migrate out into the rest of
the world. Whether this was out of curiosity, the search for food or
population pressure is unknown, but it was probably some combination of
all three. The most likely route was along the western coast of the Red
Sea and then into the Eastern Mediterranean. From there, humans slowly
fanned out across the globe. It’s all speculation, but that’s the
logical route out of Africa.

The point here is the first wave of human migration was south to north.
Humans appear to have made it as far north as Siberia and Scandinavia
before changes in climate forced people back south again. There are some
who think that the populations to the north had acquired better
cognitive and maybe even physical tools that allowed them to migrate
south and displace the populations in the more temperate zones. The
changes in climate had the effect of improving the human populations in
Asia and Europe.

That may be debatable, but what is not debated is that large scale human
migrations change both the invaded and the invader. The people being
conquered are either massacred or bred out by the winning tribes. On the
other hand, the invading people tend to borrow things from the conquered
people, including genetics from the female line. The Irish say the
Vikings took the best looking women with them to Iceland, which is why
Icelandic women are some of the most beautiful in the world.

A good example of this may be Islam. Historians have assumed Islam grew
out of the polytheistic religions of Arabia in the late 6th century.
While the details of Mohamed’s life are not clear, it has generally been
accepted that he was a real person, who lived around Mecca in the 6th
century. It has been assumed that Islam was an Arab response to the
growth of Judaism and various Christian sects. In time, Islam spread
through the Middle East, as the Arabs conquered the region.

There’s some interesting revisionism of the origins of Islam and the
accuracy of the alleged Arab conquests. <a
href="http://www.newenglishreview.org/custpage.cfm/frm/160197/sec_id/160197"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This New English
Review article</a> from a few years back is a nice summary of it. The
archaeological evidence suggests that Islam was a Persian implementation
of a Jewish-Christian sect that disappeared after the Council of Nicea
in 325. Persian coins from the period, for example, when Mohamed was
allegedly leading the Islamification of Arabia, have Christian symbols
on them, in addition to Persian symbols.

The revisionist think Eastern Christians migrated into Arabia and
Persia. In time, their form of Christianity evolved into a monotheistic
religion of the Persians. According to this line of thinking, the
Persians actually conquered the region and spread this hybrid
Christianity that would evolve into Islam. It was only later, when the
Arabs took over for the fading Persians, that the tale of Mohamed was
created, as well as the story of the Arab conquests. Islam as an
off-shoot of a now extinct form of Christianity is not implausible.

What’s interesting about both approaches to the origins of Islam is the
base assumption that it filled a void that existed within Arab
populations. Christianity and Judaism were the dominant religions of the
Near East, but those people were the hated rivals of the Arabs and
Persians. A need for a unifying faith to compete with the monotheism of
their rivals was probably understood by Persians and Arab rulers.
Religion has always been the business of kings, so it is reasonable to
think they encouraged this development.

It’s also interesting that Islam most likely evolved from a mix of
Judaism, Christianity and other ancient religions. What may have started
out as a Jewish heresy was transformed by the people into a religion
that was useful to them. Put another way, Christianity made its way into
a less than fertile land, but adapted and mutated until it was something
that could thrive. The fact that Islam has not spread too far past the
boundaries of the people who created it suggests something about
religion in general and Islam in particular.

When you look at what is happening to Europe, there are some
similarities to the Arabs and Persians in late antiquity. The attempts
to replace Christianity with the sterile bureaucratic super state have
largely failed. Falling birth rates and an unwillingness to resist
invasion are signs of a people who have no purpose. The average European
today lives for carnal pleasures and the acquisition of goods. There’s a
void in the center of European life and perhaps Islam is what is going
to fill it.

It could very well be that the Muslim invasion of Europe is the end of a
cycle that was started by Emperor Constantine when he made Christianity
the religion of his empire and bound the Church to Rome. The losers at
Nicea wandered off into the desert, presumably to be forgotten, but
instead, their decedents are back to reclaim Europe. Like the people who
migrated north and then returned ahead of the ice sheets, the Muslims
are coming into Europe armed with a purpose, against which the locals
have no answer.

Alternatively, maybe the people in charge of Europe, away from the
public and the press, know that their people need a religion. Maybe like
the Persian king Chosroes II, who historians are sure practiced a form
of Christianity, the leaders of Europe are inviting Islam into their
lands, even if it means taking in Muslims. After all,
<a href="https://www.theguardian.com/uk/2008/feb/07/religion.world"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the Archbishop of Canterbury
seem pretty keen on Islam</a>. It’s unlikely that there is a secret
mosque in Brussels for the EU rulers, but maybe they think some form of
Islam would not be such a bad thing.

Regardless, we may be seeing the start of a reconquest, of sorts.
Instead of Christianity making a come back in the West, it is the
forgotten version, the one many think was the first and therefore the
correct version of Christianity. Islam as practiced today will never
work in Europe, but it could certainly evolve into something that does
work. Maybe what’s happening is that the old original form of
Christianity is coming back, but first as its foreign incarnation. In
time, it will evolve into something the West can use.
