---
title: "The Lotos Eaters"
date: "2017-05-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10360"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10360"
---

The lotus was introduced to the Western mind by Homer. Odysseus tells
how his ship was blown off course and landed on an island. While his men
rested, he sent a small party to investigate. These men encountered the
natives, who gave them a drink made from the lotus flower, which grew on
the island. It was a narcotic that put them into a languid state of
bliss. So much so they had no desire to tend to their work or return
home. Odysseus forced them back onto the ship and sailed away, despite
their protestations.

<a
href="https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems-and-poets/poems/detail/45364"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Lord Tennyson’s poem</a>, the
title of which is the title of this post, is a retelling of Odysseus
adventure among the lotus eaters. The difference is it is from the
perspective of the men as they try to explain why they should stay and
live a life free of toil. Living as a lotus eater means abandoning
external reality and living instead in a world of appearances, as
if everything is a pleasant dream. It is a world of self-delusion where
everything “seems’ the same, which is why “seems” is liberally used
thought the poem.

This is what came to mind reading <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/06/his-kampf/524505/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this piece on Richard
Spencer</a> in the Atlantic. The writer, Graeme Wood, tells us so much
about himself in the piece, the article could just as easily have been
about him. In fact, the whole article is less about Spencer than the
reaction of the writer to the very idea of Spencer. It is a style of
writing common today, where the author tries to take you on their
emotional journey as they encounter the subject of their piece. Often,
the subject’s role in a story is only as a catalyst.

Even though the author is trying hard to put Spencer in the worst
possible light, you get the sense that he is locked in an internal
tug-o-war with himself. On the one hand, there is the temptation to
engage the world of reality. On the other hand, there is the world of
forms in which he lives, a world where everything seems right. Based on
what Wood tells us about himself in the beginning of the piece. It is a
safe bet he has never left the island, or at least not gone to far away
from shore.

That’s why the article reads, at times, like Wood had made the journey
upriver to meet Mr. Kurtz, to tell him he has been bad for business. If
Spencer had mounted a few severed heads on pikes, it would have fit in
perfectly with the tone of the piece. The difference is, instead of
Spencer as the one muttering “The horror! The horror!” at the end, it’s
Wood. He has made his journey into the heart of darkness and now munches
on the lotus, hoping to never be tempted by reality again.

Therein lies part of the hysteria we see from the social justice
warriors and PC enforcers running around trying to stamp out dissent.
It’s not really about the dissenters. It’s not, strictly speaking, about
the content. It is about the temptation. Like Tennyson’s sailors, the
social justice warriors are locked in a struggle with themselves. They
want to remain in the languid land of “seems” but at some level they
know it is self-deception. The dissenters, the people who left the
island, are a reminder of that and they hate them for it.

The old saw about people not being able to handle too much reality is
certainly true. It has always been true. The reason for myths, legends
and religion is to knock the hard edges off of life and give people hope
and purpose. For most of human history, it has been the rulers who find
ways to keep the people in a bit of a delusional fog. Whether it is
bread and circuses or manufactured reasons to pull together toward a
common goal, the clear-eyed people at the top have found an opiate for
the people.

Today, things are upside down. It is the people that face the hard
realities of life, while the managerial class sits around drunk on
self-delusion, fearful that someone may introduce temptation into their
world. The poor may be high on heroin, but they have no illusions about
the world. The people in charge, on the other hand, are living a fantasy
version of life. It’s why they are not concerned with the consequences
of their polices. They simply don’t think of the consequences. They
focus on how good it makes them feel.

Odysseus and his sailors eventually left the island. It was the
authority of Odysseus that compelled them to leave, but they did leave.
Maybe that’s what happens with the managerial class. Just as Spencer’s
search for meaning has led him to identity politics, the managerial
class will make a similar journey off the island. A world of low work
and high pay has its attractions, but it it snot life. It offers no
genuine purpose. Of course, that could mean they start a war or unleash
a plague. Things can always get worse.
