---
title: "The Fear Of Disbelief"
date: "2017-10-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - IQ
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11675"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11675"
---

I was looking for something I remembered Sailer posting about and I
stumbled upon [this post from Tyler
Cowen](http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2009/05/why-steve-saile.html).
The post is from eight years ago and it is something I found
interesting. I did some searching around in his blog to see if he had
bothered to revisit the issue and the search came up dry. Cowen, who is
one of those guys who likes pitching himself as a step outside the
crowd, has avoided the topic for close to a decade, suggesting it was
around this point when the subject was declared heretical.

Another thing I found interesting, amusing actually, was that Cowen
succumbed to the claim that there is greater genetic diversity within
racial groups than between them. While it is true that there is greater
variation between individuals, than between groups of individuals, it
does not invalidate classifying individuals into different racial
groups. Traits common to one group, even in great variety, may not exist
in another. Cowen was falling for what is informally known
as [Lewontin’s
Fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_Genetic_Diversity:_Lewontin%27s_Fallacy).

Of course, what screams from the post is the hysteria induced in people
like Cowen, when they are sheered between observable fact and prevailing
dogma. On the one hand, their brains force them to look at reality. On
the other hand, their fear of the morality police makes them want to
shriek in terror. Cowen is a gold plated phony, but he is not a dunce.
Even back in 2009, the evidence was clear. There are bone-deep
differences between the races that go beyond physiognomy. It is right
there in the mountain of IQ data.

People can be forgiven for not going against their betters. Even spergs
like Cowen want to believe in the prevailing orthodoxy. You see that in
the end where he writes “racism itself is far, far more harmful, whether
in the course of previous history or still today.” That is the sort of
thing a true believer writes, when he is thinking of maybe writing
something heretical, but then grows frightened of where it could lead.
That whole last paragraph is so carefully worded, it reads like it was
written by a committee.

It is not just the smart guys who are tormented by this stuff. Most
normal whites get weepy when they see a guy like Sheriff Clark or Allen
West say the sorts of things honkies say in private. It is confirmation.
When you see a gazillion re-tweets of something a conservative black
posted, it is not hard to imagine the relief normies felt when they saw
it and the joy with which they passed it along. A couple of generations
of whites have been raised up to think of blacks as mystical moral
arbiters. Black approval is the highest honor.

There is also the old *noblesse oblige* hook. Smart people like to think
of themselves as having a duty to guide the less smart toward the
correct opinions. A guy like Cowen is not wealthy and he is largely
dependent on the state for his livelihood, like most libertarians.
Nevertheless, he imagines himself as a member of an intellectual elite,
charged with training the next generation and providing intellectual
guidance to the ruling class. Promoting the blank slate silliness about
the evils of racism feels like his moral duty.

On this point, there is a strange phenomenon that I have witnessed. It
is not a lot different than what happens in a church when a long
standing member quits because they no longer believe in God. There are
members who will try to talk the guy out of it, telling him that they
too have lost their faith, but they continue attending services to
maintain the tradition or support those who to continue to believe. I
have never seen this work. Every person who has quit their church did so
in their mind long before they left the pew.

I suspect something similar goes on with our betters. They know that
even entertaining heretic thoughts can be trouble. They have seen enough
old white guys throw in the towel, like [James
Watson](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/dec/01/dna-james-watson-scientist-selling-nobel-prize-medal)
or [John
Derbyshire](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/295625/his-own-standard-jason-lee-steorts).
They know that once that seed of doubt gets lodged in the head, it grows
into a mighty oak of doubt. Then comes struggle, apostasy and finally
banishment from the community of good thinkers. It is better for
strangers to think you are a moron than to have your friends and
colleagues say you are immoral.

Most people reading this probably belonged to the universal church of
biological denialism at some point in their life. It has been dogma for
a long time. Probably every white person has felt the warm glow of
seeing blacks succeed at white things or showing their appreciation with
public acts of patriotism. The opening ceremonies have become American’s
favorite part of the Olympics, because it is where they see well behaved
non-whites wearing the stars and stripes and looking proud to be
Americans.

Race denialism, as John Derbyshire calls it, has been part of the
official canon for generations now. Biological denialism has been
official dogma for as long as I have been alive. Belief is easy when
everyone else believes the same thing. Disbelief, however, is inevitable
when belief is at odds with reality. When no matter how hard you try to
make the belief real, it is thwarted by reality, doubt is the only
option. That is where most whites are now. The question is, what will
they believe in next?
