---
title: "The Personal Is Political"
date: "2017-09-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11616"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11616"
---

The defining characterization of second-wave feminism, according to
feminists, is that the “personal is political.” The phrase comes from an
essay by feminist Carol Hanisch with the title “The Personal is
Political.” Hilariously, she claimed the phrase was something all women
knew and said, but was a secret until the late 1960’s. The most likely
reason for her refusal to claim ownership is that she stole the idea
from someone else, but feminists have always been nutty, so there is no
way to know.

The argument is that personal experience is intertwined with larger
social and political structures. One’s personal choices reveal one’s
politics. Consequently, one should make personal choices that are
consistent with one’s politics. Put another way, your life is your
politics, so therefore politics defines your life. This was a roundabout
way of attacking normal family life and traditional female roles, but it
did not stop there. Defining people by their politics, and *only* their
politics, meant that there is no escape from politics.

The irony of this is that this is perfectly consistent with how men have
always understood women. Women compete with one another to establish
their status in relation to men. That means for women, it is an endless
competition. Therefore, politics is all consuming. Men, on the other
hand, establish their status among one another. Once the pecking order
is set, that is the end of the competition. Politics is for when it is
time to reset the pecking order. Otherwise, men define themselves by
their role in society and their deeds.

As our society has become feminized, everything is drenched in politics.
You see it with the NFL protest debacle. Men watch sports to enjoy
seeing men compete with one another in ritualized combat. Men do not
care about what the combatants think about anything, including the
combat. Interviews with coaches are to be focused on the strategy of the
game, not the guy’s feelings about life. Player interviews are only
interesting because most players are black now, so they say wacky and
stupid things.

Of course, the zeal of NFL owners to include the girls is due to the
understanding that their sport is never going to be popular with girls
or sissies. Like boxing, it takes guts to play football. Anyone who
played the game knows the risks, as they saw teammates carted off with
broken bones or on backboards. Girls do not like seeing that and they
really do not want their children doing it. The pinking of sports like
football is an effort to distract the girls from the reality of the game
so they do not shut it down.

In a feminine society like ours, it is just a matter of time before
masculine things like sports are either made girlish or relegated to the
fringe. Boxing, for example, still exists, but only as a fringe sport
done by foreigners. UFC has managed to gain an audience, but again, it
is as a renegade activity, done underground and on pay-per-view. White
mothers will never be taking their sons to UFC camp. They can tolerate
martial arts, just as long as it is white boys in bathrobes, safely
pretending to be Jackie Chan.

This is why football is so much trouble. Peak professional football was
probably a dozen years ago. It was around then that white mothers,
especially divorced middle-class mothers, started turning against youth
football. They did not want their little baby being run over by black
kids. That is why the concussion hysteria gained traction. It is a ready
made excuse for pulling the white kids out of football, which lets white
women pretend it is not racism driving their decision. After all, they
loved Will Smith in the concussion movie!

It is why the NFL’s decision to let their blacks kneel during the anthem
is going to be a disaster for them. The owners signed off on it thinking
it added drama and would therefore draw in girls, because girls and
girly-men like drama. Instead, those kneeling black players are a stark
reminder to white women that the sport of football is for violent black
men, not nice suburban white boys. Youth participation in football is
collapsing and this will only serve to accelerate it. The NFL has now
made football anti-white and un-American.

The root cause is not the inherent danger of playing sports like
football. The root is the same as it is for everything in the current
crisis. The feminization of the West is turning politics into a never
ending soap opera for no purpose than the perpetuation of petty gripes
among the participants. Nothing gets done, because girls do not care
about deeds. They care about attention. Swedish women have turned their
country into rape land, in order to get the attention of their men, who
have been feminized to the point of no return.

Aristophanes wrote *The Assemblywomen* in 391 BC. it is a comedic play
about what would happen if women assumed control. The women immediately
ban private wealth and enforce sexual equality for the unattractive. It
reads like an inter-sectional co-convening of the feminist study
department at any university. The play was intended to use humor to
criticize the Athenian ruling class. It relied on the basic
understanding of the female mind and on the widely held understanding
that you can never put women in charge.

For thousands of years, people understood the different roles of the
sexes. Human societies, for good and ill, were organized on this
understanding. Then all of a sudden, the West went crazy. Men stopped
playing their role and instead handed off authority to the women. The
women have set about politicizing everything and feminizing everything,
including the men. They are now forcing their boys to dress as girls and
pretend to be women. Everything is political, even the biology of their
children

This will not end well.
