---
title: "Ruminations On The Way Down The Mountain"
date: "2017-05-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10372"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10372"
---

Yesterday, I made the trip to the Imperial Capital. I passed through the
majestic gates of the Secret City, ascended the golden staircase into
the heavens, to be among the Cloud People. I stood beneath the Glasir
and watched Eikþyrnir and Heiðrún graze on the leaves of Læraðr. Despite
the weather on the ground being dreary and drizzly, for us in the
clouds, it was sunshine and gentle breezes, perfumed with the odor of
honeysuckle. It was everything you imagine it is, among the Cloud
People.

Actually, I was in meetings all day, in buildings that resemble the
administrative structures you see on a typical college campus. In TV and
movies, corporate and government structures are imagined as cold and
sterile buildings made of glass and steel. In reality, they are almost
almost always like the administrative buildings built on colleges that
the boomers fondly remember from their youth. The new Apple lair is like
something from a comic book, but only if the super-villain is a
middle-aged homosexual.

Being a man of two worlds, I’ve found it easier to adjust to the Cloud
than the other way around. When circumstances require me to spend
extended time among the Cloud People, the trip back to the ground is
like coming home from the 10-day dream vacation. It’s nice to see the
old familiars, but there is a certain ennui. I always imagine it is the
same feeling Adam and Eve had when they were ejected from the Garden. I
also imagine it is what the Cloud People fear it is like too, which is
why they avoid it at all costs.

For reasons I cannot go into, I was required to sit through a
presentation by a middle-aged woman on the new diversity strategy for
their organization. Of course, not a single person in the room was
diverse. It was wall-to-wall honky. The presenter did not mention it
and, if I had to guess, did not notice it. There was a ceremonial feel
to it, as if she was leading the group in prayer. In fact, I had
flashbacks to my youth in Jesuit schools where every class began with a
recitation of the Lord’s Prayer or a Hail Mary.

Communists used to work the civil religion angle this way, by having
indoctrination sessions for workers before their shifts. They would also
have struggle sessions for those who wandered off the reservation. My
guess is this is the inspiration for the constant harangues about
diversity among the Cloud People. The difference is the Dirt People are
not participating. We’re more like audience members now. Instead of the
ideological enforcers mingling with the workers to educate and
discipline, the prols are now ignored.

It suggests that the Revolution has moved onto a new phase. In the
French Revolution, after the White Terror, the Constitution of 1795
established The Directory. This was the start of a new phase in which
the lower classes were mostly ignored, as the new ruling class
consolidated its power. That may be what we are seeing with our
managerial class as they largely ignore the results of recent elections
and enforce discipline in their own ranks. It’s not a perfect analogy,
but it may be useful in analyzing what we are seeing.

There is another angle, one you can see in <a
href="http://slatestarcodex.com/2017/05/01/neutral-vs-conservative-the-eternal-struggle/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this Scott Alexander post</a>
a few weeks ago, that was popular with the cognoscenti. Star Slate Codex
is popular with people who not only think they are smart, but see
themselves as steely-eyed reason machines. It’s also popular with people
who like to believe stuff like this:

> Yes, CNN leans liberal, but it’s not *as* liberal as FOX is
> conservative, and it’s not as open about it – it has a pretense of
> neutrality that FOX doesn’t, and although we can disagree about how
> realistic that pretense is I think few people would disagree that the
> pretense is there. Nor is there a liberal version of FOX that lacks
> that pretense of neutrality.

That’s a very believable argument if you have no familiarity with cable
news or you look out at the world from deep inside the Progressive fever
swamps. It is the sort of thing people write when they want to
seem like the people who write things like this. It’s the worldview of
someone confusing a mirror with a telescope. To Alexander, Fox is way
out on the fringe and they are brazen about it. CNN, on the other hand,
is maybe a little biased, but they are good people, my people, so they
mean well.

Of course, there is the omnipresent hive mindedness. The world for Scott
Alexander, and most of his readers, is a world of black hats and white
hats. There are those inside the walls, the people of light, and the
people outside the walls, in the outer darkness. The people outside are
an undifferentiated collection of eyes peering out of the darkness,
which is why they routinely misuse works like “conservative” when
describing the people outside the walls. Words like “conservative” and
“right-wing” just mean *the outsiders*.

Animals that find themselves isolated, like on an island, evolve in
different ways, compared to those on the mainland. Insular dwarfism is
the process where large animals get smaller over a number of generations
when their population’s range is limited and isolated, like on an
island. The reverse can happen where a small animal ends up on an island
without predators. This is known as island gigantism. Some argue this is
what happened with dinosaurs, but there is debate about that.

We may be seeing a form of this with our managerial class. Their
isolation is shrinking their understanding of the world outside. The
lack of interaction is resulting in a narrowness of the caste, to the
point where we are as alien to them as they are to us. The latter is
normal, while the former is dangerous. Similarly, their isolation is
allowing their confidence to grow out of all proportion. Read Scott
Alexander and what oozes through is a naive sense of confidence that he
has it all figured out.

On the way down the mountain, into the land of the Dirt People, I
started thinking about the not-so-silent coup that is unfolding in
Washington against Trump. It’s not really fair to call it a coup. It is
more of a tantrum. Trump is not going anywhere. But, the managerial
class attempt to de-legitimize Trump is somewhat analogous to the [Coup
of 18 Fructidor
V](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coup_of_18_Fructidor "Coup of 18 Fructidor").
After the elections in which the Royalists made great gains, republicans
purged all the winners banishing 57 leaders to death in Guiana and
closed royalist newspapers.

After the election of 2016, we are seeing a panicked managerial class
trying to pick off members of the Trump team and isolate him from any
base of support he may enjoy in his own party. Just as with the
Directory, the people in charge seem to be wildly out of touch with the
reality of their circumstances. Trump is not Napoleon, but Napoleon was
not Napoleon at that point either. The point here is our managerial
elite’s determination to circle the wagons and enforce ideological
discipline may be weakening their position.

 
