---
title: "The Coming Boomercide"
date: "2017-06-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10514"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10514"
---

The warning when you are young is to avoid falling in with a bad crowd.
This almost always means staying away from the older crowd as they will
talk you into doing things that you are not prepared to handle, like
drugs or crime. The peculiarity of my upbringing meant that I spent my
youth around an older crowd, that was all bad, but I avoided the worst
of it. Now that I am on the down-slope of life, speeding down toward the
inevitable, I find myself hanging around on-line with a younger crowd
and they are all bad.

I’ve never cared for generational politics so maybe that’s why I have no
trouble with the younger generation. In my youth, I was forced to sit
through endless lectures by Baby Boomer teachers about how Generation X
was a bunch of slackers. By the time I reached high school, I could,
from memory, draw maps of the Ho Chi Min Trail and recite the playlist
at Woodstock, despite having no interest in either. I’ve always thought
that my generation’s disinterest was due to having to sit through so
many Boomer sermons.

If you are a Boomer reading this, you are no doubt outraged, scandalized
and offended at my comments. Just to be clear, I’m not talking about
you. You are an exception. In fact, you are unique, like a snowflake, a
special creation that stands in stark contrast to the conformity of your
coevals. You’re special! That’s always been the amusing part about
Boomer culture. They love talking about themselves, but hate it when
others talk about them. Everyone is conservative about what think they
know best, as Derb would say.

As I said, I’ve never been into generational politics. When I was a teen
in the 80’s, having to hear lectures about Gen X being deficient, always
left me wondering what they called the kids who came along in the late
70’s? They were technically Boomers, but they were nothing like the
people who came of age in the 60’s. Now I’m told that kids who came of
age in the 90’s are calling themselves Gen X, which is probably fine to
a point. I suspect they are rejecting Gen-Y because it sounds feminine,
as in \[lacking\] Y-chromosome.

Anyway, hanging around the bad kids on-line, I’ve noted their extreme
hostility to Baby Boomers and Boomer politics. It’s not the normal
youthful rejection of their parent’s stuff as their parents are not
Boomers. In the case of the 20-somethings, their parents are my
generation. Their grandparents are the Boomers. This means the so-called
Gen-Z and Millennials literally want to push granny off a cliff. I’ve
read screeds by youngsters to that effect. They really hate the Boomers
and not in an abstract way.

The coming Boomercide, if it happens, is going to be triggered by some
portly old guys in comfort waist slacks, showing up at an alt-right
rally wearing tricorne hats, preaching “heritage not hate.” It is the
Boomer impulse to accept the morality of the Left while pretending to
reject the consequence of it, that enrages the youth. Whatever you want
to say about the alt-right kids, they have this one thing right. Boomer
politics is all about the so-called conservatives swearing that the
liberals are the real racists, as if it matters.

A big part of this is the Boomer willingness to trust the media. I know.
I know. You don’t trust the media. You know they are just a bunch of
socialist liberal pinko Democrats. But, that’s just a way of trusting
the media. There’s a big difference, a categorical difference, between
thinking the media is honestly “biased toward one side” and thinking the
media is just a deeply cynical public relations arm for the
administrative state. Almost all Boomers will accept the former, while
few accept the latter.

This is part of the great generational divide between the young hate
thinkers and the Baby Boomers. The young have no trust in public
institutions. This is not a thing particular to the alt-right. Bernie
Bros are always moaning about the system. <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2017/06/08/reality-winner-isnt-a-whistleblower-or-a-victim-of-trumps-war-on-leaks/?utm_term=.b9f5fa796dc5"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The stupid little girl jammed up on
espionage charges</a> acted on the basis that the system is illegitimate
and lacks authority over her. That’s why she did not think twice about
doing what she did. In her mind, the government and its agents are the
enemy, with whom she is at war.

This trust in public institutions among Boomers is natural. Most of them
grew up in a high trust culture. When they watched TV in the 50’s, the
people making the shows were in love with America and promoted 1950’s
values. Even into the 60’s, the mass media was supportive of America.
When the culture began to collapse, the media seemed to be on the side
of those good hearted Progressives trying to make things better for
blacks, Jews, women and the disposed around the world. The media was all
about good intentions.

Later generations came of age assuming that what was on television was a
deliberate lie intended to have them buy stuff. Today’s youth have come
of age in a time when the media is clearly the church choir for the
managerial elite. Those who take the blue pill, get jobs in the media,
singing whatever is in their hymnals. Those who take the red pill, view
the media the same way the IRA looked at the Irish, who worked for the
British security forces. As a result, they see the Boomers as gullible
idiots.

Another aspect of the generation animosity is the Boomer enthusiasm for
punching Right, in order to cozy up to the Left.
<a href="https://heatst.com/politics/trump-mitchell-alt-right-racist/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Bill Mitchell is probably the most
obvious example</a>. He has turned himself into a cartoon in order to
avoid being lumped in with the people the Progs have labeled “far
right.” The other day a person on Gab pulled out <a
href="http://isteve.blogspot.com/2005/09/bill-whittle-dangerous-loon-or.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this old take down of Bill Whittle by
Steve Sailer,</a> as an example of Boomer perfidy. In fairness to
Whittle, he appears to have taken the red pill, but we’ll see if it
holds when <a
href="https://www.mediamatters.org/blog/2017/04/27/meet-nra-s-resident-academic-racist/216174"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Progs attack him</a>.

All of this could simply be a bit of cosmic justice. The generally
accepted theory is that Western culture collapsed in the 1960’s when the
English speaking world allowed their kids to pull down the institutions
that made all of it possible. That is certainly true. In fact, the
Boomers have been like a wave of locusts, sweeping through each aspect
of the culture as they aged, leaving nothing but waste behind them. In
the 60’s and 70’s they destroyed social norms. The 80’s they destroyed
education. The 90’s is was politics.

As the Boomers head into their golden years, they are prepared to
bankrupt Western society by becoming a great financial burden, but the
youth have other ideas. It would be amusing if the Boomers are
eventually vanquished by a youth movement that is, at its heart, an
embrace of everything the Boomers rejected. I cannot find an example of
restoration genocide, but there is a first time for everything. The
phrase “you have to go back” will become the slogan of this thing for a
number of reasons.

Not being a boomer or a youth, I have no dog in this fight. I know, I
know. “First they came for the Boomers and I did nothing because I am
not a Boomer.” That’s a chance I’m willing to take. My guess is Gen-X
will be just as easy for the kids to ignore as we were for the Boomers.
There’s a lot of Boomers to push off a cliff, so my bet is they wear
themselves out before they get to me anyway. At that point, I may have
died from excessive amusement, so bring on the Boomercide!
