---
title: "Poof-Berries"
date: "2017-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9981"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9981"
---

One of the many harms inflicted on us by the hive minded lunatics
running our society is the binary world view. Everything is either *all
good* or *all bad*. As such, everyone must either fully embrace
something or completely reject something. Indifference, ambivalence and
moderation are not permissible in a world run by zealous fanatics. The
only things that matter, that *can* matter, are those things that
require a moral position. Everything else falls outside the set of
things that exist, at least to the hive minded.

The most obvious example is homosexuality. Like all normal men, I am
mildly intolerant of homosexuals. I get that they cannot help themselves
and I get that it is “natural” in the same way schizophrenia is natural.
I’m fine with them doing what they must, just as long as they do it in
private. Of course, that makes me a monster. In the hive, you must
either fully embrace homosexuality and what comes with it, or you are a
homophobe and not fit for decent company. There’s no room for
indifference or mild intolerance.

Hive mindedness is much more of a female attribute, than a masculine
one. That’s not to imply that all women are howling at the moon zealots.
It’s just that the fairer sex is much more inclined to deal in
absolutes. The reason is that men have ways to arbitrate disputes that
do not require a transcendent set of rules. One chimp squares off with
the other chimp and the winner is the one who was right about where to
find the best bananas. Women don’t have that so they look for a set of
rules to figure out winners and losers.

It’s why it was no accident, that as soon as the girls got the vote, and
the boys were off fighting the Kaiser, the girls banned alcohol and
prostitution. To quote Judge Roy Bean, “Drinking and gambling and
whoring were declared unlawful. All those things which come natural to
men became crimes.” Morality, at least in the modern age, is the set of
rules the girls use to control the boys, which is why the prim-faced
moralizers of today are running around trying to stamp out anything that
smacks of masculinity.

That came to mind reading <a
href="http://www.nationalreview.com/article/446446/mike-cernovich-conspiracy-theories-fake-masculinity-donald-trump"
target="_blank">this teary-eyed tantrum on National Review</a> the other
day. It is supposed to be a take down of Mike Cernovich, but it reads
like a fit of jealously by one girl toward another, after the latter
stole the former’s guy. The only thing the writer did not do is call
Cerno a “doo-doo head” and claim he had cooties. National Review calls
itself the flagship publication of conservatism, yet it routinely
publishes articles that would be rejected by Ladies Home Journal for
being less than serious.

The primary complaint in the piece is that Cernovich is a brute. There
are a lot of ways to dismiss Cerno, I’ve done it a few times myself, but
attacking his excessive masculinity is strikingly bizarre. Why would the
writer latch onto that, rather than the fact that Cerno’s book is
generally awful? Or, why not do the point and shriek about Cerno being
associated with alt-right figures? The reason is the writer of that
piece is
<a href="http://nrinstitute.org/ian-tuttle" target="_blank">a boy named
Ian Tuttle</a>, who appears to have spent his youth with his underwear
over his head.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/maxresdefault.jpg"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-9995" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 1280px) 100vw, 1280px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/maxresdefault.jpg 1280w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/maxresdefault-300x169.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/maxresdefault-768x432.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/maxresdefault-1024x576.jpg 1024w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/maxresdefault-500x281.jpg 500w"
width="1280" height="720" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/maxresdefault.jpg)

 

Calling him a boy is mean, but it is not inaccurate. He popped out of
college two years ago and landed at National Review. He should be
working at his local newspaper or maybe a TV station, covering girl’s
softball games or perhaps the local crime beat. Maybe in a dozen years,
after having lived in the world for a while as an adult, he could think
about writing opinion pieces for adults about adult topics. At that
point, he would not be bawling about how a guy like Cernovich is a
brute.

That’s not the world of elite opinion journalism these days. Rich people
send their not-so-bright off-spring to college to major in journalism.
Then those boys and girls find their way to the big news sites or the
elite journals of opinion. There they type out the approved messages and
show up on approved TV shows to repeat those messages. It is cheap
content from people, who are happy for the job and will not make any
waves by asking the wrong questions or thinking the wrong thoughts.

What’s nuts about this is that there are still some adults working at
National Review. The guy approving these posts is Charlie Cooke, but <a
href="http://cdn.thefederalist.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/n_mj_cooke_130412-998x748.jpg"
target="_blank">he’s a ridiculous poof-berry</a> too so perhaps he is
the one who commissioned it. Even so, you don’t have the dorks write the
articles ranting about excessive masculinity. You leave those to <a
href="https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/vdare-live/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/16230531/Kevin_Williamson.jpg"
target="_blank">the lesbians</a> or the more <a
href="http://www.thewrap.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/katherine-timpf.jpg"
target="_blank">masculine writers</a> on the staff. Otherwise, you
defeat your own purpose. A squealing tantrum from a ridiculous
poof-berry convinces no one.

All joking aside, that’s one reason Buckley Conservatism is circling the
bowl. It is chasing an audience that is locked up by their masters on
the Left. Liberalism is the secular religion for the girls, <a
href="http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2017/03/detailed-demographic-breakdown-of-2016.html"
target="_blank">mostly single white girls</a>. They try to cobble
together a coalition of hues for political reasons, but it is mostly a
religion for cat ladies and the women who intend to be cat ladies.
Buckley Conservatism is trying to fish in those waters, but that hole is
all fished out and take that however you like.
