---
title: "Total Information War"
date: "2017-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11413"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11413"
---

The wars that ended the feudal period in Europe started as feudal wars
but ended as national wars. Taking the 14th century as the start of the
Late Middle Ages, The Hundred Years’ War would be the start of that
period. It began as a war between kings, leading armies of conscripts
and mercenaries of various ethnicities. By the end, it was a war between
two nations, fought by the people of those two nations. It is why most
historians point to this as the beginning of the nation-state in Europe.

Similarly, the Thirty Years’ War started as a war of religion, among the
smaller states that comprised the Holy Roman Empire. By the end, it was
a war fought by nations, carving up central Europe. More important, the
defining characteristic of people would not be their king or their
religion, but their nation. By the time of Napoleonic, nations were
mobilizing their people around love of country, not loyalty to a king.
War had evolved to match the new social arrangements.

The point here is that wars eventually reflect the age. At the start of
the Great War, the French were still using the cavalry charge. They had
their line officers wearing brightly colored uniforms so they were easy
to spot. The Maxim gun put an end to those old tactics and by the end of
the war, both sides were fully employing the weapons and tactics of the
industrial age. The Second World War was the perfection of the lessons
learned in the first industrial age war.

It is not a perfect framing, but a useful one, when thinking about the
current crisis and the inevitable wars that will come. Ours is the
information age, so the wars will be information wars, especially the
civil wars. The corruption of the internet by global corporations on
behalf of the emerging global elite is an obvious example. The
corruption of the registrars by companies like Google is a new type of
weapon in the social war in the information age.

That is an important aspect here. Up until recently, the Left had a
monopoly on our cultural morality. Labeling someone or something as
racist or fascist, was enough to sideline that person or idea. The
general public was willing to take their word for it and play along.
Now, our rulers find themselves facing a skeptical public. Merely
calling someone racist or fascist is not enough. That’s why [they are
moving on to using the blunt
force](https://medium.com/@getongab/we-are-at-war-for-a-free-and-open-internet-426629fba4bf)
of raw power against threats to their authority.

It is entirely possible that Anglin reported himself to the registrar of
Gab, in order to generate attention for himself.  Anglin is a
provocateur, which makes him a useful example to understand what is
happening. We have an extra-judicial set of entities that can now
regulate political speech on-line. The mere fact that these companies
can censor speech on-line, based on their whim or in response to
pressure brought by the state, is a serious problem for civilized
society.

Morally, this is no different than the decision by the Germans to use
poison gas in the Great War. Once it was clear that their conventional
weapons were not enough, they made the choice to throw off any moral
limits to waging war. That is what is going on with the new ruling
elite. In America, speech is considered sacred. Everyone alive has grown
up hearing the line about giving your life to defend the right of
someone to say offensive things in public. The First Amendment is
sacred.

Our rulers have decided they must abandon that principle.

The response from the dissidents to the attack on speech by Big Tech,
has been an effort to create separate platforms. Gab is an alternative
social media platform and others are now in the works. A parallel
internet is slowly starting to sprout up with people looking into
creating new registrars, new search engines and new funding mechanisms.
It is a slow process, and as the attack on Gab shows, one that will be
met with escalating attacks from Silicon Valley. We are into a total
information war now.

Alt-tech is a defensive response, like the trench was in the Great War.
The good guys need weapons to damage the other side’s lines. That will
come in time. The old order no longer makes a lot of sense, so it can
only be held together by force. The people in charge feel they need to
use any means necessary, even if it means squandering what little moral
authority they have left. They no longer care if we respect them, just
as long as we fear them. They will choose tyranny if that is what it
takes.

That is why it is important to not follow guys like Andrew Anglin or
Chris Cantwell down the rabbit hole. Anglin is a performer and
provocateur. Cantwell is just a sad sack looking for attention and he
should never be encouraged. He makes resistance look bad. This is an
information war so things like optics, narratives and imagery are the
weapons. Defending reckless lunatics and provocateurs just hands the
other side ammo if not handled perfectly.

When the Germans moved to the use of gas, it was a sign of weakness.
When they unleashed unlimited submarine warfare, it was a sign they were
scared. Desperate people reach for any weapon that is handy, regardless
of the results. That is our ruling class. They are losing the
information war so they seek to reshape the battlefield by shutting off
the dissidents from having access to the battlefield. It is a sign of
weakness that they are willing to squander their moral authority.
