---
title: "The Fakening"
date: "2017-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11214"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11214"
---

A universal rule of life is that anything that has value will be faked
or stolen. This happens everywhere on earth. You can go to some place on
the fringe of civilization to see ruins of an ancient people and you
will find some guy selling fake souvenirs. That’s because the locals
figured out that authentic crap from their past had value to those funny
looking white tourists, so they started faking the authentic relics from
their past. Hobbyists in the collectible business will tell you that
fakes are their primary concern.

Most likely, the reason that Facebook beat MySpace was that it was
easier for Facebook users to keep score of the number of friends they
had and see how that stacked up to others. Humans are social animals and
one way to determine status is by the size of one’s social network. High
status people have lots of friends and acquaintances. People know who
they are by reputation. Therefore, someone on Facebook with 500 friends
must be a bigger deal than someone with 5 friends.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_Have_0_Friends"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">South Park made sport of this</a>.

Inevitably, people found a way to fake their numbers so it would look
like their status was high. Everyone knows about click farms that
artificially inflate likes on social media or inflate follower counts.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVfHeWTKjag" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">It’s fairly obvious that Facebook has been faking their
ad numbers</a> for years. This is mostly to defraud advertisers. Fringe
celebrities will use services to inflate their follower counts. I’ve
always suspected, for example, that Bill Mitchell is more “social media
strategy” than actual listeners.
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/bill-mitchell-a34084112/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Everything about him looks fake</a>.

<a
href="http://www.boredpanda.com/fake-instagram-influencer-followers-bots-mediakix/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> does a great job walking
us through just how easy it is to be Bill Mitchell. Here are the juicy
bits:

*Instagram influencer marketing is now a <a
href="http://mediakix.com/2017/03/instagram-influencer-marketing-industry-size-how-big/#gs.FdKmdeo"
rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank">$1 billion</a> dollar industry,
and you don’t need a cute dog or a book-worthy lifestyle to get into the
game. According to an investigation by marketing agency Mediakix, anyone
can fake their way into signing profitable contracts with brands.*

*The agency created two fictitious Instagram accounts: 1) ‘a lifestyle
and fashion-centric Instagram model’ and 2) ‘a travel and adventure
photographer.’ For the first account, Mediakix hired a model and
generated the entire channel content through a one-day photo shoot.
Introducing Alexa Rae
(<a href="https://www.instagram.com/calibeachgirl310/"
rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank">calibeachgirl310</a>). The
second account was dedicated to Amanda Smith
(<a href="https://www.instagram.com/wanderingggirl/"
rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank">wanderingggirl</a>), and this
time Mediakix went even further. The entire feed was composed of free
stock photos of random places across the world and blonde girls, always
posing facing away from the camera.*

*After setting up fake personalities and generating their content, the
agency started purchasing followers. “We started with buying 1,000
followers per day because we were concerned that purchasing too many
followers at the onset would result in Instagram flagging the account,”
Mediakix stated. “However, we quickly found that we were able to buy up
to 15,000 followers at a time without encountering any issues.” And how
much does this army cost? Between $3-$8 per 1,000.*

*Essentially, if the followers don’t like or comment on posts, they’re
kind of worthless. So the next step was to purchase fake engagement.
“Once we had accumulated a few thousand followers for each account, we
started buying likes and comments.” Mediakix paid about 12 cents per
comment, and between $4-9 per 1,000 likes. For each photo, they
purchased 500 to 2,500 likes and 10 to 50 comments. The entire
experiment ended up costing Mediakix about $1,000 (around $700 for
setting up calibeachgirl310 and around $300 for wanderingggirl). After
calibeachgirl310 and wanderingggirl reached 10,000 followers (the
threshold amount for signing up on most influencer marketing platforms),
Mediakix started applying them for sponsorship deals. “We secured four
paid brand deals total, two for each account. The fashion account
secured one deal with a swimsuit company and one with a national food
and beverage company.” “The travel account secured brand deals with an
alcohol brand and the same national food and beverage company. For each
campaign, the “influencers” were offered monetary compensation, free
product, or both.”*

The whole thing is worth a read. Not a lot of it is new to those with a
suspicious mind, but when you put it all together in one article like
that, it is revelatory. If they could so easily create a fake celebrity
on social media, then the people who control social media certainly know
this. More important, they know this and use it to their advantage. For
example, when a TV person signs up for Twitter, maybe their follower
count is artificially inflated by Team Twitter, so that the celeb talks
about it to their audience.

Of course, we have the extreme examples of the ruling class
de-platforming anyone who challenges the one true faith on Facebook and
Twitter. I had the Facebook account associated with this blog deleted
due to a mysterious terms of service violation. Carl Benjamin, Sargon of
Akkad, had his Twitter feed deleted because he made barren spinsters sad
on YouTube. There are hundreds of examples of the scolds slamming the
door on dissent. That’s what we can easily see.

You can be sure that the vinegar drinking scolds at Facebook and Twitter
are using their robot armies to promote the cat ladies and demote the
hate thinkers. People have noticed for a long time that they are
mysteriously dropped from follower lists of people placed on the Left’s
proscribed list. To do the opposite and promote Lefty crackpots is so
obvious that even the most hysterical social justice warrior would think
of it. How much of it goes on is hard to know, but the sky is the limit,
as was made clear in that piece.

What is not so obvious is that other side of it, the fakery. The ease
with which mass media is used to promote fake ideas, fake events and
fake people. That’s not so obvious as no one complains about their
follower count being inflated. No one is going to look too closely at
Bill Mitchell’s twitter followers, because he is a harmless old man
keeping himself busy in his retirement. The cumulative effect, however,
of so much fakery in the mass media is not without its consequences. The
fake new phenomenon is just one obvious example.

What happens when people start to think that Twitter and Facebook are
mostly robots interacting with one another? Social trust has a value.
Take it away and it can only be replaced by coercion. Otherwise, society
begins to dis-aggregate. <a
href="https://u.osu.edu/robinson.1012/files/2015/12/Robinson_NationalismTrust-1q3q9u1.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">We know that diversity increases
intra-ethnic trust and decreases inter-ethnic trust</a>. In a diverse
society, people trust their kin and distrust those not like them. Take
that diverse society and immerse it in fake news and fake social media
and the result will be a Balkanized, low-trust society.

Of course, one could argue that the strong arm tactics we’re seeing is
the the inevitable result of diversity. The reason Google has to fire
their smart men is their mere presence calls into the question the
diversity project. The reason for the heavy handed social media policing
is that diversity requires it. Fake news and fake social media are just
modern incarnations of the old propaganda films from the previous era,
just updated to make people think distrusting foreigners and rooting for
your own team is weird and unnatural.

Regardless of cause and effect, this will not end well.
