---
title: "The Coming Violence of the Left"
date: "2017-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11203"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11203"
---

In my [AmRen wrap-up about
AntiFa](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11045), I noted that it was the
women on the Left with the blood lust. [The mentally disturbed
woman](https://twitter.com/lacymacauley?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw&ref_url=http%3A%2F%2Fthezman.com%2Fwordpress%2F%3Fp%3D11045)
I highlighted is a good example. She goes on social media with hysteric
rants about imaginary violence, in an effort to get her fellow wackos to
do something crazy. Her claims about gun fire and riots at American
Renaissance were entirely false, but clearly, she was hoping her tweets
would get her coreligionists into a violent mood. Her life is dedicated
to bringing about bloodshed.

Further to that, [this was floating
around](https://itsgoingdown.org/unite-right-organizers-encourage-guns-want-war/)
on social media yesterday in the run-up to the big rally in
Charlottesville. Every claim in it is false. Mike Enoch has been
lecturing people for weeks about the need to avoid violence and *not
bring weapons* The organizers have developed a good relationship with
the local police department so that the cops will protect the attendees
from the Antifa. The cops spent most of Friday clearing weapons from the
park that Antifa has been hiding there in advance of the rally.

[Teddy Thin Skin has this
post](http://voxday.blogspot.com/2017/08/unite-right.html) up on the
same topic. He links to a [mentally disturbed
woman](https://medium.com/@RVAwonk/unite-the-right-rally-reflects-a-growing-threat-of-extremism-in-america-e94f57b61980)
making claims about the rally, which are patently false. She claims to
be a “behavior scientist” which is a clue that she is most likely just a
cat lady. A look at [her twitter feed](https://twitter.com/RVAwonk)
reveals that she spends her days harassing people on twitter, in an
effort to draw attention to herself. Steve Sailer often jokes that
modern feminism is just a project for homely women to get the attention
of males. Caroline Zero is proof of that.

Again, the trend you see with this cargo cult is that it is women out
front, trying to push for violence and bloodshed. This is similar to
what happened in the radical groups of the 60’s and 70’s. Many of the
most violent members of the Black Panthers were women. The Weather
Underground was led by a woman, Bernardine Dohrn. The radicalism of the
1960’s was initially led by males, but in time women took over and it
became more violent and less coherent. Once again, the arrival of SJW’s
signals the end phase.

There is something else going on today. Antifa is largely a cargo cult.
They dress up like radicals and perform public events like the radicals
of 50 years ago, all in the hope that the past will become the present.
Unlike the past, there is no reactionary counter to the modern
Progressive. No one is putting fire hoses on Lefty or having the cops
break up Antifa’s protests. The people in charge are funding groups like
Antifa. The government of Charlottesville is backing nutjobs like
Caroline Zero.

As Eric Hoffer pointed out, mass movements need an enemy and the Left
has always had the struggle as an essential element of their identity.
It is why they have invented things like institutional racism and white
privilege. Lacking anything resembling actual racism in modern America,
and faced with a tsunami of anti-white sermonizing, they have been
forced to invent a boogeyman. Like shamans of the past, the modern Left
warns about evil spirits, but now they are called unconscious bias and
extremism.

Similarly, and you see it in that Medium post linked by Thinskin, the
Left is now trying to justify their move to violence. It is evident in
the Antifa rants and that post claiming the alt-right is arming up for
the rally. The Left wants to start murdering people, but they cannot
find a justification, so they are starting to invent reasons. Caroline
Zero is adding a veneer of 1970’s pop psychology to her calls for
violence, but she is simply trying to invent a suitable stand-in for
Bull Connor and the truncheon wielding riot police.

The incoherent and random violence of the 70’s was mostly due to
dis-confirmation. The counter-culture did not usher in the age of peace,
love and understanding. Instead, it decayed into drug use and
degeneracy. Something similar is happening here. The election of Obama
convinced many on the Left that the end times were upon us. The
righteous would be carried to the promised land, and most important, the
bad whites would be chased from the land, either sent into exile or
reduced to the status of untouchables.

That obviously did not happen, which is why the Left is so unhinged.
More important though, their attempt at a kill shot by putting Obama in
the White House has ignited a genuine counter revolution. For fifty
years the Left has faced nothing more than token resistance from “their
friends on the Right” but now they are seeing a true opposition forming
up. The Buckley Right embraced Progressive morality, with slightly
different ends, while the alt-right rejects Progressive morality in its
entirety. This is the result.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6e0pOs5yk60

For people like Caroline Zero and Lacy MacAuley, this is reason enough
to start murdering people. To them, this parade is violence because it
is the nullification of their movement, which is the nullification of
them. Their entire identity is now defined by their largely imaginary
struggle against the mysterious forces of institutional racism, white
privilege and invisible Hitlers. To them, that parade is the
manifestation of evil, so they will resort to
<a href="http://www.bamn.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">any means
necessary</a> to stop it.
