---
title: "Now We Know"
date: "2017-10-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11804"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11804"
---

One of the mysteries of the election campaign has been the ongoing
Russian hacking conspiracy nonsense that was forced on us by the
Democrats after the election. The absurdity of it should have been
enough to get the story laughed off the stage. Even if the Russians had
meddled in the election, which happens all the time. The Chinese
invested heavily in the Clintons during the 1996 election. Israeli
maintains massive lobbying efforts in the US, including campaign
operations. It is the nature of empires.

Even if it was just a distraction to shift the focus from the problems
of the Democrats, it is a one week story at best. Yet, it went on and
on, forcing Trump to appoint a special prosecutor to chase ghosts and
phantoms that could not possibly exist. [My
hunch](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11660) was that maybe some FBI
insiders were simply using the fake scandal as a pretext to circle the
wagons and protect their own. Former director Comey seems to be exposed
six ways to Sunday for the way he handled himself in the job.

Well, we may now have an answer. It may simply have been the old
Progressive tactic of preemptively accusing others of something they are
doing. [The Hill is reporting that the FBI had stumbled onto a plot that
looks a lot like bribery by the
Russians](http://thehill.com/policy/national-security/355749-fbi-uncovered-russian-bribery-plot-before-obama-administration#.WeYE4DpXq3s.twitter)
to get the Clinton’s support in their efforts to grow their nuclear
business inside the US. This goes back to when Cankles was working for
Obama as Secretary of State and had the authority to approve foreign
energy deals, like selling uranium to Russia.

*Before the Obama administration approved a controversial deal in 2010
giving Moscow control of a large swath of American uranium, the FBI had
gathered substantial evidence that Russian nuclear industry officials
were engaged in bribery, kickbacks, extortion and money laundering
designed to grow Vladimir Putin’s atomic energy business inside the
United States, according to government documents and interviews.*

*Federal agents used a confidential U.S. witness working inside the
Russian nuclear industry to gather extensive financial records, make
secret recordings and intercept emails as early as 2009 that showed
Moscow had compromised an American uranium trucking firm with bribes and
kickbacks in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, FBI and
court documents show.*

*They also obtained an eyewitness account — backed by documents —
indicating Russian nuclear officials had routed millions of dollars to
the U.S. designed to benefit former
President <span class="rollover-people"
behavior="rolloverpeople"><a href="http://thehill.com/people/bill-clinton"
class="rollover-people-link" data-nid="188333">Bill Clinton</a></span>’s
charitable foundation during the time Secretary of
State <span class="rollover-people"
behavior="rolloverpeople"><a href="http://thehill.com/people/hillary-clinton"
class="rollover-people-link" data-nid="188224">Hillary Clinton</a></span> served
on a government body that provided a favorable decision to Moscow,
sources told The Hill.*

*The racketeering scheme was conducted “with the consent of higher level
officials” in Russia who “shared the proceeds” from the kickbacks, one
agent declared in an affidavit years later.*

Assuming the evidence presented is accurate, it looks a lot like the
sort of frauds the Clinton crime family has been running since their
days in Arkansas. Hillary has always had a thing for the old fashioned
graft rackets. This is where the Clintons grant favors from the
government in exchange for cash. In order to avoid bribery charges, they
always use a cutout of some sort. In Arkansas, it was campaign
contributors who laundered the cash for them. In the 90’s, Chinese money
flowed into the campaign.

The Clinton Foundation has always looked like a money laundering
operation. The whole point of money laundering is to make the
transactions seem legitimate. The smarter drug dealers in Baltimore will
have a cash business they move their drug proceeds through in an effort
to hide the source of their income. Famous people have foundations so
they can use it to hire friends, family and supporters, but get a tax
break. Politicians put their family on the campaign payroll at inflated
salaries so they can keep some of the cash.

That is what the Clinton Foundation was for initially. The millions
Bubba was getting from speeches and back dated transactions would go tax
free into the charity. The Clintons would take a salary, but the
foundation would pick up a lot of their expenses, like travel and
security. It would also be a nice patronage system for future campaign
workers and contributors. The Foundation was always a front operation.
It was never intended to do any charitable work, which is why it has
done no charitable work.

The thing with Hillary Clinton is that all of her scandals are about
money. Going back to Arkansas, everything she was mixed up in was a
money scheme of some sort. Bill was always getting jammed up with sex.
It is reasonable to think he got into politics for the easy access to
women. Hillary, on the other hand, has always been about the cash. That
is why the Russians were willing to bribe her. They knew she would play
ball if the price was right. That is what this looks like. Old fashioned
pay for play.

This brings as back to the Russia probe.

*In evidentiary affidavits signed in 2014 and 2015, an Energy Department
agent assigned to assist the FBI in the case testified that Mikerin
supervised a “racketeering scheme” that involved extortion, bribery,
money laundering and kickbacks that were both directed by and provided
benefit to more senior officials back in Russia.*

*“As part of the scheme, Mikerin, with the consent of higher level
officials at TENEX and Rosatom (both Russian state-owned entities) would
offer no-bid contracts to US businesses in exchange for kickbacks in the
form of money payments made to some offshore banks accounts,” Agent
David Gadren testified.*

*“Mikerin apparently then shared the proceeds with other co-conspirators
associated with TENEX in Russia and elsewhere,” the agent added.*

***The investigation was ultimately supervised by then-U.S. Attorney Rod
Rosenstein, an Obama appointee who now serves as President Trump’s
deputy attorney general, and then-Assistant FBI Director Andrew McCabe,
now the deputy FBI director under Trump, Justice Department documents
show.***

*Both men now play a key role in the current investigation into
possible, but still unproven, collusion between Russia and Donald
Trump’s campaign during the 2016 election cycle. McCabe is under
congressional and Justice Department inspector general investigation in
connection with money his wife’s Virginia state Senate campaign accepted
in 2015 from now-Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe at a time when McAuliffe
was reportedly under investigation by the FBI. The probe is not focused
on McAuliffe’s conduct but rather on whether McCabe’s attendance
violated the Hatch Act or other FBI conflict rules.*

*The connections to the current Russia case are many. The Mikerin probe
began in 2009 when Robert Mueller, now the special counsel in charge of
the Trump case, was still FBI director. And it ended in late 2015 under
the direction of then-FBI Director James Comey, whom Trump fired earlier
this year.*

There are a number of possibilities here. One is incompetence. Her team
may have started the “Russian hacking” chant without realizing that it
would lead back to this deal. That is another trait of Hillary Clinton.
She screws up everything she touches. Going back to her days on the
Watergate committee as an entry level staffer, her career is one foul up
after another. The only thing she has done well is stay married to Bill.
That is how she stays out of jail and how she keeps getting shot to run
another fraud.

The more likely answer, though, is the old Progressive habit of accusing
others of the very thing they are doing. In this case, she was willing
to do business with the Russians, so she just assumed the other side was
too. Perhaps it is evidence of a guilty mind or maybe it is something
else, but Progressives have a habit, an instinct, for accusing their
enemies of crimes committed by Progressives. It muddies the waters and
that may be the sole purpose. It is another way of shifting the focus.

The other possibility is what we see with corrupt police precincts. The
dirty cops know that cops do not like ratting on one another. They also
assume that everyone has something they would not like to see exposed to
the public. The result is everyone keeps their mouth shut until
something goes very wrong. Washington is a sea of corruption, much of it
dealing with foreign money. The Democrats may be working on the
assumption that no one in the political class wants this investigation
to go anywhere.

Of course, if you want to go super 4-D chess, deep state conspiracy
mongering, then maybe this was the target all along. Rosenstein knew all
about this old case and maybe he wanted another bite at the apple. That
is far fetched, but not outside the realm of the possible. Team Trump
has a funny habit of being a few steps ahead of everyone on the
controversial stuff. It would certainly be poetic if this is how Clinton
ends up in an orange jumpsuit, waddling around a federal prison.
