---
title: "The Media Wall"
date: "2017-09-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11631"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11631"
---

The “fake news” phenomenon could turn out to be the most important turn
of events in the Trump era. The simple reason is it has awoken millions
of normies to the realities of mass media in America. Most white
conservatives accepted that the news was real, but biased in favor of
one side, the Progressive side. They never stopped to think that maybe
the news was not even real, that the Prog news outlets were making stuff
up. Now, most white conservatives assume the news is fake.

That is a positive development, one that our side can certainly exploit.
It is a handy tool for whenever the megaphones start blasting the latest
propaganda from our rulers. Simply yelling “fake news” has become a
useful way to prevent the Progs from framing the debate, at least with
regards to politics. The other aspect of the fake news stuff that is
useful is that the mass media is no longer capable of doing real news.
Mass media is no longer a feedback loop for the ruling class. It is just
agit-prop.

The origins of fake news lie in the [New
Journalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Journalism) that emerged
in the 1960’s. Telling a story around the facts of a news event turned
out to be a good way to go from ink stained wretch to rock star. Guys
like Truman Capote and Norman Mailer were stars, because they made the
news compelling. Why stick to old fashioned reporting, when telling a
colorful tale, with colorful portraits of the main players, based on
real events, was the road to fame and fortune? The result was New
Journalism became the default.

An instructive anecdote in the book [Banana
Sunday](https://www.amazon.com/Banana-Sunday-Datelines-Chris-Munnion/dp/1874959226),
by the old Telegraph reporter Chris Munnion, is about the new breed of
reporters from America arriving in Africa. These “reporters” would show
up and spend their time in the hotel bar, picking up tidbits from the
real reporters, who went into the field to gather news. They would then
salt their pre-written stories with these facts. As a gag once, the real
reporters made up crazy tales to tell around the Americans. All of them
fell for it, but they were never called on it.

That seems to have been the lesson American media people figured out
over the decades. There was never going to be a penalty for faking their
stories, just as long as it was not too egregious. As long as the
“reporting” fit the prevailing narrative, the copy would be accepted
without question. That is how Bob Woodward allegedly interviewed Bill
Casey, while Casey was in a coma. It is why Stephen Glass was able to
sell whoppers to the New Republic. It is why Rolling Stone fell for the
Virginia rape hoax.

Fake news is just one result. The other is the media no longer has the
ability to do real news. From top to bottom, the business is staffed
with people trained to tell stories. The “journalists” are tasked with
taking what is *given* to them and spinning a colorful tale around it.
That means cultivating cozy relationships. It is why close to two
hundred journalists went to work in the Obama administration when he
took office. The line between reporter and subject no longer exists. It
is just one big story factory.

A good example of this is what is happening in college sports. The Feds
have arrested five coaches and half a dozen others in a bribery scandal,
involving Adidas, a major sneaker company. Read the filings by the
prosecutor and it is clear they have a lot more information that they
are withholding. This is already a huge case involving famous people.
Rick Pitino is one of the biggest names in the sport. This will probably
get much bigger and alter the economics of American sports forever.

Of course, anyone the least bit familiar with college athletics has
known it is dirtier than boxing and it always has been. The sneaker
companies bribe youth coaches, college coaches and college
administrators. The recently fired Athletic Director of Louisville had
his daughter on the payroll of the sneaker company doing business with
his school. At high school camps and tournaments, runners and street
agents are there “advising” kids and their parents, with handfuls of
cash. It is dirty from top to bottom.

This is something that everyone has known for years. Yet, the people
tasked with “covering” college sports never bother to report on this
stuff. The “hard hitting investigative teams” are always too busy
looking for white supremacy to notice outright bribery going on in the
sport. All a sports reporter had to do was hang around the AAU circuit
for a summer and he could have a book’s worth of stories. But that would
mean mixing it up with the dirt people and why do that when the pay is
the same for selling the narrative?

This was the situation with the steroid scandal in baseball. The beat
writers for baseball spend their whole lives with the players. They
travel on the road with them and they spend time together with them in
the locker room. The one time a reporter mentioned that Mark McGuire
had androstenedione in his locker, the reporter got in trouble. It is
why sports reporters are the most oblivious people in the business.
Noticing is so dangerous to a career that only the oblivious survive.
The result is nothing but safe fake news.

This inability and unwillingness to do real news has been a boon to the
Dissident Right. We saw that in the election. The fake news was so sure
Hillary would win, they had magazine covers pre-printed and ready to go
in advance. It is why their attempt to censor alternative media has been
a failure. They simply do not understand what they are up against as
they do not know anything about us. The clever boys on social media
easily subvert the narrative and turn it against the fake news media.

For a long time, the media was a weapon the ruling class could use to
keep the public in line. Newspapers would sell the claims of each
faction in the political class, thus defining the bounds of political
discourse. Then television became the voice of the ruling class in the
living room of every home. The internet was supposed to be the voice on
everyone’s desktop. While that remains true, the loss of credibility is
now turning the mass media into an expensive wall between us and them.

That is a useful metaphor. The media used to inform the ruling class on
trends among the Dirt People. Instructions from the rulers flowed
through the press to the Dirt People. The responses flowed back up
through the media to the Cloud People. Now, the media is a wall between
the two. The people in the media face in toward their masters, rather
than looking out over the wall at the rest of us. For those involved in
dissident politics, this is useful as it makes it more difficult for the
people in charge to respond.
