---
title: "Zed2K"
date: "2017-04-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10072"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10072"
---

Kevin Michael Grace contacted me a while back about doing a segment for
his podcast, Grace & Steel. He and his partner, Kevin Steel, do a weekly
podcast where they will often interview someone for an hour or two. I’m
a listener to their program, so I was flattered and agree to do it. I’m
also a believer in the adage, “support the media that supports you.” One
way to help to turn the tide in this fight, is for our team
to universally no-platform the media of the bad guys. I may be a bit
player, but I can do my part.

Anyway, another reason for agreeing to do this was that I have been
thinking about doing a podcast, but I was unclear about what was
involved. Frankly, I was not sure I could talk coherently for 30 minutes
or more. Listen to a podcast and they cruise along effortlessly for a
full show and it always feels like they could do so much more. On the
other hand, you can stand in front of a crowd, giving a speech and five
minutes feels like five hours. I was not sure if I could actually talk
about enough things to fill a podcast.

What I learned is a good interviewer can keep you talking for as long as
he likes and Kevin is a good interviewer. The real challenge, besides
the content, is the technical aspects. In order to not sound like you
are in a well or a steamer trunk, you need some equipment and software.
Cheap equipment and cheap software means the audio sounds weird. It’s
also why many video podcasts look like hostage videos. The sound is bad
and the people are looking at their screen instead of the camera.

In my case, I relied on the microphone in the laptop, which probably
costs fifty cents for the Chinese manufacturer. The result was a I
sounded a little muffled and nasally. I think if I was going to try my
hand at this, I’d want to invest in the proper equipment. I don’t know
this for certain, but my guess is there is a lot more to it than just
the microphone. I just got a taste of what is involved to do it
properly. The big shot podcasters who actually make a living at it
probably have studio quality gear and know how to use it.

In order to do a first rate podcast, you need to invest in a high
quality microphone and you need to learn how to use software to mix,
edit and touch up the final product. Grace & Steel uses a method where I
recorded my end of the conversation and Kevin recorded his end. After it
was over, the other Kevin mixed the two, filtering out the bad parts and
strange noises. That’s the other thing I learned. There is a lot of work
involved in producing these things, if you want to do it right.

As far as the interview, it was more of a conversation and we could have
gone on for hours. Kevin is an interesting guy with a lot of time in the
ideological trenches. He has read and interviewed the big shots in
conservative media so he knows the terrain. One of the many knowledge
gaps between those inside conventional politics and those outside, is
that the people outside know there is a rich and dynamic world outside
conventional politics. The people in the bubble don’t know what they
don’t know.

Anyway, here is the final product. Enjoy.

https://soundcloud.com/user-762000146/grace-steel-ep-78
