---
title: "Waves of Destruction"
date: "2017-08-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11123"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11123"
---

When I was a young man, I was taught to think about growth businesses or
growth industries in terms of the military. The guys who start the
business, or pioneer a new industry, are analogous to the elite units
sent in to establish a beachhead or breech the perimeter. These guys are
goal oriented and never bogged down with a lot of rules. In fact, they
tend to hate the rules as they see rules as artificial obstacles to
their task. In business, the pioneers often start out trying to subvert
the rules.

A new industry, like a new conquest, may start out as a series of
attacks along the frontier, but eventually it must establish itself as a
self-sustaining camp with the perimeter of the established order. The
computer business went from experimental ideas in the lab to simple
products that could be used in fields like finance or banking. [Read
this book](https://www.amazon.com/Money-Game-Adam-Smith/dp/0394721039)
and you will see how the first nerds established their beachhead on Wall
Street. The risk takers sought out the rick takers for their risky new
ideas.

Beachhead is the right way to think of it. The special forces find a
place for a landing and the shock troops are called in to attack that
point and establish a foothold. The D-Day landings in Normandy were not
about sacking the beach. It was to secure an entry point for the
American and British forces that would follow. Whether it is an industry
or a business, that first wave into the new thing are risk takers. They
are not the sort of guys who fret over the rules too much, and they are
always guys. Guys like risk.

In war fighting, that toehold allows the waves of regulars to flow in
and begin to take ground. The English speaking nations landed 150,000
men on the beaches of Normandy, but millions soon followed them through
the breach into Europe. That is the way it works for a growth industry.
The first firms establish themselves and then a wave of imitators and
opportunists follow them to expand the industry. In a business, the
viability of the firm and its growth means hiring anyone, who shows up
and can do a job.

Eventually, the land is conquered and the industry or business is
established. That is when the middle-managers, administrators and police
arrive to make rules and enforce them. A good rule in war is you know
the advance has stalled when the general staff arrives. In business, the
filling out of the HR department means the growth phase has come to an
end. Now it is all about securing what has been won and securing against
future attacks from competitors or the conquered enemy. It is why
Microsoft is no longer hip.

In this maturity period, the rough guys and shock troops that
established the beachhead and poured into thing during the growth phase,
are pushed out. They no longer fit as the goal in this phase is the
formalization of rules. That means creative thinking and risk taking are
not only out of place, but they are also considered dangerous. It is why
the founders tend to get bought out or move onto emeritus type
positions. The guys who came in as young risk takers either move onto
new ventures or mature into risk adverse managers.

In the modern age of predatory global economics, this final phase is
also a death rattle of a company. Building and maintaining something no
longer has value. In fact, it is viewed as foolish. Instead, the goal is
to not only eat the fruit of the tree but chop it up and burn it at the
final party. Therefore, the mature phase of a company or industry is a
spasmodic, social justice warrior phase, in which a firm sets about
committing suicide. The smart money is gone. The risk takers are gone.
What’s left is to set the whole thing ablaze.

You see that with Fox News, which now has another sex scandal. This time
it is claimed that [some old guy is sending dick pics to the women on
staff](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/05/business/media/fox-news-suspends-eric-bolling.html).
Given that one of the “victims” is the well known SJW and sociopath,
Michelle Fields, it is most likely a hoax. Even so, only a firm
committed to its own death would hire a nutjob like Fields. She is a
cancer, a carbuncle on the face of humanity. A company with a future
would instinctively avoid her, as an unnecessary distraction.

Fox News had a good thing going and if they wanted to keep building,
they would have quietly bought off some of these broads and cracked down
on the fraternization. They also would have culled the problem women
from the ranks. Instead, they have donned the sack cloth poured ashes on
their head. In the context of Fox, this has meant running off their
riskier talent and replacing it with safe, boring and morally correct
nothings. When they find a reason to run off Tucker Carlson, the network
will spiral into the abyss.

Something similar is going on at Google now, with the revelation of
[this hilariously tame
memo](http://voxday.blogspot.com/2017/08/dissent-at-google.html) about
diversity. It is somewhat charming how the writer thinks he still works
at the dynamic company of yesteryear. It is hilarious how he thinks the
[vinegar drinking
lunatics](http://voxday.blogspot.com/2017/08/suppressing-dissent-at-google.html)
in charge of chasing off the whites will listen to reason. As Vox Day
would put it, and is [now
documenting](http://voxday.blogspot.com/2017/08/suppressing-dissent-at-google.html),
Google is fully converged. Their staff meetings are a scene from the day
room in One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest. They even have [a big
Indian!](https://gab.ai/voxday/posts/10450942)

All of this is entertaining, unless you are the one being attacked by
the blue haired, tackle -faced rage loonies. You can be sure that the
author of that Google memo will be broken on the wheel by the company
Torquemada. Just as the D[NC named that bike rack after the intern they
had assassinated](http://www.fox5dc.com/news/211991353-story), the
Google heretic will have his head on a pike outside the main entrance to
Google. Everyday at lunch, [employees will be forced to shriek his name
in an orgy of hatred](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0vvvPZd6_D8).
Maybe they will name Room 101 after him.

While it is entertaining, these orgies of destruction are killing
Western civilization. The culture of the West is not a single thing, but
a series of waves from Greece to the present. As each wave crashed, the
next wave built upon what was accomplished by the previous wave. The
current waves breaking on the rocks of reality are leaving nothing but
rubble, as Progressive culture furiously erases our past. To call it a
suicide cult is to give it too much credit. It is cultural nihilism that
will usher in a new dark age.
