---
title: "Stranger Danger"
date: "2017-03-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9927"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9927"
---

I don’t have a television subscription anymore. I use the Amazon Fire
for my video entertainments. It’s a useful device for those who have cut
the cord. One of the apps on the thing is for SkyNews, the Murdoch
propaganda platform that is the retarded little brother of the BBC. It’s
pitched as the “conservative” alternative to the government run BBC,
which means it is pretty much just a ruling class echo.

I was working on a small project in the living room so I put on the
television to see if there was something worth watching. SkyNews had a
program on about the latest Muslim mayhem in London, so I thought I’d
give that a go. It was some sort of panel show, hosted by a guy who
looked like a homeless man. He was an old guy kitted out to look like a
college professor, but he was so shabby, he looked more like a bum than
a professor.

The <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goodbye,_Mr._Chips"
target="_blank">Mr. Chips</a> routine remains popular on television
news. They take a stupid person, dress him up to look like a college
professor and then have him say his lines with an avuncular voice.
Hilariously, the actors they have playing these roles on the news are
almost always as dumb as hamsters. I guess a degree of dullness allows
the actor to play the part without any self-regard. Maybe it is just one
of life’s little ironies.

Anyway, the old gasbag droned on for a few minutes at the start,
reminding us of the proper way to virtue signal about these Muslim
attacks. He was also careful to make clear that no one, under any
circumstances, is to speculate about why Muslims keep going bonkers and
attacking people in Western cities. In fact, he was careful to not use
the word “Muslim” and even suggested that the man’s identity remained a
mystery.

Then, it got ridiculous. It was a panel show so the hobo went around and
introduced his panelists. It was four women, all in their prime
powerskirt years. These are the years when a powerskirt is still feeling
the biological clock so she is not entirely without hope of being a
women, but she is at her maximum anger at reality for not yielding to
the latest feminist pieties. Of course, one was black and another South
Asian, because that’s who we are!

The first powerskirt to speak sounded like a
<a href="https://gab.ai/JohnRivers" target="_blank">JohnRivers</a>
parody on Gab. She opened with how much she cares about the victims and
how passionate she is for victim’s rights. Powerskirts are always
passionate about stuff, just like Hitler. She then lurched into a tangle
of sentences about how this incident opens the doors for hate and how
any assault on London’s multiculturalism is far worse than a few white
people being murdered.

What’s striking about watching these modern lunacies acted out with
British accents is it makes the lunacy so much more obvious. What the
hell does “open the door for hate” even mean? I bet the stupid twat who
said it has no idea either. It just appeals to the fevered female mind.
Similarly, they have deified the word “multiculturalism” as if it is a
real thing, when in fact, it is just a word for the nullification of
culture.

The funny thing about her little performance was that you could see her
nostrils flaring and her cheeks getting a bit flushed. Maybe she is
well-trained, but my take was she really meant every word of the
nonsense she was saying. That or she was sexually aroused by it. Who
knows, maybe the thought of being slaughtered by Muslim savages is
arousing to these people. It’s not entirely out of the question, given
the state of men these days.

That really is the issue. The men of our ruling class have no pride or
self-respect. They got to where they are, largely untested as men, so
they have no sense of achievement. As a result, the women have no
respect for them or the culture they are supposed to symbolize.
Consequently, we have a ruling class populated by hand-wringing pussies
and terminally pissed off women, looking with envy at those swarthy guys
on the border.

I snapped it off, thinking that it would probably be a good thing if an
Exploding Mohamed walked into the station and ended things for all of
them. Frankly, if I was walking outside the studio and Mohamed came
running toward the entrance, I’d offer to hold the door for him. The
people inside are hostile strangers to me. The only thing I know about
them is they hate me for reasons I cannot address. Otherwise, I don’t
know them.

That is the the final resting place of multiculturalism. A people
without a shared past cannot have a shared future. The Muslim invader
cannot look around the landmarks of London and feel pride. His people
did not build these things. His ancestors were on the wrong end of a
bayonet charge by the people who built Big Ben and London Bridge. The
people who made these things are strangers. Their descendants are
strangers to him.

Men cannot live as isolated, transactional economic units. Nature abhors
it. It’s why the gray featureless world our rulers imagine is so
horrifying to the Mohammedan. It’s why populist movements are sprouting
up all over the West. Man is a social creature. In order to have strong
bonds with each other, we must share strong bonds with our past. The
people who rule over us must share those bonds too. They cannot be
strangers.

It’s why, after every one of these attacks, the powerskirts and
hand-wringing pussies rush out to fret about The Backlash™. At some
level, they know that the real threat to their position is not the
random muzzie, strapped with explosives screaming “Allahu Akbar!”,
rushing into the offices of SkyNews or into Parliament. The real danger,
what they truly fear, is that guy deciding to hold the door for Akmed.
Then it’s all over for them.
