---
title: "Is Europe Lost?"
date: "2017-03-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9870"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9870"
---

Imagine an island populated with a tribe of people. The Blue People have
been a stable population of about 9,000 people, distributed over three
generations. One day, a new people begin to arrive. The island of the
Red People exploded and refugees are floating up on the beaches of the
Blue People island. The result is about one thousand Red People are now
living on the island. It is an accommodation the natives are happy to
provide and the newcomers are generally thankful for the sanctuary.

The demographics of both groups are reasonably stable, with the slight
difference in fertility rates. The Blue People have a TFR of 2.0 and the
Red People are at 2.5. To keep this simple, we’ll assume war, famine,
disease and so forth are not issues. Think of this as an economics
model, where reality is excluded, in order to make a point. Even though
the Red People are breeding at a slightly higher rate, the differences
are so slight that hardly anyone notices. Even so, in ten generations,
the number Red Children will equal the number of Blue Children.

Now, let’s imagine that the Red People have fertility rates closer to
what we see in the Muslim world. That means they will rival the Blue
population in just five generations. If the Blue People see their
fertility rates drop to something closer to modern European rates, the
populations on our island are equal in three generations. It’s why the
question of Europe’s future is first and foremost, a math question.
Which is why, <a
href="http://takimag.com/article/le_grand_remplacement_steve_sailer/print#axzz4bs0I9HJG"
target="_blank">as Steve Sailer pointed out</a>, no one likes talking
about demographics in Europe these days.

While demographics are destiny, things change quickly. Arab fertility
rates have been plummeting for more than a decade. Iran has a TFR below
replacement. The same is true of the Turks, who are also suffering a
brain drain. Then there is the political dimension that can seemingly
turn on a dime. This is why the political season in Europe is a fixation
of the global press. Normally, these elections are just ceremonial, as
the political parties agree on most everything, except who gets to steal
first from the treasury.

Brexit changed that and the rise of the Trump Party in America now makes
even the smallest election on the Continent into a big deal. It’s why
the government media made the recent Dutch election into a referendum on
their hopes and fears about what’s happening in the West, with regards
to the rise of patriotic parties in opposition to far-left globalist
parties currently in power. Geert Wilders, the very odd looking Dutch
politician was pitched as the challenger to the very acceptable Dutch
Prime Minister Mark Rutte.

The setup was that the Dutch had a choice between a lunatic hate-thinker
and the normal, sensible establishment man. There was even <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/dec/09/geert-wilders-found-guilty-in-hate-speech-trial-but-no-sentence-imposed"
target="_blank">an effort to throw Wilders in jail</a> for
blasphemy. The reason the media chose to pitch this election as a
referendum on patriotism is that there was no chance for Wilders to
“win” the election. The Dutch make it so that no party ever gets a
majority of seats in their parliament. Instead, the “winning” party
forms a coalition with some of the “losing” parties to get a majority
government.

Wilders and his party are well outside the political center so there was
zero chance of his party being included in a ruling coalition. In other
words, the result was known in advance so it was a safe bet for the
globalists to carry on as if it were a referendum on their blessed rule.
The post election stories declaring populism dead were written in
advance of the vote. <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/mar/19/dutch-election-rutte-wilders-good-populism-bad-"
target="_blank">Wilders did well and his party increased their number of
seats,</a> but fell short of exceptions. Even so, the globalists
cheered, hoping this was an omen.

Again, no one really cares about the Dutch. They are the least
representative of Europe and that has always been true. But, the global
ruling class is looking down the road to the French elections and later
the Italian elections. There is a decent chance that Le Pen wins the
first round of the French election, which would be very embarrassing to
the European elite. They could live with that, as the main parties can
be sure to join forces in order to defeat Le Pen in the second round.

There is some small chance that the mainstream parties could falter or
fall into squabbling and not be able to present a united front. The
French ruling class is showing signs of decay. You see that with the
candidates they have offered up in this election. It is a rogue’s
gallery of careerist hacks with the personality of government clerks.
Scandal is also a problem with some of them. Then there is the fact Le
Pen is getting close to 30% of the vote. Events keep conspiring to
reward her positions, with regards to immigration.

The fact is, Europeans are starting to notice the numbers. It may not be
so easy, as the Red People and Blue People on our imaginary island, but
Europeans can spot a Moroccan when they see one. They notice that the
guys rioting are Turks and the guys stabbing people on trains are always
yelling “Allahu Akbar” while doing it. They also notice that the people
in charge have no answer. As
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ir6PmBhCj4Q"
target="_blank">Chris Caldwell points out in this Mark Steyn
interview</a>, they are left with trying to convince people that this is
the new normal.

Even so, it is hard to get away from the math of it. Europe is old and
barren, while the swarthy invaders are young and fruitful. Demographic
transformation can happen quite quickly, which is why the <a
href="http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/politicsandpolicy/why-the-fear-of-islamization-is-driving-populist-right-support/"
target="_blank">natives are now rightfully fearful of islamification</a>.
A majority population, increasingly worried about the foreign minority
population, ruled by a governing class paralyzed and unable to respond,
is a recipe for a very bad result. Europe will quickly reach a point
where they have to abandon social democracy in order to survive.

The alternative is Europe ceases to be Europe.
