---
title: "The Truth About Health Care"
date: "2017-03-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9910"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9910"
---

Humans live in a finite world. The universe may be infinite, but the
world of man is finite. There’s only so much stuff. Because there is
only so much stuff, there’s always going to be a shortage of the stuff
that people tend to like or need. It’s not always a desperate shortage,
but there’s never enough so that everyone can take what they want.
There’s always going to be one more hand reaching for the last item just
after it is gone.

This is a basic axiom of life and one of the foundation truths of
economics. It’s even a foundation truth of communism, which assumes
scarcity can only be mitigated, but never fully eliminated, by the
elimination of profit. Economists of all stripes work from the
assumption that scarcity is an immutable fact of the human condition.
The question they wrestle with is how to increase supply and distribute
the results.

What this means is that all goods and services must be rationed. Since
there’s never enough to meet the maximum demand, there has to be some
way to say “no” to people demanding the goods or services. The most
common way to do this is price. The poor guy who wants a Mercedes is
told he cannot have a Mercedes by the big numbers on the price tag. This
is how the supply of luxury cars is rationed.

The other way to ration goods and services is for men with guns to take
control of the supply and create rules for who can and who cannot have
access to the stuff.  Rocket propelled grenades are not very expensive.
An RPG can be had for around $500 and the rounds are about $100. The
government, at least in America, controls the supply of RPG’s and
determines who can have them. In other words, the government rations the
supply of RPG’s in America.

This is an iron law of economics. All goods and services are
rationed. This is true for health care too. There are no exceptions to
this law. Thus, the **First Truth of Health Care:** No health care plan
or system can ever be taken seriously unless it addresses, up front, how
it will say “No, you cannot have it” to people who want it. At some
point, someone has to tell the patient they cannot have whatever it is
they want or need.

In America, rationing is mostly done by price, but increasingly the
state is taking over this role. In Britain, most people are denied
services by the long lines for those services. The long wait times for
basic services is a form of rationing. If you can deliver X per day and
the demand is for 2X, you solve this by giving people numbers and having
them wait a long time until their number is called. This is socialized
medicine in nutshell.

The fact is, most people could pay out of pocket, for their health
services. It is only when poor people get old or have accidents when
they need someone to pay for their medical care. Most middle-class
people should be able to put away a little every payday to reserve for
their later years. That is, if they were not being taxed into poverty by
the current system in America that has seen prices rise five times the
inflation rate.

Thus, the **Second Truth of Health Care:** The current insurance model
is just a wealth transfer from the middle-class to the health care
industry, in order to cover the cost of poor people and the
metastasizing layer of people who live off the system. Those is really
just a tax. Most people use about 5% of their plan for themselves, the
rest is used to pay for poor people and the army of people who work in
the system.

That’s the thing politicians never want to discuss, which is the whole
reason they are talking about health care in the first place. How does a
modern society pay for the poor, who cannot afford needed medical
services? How to we address the free riders on the system? More
important, how much are we willing to pay for the health services to the
poor? There’s a limit to all of this and that’s the question that always
has to be answered.

Of course, one of the paradoxes of modern life is that you can get very
rich off the poor, which is why liquor stores and furniture rental
shops dot the ghetto. In the social welfare game, the point is to lay a
massive guilt trip on the public, and grease the right political palms,
in order to get the middle class to look the other way as their money is
siphoned off for one program or another for the poor, always
administered by a rich guy coincidentally.

Thus, the **Third Truth of Health Care: **Health services are a massive
skimming operation. Today, the one area of the economy that “grows” is
the health care industry. Every year, more and more people pile into
that wagon, mostly in administrative roles. The number of nurses and
doctors does not grow very much, but the number of bureaucrats grows
like a weed.

Then you have the pill makers, machine makers, research people and
lawyers. There are always lots and lots of lawyers. The health care
industry is massive and government dependent. It’s why rub rooms are now
called message therapy centers. They are angling to get it on the
racket, by having their service declared an essential health care
service. That way, you will be paying for some guy to get a happy
ending.

That’s why reforming health care has become an impossibility. As soon as
anyone makes any noises about fixing the system, the army of lobbyists,
hired by every vested interest, shows up to bury the reformers. If they
are not able to kill the idea of reform entirely, they set about
corrupting it into another grift that their clients can use to get a
free shot at your wallet. The only people not represented in these
efforts are the voters. They get no say.

This is the main reason Trump’s efforts to address the problems of
ObamaCare failed last week. What Ryan and the other crooks in the GOP
were hoping to do is pass a bill that made it easier for their
paymasters to skim money from the rate payers, while providing fewer
services. Ryan’s bill was just an attempt to help the people feeding at
the trough get a little fatter off the middle-class. Its failure
suggests we have reached the end phase.

Talk to anyone responsible for paying health insurance premiums and they
will tell you that the rates are reaching the point where they cannot be
paid. When premiums are going up by multiples of inflation, there can be
only one result. Once rates pass a certain level, people stop paying
those premiums. You get black markets, non-compliance and a system that
can only persist through brute coercion. Soon after you get collapse.
