---
title: "Absentee Strangers"
date: "2017-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11471"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11471"
---

Walking through the residential neighborhoods of Bethesda, where many of
our managerial class luminaries live, it is common to see little brown
men working the business end of a leaf blower. Over many years, I have
never spotted a black working on one of these landscaping crews. In
fact, I have never spotted a college boy doing this sort of work either.
It is always Atahualpa and his men. Today, even the [Conquistador
Americans](http://www.patdollard.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/CkZqKznXAAE3Bvl.jpg_large-e1465359634990.jpeg)
prefer to have Amerinds raking their lawns, rather than Americans.

The other thing I have noticed is that the housekeepers and nannies are
never black or white. Instead, you see East Asian Nannies and Mexican
housekeepers. The housekeepers do not look like Incas. They look like
the Cholo girls, but paunchy and middle-aged. The nannies are mostly
Koreans, but there is an increasing number of Chinese. The hunch here is
the subconscious math of crime is at work. Asian women are considered
the safest so they can be trusted with kids.

I have this theory that some of what drives this desire for Amerind
labor and Asian servants is a weird manifestation of white guilt. A crew
of blacks, singing spirituals, while raking leaves would set off mass
panic is a place like Bethesda. A thick black woman, kitted out like
Mammy, dotting on the children, would probably kill the typical SWPL in
Cloud Country. Ruling class whites simply have no will to face up to the
reality of black America, so they systematically exclude it from their
lives, with the use of foreigners.

This denial of reality also would explain the lack of whites working as
domestics. There are plenty of unemployed white girls who could be
trained to clean houses and tend to small children. The same is true for
landscaping and residential work. The presence of working class whites,
however, would fill the Cloud People with angst. It would be a daily
reminder that for all but the grace of the void where God used to exist,
that could be the life of the lady of the house. Who needs to be
reminded of class reality in their own home!

I was reminded of this when I saw this [Noah Millman
post](http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/murder-of-journalist-reflects-global-assault-on-free-speech/)
on the American Conservative website. It is a post about the death of
free speech in India, of all places. The idea that speech was ever open
in India, or anywhere outside the English speaking world, is ludicrous
on its face. It is just another example of the blinkered universalism
that prevents our elites from understanding much about the world. The
point of the post is that free speech is under assault, even in bastions
of liberalism like India.

I looked for his twitter feed but came up empty. I was going to suggest
he perform the same analysis on another foreign country, by delving into
the tech giant’s efforts to suppress political speech in America. While
the snake charmers and call center staffers in Tamil Nadu are important,
most readers of Millman care more about what is happening in
civilization. Exactly nothing changes about the world if Indians lose
whatever civil liberties they enjoy at the moment. It does matter if the
lights go out in the West.

It is much easier to be pious and self-righteous about the world when
you focus on problems beyond the horizon. You get to fret over the state
of civil liberties in a place like India, without ever being expected to
do anything about it. Of course, criticizing some foreign potentate
brings no risk. Millman writing a broadside against the Washington
Post’s proselytizing for Progressive causes risks future employment.
Going after Google for sand-boxing alt-right videos is a bit too
dangerous, so he focuses on the foreign.

This deliberate self-alienation by our elites is probably what drives
their zeal for open borders. Those Cloud People in their seven figure
homes do not know any working class whites. They have never met a man
who makes a living driving a truck or running a tow motor in a
warehouse. They do know Garbanzo, the guy they see cutting their grass
in the summer. Their kid’s Korean nanny, whose daughter plays the flute,
is someone they know and bond with across class lines. The Dirt People,
on the other hand, are strangers.

This would also explain why our political class has such a tin ear about
economics. The Cloud People think smokestacks and industrial parks are
ugly. They think office parks are ugly, which is why they are building
their compounds to look like the college campus or the [lair of a super
villain](https://venturebeat.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/applecampus2.jpg?fit=930%2C478&strip=all).
Logically, they just assume that getting rid of these hideous eyesores
is what everyone wants. The fact that it results in the white working
class falling to pieces goes unnoticed. It is how [this
guy](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/R8rIgRuUFNA/hqdefault.jpg) is considered an
expert on the working class.

Our modern form of bureaucratic capitalism, which tries to bend the
marketplace to the whims of the central planners, may end up having a
defect similar to what plagued English authority in Ireland. Prior to
the [Irish Land Acts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irish_Land_Acts),
the bulk of Irish farmland was owned by English landlords, who did not
live in Ireland. Therefore, they had no stake in the local community.
The result was that Ireland was a net exporter of food during the Irish
Famine. This system is largely blamed for [The
Troubles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Troubles).

 
