---
title: "Essential Knowledge: Part X"
date: "2017-06-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10502"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10502"
---

**Note:** I’ve taken a bit of break on these posts because they take a
bit longer than a normal post and I’ve been busy on other projects. A
normal post is maybe a half hour of writing and another half hour of
re-writing. If I feel like proofreading it, then maybe another fifteen
minutes. These Essential Knowledge posts require a little more thought
and they require me finding the relevant links. The demands on my time
meant a short hiatus, but I’ll try to get back to doing one every two
weeks at the minimum.

We left off the literature portion of this series at the Romantic
period. I’ve never been a big fan of this period in English literature.
I think I can make the case that William Blake is history’s greatest
monster. There are some writers worth knowing about and some works that
a modern reader can enjoy. Coleridge’s <a
href="https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems-and-poets/poems/detail/43997"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Rime of the Ancient Mariner</a> and
<a
href="https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems-and-poets/poems/detail/43991"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kubla Khan</a>, especially for Rush fans,
are easy reading and the sort of thing an educated man can sprinkle into
a conversation to impress the ladies down at the rest home.

The Romantics were big into poetry so the big names are mostly poets. If
you feel you must, then pick <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Norton-Anthology-English-Literature-Twentieth/dp/0393925323/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">an anthology</a> and sample the names
that seem familiar, like
<a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/21700/21700-h/21700-h.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lord Byron</a>, Wordsworth and <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Odes-Complete-Nightingale-Indolence-Melancholy-ebook/dp/B00WWQNW6O/ref=sr_1_1_twi_kin_2?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1496970123&amp;sr=1-1&amp;keywords=keats+Odes"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Keats</a>. These things are a matter of
taste and maybe you are the sort that enjoys this type of literature. My
view on literature is that you should aim to be a specialist on what you
enjoy, but a generalist on everything else. That means having some
anthologies around to poke through when you are looking for something to
read.

There is some good stuff in the Romantic period. Jane Austen is not
terrible and you should read at least one of her novels. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Pride-Prejudice-Jane-Austen/dp/0141439513/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Pride and Prejudice</a> would be my
recommendation, but you can download her <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Novels-Austen-linked-Contents-ebook/dp/B004MPRAPM/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">complete works</a> for a dollar, so take
your pick. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Robinson-Crusoe-Daniel-Defoe-ebook/dp/B06XBBZ27L/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Robinson Crusoe</a> by Defoe is a good
read. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Jones-Xist-Classics-Henry-Fielding-ebook/dp/B00VHBIKPS/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Tom Jones by Henry Fielding</a> is not
bad. Mary Shelley’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Frankenstein-Original-1818-Uncensored-Shelley-ebook/dp/B00B3L3RPA/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Frankenstein</a> is the most famous work
from this period. My favorite from this era is Jonathan Swift’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Gullivers-Travels-Classics-Jonathan-Swift-ebook/dp/B00UCI9N5I/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Gulliver’s Travels</a>. It’s a fun read,
even if you hate Romantics.

The Victorian¹ period is an embarrassment of riches, in terms of English
literature. This was also when Americans really started to contribute to
the English canon. Even better, the great talents of the era tended
toward prose, so you don’t have to suffer through a lot of poetry. The
big names on the poetry side are Browning, Carlyle,
Wordsworth, Swinburne and Tennyson, but the way to go is with <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/English-Victorian-Poetry-Anthology-Editions/dp/0486404250/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a decent anthology</a>. Of course, you
can just read your kids, or grandkids, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Jabberwocky-Other-Nonsense-Collected-Classics-ebook/dp/B008YWVUDW/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Jabberwocky</a> and leave it at that.

The prose side of the house is where things get fun. This was a prolific
period in English prose and some of the giants of our culture wrote in
this era. For the ladies, and the men with a desire to get in touch with
their feminine side, you have the Bronte sisters. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Jane-Eyre-Charlotte-Brontë-Illustrated-ebook/dp/B01NBLFU3N/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Jane Eyre</a> is considered one of the
top-20 novels of all time, but I’ve always been partial to <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Wuthering-Heights-Emily-Bronte-ebook/dp/B01NBOL83K/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Wuthering Heights</a>. You can get the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Brontë-Sisters-Complete-Novels-Classics-ebook/dp/B01L4V8CYY/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">collected works of the Bronte sisters</a>
for a song. If you still need that feminine touch, then read <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Middlemarch-George-Eliot-ebook/dp/B00C0UMDY4/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Middlemarch</a> by George Elliot.

Now the good stuff. I don’t think you can be a literate man without
having read Charles Dickens. The Pickwick Papers is great, even if you
are not comfortable reading hard fiction. Oliver Twist, David
Copperfield and A Tale of Two Cities are also on the list of must read
books. You can get all of <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Charles-Dickens-Complete-updated-Classics-ebook/dp/B01KLYL70G/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Dickens</a> for a buck on kindle. The
same is true of the collected works of <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Carroll-Original-Illustrations-Letters-ebook/dp/B00IWUKZ3M/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lewis Carroll</a>. Alice in Wonderland is
a great read even if you have seen all of the Hollywood treatments.

I think Oscar Wilde is an overrated degenerate, but <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Picture-Dorian-Gray-Biographical-Introduction-ebook/dp/B000FC1CUA/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Picture of Dorian Gray</a> is a great
book. It’s also a great movie, as long as you stick with
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0037988/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the 1945 version</a>. This period was not just the great
flowering of the novel. The short story was mastered in this era. The
two names most associated with the development of the form are <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/O-Henry-Collected-Works-Stories-ebook/dp/B016NGM95I/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">O. Henry</a> and <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/65-Short-Stories-Complete-Unabridged-ebook/dp/B01ES3JDRU/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">W. Somerset Maugham</a>. I’m more of a
fan of the latter, than the former, but that’s a matter of taste. As an
aside, I’ve always thought the short story is the perfect format for
modern audiences.

This is also the age when fantasy literature and science fiction came
into existence as serious literary forms. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Dracula-Annotated-Bram-Stoker-ebook/dp/B072FVH86L/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Dracula</a> is a great book, even if you
have seen a million movie versions of it. You should get the complete
works of <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Delphi-Complete-Robert-Stevenson-Illustrated-ebook/dp/B004TU58G8/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Robert Louis Stevenson</a> so you can
read Treasure Island and Jekyll and Hyde, if you did not read them as
kids. I recently re-read Treasure Island and it still works for me.
Then, of course, is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/H-G-Wells-Machine-Invisible-ebook/dp/B06XRLN71F/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">H. G. Wells</a>. I’ve read Time Machine
half a dozen times in my life and it just gets better each time.

The trouble with the Victorian era is it is big and not everyone agrees
on the exact start and end points. This is especially true of the late
Victorians and the American writers that were influenced by their
English cousins, but had their own style. I’m going to cover American
literature in a separate post so that makes the cutoff a little easier.
Even so, there’s a lot of summers at the beach worth of reading just in
that 60 year span. It’s fair to say that it was the peak of the English
Empire and probably the peak of English culture.

¹I’m lumping some eras together here for the sake of brevity. Read
“Victorian” as “post-Romantic up to the 20th century.”
