---
title: "Killing Chickens"
date: "2017-08-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11337"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11337"
---

Ralph Waldo Emerson said “When you strike at a king, you must kill him.”
We are all familiar with it and its meaning. When you challenge
authority, you better win, as authority cannot tolerate challenges. It’s
why the people in charge are so ruthless in dealing with challenges to
their power. They instinctively know that to do otherwise means being
displaced. In all probability, they got to where they are by subverting
or knocking off their predecessor.

That’s what we see going on with the Trump administration. The rules of
the game, as designed by the political class, were supposed to prevent a
guy like Trump from winning the Presidency. Instead, both parties would
hire approved actors to put on a show, pretending to be bitter rivals.
The voters would re-enact these mock battles among themselves, getting
into arguments on-line and with friends. Then one candidate would “win”,
pick a staff from the political class, and the party would keep going.

Trump was supposed to have his vanity run, then bow out in the primary,
before he became too much of a distraction. The political class was so
sure this would be the case, they never bothered to address Trump until
it was too late. They thought they had it gamed out in the general
election, but then those idiot voters did the wrong thing and voted for
the wrong candidate. This challenge cannot stand, which is why they have
been going berserk. The threat must be addressed, by any means
necessary.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/Beijing-of-the-Cultural-Revolution-1966-12.jpg"
class="alignleft wp-image-11339" decoding="async" width="355"
height="241" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/Beijing-of-the-Cultural-Revolution-1966-12.jpg)There’s
another expression that is useful now. It is an old Chinese idiom. “Kill
the chicken to scare the monkey”, which refers to making an example out
of someone in order to threaten others. This was a popular aphorism
during the Cultural Revolution where Chinese officials would routinely
make an example of a deviationist to remind anyone else with heretical
ideas that there are consequences to challenging authority. The college
professor paraded around school and forced to confess to made up crimes
let the other professors know who was really in charge of the school.

That’s what we are seeing with the coordinated assault on various
dissident websites, like the Daily Stormer and now Stormfront. Neither
of these sites are a great threat to the established order. The Stormer
is a satirical site, the suppression of which proves just about every
point the proprietor ever made about the ruling class. Stormfront is an
old White Nationalist site that was content to mind its own business.
But they both contain the word “storm” which is now a trigger word for
the ruling class, so they were targeted.

What the registrars have done in both cases is steal the domain from the
rightful owners, thus shuttering their sites. It’s brazen and illegal,
but that’s the point. The message being sent is that the people in
charge are not constrained by the law. They can do as they please. If
you are a trouble maker out there, who has invested time and money in
his site, you might want to watch what you say. Otherwise, a big tech
company will steal your property and shut you down. That’s the message
being sent with these acts.

It’s why they are picking on these two sites. Small guys operating on
the fringe are easy for everyone else to dismiss. This encourages others
to think, “well, they were asking for it. As long as I don’t do what
they did, I should be OK.”  If they went after a bigger name or a site
with deeper pockets, they create a sympathetic martyr and find
themselves in court defending the indefensible. The one thing the people
in charge have, or at least they think they have, is moral authority.
Stormer and Stormfront are safe chickens to kill.

There is a corollary, of sorts, to that Chinese idiom. If they set out
to scare the monkey, they better scare the monkey. Otherwise, they risk
pissing off the monkey and the rest of the monkeys. That’s the delicate
balance authorities must strike in times of crisis. There is a risk of
squandering their moral authority and legitimacy. Make an example of the
wrong guy and they risk a rebellion. It’s not always easy to know, as
the reason a crisis exists is the rulers have lost touch with those over
whom they are rule.

After the election, I made the point that Trump was a warning shot to
the ruling class. They had to reform and Trump was that opening for
them. If not, the next guy was not going to be as easy to deal with as
Trump. That’s the lesson of history. The people challenging the old
order start out hoping to work with the old order. They become
radicalized or replaced by radical elements, only when the old order
refuses to cooperate. The whole point of popular government is to
accommodate this reality about human society.

The people who rule over us are sending a message of their own and have
decided to make a few examples, to kill some chickens. The question they
don’t know, what no one knows, is if it will scare the monkeys. The
evidence so far is that all the ruling class has done so far is piss
away their moral authority. “Attacking Nazis” rings hollow when you’re
simultaneously trying to erase the Founding Fathers from the public
square. It just makes the “Nazis” a useful tool for those wishing to
gain the moral high ground defending speech.

For now, we just have a few dead chickens and a troop of increasing
angry monkeys.
