---
title: "Essential Knowledge: Part VI"
date: "2017-02-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9643"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9643"
---

One of the challenges that arises when trying to list the things an
educated man should know about the past is that the past keeps
happening. By that I mean we keep expanding what we know about the past
and updating our views about what is important. It used to be that the
period after the fall of Rome was the Dark Ages, meaning that nothing
much happened that anyone needed to know. Now, the early Middle Ages
gets a lot of attention because it helps explain why the West came to
dominate the world.

The fall of the Western Roman Empire used to be thought of as a collapse
of civilization, leaving a great void into which swarmed barbarians. Out
of the rubble, the people of Europe slowly rebuilt civilization into
what we think of as the Middle Ages. The reality is the fall of Rome was
a process. Roman rule was replaced by something else, something local
and indigenous. A good way to start thinking about this is with <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/End-Empire-Attila-Fall-Rome/dp/0393338495"
target="_blank">The End of Empire: Attila the Hun &amp; the Fall of
Rome</a>.

The first significant, post Roman, population to cast a shadow on our
time are the Franks, who can probably be credited with the
Christianisation of Europe. That’s debatable, but they played a large
role in spreading the new religion. The Franks also gave us an important
legal tradition. Frankish law was overwhelmingly concerned with the
protection of individuals and less concerned with protecting the
interests of the state, a sharp departure from Roman legal tradition,
which was focused on the state.

The required reading when it comes to the Franks is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/History-Franks-Penguin-Classics/dp/0140442952"
target="_blank">Gregory of Tours</a>. If you want something a bit easier
to read, then <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Franks-Origin-Confederacy-Establishment-Kingdom-ebook/dp/B00QFO5VY0"
target="_blank">this is a pretty good book</a> for the casual reader.
It’s short and covers the important bits. Reading up on Germanic tribes
almost always means references to the Goths. While they did not leave
much of an impression on the West, beyond the name, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Story-Goths-Earliest-Gothic-Dominion/dp/1523604522/ref=pd_sim_14_13?_encoding=UTF8&amp;pd_rd_i=1523604522&amp;pd_rd_r=9T21G70VR7QF3RRC7YZQ&amp;pd_rd_w=QeTZw&amp;pd_rd_wg=sbSsF&amp;psc=1&amp;refRID=9T21G70VR7QF3RRC7YZQ"
target="_blank">this is an interesting book</a> on them that is worth
reading. Of course, you cannot know the history of Europe without
knowing about Charlemagne. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Charlemagne-Richard-Winston/dp/1539590062/ref=sr_1_4?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1487278208&amp;sr=1-4&amp;keywords=charlemagne"
target="_blank">This is the best book</a> I’ve read on the subject.

Once you get to Charlemagne, you get to his British analog, King Offa
and the history of Britain. For the general reader, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Foundation-History-England-Earliest-Beginnings/dp/1250037557/"
target="_blank">this is a great book</a> on the topic. Free of endless
footnotes and scholarly jargon, it covers the material and makes it fun.
This is a great time to introduce an excellent podcast.
<a href="https://www.thebritishhistorypodcast.com/" target="_blank">The
British History Podcast</a> done by an American lawyer, if you can
believe it, is well done and entertaining. He plans to carry on until
the present, but he does a great job with the early, post-Roman history
of Britain.

The text most commonly used for learning about the Vikings is the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/History-Vikings-Gwyn-Jones/dp/0192801341/"
target="_blank">Gwyn Jones History of the Vikings</a>, but it is more
than a little dry. It was written when acquiring knowledge was supposed
to be painful. It does cover everything, without the PC claptrap you get
from modern histories of the Norse. A more readable book that is good
for an airplane ride is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Sea-Wolves-History-Vikings/dp/1909979120/"
target="_blank">The Sea Wolves: A History of the Vikings</a>. The truth
is, the Norse were not all that interesting, but their impact on the
West was very interesting. They changed Britain and northern Europe in
very important ways.

In a similar way, the Mongols are not all that interesting as a
civilization, but their impact on the world is interesting. Like the
Norse, they also did some outlandish things, that still characterize
them to this day. Everyone has heard of Genghis Khan so it is a good
idea to know something about him and the Mongols. I know of no book that
is as good as the <a
href="http://www.dancarlin.com/product/hardcore-history-wrath-of-the-khans-series/"
target="_blank">Dan Carlin podcast on the Mongols</a>. For $10 you get
more than twenty hours of great entertainment and a great lesson in
history.

It is impossible to know anything about the history of the West without
knowing the history of the Catholic Church. In Part II of this series I
suggested Paul Johnson’s <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/History-Christianity-Paul-Johnson/dp/0684815036/ref=pd_bxgy_14_img_2?ie=UTF8&amp;psc=1&amp;refRID=6PDFAHED837FCT296ZNH"
target="_blank">History of Christianity</a>, but for a history of the
Catholic Church that is specific to this period, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Catholic-Church-Built-Western-Civilization/dp/1596983280/"
target="_blank">How the Catholic Church Built Western Civilization</a>
is a great read. If you are more ambitious, you can take on the three
volume <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Founding-Christendom-History-Vol-1/dp/0931888212/"
target="_blank">The Founding of Christendom: A History of
Christendom</a>, but it is a bit of a slog, unless you are a faithful
Christian with a strong interest in the subject.

Of course, you cannot study the history of the Church without learning
about The Crusades. A pretty good podcast is on iTunes conveniently
called <a
href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/history-of-the-crusades/id567051894?mt=2"
target="_blank">The History of the Crusades</a>. Strangely, there are
not a lot of good books on the subject. Most are multicultural nonsense
polemics against the Church. The best book I’ve read on the subject
is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Crusades-Authoritative-History-Holy-Land/dp/0060787295/"
target="_blank">The Crusades: The Authoritative History of the War for
the Holy Land</a>. It is a big book that covers a lot, but it is free of
the nonsense and it is written to be read.

One of the most important events in the medieval period is the Hundred
Years War, because it is the first flicker of nationalism in the West.
The idea of a nation that transcends tribal identity was born in the war
between the English and the French from 1337 to 1453. The start of the
war featured multi-ethnic armies, led by kings, facing one another in
what is now France. At the end, it was Frenchman versus English, two
*nations* at war. The best book on the subject is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Hundred-Years-War-English-1337-1453/dp/0140283617/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1487899115&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=hundred+years+war"
target="_blank">The Hundred Years War by Desmod Seward</a>.

Similarly, the Thirty Years War is one of those great events that still
casts a shadow today. It was one of the deadliest conflicts in European
history and arguably began the process of de-Christianization in Europe.
It also gave us the Peace of Westphalia, which established concepts like
national sovereignty, balance of power diplomacy and the prohibition
against intervening in the domestic affairs of other states. The
definitive book on the subject is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Thirty-Years-Review-Books-Classics-ebook/dp/B01I85ORT8/"
target="_blank">C. V. Wedgewood’s The Thirty Years War</a>.

Finishing up, it is a good time to mention the <a
href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/history-of-germany-podcast/id907826048?mt=2"
target="_blank">History of Germany podcast</a>. It is the only podcast I
know of that covers the early history of German tribes. Like the British
History Podcast, it covers much more than this period, but it is one of
the few that bothers with early Germanic history. If you really prefer
to get your history via audio, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Great-Courses-Early-Middle-Ages/dp/1565859146/ref=sr_1_3?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1487291326&amp;sr=1-3&amp;keywords=early+middle+ages"
target="_blank">this series</a> is supposed to be one of the best. The
Great Courses series is mostly for adults, who want to learn something
about the topic, so they are excellent introductory resources.
