---
title: "Is the Pope Catholic?"
date: "2017-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10445"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10445"
---

There’s been a lot of commentary about Pope Francis being a commie,
mostly from Official Conservatism, which now holds a puerile
understanding of both communism and capitalism. *Evangelii Gaudium* (The
Joy of the Gospel), is a 2013 apostolic exhortation by Pope Francis that
criticizes neoliberal global capitalism, among other topics. American
“conservatives” took this mild critique to mean the Pope opposes the new
religion of Globalism, so he must be a Marxist, because Marxists are
bad.

The thing is, Catholicism has always been opposed, to some degree, to
capitalism, particularly certain aspects of what we now call capitalism.
The most obvious example is the opposition to usury. Every lecture on
the evils of antisemitism contains some reference to the Church
forbidding usury. Less well known is the Catholic Church’s embrace of
localist economics and politics, in opposition to the internationalism
of Soviet communism. The point being, the Church has never been a fan of
global capitalism.

The criticism of the Pope on economic grounds says more about the
bottomless ignorance of modern conservatism than it does the Pope or the
Church. For the Church, any church for that matter, economics are
downstream from theology. In fact, economic positions should only matter
in so far as how they advance the particular theological points of the
faith. Catholicism long attachment to the sovereign authority of the
people, naturally leads it to embrace national economics over global
economics.

That bit is sure to get some spergy responses from Catholics and
Christians, but we’ll deal with that in the comments. The point to take
away is that it is perfectly plausible for the Pope to be within
Catholic doctrine and oppose the current fads in global economics and
not be a communist. The fact that secular defenders of globalism are
more hive minded than the clerical critics, suggests globalism has
become more of an all-consuming religion than Catholicism. <a
href="http://www.firstprinciplesjournal.com/articles.aspx?article=974"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">It is international
fascism. </a>

Whether or not the Pope is a globalist is unimportant. What matters is
whether or not he is a Catholic. Look at the response from Francis when
Trump announced that he was withdrawing the US from the Paris climate
deal. The Pope had heavily lobbied Trump in person on the mysteries of
climate. He gave him a book pushing the apocalyptic claims of the most
unhinged climate fanatics. It’s not unfair to say that the Pope bet a
big chunk of the Church’s prestige on this, so naturally he was very
angry at the result.

Now, the Pope had a joint presser with Trump on his home turf. Trump has
been divorced a few times, has children from a variety of women. He is,
by his own admission, a serial adulterer. The Church, at its core,
opposes the way in which Trump has lived his life. At their meeting in
Rome, the Pope could have taken the time to admonish Trump on these
basic theological issues. At the minimum, he could have made the most
powerful man in the world blush a bit about his lifestyle, even if he
was not willing to be Thomas More.

Of course, the Pope is more than a theologian and spiritual leader. He
is a politicians so it is understandable if maybe he would avoid the
personal. He could have, however, weighed in on the oppression of
Christians and Catholics in the US. That health care bill everyone says
is a mess has provisions that compel Catholics to act in a way that
contradicts their faith. That should be pretty damned high on the Pope’s
list of concerns to be broached with the American President.

It’s not just a question about the Pope being Catholic, or at least
prioritizing Catholic theology over his personal theology. The question
is whether the Catholic Church is still Catholic. It used to be that the
Church was at the forefront of social issues like abortion and
homosexual marriage. Today, it is rare to hear anything from the Church
on social issues. Instead, in the US at least, the Church is more
concerned with maintaining <a
href="http://www.vdare.com/articles/is-the-refugee-racket-helping-pay-for-the-catholic-church-s-child-abuse-settlements"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">their refugee rackets</a> and
defending Gaia from your lawnmower.

We are in a post-Christian world so perhaps it is inevitable that the
Catholic Church would be looking around for a way to remain relevant. <a
href="https://cruxnow.com/church/2015/05/12/pew-survey-percentage-of-us-catholics-drops-and-catholicism-is-losing-members-faster-than-any-denomination/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Attendance at Christian
services continues to drop</a> and the median age of self-identified
Christians keeps going up. On the other hand, it is not unreasonable to
think that maybe what hurts the Catholic Church is that it has stopped
being Catholic. There are a million places to hear sermons on Gaia,
diversity and other Progressive fads. The Pope is just another voice in
the choir.
