---
title: "Essential Knowledge: Part XI"
date: "2017-06-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10657"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10657"
---

The last post in this series left off with English literature through
the Victorian period, with a little overlap here and there, along with a
few references to American literature. In retrospect, I probably should
have done the literature posts a bit different. Instead of breaking it
up into eras, it would have been better to break it into three or four
categories, based on the significance or importance of the writer.
Getting into this, I did not have a plan for covering literature so
things got a little sideways.

The truth is, there’s probably only 100 books and writers that have a
claim to being essential to the English canon. If you asked a bunch of
well read people to list the 25 books they would take to a deserted
island, they would have no trouble cutting down their list. There would
be lots of overlap between them, but in the end, there are probably a
hundred or so books that truly qualify as essential to an English
reader. The rest fall into categories like “important to their genre” or
“emblematic of a certain period.”

Anyway, in order to put some structure on this topic, let’s finish off
English literature through the early 20th century. The first
recommendation here is Samuel Beckett. The reason for this is he is a
good example of something that changed in English letters around this
time. Writers were no longer appealing to the educated classes. Writing
in the 20th century was a social movement and often a political act.
Beckett was probably as famous for his influence as he was for his
writing. Writers were now pop stars.

You can, if you are a masochist, buy something like the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Dramatic-Works-Samuel-Beckett/dp/0571229158/ref=sr_1_4?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1498179557&amp;sr=8-4&amp;keywords=Samuel+Beckett"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Complete Dramatic Works of Samuel
Beckett</a> and start plowing through it, but that’s not going to be
fun. My recommendation is to come at it from a different angle. Instead,
read a good biography of him like <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Damned-Fame-Life-Samuel-Beckett/dp/0802141250/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Damned to Fame: The Life of Samuel
Beckett</a>. It’s probably better to learn about the man and then sample
some of his work. Since he was primarily a dramatist, maybe take in a
play or rent a movie adaptation of Waiting for Godot.

Another important figure is William Butler Yeats. Like Beckett, Yeats is
probably more important for his shadow than his work. If you are into
folk literature and traditionalism, then you will enjoy reading Yeats,
even if you don’t care for poetry. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Yeats-Man-Masks-Richard-Ellmann/dp/0393008592/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This is a biography</a> I read a few
years ago and I enjoyed it. Again, it is a great introduction to the man
and you can use it as a jumping off point for selected readings. I’ll
also note that Yeats was a nationalist and traditionalist, something all
of us should rediscover.

This naturally leads into the dreaded discussion of poetry, but luckily
there is Rudyard Kipling. Like a lot of great literature, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Rudyard-Kipling-Complete-Publishing-Greatest-ebook/dp/B01IX0QXPO/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kipling can he had for a song</a>,
especially of you don’t mind the ebook format. <a
href="https://www.poetryloverspage.com/poets/kipling/kipling_ind.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">His poetry is available on-line</a>. Like
so many men of his era, his influence extends beyond literature so
reading a biography of the man is a good way to understand his impact on
the culture. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Long-Recessional-Imperial-Rudyard-Kipling/dp/0374187029/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">I read this one</a> a dozen years ago,
but there may be better ones. It was interesting, despite the writer’s
best efforts.

As far as poetry, well, I’m not a big fan of the genre, but others will
disagree. The big names
are <a href="http://www.blackcatpoems.com/e/t_s_eliot.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">T. S. Eliot</a>, <a href="http://audensociety.org/poems.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">W. H. Auden</a> and
<a href="https://www.poemhunter.com/dylan-thomas/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Dylan Thomas</a>. Yeats is the giant, but we covered
him. I never really cared for Eliot, but I liked Thomas enough to have
memorized a few of his poems. In all candor, I did it because quoting
Dylan Thomas worked well on the ladies back in the day. They thought I
was deep and sensitive. My guess is this still works, if there are any
younger guys reading this. Poets used to be lady’s men for a reason.

Another giant is James Joyce. I think
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/Dubliners-James-Joyce/dp/1548090514/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Dubliners</a> is one of the best
collections of short stories ever written. I’ve read it a dozen times
and will probably read it a dozen more before I die. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Portrait-Artist-Young-Penguin-Classics/dp/0142437344/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">A Portrait of the Artist as a Young
Man</a> is also good. I strongly recommend against reading Ulysses, as
it is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Most-Dangerous-Book-Battle-Ulysses/dp/0143127543/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the most dangerous book ever written</a>.
Like some others listed here, Joyce really is a giant, despite his
relatively modest output. Knowing about him is important. That
said, Finnegan’s Wake is just nonsense.

Obviously, Orwell and Huxley are must reads. Both writers get talked
about to death by people on the Dissident Right, so there is no need for
additional commentary. For Orwell, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/1984-Signet-Classics-George-Orwell/dp/0451524934/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">1984</a> and <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Animal-farm-Fairy-George-Orwell/dp/0451526341/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Animal Farm</a> are must reads. I’m much
more fond of the latter than the former, on aesthetic grounds. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Brave-New-World-Aldous-Huxley/dp/0060850523/ref=pd_bxgy_14_2?_encoding=UTF8&amp;pd_rd_i=0060850523&amp;pd_rd_r=1H553F7Y0HSGZ1PJZ70A&amp;pd_rd_w=HBDYs&amp;pd_rd_wg=Ka0mq&amp;psc=1&amp;refRID=1H553F7Y0HSGZ1PJZ70A"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Brave New World</a> is a great book. I’ve
made this point a gorillion times, but Huxley was much more realistic
about the future than Orwell. I’d also argue that he wrote a better
book. 1984 is ugly, like Wagner, while Huxley’s book is beautiful.

Finally, the man who invented fantasy literature is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Hobbit-Lord-Rings-Fellowship-Towers/dp/0345538374/ref=sr_1_8?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1498183426&amp;sr=1-8&amp;keywords=tolkien"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">J. R. R. Tolkien</a>. My guess is most
literate man got the taste for reading through Tolkien. I still remember
the puzzled look on my mother’s face as I spent a full summer Saturday
on the couch engrossed in The Hobbit. Even as an adult, you can still
enjoy The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit, but they are probably best
read as young adults and then re-read later in life. Classic science
fiction works this way too, but that is a topic for another post.

Like so many great writers of the late Victorian and early modern period
– yes, I know, you have a different definition of this time period –
Tolkien was a fascinating guy. He fought in the Great War and hung
around some of the most important men of letters in his day. In fact,
his war experiences are what inspired his darker imagery in his work. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/J-R-R-Tolkien-Biography-Humphrey-Carpenter/dp/0618057021/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1498183627&amp;sr=1-1&amp;keywords=tolkien+biography"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here is a pretty good biography</a> of
him from 20 years ago There may be newer biographies out now, given the
popularity of the movies, but his life is a fun read.
