---
title: "The Church Of Cuck"
date: "2017-12-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12218"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12218"
---

Back in the salad days of Buckley Conservatism, it was largely
understood that the butch wing of the coalition was the so-called
religious right. These were the people willing and able to muster big
crowds for pro-life marches and organize grassroots support for local
candidates. The free market types and foreign policy hawks lived on
campus and in the bureaucracy. As a result, they were always apologizing
to the Left, over their alliance with those disgusting dirt people in
the Bible Belt.

That was a long time ago in a different country. Official Conservatism
no longer has a religious right and they no longer care about social
issues. National Review, the flagship publication of “movement
conservatives” is edited by a [homosexual
activist](http://www.nationalreview.com/author/jason-lee-steorts) who
[champions the gay
agenda](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/418515/equal-chance-love-why-we-should-recognize-same-sex-marriage-jason-lee-steorts)
on the site. Occasionally, someone from this crowd will make some noises
about social issues, but it is mostly nostalgia. Gentry Conservatives
talk about abortion to be reminded of better days.

It is not just a matter of the Official Right dropping social issues and
social conservatives from their thing. It is more that the religious
right has become infected by the same parasites as the rest of the old
Reagan coalition. In the 1980’s, Christian organizations decided to
fully join the political system and as a result they became political
organizations themselves. This opened them up to infiltration. [The
religious right is now full of
cucks](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/454244/roy-moore-controversy-christian-leaders-should-steer-clear-alabama-senate-race).

*This week, while campaigning in an Alabama church — **as a
Bible-believing Christian, I’ll note that this story is already off to a
questionable start** — Judge Roy Moore, the state’s embattled Republican
Senate candidate, faced down a rather spirited heckler. “The entire
time, all the girls are lying?” the man shouted, right before he was
escorted out of the event. “Why would they lie?” If you’ve been
following our very depressing national news cycle, you know the story:
Moore, age 70, has faced multiple accusations of sexual misconduct
dating back four decades, two of them involving underage girls,
including one alleged assault of a fourteen-year-old. No charges have
been filed, and that’s unlikely to change; the statute of limitations on
any potential crimes stemming from the allegations appears to have long
ago expired. Moore, for his part, argues that his accusers are part of a
coordinated hit job orchestrated by Washington-establishment insiders.
“They don’t want to hear about God,” he declared this week. “And they
don’t want to hear about the Constitution of the United States and its
foundational principles in God.”*

*We’ll get back to the Constitution — and Moore’s understanding of it —
in a moment. But for now, let’s hear what the pastor of the church said,
his doughy chin raised high, once the heckler had been neatly
dispatched: “I would remind everyone,” he sniffed, “that this is a
worship service.”*

The opening two paragraphs reads like something you would find in Mother
Jones or The Nation. It is the sort of framing that the Cult of Modern
Liberalism has used *against* Christians for generations.

*I’ll get this out the way: If you’re in Alabama and you want to vote
for Roy Moore, vote for Roy Moore. But let’s at least try to keep things
real: If you vote for Moore, you’re doing it because he’s not a
Democrat, rather than because he’s some holy soldier on a special
mission for God.*

I would be willing to wager that the first draft of this was something
like, “If you’re voting for Roy Moore, you’re doing it because he is not
a Democrat. Just don’t call yourself a Christian.” That was the tone of
the piece and the underlying message. To come right out and say it would
require something resembling courage and that is a mortal sin in the
land of the cuck. After all, the merchant wing of the movement is going
to be peddling Jesus themed wine and cheese baskets as part of the next
fundraiser.

The fact is, there can be no interpretation of the events in Alabama
that would lead a committed Christian to support the Democrat over
Moore. Moore is staunchly opposed to abortion. The Democrat is willing
to install Planned Parenthood approved abattoirs in the nation’s grammar
schools. Even the most isolated “Bible-believing Christian” can
understand the difference between a venal sin and a mortal sin. Moore’s
sins, whatever they were, are trivial, compared to supporting wholesale
baby murder.

In fairness to “Bible-believing Christians”, the authoress of the NR
piece is just some bubblehead hired to write down what she is
told. Still, many of the people now claiming the mantle of leadership in
the religious right are more concerned with their relationship to
Washington than their relationship with Jesus. That is because party
politics is always about compromise. If you choose to get in bed with
one party or the other, you are going to get up with their fleas, or
worse. That is what happened to the religious right and the GOP.

[The Southern Baptist Convention being overrun by howling
lunatics](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/06/the-southern-baptist-convention-alt-right-white-supremacy/530244/)
is the most recent example. A generation ago, the sorts of people
hooting about white supremacy would have burst into flames if they
walked into a Baptist church. Today, they feel perfectly comfortable
walking the halls of their well appointed offices of the SBC. It is
because the people in charge now feel more at home with Progressive
loons than they do with the people in the pews of their own churches.
These churches are run by cucks now.

It goes back to the old line from Robert Conquest. “Any organization not
explicitly right-wing sooner or later becomes left-wing.” In the case of
American churches, they stopped being explicitly Christian. Once they
diluted their purpose by getting into politics, they were made
vulnerable to infiltration by Progressives, who naturally seek to
corrupt the organic institutions of a society. Once the religious right
went exclusive with Northern conservatives, they were open to
infiltration by Northern Liberals.
