---
title: "Lessons of Identity"
date: "2017-12-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12320"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12320"
---

One of the remarkable things about identity politics is that the only
group of humans not embracing identity politics are modern western white
people. That is not entirely accurate, as some elements of the white
population embrace identity politics. It is just not white identity
politics. The groups that do embrace some form of identity politics,
seem to look for groupings that are, to one degree or another,
anti-white. That is the reality of identity politics. It is not just a
thing whites do not do. It is something that only anti-whites do.

You see this in the election results from Alabama. Blacks hate white
people and they have been trained now to see Trump as the face of white
America. Blacks in Alabama correctly saw the election as a referendum on
Trump and raced out to vote for the other guy. You can be sure that few
of them had the slightest idea about the other guy. They just saw famous
blacks supporting him, so they went out and voted their skin. The
preliminary numbers show that black turnout was up compared to 2016.
Blacks like identity politics.

“Bible believing Christians” were largely responsible for Moore winning
the primary, but they have proven to be an easily manipulated identity
group. They will vote for “their guy” but at the first hint that their
guy does not tick all the right boxes, they will abandon him. In
contrast, their guy can be a flaming liberal like a Jimmy Carter, or
warmongering neocon like George Bush, and they will flock to the polls
for him. The primary identity of “Bible believing Christians” is their
desire to be embraced by the people in charge.

Homosexuals are another group that revealed themselves in this election.
Matt Drudge was campaigning against Moore from the start, simply because
Moore is old school on the sodomy issue. That is the definition of
single issue politics. In that David French post I wrote about
yesterday; he had a section on the gay stuff. National Review is now run
by a homosexual activist, Jason Lee Steorts, who ran off Mark Steyn for
repeating a fifty year old gay joke. Gays are homosexual first,
everything else a very distant second.

The funny thing about identity politics in America, something the
alt-right guys talk about frequently, is that whites are the only
definable group that does not engage in identity politics. If every
identity group in America was asked to send a representative to a flag
convention, whites would be the only group not present. If someone did
show up, he would have no idea what sort of flag to wave. He would
probably just take one of his “I’m So Sorry” t-shirts and wave that
around. No one would find this the least bit remarkable.

When it comes to politics, at least, the only definable feature of white
identity is self-sabotage. That was on full display in Alabama. Moore
was cast by the Left and the so-called Right as the white identity
candidate. They were not explicit, but that was the message they wanted
to send. White voters responded to this by staying home. The political
class will spend the next year crowing about the result. They should be
proud of their work. It is no small thing to get a far Left candidate
elected in Alabama.

The biggest lesson of the Alabama race is something that the Dissident
Right has been discussing for years now. The American political class
has evolved to thwart anything resembling identity politics among
majorities. Cosmopolitan globalism cannot work unless the population is
deracinated and atomized. The whole point of our politics is to prevent
anything resembling a transcendent majority to counter the power of the
semi-permanent political class. Social democracy only works if everyone
is at one another’s throat.

That is a big reason the political class has locked shields against
Trump. It is exactly why they despise Bannon. While Trump is not a white
identitarian, he fully grasps the importance of demographics. Bannon is
viewed by the political class as a white nationalist in a tricorn hat.
As long as America is majority white, any hint of white identity is seen
as a mortal threat to the system. They are not wrong about that. If
whites start voting their skin, both parties collapse and we end up with
a vastly different ruling class.

Finally, there is a tendency for many on the Dissident Right to think
that identity politics is an inevitability. That is the lesson of
history everywhere except the white world. Rhodesia and South Africa had
white ruling classes. In both cases, whites were just as enthusiastic
about fighting one another as in maintaining their position. Rhodesia is
no more and South Africa is well on its way toward a white genocide.
Even as the bodies stack up and the black parties become more blood
thirsty, whites refuse to embrace their identity.

In fact, this is the lesson of Europe. The Mongols and Muslims both
found that Europeans were not incredibly good at uniting for a common
purpose. Serendipity and geography were the great enemy of these
invaders. On the other hand, Europeans have been spectacularly
proficient at making war on one another. It is entirely possible that
the competitive evolutionary pressures that advanced the cognitive
skills of whites, compared to other racial groups, also makes them
unable to cooperate with one another across ethnic lines.

An expression I am fond of using is “You learn more from your failures
than from your successes.” For the people promoting identitarian
politics, last night was a reminder that the people in charge are really
good at pitting one group against another. They are especially good at
pitting one group of whites against another, so they will fink on their
own guys and harm their own interests. Most of the whites who stayed
home, rather than vote for Moore, will be out blaming the whites who
voted for Moore in the primary.

It is also a reminder that Trump is not particularly good at being
President. He is not just an imperfect vessel for populist politics. He
is a cup with a hole in it. It is not all his fault, as he is a saddled
with a party that is just an extension of the Democrat Party. Last night
should be a reminder that this is a long game. Trump will be impeached
or voted out of office. His utility was always as a way to discredit the
system and damage the Republican Party. That means it will only get
uglier, but it is what must be done to break the system.

America’s problem is not demographics. It is the white people currently
in charge.
