---
title: "Affirmative Action And The Managerial State"
date: "2017-08-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11309"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11309"
---

*Misunderstandings and neglect create more confusion in this world than
trickery and malice. At any rate, the last two are certainly much less
frequent.*

*–Goethe*

It is our nature, whenever we are examining the failings of our enemies,
to assume the absolute worst motives and purposes. We want our enemies
to be evil, so all of their mistakes and failures are proof of their
villainy. This is particularly true in politics, where there is no
benefit to acting honorably. In fact, the normal virtues are vices when
it comes to jockeying for power in an organization. The truth is,
though, our enemies are rarely evil and their mistakes are usually due
to stupidity.

That is worth thinking about as we rocket into the custodial state,
ruled over by layers of management. The people in charge are rarely in
their positions due to merit. They are there because of serendipity,
rumbswabbery or maybe they ticked the right boxes to satisfy the
diversity engineers. Spend anytime around the Imperial Capital and you
figure out that management teams are usually built for the team photo.
The corporate partners of the state are suffering the same problem.

That is a good thing to keep in mind when following the Pakistani IT
scandal. The latest is about the chief of staff to Yvette Clarke, a
Congressman from New York. According to [this story in the Daily
Caller](http://dailycaller.com/2017/08/20/democrats-office-approved-120k-write-off-linked-to-awan-brothers/?utm_campaign=atdailycaller),
her chief of staff casually signed off on what appears to be a theft
ring operating inside the Democrat Congressional Caucus. The facts thus
far suggest the Awan gang was running the oldest of scams. They would
sell computer gear out the back door and claim it was stolen. F

Mx. Clarke is not the sharpest knife in the drawer, so it is reasonable
to assume that her staff is not working math problems in their free
time. Outwitting them is a challenge to no one. These are people that,
in a better age, would be pulling a cart on a farm somewhere or
unloading ships at the docks. They also believe that by ticking the
right boxes, they are exempt from the rules that apply to the blue-eyed
devil. That means they do not spend much time learning about those rules
or complying with them.

That is the feature of this story thus far. Everyone on all sides of
this thing can tick one of the correct boxes. There are no white men
implicated in this scandal. Based on the news accounts alone, it is hard
to imagine the Awan brothers getting extremely far with this fraud in
the private sector. They were not particularly good at their work and
they made salary demands no one would meet. Even small companies do
rudimentary background checks on new employees and contractors. The
Democrats never bothered to do any of it.

Now, there could be a nefarious motive behind all of this. The Paki IT
people reportedly gained access to all of the Democrat’s data, including
e-mail. That means they had lots of embarrassing material on their
bosses. It also means their bosses were scurrying around looking for a
way to cover their asses for having let these guys gain access to their
systems and data. It is not unrealistic to think that blackmail and
extortion were at the heart of this thing. No one wants to private
correspondence made public, especially Democrats.

The willingness to sign off on theft of this magnitude is also a red
flag. It is hard to say you did not notice what was happening when your
name is on it and the theft amounts to ten percent of the budget. Throw
in the extraordinary efforts made at the highest levels to protect the
Awan gang from investigators and a skeptical man will start to think
there is more here. It has all the contours of an extortion racket. At
the minimum, the Democrats may have been trying to hide gross negligence
and the mishandling of information.

Still, the way to bet here is that the people involved were morons. Even
the Awan gang operated like a comedy act from old movies. Their car
dealership scam was so clownish and amateurish it is a miracle they did
not get bagged for that. The thumbless way they ran their scams makes it
hard to believe they were expertly shaking down professional shake down
artists like Wasserman-Schultz and Yvette Clarke. Politicians are rarely
smart, but they are ruthlessly shrewd and they know how to work a con.

When you put this story into the mosaic of recent news stories, the
pattern that emerges is one where stupidity is the primary feature of
our betters. The foolish way Google handled their trouble should make
everyone think twice about letting them manufacture driverless cars or
protect your personal data. The reckless actions of PayPal, slamming
shut accounts of dissidents, without any thought of the consequences,
suggests the people making these decisions are dangerously stupid.

Of course, the recent shipwrecks by the Navy have a similar feature.
These were easy to avoid errors, engineered by people who checked the
right boxes. Maybe that’s unfair, but patterns are often unfair on the
individual basis. The facts of life are unfair. A military that is hell
bent on having trannies on submarines and refuses to acknowledge the
pregnancy problem aboard ship, is not going to worry about social
promotion and the consequences that arise from it. After all, diversity
is not just their strength, [it’s their reason to
exist](http://blogs.reuters.com/talesfromthetrail/2009/11/08/general-casey-diversity-shouldnt-be-casualty-of-fort-hood/).

Everyone knows that even a committee of really smart people is never the
sum of its parts. People in STEM fields will make this point about work
teams. Start adding in stupid people with conflicting agendas and the
team’s effectiveness will rapidly degrade. The smart people are suddenly
burdened with the additional task of mitigating the damage done by the
stupid members. Start scaling this up to custodial state size
organizations and the same [Smart
Fraction](http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/sft.htm) issues faced by
Detroit come into play with managerialism.

In the early stages of the custodial state, we may be seeing a fatal
flaw. That is the pseudo-meritocracy, a mix of affirmative action and
credentialism, may have internal contradictions that make the system
unworkable. If you want to have a massive custodial state, you better
select for the best and brightest, regardless of diversity.
Alternatively, you can have diversity, but you better not give them too
much power or empower too many of them.

In other words, you can diversity or managerialism, but not both.
