---
title: "Codes of the Underworld¹"
date: "2017-07-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10990"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10990"
---

One of the many concepts that has entered the mainstream from the
Dissident Right is signalling. It’s first appearance came as criticism
of social justice warriors, who were signalling their virtue by opposing
someone or some thing, real or imagined. Virtue signalling is not new.
It has probably been a part of human society since people began to
settle into agricultural communities. Scipio Africanus, the great Roman
general, who defeated Hannibal at Zama, was also famous for his virtue
signalling.

These days, you will hear guys on the alt-right talk about
counter-signalling. The easiest example of this is the newly minted rich
guy going out and buying expensive display items, like cars or gaudy
homes. NBA players are prone to this. They want to *signal* their wealth
by acquiring highly visible, expensive items. An old money guy, in
contrast, *counter-signals* by living in an old farmhouse that has been
in the family for generations and driving a 40 year old Saab. He’s the
sort of rich that feels no need to advertise it.

Signalling is a basic human trait. We all do it to one degree or
another. Walk into a prison and you will see an array of tattoos on the
inmates. These will signal gang affiliations, time served in the system,
facilities in which the inmate has served and the individual’s violence
capital. That last part is an important part of keeping the peace. To
civilians, a face tattoo is always scary, but in jail, the right neck
tattoo can tell other inmates that they are in the presence of an
accomplished killer for a particular prison gang.

Virtue signalling and danger signalling are the easiest to understand,
but people also use verbal and non-verbal signals to indicate trust or
test the trustworthiness of others. A criminal organization, for
example, will have a new member commit a pointless crime to demonstrate
their trustworthiness. This is not just to sort out police informants,
as is portrayed on television. It’s mostly to ascertain the willingness
of the person to commit to the life of the organization. It’s hard to be
a criminal if you will not commit crimes.

Outlaw biker culture is a good example of the use of signalling to
establish trust relationships. Bikers have always, for example, adopted
Nazi symbols as part of their display items. Bikers are not sitting
around reading Julius Evola. What they are doing is signalling their
complete rejection of the prevailing morality. By adopting taboo symbols
and clothing, the outlaw biker is letting other bikers know his status,
as much as he is letting the squares know he is a dangerous guy, who
should be avoided.

This type of signalling is also defensive. Someone who is not serious or
unprepared for life in a motorcycle club will try hard to hide this from
himself and the club he is trying to impress. When those club members
all have visible tattoos and swastikas on their vests, no one can kid
themselves about what is expected from members. The visual presentation
of the outlaw biker does more to chase away posers and trouble makers
than character tests and initiation rituals. A biker is a walking
entrance exam for prospects.

It’s not just an in-group/out-group thing. When you start prospecting
for a biker club, you are routinely forced to choose between the moral
framework of society and the morality of the club. The same process
works in cults, interestingly enough. The prospect is always in a
position where he must either divorce himself emotionally from his old
life and the old world, or leave the club. It’s why one percenter clubs
take their time patching in new members. It takes time to leave the old
world and fully commit to the lifestyle.

That’s the way to read the alt-right and the stuff they say and do
on-line with respect to non-whites, Jews and women. They don’t actually
spend a lot of time talking and writing about these groups. They spend
most of their time talking about how to organize themselves, the issues
that face white identity movements and the philosophical points of their
thing. The offensive memes and the racists language are mostly
signalling. If you freak out over Hitler themed twitter avatars, then
you are never going to be in their thing.

As with bike culture, it is defensive signalling to ward off entryists
and the posers, but it is also a signal that joining their thing is more
than just a secret handshake. If you are on-line talking about white
identity, you’re never going back to the squaresville world of normie
politics. You are rejecting that world as illegitimate in favor of the
new thing. In effect, the racist memes are an offer. Accept it as a
price of admission, but understand that by accepting the offer you are
leaving the old morality behind for the new moral framework.

What this sort of signalling suggests is that the alt-right may have
more staying power and more momentum, than their current numbers would
suggest. Political movements come and go because they are rooted in the
moment. “Free Silver” stopped being a rally cry once the currency issue
was put to bed. The “Happy Warrior” stuff from the prior generation no
longer has any relevance, as those ideological wars are now a part of
history. Political movements are born to die, as soon as their issue is
resolved.

The other thing about political movements is they are inherently open.
The whole point of the Tea Party, for example, was to rally a lot of
people from different ideologies to challenge the Progressives, who
sacked Washington. The Tea Party people welcomed anyone who opposed the
bailouts and reckless spending that was ushered in by Obama and the
Democrats. That openness is what allowed the army of grifters from
Conservative Inc to sail in and hijack the movement, turning it into a
fundraising arm of the GOP.

Cultural movements, like identity or race movements, are closed and
exclusive. They certainly seek to grow their numbers, but only on their
own terms. They place narrow rules on members and never accept divided
loyalties. You are either in the thing or outside the thing. There is no
in between. This is why the American Left has been so persistent and
able to re-spawn after each collapse. It’s not a list of agenda items.
It’s a lifestyle with a moral code and a wide array of symbols for the
members to accept and display.

That’s what is evolving with the alt-right. There’s no way to be “sort
of alt-right.” You’re either in it or you’re not in it. That’s become
clear with the schism between the civ-nat guys and the alt-right.
Rejecting a guy like Milo Yiannopoulos forces guys like Gavin McInness
to decide. He can be edgy TV funny guy or he can be in the alt-right and
everything that implies. The result is his thing is dissolving as some
people bite the bullet and join the alt-right, while others go back to
sleep.

The jury is still out as to whether the alt-right is the long hoped for
response to the rise of the New Left in the 1960’s. Ironically, the
worst thing that could happen for the alt-right is for Trump to be
everything his critics in Washington claim. White identity politics can
only flourish when whites believe they must be an intolerant minority,
battling other intolerant minorities for space. What is clear is that
the alt-right is not another Tea Party. It has staying power because it
is a cultural movement, not a political one.

¹The title of this post comes from this excellent book, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Codes-Underworld-How-Criminals-Communicate/dp/0691152470"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Codes of the Underworld</a>.
