---
title: "The Future of White Nationalism"
date: "2017-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11864"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11864"
---

At American Renaissance, I was introduced to an old guy from VDare, who
seemed to experience the world strictly through the search functions of
his phone. Someone told him about my site and the first thing he did was
search for the site name and “white nationalism” to see if I had
opinions on the subject. His first hit was a post where I called white
nationalism the dumbest thing going. He tried giving me the business
about it and I gave it right back to him. I will forever be off the
VDare Solstice card list as a result.

In fairness to him, he was a good sport about it. In fairness to me, my
criticism of white nationalism is mostly about aesthetics. That means it
comes with baggage and that baggage is not easily overcome. When most
Americans hear “white nationalism” they think of shitless rustics
complaining about the coloreds. Getting modern whites to overcome the
cult of anti-racism is hard under ideal conditions. Having Cletus as
your sales rep makes it impossible.

That’s something the white identity people need to accept. For
generations, Progressives have tightly associated racism with the South.
The good white/bad white thing that John Derbyshire discusses is based
entirely on this image. Bad whites shop at Walmart, like domestic beer
and hate black people. Despite the fact that blacks have been moving
back to the Old Confederacy for decades, black culture holds that the
South is still aggressively racist.

Even if you can somehow get past the image problem, white nationalism is
not some new concept developed by the alt-right. It has a history and it
has a lot of veterans of its prior iterations. Those people are still
kicking around. The web site Storm Front, in addition to being an FBI
honey trap, is the home of the old White Nationalist guys, who used to
follow guys like David Duke. If you borrow the language and symbols of
these guys, you are inviting them and their ideas into your thing.

There are two problems with this. One is many of these guys were not the
best people or the most stable people. Stepping way outside the moral
framework is never easy, but it is a lot easier if you’re crazy. It’s
also easier if you have nutty ideas that no one takes too seriously.
Even the most generous <a
href="http://www.amerika.org/politics/why-national-socialism-and-white-nationalism-have-become-obsolete/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">evaluation</a> of White Nationalism 1.0
says it was mostly a reaction to the cultural revolution of the 1960’s.
It never came up with a plausible way forward politically or culturally.

Again, even if you manage to rehabilitate the language and symbols, you
cannot get past the fact that prior efforts were a failure. A pretty
good rule of life is that failure is assured if you follow in the
footsteps of previous failures. It’s why adopting Nazi symbols is
stupid.  Associating your thing with failure is just bad marketing. It
also tends to attract people who find some sort of satisfaction in
losing. New movements need need language and new symbols.

Putting all of that aside, prior iterations of white nationalism always
suffered from the fact they were reactionary. At their very best, they
could only offer a critique of the prevailing order. They had nothing to
offer as an alternative, beyond demands to wind back the clock.
Reactionary movements always fail in the long run for the simple reason
that yesterday can never follow tomorrow. Even if everyone agrees the
current arrangements are not working, what comes next is never the past.

There’s something else that prior white nationalists movements never got
right. They assumed that a majority white nation was a given. If they
could just get a majority of whites on their side, they would win the
political battles over race. America is 70% white at the last census and
will be majority-minority in a few decades. The issue today is not about
keeping America white. That horse has left the barn. The question before
us today is how whites will survive as a minority population.

That means the math is not about 50% plus one. Whatever comes to define
white identity in the age of identity politics will have to appeal to
and serve the interests of the vast majority of whites. That can’t just
be a visceral hatred of nonwhites. Whites in America are low in
clannishness. Old fashioned tribal signaling against the next tribe is
not going to work. What comes next has to be an ideology that promotes a
positive identity offering a promising future.

That’s probably the most encouraging thing to come out of the
Charlottesville protest over the summer. The people involved began to
appreciate the need to build new symbols and use new language. Even guys
like Andrew Anglin are pushing his people to drop the Hitler images,
beyond obviously satirical stuff. Mockery of taboos and irreverence for
social norms has a place, but it can’t be the focus of a political
movement, if it is going to draw in the skeptical.

The irony here is the New Left went through a similar problem. Before
they were able to start the cultural revolution, they existed as an ad
hoc counter-culture. The old commies from the CP-USA days tried to glom
onto it, but the new radicals correctly saw that as a bad idea. They
eventually purged their ranks of the old guys and their old ideas. Now,
the cultural movement that seeks to destroy the New Left and the Baby
Boomer culture is going through a similar process as it organizes
itself.
