---
title: "This Blog: February 2017"
date: "2017-02-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-02-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9648"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9648"
---

I was in the elevator of a building where important people are known to
frequent and I overheard an interesting conversation. Two men were
talking about politics in a general way and one of them used the phrase
“Cloud People.” In fact, he said “It is Cloud People versus the Dirt
People and we will all have to choose sides.” The two men were
unfamiliar to me and they did not have the look of important people.
Although I have never been an important person, I have been in the same
room with them and
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nb6yOklzHMI" target="_blank">I
can usually spot them</a>.

I guess I was too obvious in my eavesdropping as it was clear to me they
noticed I was listening, so I said, “I’m sorry, but I could not help but
hear what you said. What did you mean by Cloud People?” The truth is, I
don’t think anyone but me uses that term. I could be wrong, but I’m
pretty sure the whole Cloud People versus the Dirty People motif is my
invention. But, you never know so that’s why I asked. That and I wanted
to shift the focus from the fact I was listening to their conversation.

The guy who was doing the talking was quick to volunteer that he had
picked up the phrase on Facebook from one of his friends, who he told me
worked in politics. Why he volunteered the last bit is unclear, but my
guess is he just assumes that’s the origin of the Cloud People stuff.
Regardless, it was a funny moment for me. It is entirely possible that I
have coined a phrase that is now getting some circulation in the wider
world. These things have to start somewhere, but I’ve never put much
thought into where or how they get going.

It did remind me that I have not posted a site update in a few months.
In fact, it was back in November after the election. The readership
keeps growing. According to the tool I use to estimate average monthly
readership, I’m pushing 90,000 now, which is about ten percent increase
since November. I’m never quite sure if that tool is correct, but it
does seem to track with overall site traffic. In fact, traffic is way up
setting daily records on a regular basis so maybe that’s why my pithy
expressions are getting loose in the general public. I could be famous
and not know it.

I am, of course, grateful that people take the time to read my posts and
share them on social media. Facebook and Twitter continue to be big
drivers of traffic. Gab is now starting to be a big source of traffic.
Something I’ve noticed is I get a fair amount of links back to specific
comments, meaning that part of the increase in traffic is the active and
interesting comments here. I can’t help but notice that the volume of
comments is way up too so that means more traffic and more new readers.

One thing I have noticed is that when I write about the Cloud People
stuff, those posts get passed around a lot.
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9506" target="_blank">This
one</a> broke a record for hits in a day. I thought it could be the
Trump angle, but looking at the traffic numbers, the Cloud People/Dirt
People topic is just more popular than I would have guessed. The great
divide in America is never discussed in the popular press and even the
hate thinkers tend to avoid it. My guess is the admonitions against
class warfare from our betters is the reason few talk about it.

The plan going forward is more of the same. I have been looking at maybe
doing a podcast or perhaps get on the GabTV ride. I listen to a lot of
podcasts and internet radio, but I don’t know if I have the voice or the
talent to actually do it. The video stuff has the advantage of being
easy as the smart kids have worked out the technology to do it from a
 phone or tablet. The downside is that all the ones I have seen look
like hostage videos or really bad video dating examples. The result is
I’m still mulling these options over.

The other bit of site news is I am working on a book. I’m looking at the
self-publishing options mostly because I just want to see how it works,
but also because I have no interest in dealing with publishers. I have a
friend in the book game who says I am nuts and I’d have no trouble
finding a publisher that would make the process simple. We’ll see about
that, but I have to write the book first so that means I may stop
posting on weekends in order to make time for the new project. We’ll see
how that goes.

Otherwise, I thank everyone for reading and I’m grateful to those who
pass the word and bring new readers into the fold via social media.
