---
title: "The Witch Hunters"
date: "2017-06-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-06-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Moonbats
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10685"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10685"
---

One of the themes here is that the American Left is a different thing
from the European Left in that it was not born out of the French
Revolution. It was born out of the English Civil War and the religious
radicalism of the prior century. American Progressives are the spiritual
children of the Puritans and Public Protestantism. Their primary
motivation is communal salvation. To that end, their focus is on rooting
out sin and naming the sinner, rather than the material egalitarianism
we associate with the European Left.

American liberals, even though they don’t always articulate it, operate
from the assumption that the community is judged as a whole. It is why
they obsessively use the word “community” whenever they are talking
about public issues. For the Prog, the ideal for man is the community
where members are in harmony, living fulfilled lives. It’s why they are
endlessly going on about “building communities.” The community has
agency and the members work together toward a common goal, that goal
being a state of grace.

This spiritual longing for a community is behind the efforts of social
media platforms like Facebook to enforce community guidelines. Their
executives obsess over their rules as if there can be such a thing as an
agreed upon culture for a “community”  that includes a billion people
from different parts of the world. That never occurs to them as they
assume the community is the default. It is also why they are fanatically
evicting bad thinkers from their “community”, even when
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/facebook-dont-mention-niger/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">it is hilariously illogical</a>. So much
for <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/15/technology/facebook-artificial-intelligence-extremists-terrorism.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">their AI</a>, I guess.

The American Left is, essentially, a theocratic movement. They seek to
have the church control the state in order to enforce “community
standards” and root out “hate and extremism.” The “church” in this sense
is the secular religion we call Progressivism. In Europe, the Left has
always sought to control the state in order to prevent the Church from
making claims on the people’s morality and loyalty. Europe has always
been blood and soil, while America was founded, in part, as a spiritual
commune.

The quest for spiritual egalitarianism in America is a very different
thing than the material egalitarianism of Europe. A Jeremy Corbyn has to
kit himself out in the garb of the working man in order to be
authentically Left. In America, a rich white woman like Elizabeth Warren
can lecture us about the poor, from the steps of her mansion, as she is
decked out in a designer outfit. The reason is she cares more for the
spiritual well-being of the poor than their material condition. She
fears the poor are being *excluded*.

You see, that’s where the obsession with community fits into their
morality. In the mind of the American Prog, the worst thing to happen to
someone is for them to be excluded from the community of the righteous.
This is almost always caused by the sinners who preach hate or
extremism, so the logical way to address this “inequality” is to root
out the sinners and hate thinkers. The poor will still be shopping at
Walmart and struggling to keep it together, but they will be included in
the community and the community will be saved.

This impulse to hunt for sinners in order to save society may feel like
a new thing, but it is a permanent and integral part of the Prog
theology. It does not always manifest itself in the political and social
arena. For example, in the 1980’s,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Day-care_sex-abuse_hysteria"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the Progs were sure that the infernal one
was causing daycare workers to engage in unspeakable</a>, and
implausible, acts with the children in their care. The result was a
national panic about daycare centers and a spasm of wild accusations,
leading to bizarre show trials reminiscent of Salem.

One of the more egregious examples was in Massachusetts, unsurprisingly.
The Amirault family had run a daycare center for decades and there was
never any evidence of problems. Then, the fever hit and the Progs were
sure it was a den of molestation. The DA at the time had his assistant,
Martha Coakley, build a case based on manipulating children into saying
things that were not only false, but in many cases physically
impossible. The family was destroyed and sent to prison by the witch
hunters.

Another example is the <a
href="http://io9.gizmodo.com/a-brief-history-of-satanic-panic-in-the-1980s-1679476373"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Satanic Panic</a> that ruined the lives
of a Texas couple. They were accused of being Satan worshipers and doing
horrible things to children. Like all of these cases, the evidence
ranged from totally fabricated to outlandishly absurd. That did not
prevent the state from destroying their lives. Like the Amirault case,
the truth was finally revealed and <a
href="https://theintercept.com/2017/06/20/texas-couple-exonerated-25-years-after-being-convicted-of-lurid-crimes-that-never-happened/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the accused were exonerated</a>, but the
damage can never be undone. That’s the thing about witch trials. Even
when there is no witch, they still have the trial.

The thing you always see with these spasms of witch hunting, is that the
witch hunters never pay a price for their misdeeds. In the Amirault
case, Martha Coakley went onto a long political career. In the Texas
case, the DA never faced discipline. Today, of course, the wave of hate
hoaxes like what went on in <a
href="http://dailycaller.com/2016/06/02/lawyers-for-uva-rape-hoaxer-admit-haven-monahan-never-existed/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Virginia</a> never result in the
perpetrators facing punishment. It’s just assumed they had good
intentions because they were defending the community against hate and
extremism. Who can fault them for that?

The point of all this is to remember that the other side, the people in
the Cult of Modern Liberalism, are motivated by the same forces that
motivated Cotton Mather. Although he was scientifically inclined, he
enthusiastically supported the witch trials. It is an example of how
even the most rational mind can be possessed of such fervent conviction
that it leads to the embrace of homicidal lunacy. Then, as now, these
are not people with whom you can reason. The Prog is a crusader whose
thirst for social justice cannot be sated.
