---
title: "The Death of You"
date: "2017-04-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10077"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10077"
---

Try to imagine yourself alive during the early middle ages in Britain.
It is not an easy thing, of course, as the world of 7<sup>th</sup>
century Britain may as well have happened on another planet, compared to
our age. The largest city at the time, for example, was probably
Winchester. This was a city of a few thousand people, not tens or
hundreds of thousands of people. By modern standards, it was a small
village or what developers in America call a town center. Of course, it
would have smelled like a restroom at a truck stop.

The Romans tried to recreate the cosmopolitan life they associated with
civilization, but it never really took hold in Britain. After the Romans
left, things quickly fell back to their natural order. People lived in
rural villages. They spent most of their time working the land and
tending to the things that agrarian life required. Britain was a tribal
society and people lived among their kin, ruled by men who were their
kin, or by men who had ruled over their kin for longer than anyone
remembered.

Anyway, there you are, covered in dirt and filth, smelling like cabbage,
when some weirdos show up and meet with the rulers.  Maybe you saw them
come down the road or maybe you heard about them.  All you know is that
foreign weirdos have shown up and the people in charge are entertaining
them for some reason. Eventually, you and everyone else is rounded up
and marched down to the local river where you witness the weirdos
dunking the lord in the river, while making weird sounds and pointing
toward the sky.

Then, the king’s men force all of the people, including you, to do the
same. You are marched out into the river, you are dunked under the water
by the weirdos. To your surprise, your family and neighbors seem to be
OK with it. They enthusiastically go along with this strange new ritual,
even though you know they have no idea what’s happening either. Their
confusion is due to fear and their fear tells them to follow along, even
though they have no idea what is happening. You do the same. You have
been Christianized.

That’s not an unrealistic portrayal of how Britain went from being a
pagan land to being a Christian one. The Church set about converting
Europe by first converting the kings, nobles and tribal leaders. It
could then be the duty and interest of the rulers to force the new
religion on their people, which they mostly did. In Britain, Æthelberht
of Kent was the first king to accept baptism, around 601. The final
kingdom to join the winning team was The Isle of Wright in 686, but the
death of Penda in 655 ended paganism in Britain.

Just because the king adopted this new weird religion, did not mean the
people fully embraced it. In fact, the ruling class was not entirely on
board with Christianity. In order to make the transition easier, the
Church gave the early Christians of Britain broad authority to practice
Christianity. The goal was to get them on board first and then later
enforce theological discipline. The Church was playing the long game so
many pagan practices were Christianized to make it easier for the people
to convert to the new faith.

Another way that made the conversion smother was for the legends and
stories of the old gods carried on with the peasants. That’s where we
got English folklore. All of those old legends told in the pagan era
were a form of entertainment for the common people. After conversion,
they still told stories about magical creatures and heroes, but
they left out Woden and Loki, at least as real gods on the same level as
the Christian God. They became children’s stories and fairy tales,
rather than foundation myths for the people.

The removal of a people’s religion, cuts them off from their past and
effectively ends their identity as a people. It was so much more
effective to adapt the new religion to the culture and customs of the
people being converted. It allowed the people to hold onto their
identity by holding onto their past. This is also why the Americans
allowed the Japanese Emperor to remain in place after the war. He was
more than just a political figure. He was a defining feature of the
Japanese people. Liberal democracy was modified for post-imperial Japan.

The point of all this is as it relates to what we see going on in
America with the slow removal of Christianity from the culture. The
ruling class long ago converted to the new religion of multiculturalism.
They have been slowly erasing the old religions from the public
institutions and replacing it with their own. Now they have moved into
private institutions by forcing Christians to worship at the altar of
multiculturalism. The next step, and there are already rumblings, is to
force churches to adopt gay marriage or face sanction.

Christianity is not the only religion under assault. The soft, civil
religion of Americans, based on equality before the law, individual
liberty and the right to be left alone is being erased. The tearing down
of Confederate statues is one example. The elimination of freedom of
association is another. The rule of law, of course, has been eliminated
long ago when the Talmudic parsers cooked up the idea of a living
Constitution. The law is now just an endless round of hairsplitting and
a morality of convenience.

The toppling over of confederate statues is often seen as a final
sweeping up after the Civil War. First they came for the Confederate
flags and now they are coming for the statues. Next they will be digging
up the graveyards. That’s all true, but it is also an effort to erase
America’s past. There are calls to topple over the statue of Jefferson
at the University of Virginia.  It will not be long before Washington,
Franklin, and the rest of those evil pale penis people, who founded the
nation, are ruled out of bounds on moral grounds.

The whole point of the exercise is to cut the people off from their
past, by taking away their religion and civil institutions. It’s
tempting to think of globalism in purely economic terms, but it is more
than that. It is a war on the people who make up nations. It is a direct
assault on the very idea of a people. If they can destroy the
civil institutions and erase the past, they will destroy the identity of
the people and the very rationale for countries. The post-national
paradise, therefore, is the post-you world. It is the death of you.
