---
title: "Old Think"
date: "2017-09-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-09-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11485"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11485"
---

The other day, Andrew Torba was scheduled to appear on the Tucker
Carlson show so I figured out how to find it off the underground TV
system. I no longer have a TV subscription, so I have to rely on the web
for this stuff. [Cord
cutters](http://variety.com/2017/biz/news/cord-cutting-2017-estimates-cancel-cable-satellite-tv-1202556594/)
can say what they like about services like Kodi, but it is a hassle
compared to regular cable. So much so, in fact, that I rarely watch
television. Instead, I download movies and TV shows and binge watch when
the spirit moves me.

Anyway, I found a stream and tuned in to the show. I did not know when
Torba’s segment was scheduled so I had to sit through the whole thing.
Watching Tucker interview some old guy, I felt like I had gone back in
time. I have not watched these shows in a long time. I get my news
on-line. I skip the Blue Team – Red Team hooting that makes up political
banter in the mainstream press. In fact, I barely notice most of what
passes for current events discussion.

The Torba piece was short. Carlson spends little time on-line. The
things Torba said about intent platforms censuring people was obviously
news to Tucker. He was genuinely surprised when Torba explained the
realities of who controls the internet and the power they have over
speech. The reason for this is no one in the mass media understands any
of this stuff. They live in the media bubble and the sorts of things we
experience on-line are alien to them.

This is not a new phenomenon. Back in the old days when people were
coming home every night to a dozen CD’s in the mail from ISP’s offering
a free month of internet, the mass media was unaware the internet
existed. I recall laughing myself silly one night, watching a couple of
airheads on the local news in Boston, talk about “the mysterious
underworld of the internet” as if it was the back room at [Rick’s
Cafe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rick%27s_Caf%C3%A9_Casablanca). They
carried on like the internet was an opium den.

It is another example of the great divide. We are at the point now where
most everyone under the age of fifty is getting their information from
on-line sources. The median age for the TV chat shows is mid-60’s and
the age for traditional print publications like magazines and journals
is seventy. The people working the chat show circuit are people who came
into the business from newspapers and political magazines. Even the
young people on TV are living in the old mindset.

When you consume news on-line, you scan the high points until you land
on something of interest. On a daily basis, I visit maybe ten sites. I
do not read every word. Often, I just skim and move on. Social media
provides a feed to skim the news. Information about the world is now a
stream and you can dip your cup into as you see fit. Since you can
absorb vastly more information by reading, the on-line experience is
more informative and more customized to your interests.

News consumption in the information age is on-demand. You take what you
want, when you want it, at the speed you want. The old model was an
on-supply model. You got what they gave you, on their schedule and their
pace. Sitting there watching Tucker and his guests plod through each
segment was painful. I no longer have patience for the banter and
mugging that is traditional television. I just want the facts and do not
have any interest in their attempts to color it with their personal
touch.

It is not just an age issue, but that is certainly a big part of it. The
young people you see in the mass media are just fogy-ish as an old fogy.
They are positive that the old model is still relevant. They create the
news and supply it to you in doses they believe you can handle.
Meanwhile, most people have consumed the stories via their social media
accounts long before they turn up on the chat shows or big shot news
sites. People tuned into see Torba *inform Carlson* about what was
happening with speech on-line.

The people in charge get this to some degree. That is part of why they
are berserk for cracking down on dissident speech on-line. Trump was
elected because an ad-hoc army on disaffected people went on-line and
drove the news cycle, while the people in charge were selling that old
hag Clinton on TV chat shows that no one under the age of sixty bothers
watching anymore. Their efforts to match this have resulted in memes
like [“How Do You Do, Fellow
Kids?”](http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/how-do-you-do-fellow-kids) where
the old thinkers are made to look ridiculous.

It is tempting to cast this as a bad development. The Fake News
phenomenon has simply been met with a guerrilla version of it. Mike
Cernovich peddling Pizza Gate on twitter is just as corrosive as the New
York Times making up stories about Trump. It is important to remember
that the news has always been fake. In the 18th century factions had
their newspapers promote false narratives in favor of their faction. It
is the source of the Sally Hemmings stuff. Yellow Journalism was a thing
before radio existed.

The only question today is the impact of the speed and volume. Fake News
delivered by town crier can be mulled over and debated. Propaganda
posing as news in the daily paper only comes in once a day. For people
glued to their computers and mobile devices, being immersed in a
solution of fake news, agit-prop and craven nonsense is a fact of life
that is new to our age. Maybe it cancels itself out and all of it
becomes background noise or maybe is erodes public trust and begins to
set off panics. Or something else.

 
