---
title: "Is Drudge On The Level?"
date: "2017-11-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12081"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12081"
---

The first time I heard of Matt Drudge was in the 1990’s. I was living in
Virginia and I would listen to Mary Matalin in the car. I think her show
was syndicated, but it was broadcast from a station in Virginia. Matalin
would have Drudge on her show to talk about the gossip in his
newsletter. This was before he had a website. Not long after, he started
a website and then the whole Monica Lewinsky thing blew up and Drudge
became a household name. Like many people, I visit his site daily to see
what is happening in the world.

In 2012 I started to wonder if Drudge was on the level. He promoted so
many pro-Romney stories, it felt like he was working for him. I get that
Drudge is right of center in his politics, so he does a lot of “counter
programming” in his choice of stories, in order to keep his mostly white
middle-class audience. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan were the dream team of
SWPL-ville civic nationalism. Therefore, it made some sense to tilt
toward Romney against Obama, but his promotion of Romney struck me as a
bit deceptive.

The truth is mainstream news is 100% access journalism. If a reporter
wants to get stories handed to them – and that is how all news is done
now – they have to play ball with the people making news and their
appointed gatekeepers. That is how Harvey Weinstein kept his troubles
out of the news for decades. His people would give reporters gossip on
celebrities so they would not spill the beans on Harv and his love for
potted plants. A site like Drudge is just as beholden to that system as
any other news site.

The thing with Drudge though, is he made his bones playing all sides of
the street. He was willing to promote anything that was newsworthy. That
meant that the Prog media was willing to dish him inside stuff on their
own people. The Bezos Blog and Carlos Slim Times love it when Drudge
links to them. He sends tens of millions of eyeballs to any site he
links to, even if it is a side link. As a valuable promoter, in theory,
he is getting all sides sending him tips on politics, current events and
the happenings in Washington.

I am starting to wonder if that is still the case. In the last election,
he was not pro-Trump. For a tabloid guy, Trump should have been manna
from heaven. Instead, he tilted toward the company line about Trump.
Every time the RNC howled about how Trump violated some sacred taboo,
Drudge was out there with fake news stories about how the end of the
Trump campaign was near. It got to be a running joke in my office. Every
time Drudge had stories about how Trump went to far, you knew Trump’s
polls had ticked up again.

Maybe it was a coincidence, but two elections in a row and Drudge was
out pitching the RNC line. It is almost as if someone inside the RNC is
feeding Team Drudge the narrative now. That is very obvious in the Roy
Moore flap. From the start it looked like a Mitch McConnell hit job.
That is mostly because it was so ham-fisted. McConnell is not head of
the Stupid Party because he is a brilliant tactician. Yet, Drudge was
posting links to all the RNC sourced stories, in a way that started to
look choreographed.

The topper was the fake poll leaked by the RNC and the Gloria Allred
stuff. The poll was laughable. [Even Democrats snickered at
it.](http://www.pacificpundit.com/2017/11/15/nate-silver-calls-bullshit-on-leaked-nrsc-poll-with-jones-leading/)
Yet Drudge had it up on his site in red for two days. Then the Allred
hoax collapsed and he had nothing on it. In fact, now that Franken is
the top story and it is clear the hit on Moore backfired, Drudge has
suddenly forgotten the Alabama senate race. This comes as the
Republicans are now hiding under their desks, wondering when the harpies
will be coming for them over a sex scandal.

Now, it has to be mentioned that [Drudge is a
homosexual](http://www.theblaze.com/news/2013/04/10/shepard-smith-matt-drudge-out-power-list).
He is also one of the fussy sorts of gays, like Lindsey Graham, who are
attracted to gentry conservatism. A southern firebrand or someone
opposed to homosexual activism is going to come in for criticism by
Drudge. His coverage of the South and Christians has always reflected
his homosexualist sensibilities. A guy like Roy Moore, who is overtly
Christian and vocally opposed to the normalization of homosexuals, is
not going to be popular at the bathhouse.

Even so, in the age of access journalism, succumbing to temptation is to
be expected. [I have written before about how access
journalism](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10668) has turned sports
reporting into company public relations departments. The same thing has
happened to mass media. This is most obvious when [mass media tries to
cover the
alt-right](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/12/the-making-of-an-american-nazi/544119/).
The “reporters” now working in mass media do not know the basics of news
reporting. That article on Anglin is embarrassingly written and riddled
with easily checked factual errors. It is bad reporting.

Modern media people are stenographers with a social media strategy. They
do not know how to do traditional news reporting. Some are story tellers
who leave gaps in their tale to place some cherry picked quotes, while
others just wait for someone to hand them a story they can type up for
their employer. It is most obvious in sports reporting, but it is true
all over. There is no upside to being curious or inquisitive. That may
be what has happened with Drudge. He has a good gig so he plays ball
with the “news makers” now.
