---
title: "TV Off The Grid"
date: "2017-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10342"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10342"
---

When I had a TV subscription, my viewing habits were fairly simple. In
the evening, I would put on the television and try to find a sporting
event. If nothing of interest was on, then I would flip around the
channels until I found something, but more often than not, I’d settle
for a re-run of some show like Seinfeld. I never had the patience for
channel surfing, so much of it went unnoticed and unwatched. Most of the
time, the television was just background noise while I did something
else like screw around on-line.

When you cut the cord, television watching becomes something different
than the ever present background noise. If you want to watch something,
you have to think about what you want to watch. Then you have to figure
out the source. I’m an Amazon Prime customer so I have their library of
movies and TV shows. I also have access to the dark underworld of pirate
sources. The Kodi app for the Amazon Fire gives me access to television
channels from all over the world. I’m spoiled for choice.

Anyway, since I have never been much of a TV watcher, I ask people for
recommendations and then find a source for them. Someone I know has been
binge watching a program called The Walking Dead. He told me it was OK.
I had some vague recollections about it from a few years ago. A bunch of
people started writing about the best tactics for dealing with a zombie
attacks. There was probably a National Review article on the
conservative case for surrendering to the rage zombies.

I downloaded the first season and I can see why people like it. You
can’t think about the zombies as they make no sense. The claim is a
virus turns the dead into walking attack corpses, but that’s silly. The
human body starts to decay at death, so in a few weeks, the zombies
would have fallen to pieces. A supernatural explanation, like the war
skeletons from <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pF_Fi7x93PY"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Jason and the Argonauts</a> gets
around that problem, but I’m not the target audience for this stuff.
Maybe the writers don’t want to spend time on the science of zombies.

The funny thing about that though is the novel that kicked off the whole
end times plague genre had a simple solution that would probably make
the story better. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/I-Am-Legend-Richard-Matheson/dp/0765357151"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">I Am Legend</a> used a disease
that turned people into something like vampires. They were still alive,
but they just liked killing people and eating them. The cause of the
vampire-ness was a blood disease. There was also an evolutionary angle
as not all of the infected became murderous ghouls. Some retained their
humanity and their faculties.

Doing some research on-line, I learned that the show is very popular and
has a devoted following, even after seven seasons. I’m only through one
season, but I can see why people like it. Most of our video
entertainments are just poorly disguised lectures about how white people
suck and men are terrible. This show is just a good drama for adults to
enjoy with their kids. The men are men and the women are women. More
important, the writers seem to respect the male and female characters by
writing them properly.

For some reason, the show reminded me of the series Justified that was
popular half a dozen years ago. That was another show that  was just
good old fashioned drama aimed at adults looking to be entertained. The
fact that Hollywood is able to make these sorts of programs means they
make the PC crap on purpose. It’s not that they are just a bunch of
moonbats making what they like. It’s that they really want to make
lectures so they do it as often as they can. These normal programs are
happy accidents that pay the bills.

That last part is probably a huge driver for Hollywood. One of the
things you learn when you go off the grid for your TV is that there is a
lot of crap produced every year. I have an app that let’s me scan
through all movies released by year. I bet most people have not heard of
90% of them. Anyone heard of
<a href="http://www.wildaboutmovies.com/2016_movies/lazer-team/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Lazer Team</a>, released last
year? How about <a
href="http://www.wildaboutmovies.com/2016_movies/hello-my-name-is-doris/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Doris</a>, staring Sally
Field, who I was sure was dead. How is that people allegedly good at
making movies cannot see that these are terrible movie ideas? How do
they get made?

The most likely answer is the business works on the theory that if they
can get financing for a project, they make it, even if it is hilariously
stupid. It’s like the venture capital business. The winners pay for the
many losers. As a result, even dumb ideas like a King Arthur movie with
black guys as the knights gets made. Of course, the fanatics who want to
make lectures are driven to get the financing so they can deliver their
lecture. That’s why so much of what is made looks like a deliberate
insult to the intended audience.

That’s the other strange thing about all the terrible shows is that
Hollywood has a massive amount of data on audiences. They use this to
market test all sorts of things about movie and TV projects. Big budget
movies are now written by committees, that include marketing people and
data analysts. It seems like the obvious step is to use the data to
determine what is worth financing. There can be no model that says a
movie like
<a href="http://www.wildaboutmovies.com/2016_movies/catfight/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Catfight</a> has a chance to
earn enough to pay for the camera rentals.

Maybe that’s what’s over the next hill as people cut the cord and the
business model begins to unravel. The music business had to adapt when
digital technology broke up their oligopoly. Maybe a similar thing will
happen with video. We’ll get fewer shows, but they will be driven by
market research, rather than the whims of studios. Or, maybe they just
pay everyone less and keep pumping out crap movies like the <a
href="http://www.wildaboutmovies.com/2016_movies/the-brothers-grimsby/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Brothers Grimsby</a>. As long
as there are suckers with money, Hollywood will be happy to take their
money.

One final thought on this topic. For those thinking of going off the
grid for television, be prepared for your viewing habits to radically
change. I found I watch less sportsball than when I had a sub. Even the
limited effort to find a sports stream is enough to have me looking for
other things to do in the evening. On the other hand, you will binge
watch a series, which means spending a rainy weekend on the couch
watching a full season of a TV show. You watch less, but more, if that
makes sense.
