---
title: "We’re Out Of Enemies"
date: "2017-10-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11873"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11873"
---

One of the stranger things about our public discourse the last couple of
decades is the constant call for unity. The black hats on the political
stage are always described as divisive or polarizing. The white hats are
the “uniters”, bringing people together. Whenever something happens,
like a disaster or shooting, the news is full of stories about how the
community is united in response. Usually this means some sort of
ceremony with candles and the local leaders officiating a ritual
intended to show unity.

Of course, the fetish for unity is a Progressive thing. Often it takes
comical turns, like when public opinion is running hard against some
Progressive cause. Then the public is described as “divided over the
issue.” A suitable bad guy is found and scorn is heaped on him by the
media for his divisiveness. On the other hand, when opinion is slightly
in favor of the Progressives, then we hear that the public is nearly
unanimous in their support. This is followed by calls of unity, which
means the opposition should surrender.

The classic example of this was homosexual marriage. State after state
held referendums on the issue. The public voted against it. After every
defeat, the media reported that a divided electorate narrowly opposed
gay marriage. Then the one time it passes, a deluge of press claiming a
tidal wave of support in favor of homosexual marriage. It was so
convincing, the Supreme Court decided that voting was too much a bother
and unilaterally declared gay marriage a sacrament.

Unity was not always a fetish for our rulers. In my youth, I had to sit
and listen to civics lectures from Boomer instructors about the glories
of raucous democracy. The whole point of democracy was for the people to
have a civilized argument in order to gain a majority around a position.
The change seems to have happened in the Clinton years. Anyone who
opposed the Clintons was accused of dividing the public. As is true of
so many of the problems in the current crisis, the roots of this unity
fetish are in the Ozarks.

On the other hand, maybe this berserk desire for unanimity of public
opinion on every matter is a sign of something else. The outbreak does
coincide with the end of the Cold War. The very real risk of nuclear
annihilation kept the American political class under control and it
justified doing what was necessary to keep a lid on public dissent. Of
course, the public was more than willing to enforce a high degree of
conformity, in order to avoid giving the Russians an edge. The Cold War
was a unifying and stabilizing force.

Before the Cold War, there was the Second World War. The Great
Depression was probably the last time when conditions were ripe for
disunity. When the ruling class is unable to keep the people fed, the
people are willing to entertain new rulers. On the other hand, it
offered the Yankee ruling elite an opportunity to purge the ruling class
of heretics and dissenters. The days of guys like Calvin Coolidge
getting far in politics were ended with the New Deal and the political
realignment ushered in by Roosevelt.

In reality, the last time our ruling class did not have some exogenous
thing to justify imposing a high degree of unanimity on the public, and
on the ruling class, was the late 19th century. That was after the Civil
War, so there was no need for unity. The North had conquered the rest of
the country. The South was obliterated economically and culturally, so
they were no threat. Appalachia was always too disorganized to be a
threat to the Yankee establishment. Unity was the default situation.

The point of all this is that it has been a long time since America has
not had something that was useful for rallying public support. The holy
war against the Muslims should have been an easy replacement for the
Cold War, but our rulers are so infected by the PC virus they could not
declare the crusade. Instead, they lost two pointless wars of choice and
invited millions of Muslims to settle in our lands. The promised clash
of civilization has instead become a clash between the Dirt People and
the Cloud People over Islam.

That may be the reason our betters are forever going on about the need
for unity. These weird rituals after ever terrorist attack are intended
to summon the magic spirits that will restore the unifying order of old.
The candlelight vigil after every shooting or riot suggests that the
deep state actors behind these things are the candle makers. Every
Progressive in America spends the following day passing around pics on
social media, of people “uniting” to fight the latest outrage, almost
always at a candlelight vigil.

There is also the fact that all mass movements need a devil. The Cult of
Modern Liberalism is no exception. It is why John McCain built his
career around the pitch of a “cause greater than ourselves.” His great
cause over the last several decades was the nutty idea of spreading
western liberal democracy to the Muslim world. Other Progressives have
gone all in on stamping out biological reality. The ghost of Hitler and
Bull Connor, of course, are always handy bogeymen for our Progressive
rulers.

America was never intended to be united culturally or spiritually. The
Founders understood that the original colonies had different
characteristics, due to the different founding populations. It is why
they maintained the sovereignty of the states in the Articles of
Confederation and the Constitution. America was supposed to be a
collection of states and cultures, which cooperated economically and for
common defense, but otherwise existed independent of one another. It is
why they wanted a weak national government.

What we may be seeing is the end of the long historical cycle that began
in the 19th century, with the Hartford convention, and ended with the
Cold War. The 19th century saw the northern states rise economically and
culturally, to eventually dominate the rest of the nation. Events in
Europe provided handy enemies against which to rally the public and beat
back any challenges to Yankee hegemony. We have run out of plausible
bogeymen with which to scare the public. As a result, America is
returning to its nature.

This could be the root cause of the endless calls for unity. The pleas
for unity are, in effect, demands to maintain the status quo. Along side
the endless laments from the media about the decline of old media and
the rise of alternatives, you have a ruling establishment in a long
twilight struggle to maintain its status and power. Perhaps in the
fullness of time, the Yankee domination of America will be seen as a
long cultural cycle, with its own civic religion, national epic and
origin myth.
