---
title: "Essential Knowledge: Part VIII"
date: "2017-03-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-03-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9948"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9948"
---

The great inflection point in Western history is probably the
Renaissance, which was the start of the great flowering of
European culture and intellectual life. There are endless arguments to
be had on this topic, but there is no denying that in the 16th century,
the West began to rocket past the world, moving from the “dark
ages” into the modern intellectual era. When people talk about the
Western canon this is the starting point.

It is impossible to be an educated man without having a familiarity with
the important figures and events from the Renaissance through the 19th
century. I say familiarity, because you can, and people do, make a
career out of studying just one man or one period. The Scottish
Enlightenment, for example, produced a library full of important texts
that still resonate today. The Scots, arguably, gave the world
empiricism, which is no small contribution.

Unless you intend to be an academic, a familiarity with the important
people and texts is enough. One way to dive into these very deep waters
is to examine the intellectual traditions in which our modern
intellectual movements are rooted. A good place to start is with old
Karl Marx. He was not some evil weed that sprang from the void. He was,
in many respects, a result of the intellectual revolution that begin
with the Reformation.

The first proto-Marxist book on the list is
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/Utopia-Thomas-More/dp/1512093386/"
target="_blank">Utopia by Thomas More</a>. In addition to getting
himself executed by Henry VIII, Moore wrote one of the great works of
political philosophy. It casts a very long shadow, having
influenced works like <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00PUWRT66/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&amp;btkr=1"
target="_blank">New Atlantis</a> by Francis Bacon, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Erewhon-Thrift-Editions-Samuel-Butler/dp/0486420485/"
target="_blank">Erewhon</a> by Samuel Butler, and <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Candide-Bantam-Classics-Voltaire/dp/0553211668/"
target="_blank">Candide</a> by Voltaire.  It’s also why we have the word
“utopia” in our vocabulary and why we have science fiction today. That’s
right. Modern science fiction has its roots in the works of a 16th
century <s>priest</s> Lawyer.

Another work that influenced Marx and many other communists and
socialists is an almost forgotten work written during the age of
Cromwell. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Commonwealth-Oceana-James-Harrington/dp/1507824106/"
target="_blank">The Commonwealth of Oceana</a> is not an easy book to
read, even in its day. Harrington was, but all accounts, a terribly
undisciplined writer. But, like a lot of the great books in the canon,
the struggle pays off, even if you just sample it. It offers insights
into the fevered mind of the radical egalitarian, that continues to
wreak havoc on civilization to this day.

Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Brède et de Montesquieu has one
of the greatest names in the Western intellectual tradition. He also
wrote one of the great works of the Western canon. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Montesquieu-Cambridge-History-Political-Thought/dp/0521369746/"
target="_blank">The Spirit of the Laws</a> has been relied upon by
radical republicans and radical Marxists. Montesquieu introduced two key
concepts. The separation of the powers and despotism. He also introduced
a different reading of history, one that explains great events in terms
of mass movements, rather than just the deeds of men.

Despite what you may think, Marx studied the same political economist
that allegedly influenced the free market economists of today. The first
name on the list is, of course, Adam Smith. His massive, two volume <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Wealth-Nations-Adam-Smith/dp/1505577128/"
target="_blank">The Wealth of Nations</a> is actually not bad reading,
even for the the short attention spans of today. For those libertarians
obsessed with legalizing drugs, Smith’s discussion of the English corn
laws is priceless. You can literally do word substitution with “corn”
and “drugs” and get a great legalization argument.

Anyone who knows anything about Marx has heard the phrase “labor theory
of value” even though Marx never used the term. That’s because the guy
who did coin the phrase is David Ricardo. He not only gave us
the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labor_theory_of_value"
target="_blank">labor theory of value</a>, he gave us theories of rent,
wages, and profits. He’s also responsible for the phrase “comparative
advantage.” Ricardo is a giant in political economy, along with Smith,
Mill and Malthus. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Principles-Political-Economy-Taxation/dp/0486434613/"
target="_blank">The Principles of Political Economy and Taxation</a> is
the book to read.

Marx was not just focused on economics. Read the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Communist-Manifesto-Karl-Marx/dp/1537628496/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&amp;qid=1490964822&amp;sr=1-4"
target="_blank">Communist Manifesto</a>, and no, you will not burst into
flames by holding it, and you see it is more than just an economic
manifesto. Marxism, like communism and socialism, uses the vehicle of
economics as a way to reach the just society. Of course, Marx was
heavily influenced by Rousseau so reading <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Social-Contract-Penguin-Books-Philosophy/dp/0140442014/"
target="_blank">The Social Contract</a> is required. You can also read
his <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Discourse-Inequality-Jean-Jacques-25-Oct-1984-Paperback/dp/B011T70HUK/"
target="_blank">Discourse on Inequality</a> as it is short and popular
with the modern Left.

Rousseau was building on the work of two of the most important
philosophers in the Western canon. [Thomas
Hobbes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Hobbes "Thomas Hobbes") gave
us the term “leviathan” in the book conveniently
title <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Leviathan-Thomas-Hobbes/dp/1463649932/"
target="_blank">Leviathan</a>, which established
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_contract_theory"
class="mw-redirect" title="Social contract theory">social contract
theory</a>, that has served as the foundation for most later Western
political philosophy. To a modern reader, it is a tough slog, but worth
it in the end. It’s also important to note that Marx largely rejected
social contract theory in favor of
[utilitarianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism "Utilitarianism").

Similarly, John Locke is a major influence, even to this day. Locke gave
us republicanism, the theory of the mind, the concept of the individual,
self-derived identity and the big one, the blank slate. Locke maintained
that we are born without innate ideas, and that knowledge is
instead determined only by experience. This is now known as empiricism,
but it should be easy to see where this eventually led. That’s right,
John Locke is responsible for trannies in the bathroom and female
Marines.

Locke is a big deal so you have to read a few of his works to appreciate
his contributions. Fortunately, Locke was also brief, so his works
tended to be more like pamphlets. <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Letter-Concerning-Toleration-Hackett-Classics/dp/091514560X/"
target="_blank">A Letter Concerning Toleration</a>, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Treatises-Government-Everyman-John-Locke/dp/0460873563/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1490960033&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=john+locke"
target="_blank">Two Treatises of Government</a> and <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Essay-Concerning-Understanding-Penguin-Classics/dp/0140434828/ref=sr_1_8?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1490960033&amp;sr=8-8&amp;keywords=john+locke"
target="_blank">An Essay Concerning Human Understanding</a> are required
reading. Luckily, you can get these free on Kindle or for a few bucks as
paperbacks. It’s ironic that the most important works in Western history
are usually available for less than the price of a trip to Starbucks.

There were have an introduction to political philosophy via
proto-Marxism.
