---
title: "The Future Stinks"
date: "2017-01-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9352"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9352"
---

Try to imagine living as a hunter-gatherer 25 thousand years ago.
Naturally, you’ll think about the cavemen you recall seeing on TV or in
movies. Museums used to have life sized figures of early humans in their
exhibits to give visitors an idea of what it was like to be a person in
the Stone Age. Maybe it sounds appealing, maybe not, but most people
focus on the material differences. Living in a cave, wearing a loincloth
or bearskin, depending upon your locale, would not be fun after a few
days. Modern man likes his modern things.

If you think not having cell service would be terrible, imagine a total
lack of privacy. Humans in that period did everything in full view of
everyone else. They ate together, slept together and did all the other
things together. Of course, the lack of complicated shelters made this
necessary. It’s hard to have privacy when you don’t have walls. But,
there was also the fact that people had no concept of privacy. They did
not think of it because it had never existed.

In fact, privacy in the way in which we think of it is fairly new. The
Romans famously had public baths and public toilets. Very public
toilets. Everyone has probably seen [pictures of the remains of Roman
public
toilets](http://cdn.theconversation.com/files/102339/width1356x668/image-20151118-14191-5yzen5.jpg).
Here’s [a
recreation](http://www.ancient-origins.net/sites/default/files/field/image/communal-latrines.jpg)
of what it was like to pinch a loaf with your pals. Well into the
19<sup>th</sup> century, outhouses were common in the West and some of
them were two-holers. Abe Lincoln had a three-holer, which was the
height of luxury for his day.

The point of all this potty talk is to make the point that personal
privacy is relatively new. It is the consequence of wealth and leisure.
It’s not just things like flush toilets and indoor plumbing. People’s
attitudes about personal privacy changed. We expect our financial
affairs, private correspondence, personal foibles, private appetites and
so forth to be off-limits from scrutiny. Health companies are required
to go to great lengths to guard your medical data, even though no one
knows why it matters.

The technological age is promising to change that and maybe do so in a
hurry. The roads are now littered with cameras to monitor you as you
drive. Street cameras are increasingly common in cities. In the UK, CCTV
cameras are everywhere. Big Brother is literally watching you. Of
course, big tech companies track your internet habits. The cable
companies track your viewing habits. The “internet of things” means your
house will be reporting on you to Google, Apple, Amazon et al.

The unwanted gaze is not just at the personal level. Retailers are
encouraging people to put themselves into the big database voluntarily.
[This
story](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-12-28/popcorn-peanuts-iris-scan-nba-mlb-teams-enter-high-tech-age)
about how sports teams are “offering” easy access as long as you let
them scan your eyeball on the way in. Of course, they keep track of what
you buy and probably how often you cheer. The new payment services are
letting our overlords connect your shopping to your mobile phone, which
links to all you internet habits.

It does not stop there. [The FBI pays computer repair
shops](http://www.denverpost.com/2017/01/09/best-buy-geek-squad-fbi-porn-case/)
to dig around your stuff and report you to the Feds. The tactic is very
old school, but the concept is very modern. The combining of our
corporate overlords with our government overlords is a handy way around
our remaining constitutional protections. How long before your Alexa
gets a guilty conscience and reports your drug taking to the Feds? How
long before your copy of Quicken starts talking to the IRS about your
cash deposits?

This is not a libertarian vision of hell, but a plausible reality that
faces us in the technological age. High speed communication, massive
data storage capacity and sophisticated search algorithms means all of
the particulars of our daily existence, even our private correspondence,
can be easily assembled to provide a pretty good picture of our life,
without much effort. If the Eye of Sauron falls on you, the authorities
will have no problems knowing everything about you but your thoughts.
Even those can be surmised by the facts of your life.

So far, people seem to be OK with living in a fishbowl. Maybe they don’t
think about it much, but there have been no protests or movements to
arrest this trend. Go into any retail shop and customers gladly offer
their discount card so the store can put their buying habits into the
database. Most people cheer the implementation of video surveillance, in
the name of safety. Even the reports of wholesale government
surveillance have not been met with much pushback from the public.

Assuming there is no turning back and the surveillance state is
inevitable, the question is how does this change how people interact
with one another. If you know your most intimate thoughts and deeds
could be made public, will you be more careful in your private dealings?
Or, will you simply care less about who knows and also stop caring about
the private things revealed about others? Hollywood stars live out their
lives in public and it has no effect on their conduct. It may even make
them less prudent.

Up until fairly recent, people were disgusting. They blew their noses on
their sleeves, they farted in public, they went to the bathroom in
communal toilets and were generally foul and disgusting. Public manners
developed alongside personal privacy. The line between what you would do
in public versus what you would do in private, was only possible when
privacy was possible. As the material wealth increased, the available
privacy increased and good public behavior became enforceable.

If everyone sees you at your worst, there’s no point in hiding it so in
a surveillance state, where all our secrets are made public, maybe
people will just stop caring. Hollywood always imagines the future to be
sterile and clean, a land of stainless steel and glass. Maybe the future
will be the opposite. Instead of tidy androgynous people in Lycra
jumpsuits, its people with bed-head wearing sweats, scratching
themselves in public.The glorious future will be people with nothing to
hide and nothing you want to see.
