---
title: "The Surplus Value of Superman"
date: "2017-04-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-04-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10034"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10034"
---

One of the fascinating things about the ideological struggles of the
last century is that no one has ever bothered to refute the claim that
capitalism is inherently self-destructive. The destruction of exchange
value combined, with the preservation of use value, presents
opportunities for new capital investment. The successful business
attracts competitors by the nature of its success. Eventually, the
market is saturated and profits reach the absolute minimum. The value of
the original business is destroyed by its own success.

Marx was, of course, was observing the boom and bust cycles of the
English industrial revolution. Much later, Joseph Schumpeter, drawing on
Marx, wrote “the process of industrial mutation that incessantly
revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly
destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one. ” It is a famous
line known as *Schumpeter’s gale*, which is just a clever way of saying
that the destructive forces unleashed by capitalism are the cost of
progress.

That came to mind reading <a
href="http://voxday.blogspot.com/2017/04/diversity-and-comic-sales.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this post</a> on the comic book industry.
According to people who read comics and follow the business, it has been
overrun by howling at the moon social justice warriors. Comics are no
longer about Superman vanquishing the bad guys for “Truth, Justice, and
the American Way.” Today it is a “half-black, half-Hispanic Spider-Man”
lecturing the honkies about their backpack of invisible privilege. Maybe
it is more subtle that that, but that seems to be the general direction
of the business.

The article he links to assumes the nose dive in sales is due to the
lurch into progressive lunacy by the comic book business. There’s no
question that there is little to no market for the social justice
warrior stuff. It’s why it always has to be imposed. Still, comic books
have been in decline for decades. It is not a dying business, but a dead
one. In fact, this SJW phase is what happens to the carcass of an
industry or business that has already been pillaged by the money men and
grifters of the credit age.

In the industrial age, the cycle Marx first observed was tied to the
currency arrangements of the age. Societies still dealt in hard money so
capital only seemed to appear and disappear like a magic trick. When a
company folded, it felt like the money was gone, but in reality, it had
just moved somewhere else. The cyclical nature of hard money, it rushes
into a market or industry in good times, then rushes out at the peak, is
the underlying cause of the booms and busts common in the industrial
era.

We live in a a *credit* money era, where capital can be conjured out of
thin air and just as quickly be made to vanish. Money is not the store
of labor value. It is the store of intellectual and social capital. The
banker is not worth a billion dollars because his labor sold for a
billion dollars. He is worth a billion because his social connections
and knowledge of the financial system places him at a highly valuable
node in the system, allowing him to skim from the traffic on the
network, like a highwayman.

What’s happening in the comic book business is emblematic of the credit
money age. Into the 1970’s a comic book was cheap entertainment for
boys. It encouraged reading and imagination. At the peak, there was
something like 15 million comics printed a month. That meant it was an
industry of maybe $10 million in annual sales, including revenues
related to publishing. By the 70’s they probably made more from
licensing than the comics. More kids experienced Superman on TV than
through comic books.

By the 70’s it was a mature business with little in the way of growth.
Then, clever money men of the credit era decided it was time to bust out
the industry and strip away the remaining value. That’s how we got
<a href="http://www.weeklystandard.com/the-crash-of-1993/article/573252"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the great comic book bubble</a>. The guy
who chronicled this period, the source for the The Weekly Standard
article, still has
<a href="http://www.milehighcomics.com/tales/cbg37.html" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">his blog</a> up here. Even if you have no interest in
comics, it is an interesting read because it helps explain the
phenomenon of social justice warriors in the credit age.

What’s happening in the comic book business is a systematic strip mining
of the value created in the golden age of comics. The first stage was to
use credit money to blow a massive bubble, drawing in stupid money that
the smart money players then ran off with before the bubble burst.
That’s the essence of a credit bubble. Credit fuels artificial growth,
which attracts real money looking for a quick return. Instead, the
sharps take out the real money leaving the credit money behind, which is
back by the worthless assets.

There’s another stage though. After the crash, another class of
parasites comes in to feed off the carcass. In the case of comic books,
there was the old characters developed in the zenith of American
culture. In this case, it is the propaganda value of the comic book
heroes. Instead of selling cheap fantasy entertainment to boys, they use
the super heroes to promote the New Religion. Those social justice
warriors now writing for Marvel did not infiltrate the industry. They
were recruited.

This seems to be a feature of the credit money era. The ability to
conjure money from thin air not only allows for the unnatural growth of
industries, it allows dead ones to stagger on like zombies, re-purposed
as propaganda. The reason Twitter is worth $10 billion, and Gab is worth
$10, is credit money and the utility of the former to be one of the
megaphones of the managerial class. At the same time though, the arrival
of the SJW’s means the business or industry is dead, just shuffling
along on fumes.

If you are a fan of comic books, this is not much solace, but it does
suggest that the appearance of SJW’s is a late-phase phenomenon. It only
happens when the end is near for the business, industry or movement. In
J. B. S. Haldane’s The Inequality of Man, fanaticism is listed as one of
the four great inventions of early civilization. It is what allows a
society to grow and break out of its natural bindings. When a society is
dead, it is the one thing that remains. It is the last to go.

 

 
