---
title: "Stupid People ► Fake News"
date: "2017-08-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11129"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11129"
---

The plague of fake news is largely assumed to be due to the ruling class
trying to convince people to stop noticing things. There is a lot of
that, for sure. When the New York Times instructs its writers to use
“guest worker” to describe illegal aliens employed in the cash economy,
it is a deliberate attempt to deceive. The mythical Backlash™ that is
always lurking after a Muslim goes boom is deliberate agit-prop. At the
same time, most of the people in the media are true believers so their
bias goes unnoticed.

Another aspect of the Fake News phenomenon is the general stupidity of
the people in the media. Theirs is the worst sort of stupidity in that
it is tightly wrapped with an overweening sense of righteousness and
superiority. The typical newsroom is a collection of credentialed
mediocrities that are convinced they are the smartest people in the
room. It is a reckless stupidity that makes them easy to fool, thus all
the hoaxes, but also prevents them from asking sensible questions. [This
article](http://www.marketwatch.com/story/these-are-the-most-and-the-least-trusted-news-sources-in-the-us-2017-08-03)
is a good example.

Clearly, this “study” was shopped to the media via press release. They
provide copy that can be cut and pasted into a news item and they
provide a graphic, which is like catnip to the modern media. Mx. Chang
was given the task of writing up a story about it and someone got the
job and slapping on a click bait title. If Mx. Chang bothered to read
the underlying study; she clearly did not understand what she was
reading. Of course, the people at the Missouri School of Journalism have
no idea how to do a study.

The most obvious flaw is that they used a questionnaire, which they
distributed to news sites and had them get readers to fill them out.
Unsurprisingly, the readers of NPR like and trust NPR. Even less
shocking, no one who reads Drudge bothered to fill out the survey as
Drudge did not participate. The billion people who go to his site,
therefore, were left out of the survey. Even though the methodology used
to arrive at their analysis is probably good enough, the data collection
is crap on stilts. Therefore, the whole thing is crap.

People who work with data understand that data collection is critical to
any analysis, so that is often where you see the most effort. If you
want to know how people intend to vote, for example, you better have a
sample size that is large enough so that you can model the electorate. A
survey of the most loyal readers of news sites can tell you something
about those readers, but it tells you nothing about public attitudes
regarding the news or the fake news phenomenon. It is a fake study for
the purpose of fake news.

That is why the public is increasingly cynical about the mass media.
When they see a story about how The Economist, of all things, is the
most trusted news site in America, they know they are being fed fake
news. Mx. Chang, on the other hand, has not the slightest idea what any
of this means. She is just paid $25 to do a cut and paste job and get it
up on the site. She is probably a very nice person, but nothing in [her
resume](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sue-chang-a3920846) qualifies her to
write about any of the topics assigned to her by Market Watch.

This is something you see all over the news media. The people assigned
to cover the news, rarely have any experience in the field. In fact,
they rarely have any experience or education outside of media. Their
alleged expertise consists of years reporting on topics they do not
understand. It is impossible for someone like Mx. Chang to ask sensible
questions when she does not know the first thing about the topic. The
result is she has to take everything at face value, repeating whatever
is said to her.

This shortage of intellectual capital is probably the main driver of the
fake news problem and the decline in trust in the news. It is not just
the stupid people saying stupid things. It is the lack of smart people
at the top. That Missouri study is a good example. They lack the wattage
to figure out what is going on in their own ranks. Throw in the fact
that most news organizations are overrun with Progressive nutters and
you end up with a [mentally disturbed
lesbian](http://www.rachelmaddow.com/) anchoring your prime-time news
channel.

Tucker Carlson has characterized the Washington media as a collection of
stupid rich kids. That is a good way to think of it. The upper middle
class family has one kid, who is not so bright, so they send her off to
journalism school and a career in the media. That has been the case for
a couple of generations, but there is a limit to that formula and we may
be reaching it. One byproduct of the fake news era is the collapse of
social status of the media. To be a TV talking head is to be on the same
level as a carny barker.

Regardless, anything dominated by stupid people is going to fail
eventually. The mass media is experiencing the corollary to the [Smart
Fraction](http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/sft.htm). It is not that the
mean IQ is falling to a certain point where the enterprise fails. It is
that stupid people tend to chase away smart people. You see this in a
social setting where the smart and sophisticated move away from the
boorish and loud. How many smart people want to be on the same set with
a talking airhead like [Don
Lemon](http://www.cnn.com/profiles/don-lemon-profile) or [Jake
Tapper](http://www.cnn.com/profiles/jake-tapper-profile)? The news is
becoming [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r_4jrMwvZ2A).
