---
title: "Tyler Cowen Is A Bigot"
date: "2017-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11242"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11242"
---

Tyler Cowen is a deadbeat who lives off the paycheck of others. That’s
not his official title, of course. He calls himself an economist and he
“works” at George Mason University as a professor, but he seems to spend
most of his time travel writing and doing restaurant reviews for his
blog. It’s a good life. <a
href="http://data.richmond.com/salaries/2014/state/george-mason-university/tyler-cowen"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">He is paid $225,201.00 per year</a> to
not teach any classes, based on <a
href="https://www.gmu.edu/centers/publicchoice/faculty%20pages/Tyler/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">his web page</a>. Instead he writes books
no one reads and maintains a busy travel schedule at taxpayer expense.
He posts on <a href="http://marginalrevolution.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">his blog</a> every day, too.

And he hates you. <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-08-14/virginia-is-a-multicultural-success-story"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">That’s the only way to read his latest
post</a>.

Given what’s happening in the country, with regards to the populist
uprisings, immigration, identity politics and anti-white racism, his
post could be read as a way to rub salt in the many open wounds. It’s a
cry for attention. Another way to read it is to signal to the rest of
us, that like the royals of that bygone era, he and his class see
themselves as above it all. They live in the cloud and the disruptions
caused by the Cloud People are of no consequences to them.  This is his
“let them eat cake” statement.

Cowen is an example of what has happened to America over the last three
decades. His world can be described as a low work, high reward life. He
lives in Fairfax County, one of the richest counties on earth. He
putters around at his hobbies, never feeling the least bit of concern
about his job. Government never has a recession and never fires anyone.
He is not living like a rock star, but his earnings put him firmly in
the top-10%. It’s a great life and everyone should experience it, but
you can’t. You have to pay for it instead.

By paying for it, it is not the cash that it takes to finance the
multi-trillion dollar skimming operation that is national government.
The reality is, as Tyler Cowen would be happy to explain, the rich pay
most of the taxes. The bottom half of earners pay little in taxes to the
Federal government. The middle-class is not taxed too heavily. No, It is
not the checks you write to Washington. Paying for it means the endless
war on you, your past and the culture you consider to be yours and your
ancestors. Your tax is their hatred of you.

It is one of the unanticipated consequences of the managerial state.
People like Cowen should be grateful for a lifestyle few can experience.
Logically, he should look around and want to conserve as much of America
and American culture as possible, as it is what has allowed him to live.
Instead, he bitterly hates the world that made it possible for him to
exist. Like a spoiled teenager, he is perpetually lashing out at the
people doing what is necessary to make it possible for this coddled
class to live a life of leisure.

This pampered class hates you and wants you replaced. That’s the point
of the Cowen post. He certainly knows that the reason NoVa “works” as a
multi-culti paradise is that trillions are hoovered off from the rest of
the nation and used to make his the adult daycare center run smoothly.
He knows it, but that’s not important to him. What matters is that he
lets you and his colleagues know just how much he hates the Dirt People
outside the walls of his world of make believe. He’s a bigot. He hates
Dirt People.

All over America, the people in charge are sending this around, laughing
about how they are erasing you from the history books. They think it is
funny.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/DHSA-r0VoAAb1gj.jpg"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-11243" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 705px) 100vw, 705px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/DHSA-r0VoAAb1gj.jpg 705w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/DHSA-r0VoAAb1gj-150x150.jpg 150w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/DHSA-r0VoAAb1gj-298x300.jpg 298w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/DHSA-r0VoAAb1gj-144x144.jpg 144w"
width="705" height="710" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/DHSA-r0VoAAb1gj.jpg)

Of course, if the roles were reversed and three honkies were posing in
front of the toppled over statue of Martin Luther King or a vandalized
holocaust memorial, the New York Times would be issuing a another fatwa
against the honky. Nothing will happen to these three or any of the
people who toppled it over. That’s because what’s driving this is not
the agency of black people. They are simply reacting to the prodding of
bigots like Tyler Cowen and the rest of the pampered class. It’s monkey
hear, monkey do, as it were.

Ironically, Tyler Cowen lives on a street named after the Spanish
philosopher, George Santayana. He is best known for the quip, “Those who
cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.” The past is full
of guys like Cowen. They were a feature of the French Revolution. They
were a feature of the Cultural Revolution. They were there cheering the
Bolsheviks when they seized power. It was all good fun until the knock
was at *their* door. The knock comes because men full of hate for their
side have no friends.

Tyler Cowen and the men of his class hate you. The reason for that is he
knows that if we ever get anything close to the libertarian world he
claims to support, he’s standing on a street corner selling pencils. He
knows he and his kind are just overgrown toddlers living in perpetual
adolescence. Without the Dirt People to keep him safe and supporting a
system that makes his world possible, he’s nothing and he resents you
for it. He resents that you can live without him, but he cannot live
without you.

It is easy to look at that picture and feel disgust toward the blacks
posing on the toppled over statue. Maybe that is our future. Maybe the
world of tomorrow is blacks camped out in the ruins of the American
Empire. The great ethnic and racial strife that will define the coming
battle for the West may not end well. The reason the Tyler Cowen’s root
for the other side is that no matter how it turns out, the future will
not include under employed economists who spend their days writing Yelp
reviews about kebab restaurants.
