---
title: "Zimbabwe"
date: "2017-12-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12443"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12443"
---

Emmerson Mnangagwa has taken over Zimbabwe, by outmaneuvering the
93-year old Robert Mugabe and promising immunity for Mugabe and his
family. By the standards of Africa, the transition has been smooth and
orderly. Mnangagwa is taking over without having to fight a civil war
and he will not be killing his political opponents. The Mugabe faction
has aged off and the remaining elements are willing to take a payoff to
retire from politics. It has been one of the more peaceful transfers of
power in African history

Zimbabwe is of interest here, because of its history, but also because
it has been a great case study of what happens under African rule. When
the country was born, following the Lancaster House Agreement and
subsequent elections, Zimbabwe was one of the wealthier countries in
sub-Saharan Africa. This was despite a long 15-year civil war between
white Rhodesia and two black guerrilla movements, both backed by the
Soviet Block and independent black nations. The new nation was born with
a lot of advantages.

Zimbabwe’s first president, after independence, was a guy named Canaan
Banana, no kidding, but he was just a puppet. Robert Mugabe’s ZANU party
had won the nation’s first election, making him Prime Minister and Head
of Government. His first act was to send the Fifth Brigade, a North
Korean-trained military unit, into Matabeleland, the home of the main
opposition party. This unit slaughtered tens of thousands of civilians
accused of supporting dissidents, which meant supporting the wrong side
in the election.

In the first ten years of independence, Zimbabwe’s economy grew steadily
worse as Mugaba grabbed land from white farmers and stole anything that
he could steal. The decline in the economy and the spread of HIV,
resulted in civil unrest and strikes by the civil service. The answer to
this was repression and more land grabs. The interesting thing about the
land reform efforts is they were pretty much the opposite of what the
nation needed, but they were exactly what Mugabe needed. It helped him
keep power.

Of course, no summary of Mugabe’s policies can skip past his debasing of
the currency in an effort to inflate away the nation’s debts. As is
always the case, this produced a vicious cycle, where each round of
money printing warranted another round of money printing. In a few years
locals were carrying around billion dollar banknotes. By the end of the
last decade, the largest note was one hundred trillion Zimbabwean
dollars. They were useless, as locals used American dollars, but they
did make for funny gag gifts and novelty items.

The new regime in Zimbabwe takes over a busted country. In constant
dollars, per capita GDP is a third of what it was at independence. The
agricultural sector is flat on its back and even mining, which is run by
European firms, struggles due to the violence and general
chaos. Mnangagwa takes over promising a new era and he says that
rebuilding Zimbabwe is the top priority. More important, he is hinting
at political reforms to bring in all of the factions of the country,
including the remaining whites and exiled non-blacks.

That last bit is a main point of interest. The best way to describe
Mugabe’s treatment of whites is as a decades long act of revenge. The
best way to describe Mugabe’s rule was as a decades long proof that [Ian
Smith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ian_Smith) and his supporters in
the West, we right all along about the realities of African politics.
The fact that white farmers are being asked to return, and [many are
returning](http://www.enca.com/africa/in-pictures-white-zimbabwean-farmers-return-to-seized-land?),
is the first flicker of hope for the country in two generations. It
means that the country may not be forever condemned to squalor.

It is easy to be overly optimistic about Africa, as the Africans have an
uncanny habit of finding the bad option and then making it even worse.
There is also the fact that Emmerson Mnangagwa is not exactly a break
with the past. He is a ZANU party insider, who was an integral part of
implementing Mugabe’s policies. He is not called the “crocodile” because
he is a sentimental lover of a free and open society. People who get too
close to Mnangagwa, like people get too close to crocodiles, usually
come to bad ends.

Even so, Zimbabwe has a lot going for it. Like Botswana, it is not
fractured into a bunch of different tribes. The Shona are about 70% of
the population and the Ndebele are about 20%, with a distinct homeland.
Also, like Botswana, it has a lot of natural wealth and the willing
support of neighboring countries, like Botswana and South Africa. If the
government re-institutes property rights, it would see a flood of
English speaking companies and tourists, coming in to spend money and
invest in the economy.

The comparisons to Botswana are important. It is the one nation in
sub-Saharan Africa that has not been a disaster. It has a per-capita GDP
of $28,000. More important, it has a highly diverse economy, so the
median is higher than the rest of Africa. It has also enjoyed relatively
peaceful politics, holding elections and avoiding civil war, revolts and
genocide. It also has one of the lowest violent crime rates on the
Continent. The murder rate is a fifth of Baltimore. By the standards of
Africa, Botswana is a paradise.

Why should anyone care?

Well, [the most important
graph](http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-worlds-most-important-graph/) in
the world is going to make everyone care in the coming decades. While it
is unreasonable to think that most of African countries can sustain a
modern economy, some of them can be much better than they are now. That
would mean better civil control and more responsible government. They
may never be Athens, but they can be assets in dealing with the more
dysfunctional Africa societies. At the minimum, there can be a few less
African countries dependent on the white world for survival.
