---
title: "The War On Reality"
date: "2017-08-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-08-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11319"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11319"
---

*Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn’t go away.*

*–Philip K. Dick*

That is a popular saying on the Dissident Right, because it stands in
stark contrast to the dominant ideology of our age. The people who rule
over us think reality will yield to wishful thinking. In fact, they deny
reality exists as an objective, measurable thing. That’s where the idea
of social construct arises. Our betters are sure that what we foolishly
perceive as reality is just an illusion, an artifact of cultural
conditioning. If they can convince enough people of this, then
observable reality changes.

This is the true divide in the West and why civic nationalists are in
the same ideological set as Progressives. They accept these assumptions
about reality, just with some reservations. The Dissident Right, in
contrast, rejects this entirely. Reality, particularly biological
reality, is transcendent and independent of human observation. The world
as we observe it is quantifiable and measurable. More important, it is
largely immune to any tinkering we can do in the short run.

This is most true when it comes to human biology. <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vybuyVVsyG0&amp;feature=youtu.be"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">John Derbyshire did a whole presentation
on this at AmRen</a> from the perspective of race. Race realism is just
a subset of biological realism. The natural differences between the
sexes, IQ differences and personality differences are other aspects. It
is why <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Gorilla-Mindset-Mike-Cernovich-ebook/dp/B0100Q4S7E/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&amp;linkCode=sl1&amp;tag=danandpla-20&amp;linkId=9901ac5edb74fd37586ebae5b90b2edd"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">“improving your mindset”</a> sounds
laughably ridiculous to someone like me. Your “mindset” is a product of
your biology, your genetic makeup. You can no more change it than make
yourself taller.

The fact that reality is undefeated, besting all comers, does not stop
the cult that rules over of us from continuing to make war on biology.
<a
href="http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-army-sexcrimes-idUSKCN1B31MC"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> is the latest example of
how they will destroy the military trying to prove that sex is a social
construct.

*A number of U.S. Army drill sergeants at Fort Benning, Georgia, have
been temporarily suspended from their duties following allegations of
sexual misconduct with trainees, the Army base said on Wednesday.*

*Investigators looking into an initial sexual assault allegation by a
female trainee against a drill sergeant at the fort uncovered other
incidents of alleged sexual misconduct, prompting a wider investigation,
the base said in a statement.*

*A spokesman declined to say how many drill sergeants had been suspended
as part of the investigation, but the statement indicated it was more
than one.*

*Cracking down on sexual assault has been a priority for several years
in the U.S. military, which reported in May that anonymous surveys in
2016 found that 14,900 service members experience some kind of kind of
sexual assault in 2016, from groping to rape. That was down from 20,300
in 2014, according to the surveys, which are conducted every two years.*

People who accept biological reality know it is a lethally stupid idea
to have male drill instructors working with female trainees. Men like
women, especially young women and they are wired to use every trick in
the book to gain access to females. Setting up a situation where males
have power over young females in this way, invites the sort of thing the
military says they are trying to stop. Having girls in the army is
debatable, but if you are, they need to be protected from the males.

Of course, females are wired to seek the attention of high status males.
In boot camp, there is no one with higher status to the recruits than
the drill instructor. That’s the whole point of the arrangement. The
idea is to break down the recruits and build them back up into soldiers.
Putting a male in charge of females is going to have the females
competing with one another for the attention of their instructor. This
is ground floor biology. Even the most disciplined males will be tempted
at some point to say yes to the offer.

Again, this is not a new thing. The people putting males in charge of
female recruits are the same people putting girls on Navy ships and then
acting surprised when the girls get knocked up at sea. Currently, <a
href="http://www.realcleardefense.com/2017/03/02/us_navy_has_a_pregnancy_problem_and_it039s_getting_worse_290871.html?mobile_redirect=true"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">16% of deployed females aboard ship are
pregnant</a>. You cannot serve on a Navy vessel while pregnant so it
means these females are reassigned to shore duty. Overall, females in
the Navy are 50% more likely to be reassigned to land duty than males,
so it is not just pregnancy. It is biological reality.

This means that just about every ship in the fleet has a readiness
problem, due to the lack of trained personnel. The Navy has a rule
requiring every ship to be at least 25% female, so that means vessels
cannot be deployed, because of the shortage of female sailors who are
not pregnant. This 25% rule was just implemented. That’s why the
pregnancy rates have gone up. It also means the rising pregnancy problem
did not result in a reevaluation of the policy. Instead it was met with
a new effort to prove that biology is not real.

The thing with the new religion is that it is always at odds with its
stated goals. The simple solution to the pregnancy problem is to require
all females to be on Norplant. This solves the pregnancy problem. Not
only is this never suggested, doing so would set off howls from the cult
about sexism. The reason is that such a requirement would require
accepting biological reality. Instead of solving the problem or at least
mitigating it, the cult prefers to wage a losing battle against biology,
destroying the military in the process.

There is a reason reality is undefeated.
