---
title: "The Long Civil War"
date: "2017-01-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9433"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9433"
---

John Derbyshire was the first person I heard use the phrase “cold civil
war” to describe the culture war in American society and politics. His
argument, if I recall correctly, is that the Civil War may have ended,
but a cold version of it has festered ever since, largely over the issue
of race, but other issues are part of it. The result has been the Blue
side of the conflict, the good whites, imposing their will on the Gray
side, the bad whites, using the “transcendent morality” of racism as the
main weapon.

It is a good way of looking at things. The recent hysteria about the
bogeyman of racism, for example, is almost all coming from suburban
white women, who live in all white neighborhoods. They don’t really care
about blacks in a practical sense. Their real concern is the specter of
bad whites holding opinions the good whites find unacceptable. It’s what
caused them to go bonkers over Bush and then force the ridiculous Barak
Obama on us. The bad whites needed to be taught a lesson and put in
their place, which is at the bottom of the social order.

The whole red state/blue state business that got going with the 2000
election was another manifestation of this. The bad whites voted for
Bush and tended to live in awful places like the South and Midwest. The
people who voted against Bush lived in cool paces like New York and LA.
This was made more obvious in 2008 when the states not going for Obama
were conspicuously Southern. More than a few lefties noted that the Old
Confederacy did not vote for Obama and everyone knew what that meant.

Now that this Progressive Awakening is sputtering to a comical end, the
Left is increasingly convinced that the nation is headed for a civil
war. <a
href="http://www.dailykos.com/story/2016/10/1/1576791/-The-Coming-Civil-War"
target="_blank">This post on The Daily Lunatic</a> from last year is
humorous, but representative. <a
href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rev-dr-susan-k-smith/the-coming-of-americas-civil-war_b_9501120.html"
target="_blank">Here’s another</a> from the Huffington Post. <a
href="http://nationalinterest.org/feature/the-real-thucydides-trap-will-red-blue-america-go-war-19063?page=show"
target="_blank">This piece in The National Interest</a> is a
recent example. TNI is not explicitly Left, but it is certainly not
explicitly Right either. It’s always been a neocon hangout, which puts
it on the Left, mostly as a home for heretics who broke with the Left on
foreign policy.

The reason the Official Right was willing to join arms with the Left in
opposition to Trump last year was their belief that Trump was leading
some sort of rebellion of the bad whites against the benevolent rule of
the good whites. Now that Trump has been installed as ruler, the same
people are imagining a counter rebellion by the good whites, like the
cat ladies, who waddled into DC on Saturday. The only thing they were
missing was having the geriatric Madonna lead the crowd in singing the
Battle Hymn of the Republic.

It is easy to dismiss it, as the Left is prone to these sorts of
histrionics whenever they don’t get their way. Even so, what we may be
seeing is not a new civil war or even a continuation of the Civil War.
Maybe what we are seeing is the final, long delayed end of the Civil
War. The political realignment we are witnessing is not the start of
anything, but the end of a long cycle of American history that started
in the 19th century with the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hartford_Convention"
target="_blank">Hartford Convention</a>. After several delays, we are
reaching the final denouement.

If you think of America in terms of <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/American-Nations-History-Regional-Cultures/dp/0143122029/ref=pd_sbs_14_t_0?_encoding=UTF8&amp;psc=1&amp;refRID=8ZCFXSC2N0JGWH3YDJNC"
target="_blank">The American Nations</a> model or maybe the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Nine-Nations-North-America/dp/0380578859"
target="_blank">Nine Nations</a> model, the last 200 years can be looked
at as a long hegemony of Yankeedom over the rest of the
country. Following the Civil War, the South was excluded from having a
say in how the nation was governed. The Midwest and Mid-Atlantic were
subordinate to the Yankee ruling class, while the West was simply not a
factor. This remained the case into the 20th century, as America went
from provincial backwater to an industrial power.

The 20th century should have been when this post Civil War arrangement
began to fall apart as the South rebuilt and the West joined the Union.
Instead, the Great Depression, two world wars and the Cold War locked
everything more or less in place. Nixon’s “southern strategy” to win the
presidency was an early sign that the old order was unstable. The
necessities of the Cold War kept things in place, but the dominance of
the old Yankee elite was showing it’s age as far back as the 70’s.

Look at something else. The Conservative Movement got going strong in
the 1960’s and came into its own in the 70’s. The election of Reagan
made conservatism the alternative to liberalism, but it did not change
the regional alliances in the country. Up until very recent,
conservatism was strongest in the South, but it had no Southern leaders.
The GOP, the alleged home of the Right, remains a party of Southern
voters, but Yankee leaders.The Trumpening has mostly been about the long
overdue eviction of the Bushies from party leadership.

Perhaps what we are witnessing is the start of a process where America
returns to being a collection of regions more or less cooperating only
on the big issues like national defense and trade. On those items,
perhaps the national ethos returns to something like the
<a href="https://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/jqadams.htm"
target="_blank">John Quincy Adams</a> model, rather than the <a
href="http://teachingamericanhistory.org/library/document/new-nationalism-speech/"
target="_blank">Theodore Roosevelt</a> model. A lot of what Trump says
about foreign policy and trade may be a reaction to the neocon debacles
of the last three decades, but they are also an echo of the pre-Civil
War consensus.

One final thing. The Left is suddenly talking about the need to restore
powers to the state as they face a federal government controlled by
their sworn enemies. There are many on the Right who would like to see
an Article V Convention. One side fears what the Federal government
might do and the other side has had enough of what the Federal
government has done. The one thing all sides of the political class may
accept in the end is a restoration of the natural regionalism that has
always existed in America.
