---
title: "The Servile State"
date: "2017-07-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10804"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10804"
---

A century ago, [Hilaire
Belloc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hilaire_Belloc "Hilaire Belloc") wrote
in the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Servile_State" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Servile State</a>¹ that attempts to reform
capitalism will lead to an economy in which the state dictates that
certain people will work for others, who likewise must take care of
them. Belloc called this the *servile state*. This is different from
early arrangements in which slaves and serfs were the backbone of the
economy. In those arrangements, the owner has a choice to not own
slaves. It is also different from capitalism, in which everyone is
politically free by law.

Belloc was a man of his age so he viewed economics through the goggles
of socialism and the newly emergent industrial capitalism. In The
Servile State, he was searching for an alternative to the destruction of
liberty necessary with socialism and the instability inherent to
capitalism. The former results in an inequality of political power,
while the latter results in an inequality of material wealth.
Eventually, a small number of people rule over the masses, who begin to
resent their rulers, seeing them as tyrants.

What Belloc argued is that socialism is inevitably the state dictating
to property holders how they can dispose of their property. The state
does this either through direct ownership, or through legal requirements
for the ownership and use of property. Political freedom is determined
by the degree of freedom one has with regards his labor and the results
of his labor.. Therefore, socialism must restrict the political liberty
of citizens to the same degree that it controls property and labor of
the citizens.

Capitalism puts ownership and control of property in the hands of the
people. In pure capitalism or what we now call libertarianism,
individuals not only control their labor and the results of their labor,
they are politically free. In theory, men either labor for their own use
or agree to labor for others. The state’s only purpose is to enforce
contracts as all of the dealings between citizens is consensual and
formalized in a contract. The appeal of capitalism, pure capitalism, is
the allure of pure political freedom.

By the time Belloc was writing, it was clear that pure capitalism would
inevitably result in the concentration of wealth. A small class of
property owners would come to posses the bulk of the nation’s wealth.
That means a class of people who were free and a class of people who
were not free, because they could not own and control their own labor.
This led to social instability and eventually violence. Belloc argued
that attempts to reform capitalism through state action would result in
something he called the Servile State.

Reforms to capitalism are always through the law. The state places
limits on how the owners of property may use their property. This then
leads to a negotiation between the state, which has the monopoly of
force, and the property class, which has a monopoly of capital. The
result is a system in which the state seeks to protect those without
property by placing requirement in the capital owners. In return, the
state require the masses to labor for the property class, under
conditions set by the state.

The result is that the business is forced to hire people it may not wish
to hire, but the state also dictates to labor how and when they can sell
their labor. Put another way, the poor are forced to serve the rich, but
the rich are forced to be generous to the poor, looking out for their
welfare. It is a social contract enforced at the barrel of a gun. It has
the inequality of capitalism and the lack of political liberty inherent
in socialism. The Servile State is the worst elements of both economic
systems.

Belloc could not see what was coming in the post-war era and he
certainly had no idea what was coming with the technological revolution
and the explosion of neo-liberal globalism. He was prescient, however,
with regards to how English economic systems would evolve over time.
Look around at the modern world and you see the world he described as
the inevitable result of “reformed capitalism.” Today, employers hire
whole teams of people who makes sure the rich and powerful follow the
rules.

What’s been missing in the technological age is the other half of the
equation. As the West de-industrialized, the enforcement of labor laws
have fallen away. Masses of helot labor brought over from Asia into
Silicon Valley, for example, worked under agreements they struck with
the business owners. Tech companies love open borders as it gives them a
loophole to avoid some of the constraints of the Servile State. The same
is true at the unskilled end, where companies rely upon masses of labor
from Latin America.

This is an untenable situation in its own right, but the coming
automation of the American economy will result in an evolution of the
Servile State. The Universal Basic Income is nothing more than a modern
implementation of the sort of infringements on political liberty Belloc
described a century ago. Property holders will be forced to care for the
dispossessed and, inevitably, the state will put behavior rules on the
dispossessed. The UBI will come with rules requiring the recipients to
act a certain way.

You get a glimpse of this in the efforts to control political speech
on-line. Social media companies get exceptions to anti-trust laws,
permitting them to run monopolies. In exchange, they are tasked with
policing dissent on behalf of the state. The users get “free access” to
platforms like Faceberg and Twitter, just as long as they agree to the
terms of service and accept discipline when they post subversive things.
Imagine this system applied to the universal basic income or to access
to your self-driving car.

Belloc’s alternative was something he and Chesterton
called <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributism" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">distributism</a>. Some have argued that their economic
ideas were proto-fascism, but that’s debatable. What Belloc argued for
was the inverse of the Servile State. Instead of a strong central state,
political authority would be distributed and diffused throughout
society, while wealth concentration would be constrained locally though
ad hoc arrangements and cultural institutions. The goal is to maximize
liberty, while minimizing inequality.

Whether or not this is possible in the modern age is debatable. Belloc
and Chesterton argued that this was the natural arrangement of Europe.
They also argued that it required a strong and energetic Christian
tradition. That ship has sailed in the West, but maybe it does not
matter. There’s no getting around the fact that neo-liberalism may be
*economically* stable, but it is wildly unstable *culturally*. The
experience of Europe thus far suggests it is suicidal. How to address it
may lie with globalism’s last critics.
