---
title: "Cord Cutting"
date: "2017-11-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-11-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12043"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12043"
---

Anytime I mention cord cutting, I get a ton of responses on it. It is
not just about the cultural phenomenon. For a lot of people, the
alternatives to the traditional cable model are much better at
delivering the desired content. If you think TV is immoral, the solution
is simple. Do not buy a television. If you enjoy some shows and movies,
it gets a little more complicated. Given how many times it comes up, I
thought it would be worthwhile to post about what I am doing as a cord
cutter. Others can chime in with what they are doing.

Like a lot of men, I ended up with a cable bill because I liked
sports. When I was a kid, there were a few games on a week. Then ESPN
came on-line with live sports. Then regional sports networks. Now every
league and sport have multiple channels dedicated to showing live
events. It is the golden age of TV sports, if the gold standard is
measured in quantity, rather than quality. That said, I had all the
other stuff on cable so I tried to watch popular shows. It was there and
people talked about, so I watched.

My first foray into cord cutting was due to technical issues. I did not
have cable for a summer and one of things I noticed is I did not miss it
very much. I have always been a baseball fan but listening on the radio
is a better way to consume baseball. The other stuff I used to watch,
well, I did not miss it. If I wanted to watch a movie, I got a disc or
watched one of the discs I owned. That is one of the truths of TV
watching I learned. Most of what we watch is re-runs and old movies that
we have already watched.

With that in mind, I cut the cord at the same time I bought an Amazon
Fire TV box. This is a simple little device that lets you access Amazon
library of movies and TV shows, over the internet. It plugs into your TV
via an HDMI cable and connects to the internet over your wireless. You
can also connect it with an Ethernet cable. It also has a simple browser
so you can access video on the web, like YouTube. It lets you load apps
for other video content providers like Hulu and Netflix. There are a lot
of small providers with apps.

I have been an Amazon Prime member for a long time, as I do almost all
of my shopping on Amazon. The free shipping pretty much covers the cost
of the membership for me. That means I get all of the Prime video, which
is old movies and TV shows. For instance, I watched a series called
*Justified* that had gone off the air long before I heard of it. They
also have original content and some of it is very well done. Amazon also
has a movie and TV show rental service. For most people, Amazon Prime
for $90 a year is all they need.

In my case, Amazon is all I needed, but I got curious and sampled some
of the other serves and devices just to see what was available. I tried
the Hulu live TV service, which is one of the many new services for live
TV. Their package has most of the popular cable channels for $40 a
month. That also gets you their massive library of old TV shows going
back to forever it seems. If you liked *Taxi* or *Three’s Company*, you
could watch it with your Hulu service. You can also watch Hulu on other
devices like phones and tablets.

I gave the DirecTV service a ride and it was buggy as all hell. They say
it got better, but my experience was not good. In theory, it should be
great as it is an internet version of the DirecTV service, which rated
the best of all traditional TV offerings. I know when I used their
satellite service, it was fantastic. Their internet option has lots of
content, but getting it too work was so frustrating I finally gave up
and deleted the app. I was an early adopter so maybe it is better, but I
would recommend Hulu over DirecTV for most people.

Now, if you are not interested in the Amazon ecosystem, then you can use
something like Roku. I got one of these free when I signed up for
something. Like the Amazon box, it is a small device that connects to
your internet via wireless and to your television through an HDMI cable.
The interface is easy to use and the setup is super simple. I had it
running in five minutes. That is really the amazing part of all of these
new devices. They are vastly simpler to setup and operate than your old
cable box.

Roku does some things really well. It is good at buffering content so
even if your internet connection is a little buggy, you get no
interruption in the video service. Amazon is not as good at this. It is
also really good at finding content on your PC’s so you can use the Roku
to play your music and movie collection in another room. I was really
impressed at how well this feature worked. I have a vast music
collection so having it available anywhere is nice feature for me. I
would imagine the same is true for video collections.

One more thing about the ease of use bit. The new devices are modern,
unlike your old cable box. For instance, they use Bluetooth for the
remote. You do not have to point the remote at the box, which means the
box can be hidden away for a nice clean look to the TV area. I have mine
behind the TV. The remotes are also amazingly well designed. You can
navigate everything with a few buttons. The Roku remote has a feature
where you can plug headphones into the remote and listen, without
disturbing everyone else.

Finally, there is one other thing I have been doing. I loaded an app
called Kodi on the Amazon Fire TV. This is a service that uses add-ons
to allow you to see content from anywhere on earth. The legality of this
service is dubious, but it is impossible to police. The upshot is you
can use Kodi to get all your TV and movies free. You can also watch
sporting events from all over the world too. There are two downsides.
One is you have fiddle with the installation and configuration. The
other is the quality is not always the best.

If you are the sort who enjoys fiddling with stuff, then you can find
plenty of on-line guides to setting up the Kodi system. [Here is a guide
to installing Kodi on a
Firestick](https://troypoint.com/how-to-install-kodi-on-fire-tv/). You
can get the Fire TV Stick for $40, so you can use it for an experiment
without spending much. You can also buy a box that is configured, but
people really into this stuff tell me those boxes are mostly junk. My
experience is that installing on Amazon took about 30 minutes, most of
which was spent watching a video on YouTube. Otherwise, it was simple.

Here is the thing with Kodi. I have no idea how it is legal or how it
could be policed in the future. This has the same vibe as the
[Napster](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Napster) and
[LimeWire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LimeWire) fads of yesteryear.
The technology is designed to circumvent current efforts by the
gatekeepers to maintain their monopolies. In the music rackets, the
gatekeepers eventually waged jihad on the users in order to scare people
out of using file sharing. It failed, but a lot of people were bullied
and hassled by Big Music. You need to assess your risk tolerance before
using Kodi.

That is my cord cutting story.
