---
title: "Myths Die Slowly"
date: "2017-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11730"
---

Back in the summer, I was talking with a friend and we were talking
about Trump and the alt-right. My friend is not into my type of
politics. He remains a generic conservative, the sort who thinks Ben
Shapiro is great and Gavin McInnes is edgy. I do not fault him for it.
Most white people are in that camp, unless they are a Progressive. The
Dissident Right is still small and the alt-right is even smaller. The
tide is running our way, but it has a long way to go before we have big
numbers.

Anyway, one of the things we discussed was what Trump could or would do
regarding the big issues. My friend honestly believes that all that
needs doing is to cut taxes, cut spending and crack down on illegal
immigration. Then America will begin to look like the 1980’s again. He
was a bit surprised when I told him that I disagreed. I was a bit turned
off by his optimism. The truth is these guys stubbornly cling to the old
ideas and old politics. We need to turn them, but it will not be easy.
They will not let go easily.

That is the biggest challenge facing the Dissident Right and it is a
massive challenge for the alt-right. White people in America have been
marinating, for their whole lives, in the stew of multiculturalism and
the conventional conservative reaction. They still view the world
through the lens of the Cold War. That means accepting the Left’s moral
framework, while longing for the Right’s promised ends. The result is a
collection of American myths that our people stubbornly embrace, despite
the evidence.

The biggest one is the fetish over the Constitution. The people who love
Ted Cruz and Glenn Beck are the best example. They talk about the
Constitution like it is a holy relic. It is their magic talisman. They
are sure that all we need is a majority of Constitutional Conservatives
on the bench and more of them in Congress. When you point out that the
Constitution currently requires Christian bakers to celebrate homosexual
weddings, they dismiss this as if it is a lie. They just cannot let go
of the dream.

These are usually the same people who go on about our Judeo-Christian
principles. There is no such thing. It is just something nice white
people thought was a good thing to say, so the Jews would feel included.
Jews think the idea is ridiculous and very conservative Jews find it
insulting. The formulation [gained popularity in the Eisenhower
years](http://www.stateofformation.org/2014/04/the-myth-of-a-judeo-christian-tradition/),
probably in reaction to the Holocaust. Despite the ridiculousness of it,
most constitutional conservatives are convinced America is built on
Judeo-Christian values.

The great black hope is another one of those myths that whites cannot
let go of, even after eight years of Obama. For example, the mulatto
meathead, Dwayne Johnson, was saying nice things about generic
conservatives for a while last spring. This set off a round of hero
worship in Conservative Inc. [National Review did a special issue on
him](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/447618/rock-dwayne-johnson-hero-we-need).
Most whites still believe the dream of racial harmony, so gaining the
approval of a guy like Sheriff Clark or a Dwayne Johnson is like being
blessed by the Pope.

This is because whites largely accept the blank slate egalitarianism the
Progs have been preaching for the last half century. White people are so
afraid of being condemned as racist; they will believe just about
anything to avoid it. The hardest boiled right-winger will break out in
hives when race is mentioned. The insist that all blacks need to do is
act like middle-class white people. It is why they carry guys like
Sheriff Clark and Allen West around as conquering heroes. Whites still
cling to the myth of egalitarianism.

This spills over into the immigration debate. Listen to the garden
variety talk radio conservative and they will fall all over themselves
praising legal immigration. They completely buy in the myth of the
propositional nation. They do not always use that language, but they
accept it. Whites may not think all people are the same, but they think
they *can* be the same. Therefore, the non-whites wishing to settle in
America can prove this by following the rules, like a white person
would. It is Magic Rule Theory.

Many alt-right people like to flatter themselves by insisting that the
JQ is the hardest red pill to swallow, but in reality, patriotism is the
toughest. People can accept that blacks are incapable of living with
whites. People can even buy off on the idea that Jews have a
disproportionate influence on society and maybe that is not a good
thing. The one thing you cannot get anyone to accept is that patriotism
is anything but an honorable quality. If you dare question the idea,
whites will condemn you as some sort of commie.

That is the biggest challenge for the alt-right. They do not couch it in
these terms, but theirs is a post-national movement. Their brand of
identity politics puts racial identity ahead of all other group
loyalties. That includes patriotism. If the black NFL players all stand
this week, hands over hearts, singing the anthem, whites around America
will be sobbing and hugging one another like it is the rapture. Talking
Americans out of this sort of over the top love of country is the great
challenge for the alt-right.

Beliefs and customs have a way of transforming into something different
when they lose their salience. Many conservative whites have started to
abandon their party loyalty, realizing it was a sham. Increasing numbers
of whites are coming to terms with the realities of race. Still, they do
so with the hope that, with some tweaking, the republic can be set right
again. Maybe that is the process. We are now seeing more people talk
openly about ending immigration entirely. That is a big step for white
people.

The fact is, things like patriotism and a love for ordered liberty are
features of white Americans, not bugs. Most whites get that and will
stubbornly cling to those ideas, even when they are an impediment to
preserving civilization. Sacred beliefs do not go away without a fight.
The great challenge for the insurgency is to re-purpose these attributes
toward better ends. Appeals to people’s better natures always works
better than challenging their deeply held beliefs.
