---
title: "Good Riddance"
date: "2017-01-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9357"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9357"
---

President Obama is about to shuffle off the stage next week as his term
finally comes to a close. He has been spending the last weeks of his
presidency celebrating himself. This has included giving himself some
awards and giving a farewell address that no one bothered to watch. He
and his old lady have been popping up on every liberal TV chat show, and
sitting with even minor reporters, for farewell interviews. All of which
is supposed to be a victory lap, but it feels more like last call at a
local dive.

All of this is being done while members of his cult rend their garments
and cry out to the void where God used to exist, asking for deliverance
from what they imagine comes next. Moonbats from around the nation have
been doing what they can to draw attention to their grief over the end
of the age of Obama. The last week has been a weird celebration of what
will be remembered as an unremarkable time in the nation’s history. In
the long run, putting an exotic weirdo in the White House will not seem
very significant.

Naturally, the press is feverishly working on their hagiographies about
the Obama age, but they are finding the material to be resistant.
Obama’s signature achievement is a big bureaucratic nightmare that most
people see as a mistake. Everyone in Washington understands ObamaCare
has to be removed, root and branch, but the debate is how to do it
without hurting the feelings of The Cult. The political class knows they
have to do something about the spiraling insurance costs set off by
ObamaCare, so it will eventually be repealed.

The rest of the Obama record ranges from the narcissistic to the
pointlessly petulant. Normalizing relations with Cuba is probably the
only thing he can point to that makes any sense. The Cold War has been
over for 25 years. No one is putting missiles in Cuba so there’s no
point in maintaining the embargo. The Iran deal promises to be a fiasco
in the long run, but for now it is just a big giveaway to his
coreligionists in order to spite the Jews. US oil companies also got a
big giveaway as they are now allowed to do business with the mullahs.
Otherwise, it changes nothing.

Modern presidents get too much credit and too much blame for what
happens in their time. To be fair to Obama, he inherited a mess from his
predecessor. The Bush Klan blew up the Middle East and left the economy
a smoking ruin. You can debate the last part, as that seems like a
disaster created by the political class in general, rather than the work
of just one party. But, Bush started too unwinnable wars and left them
for Obama. The best you can say about the Obama foreign policy, though,
is he did not start a third unwinnable war.

Even so, Obama will not go down as the worst president in the post-WW2
era as his legacy is mostly nothing. Like the disco era, this will be a
time that people describe with, “You really had to be there to
understand why it was important.” Once the people who lived through are
gone, no one will have any reason to talk about the first black
president, other than on whatever day his cult venerates him. That’s the
funny thing about being the first to do anything. Most of the time,
being the first is the only thing you did worth mentioning.

The reason Obama was a do-nothing President is he was always just a
symbol, rather than a man with his own ideas and agenda. The Cult
selected him because he ticked all the boxes, with regards to their
fantasy of the perfect black guy. He was black, but you know, *not
really black*. Most important, he confirmed all of their opinions about
themselves and their ideology. The Cult of Modern Liberalism never cared
much about Obama the man, they only cared for as a symbol on their coat
of arms.

Obama came to power with an extraordinary opportunity to pass his
agenda. He had a huge majority in the House and a 60-seat majority in
the Senate. His first big act was to let Nancy Pelosi pass a massive
package of freebies for the Democrat Party supporters. Then he sat by
and let them turn health care in to a circus of incompetence. His
party’s leaders made clear from the onset that his job was to be their
pitchman. They had no interest in what he had to say. His job was to
sell their plan to the public.

That’s something the liberal media will skip over as they write their
re-imagined histories of the Obama years. The other thing they will skip
is the very superficial appeal of Obama. He was always just a black guy.
Liberal whites and blacks supported him because he was a black guy, not
because of anything he said or proposed to do as President. It’s why no
one ever quotes an Obama speech. He was always the smiling black guy on
the brochure. His efforts to promote Democratic candidates failed
because that narrow charm is never transferable.

All of this belies a greater problem with the Left in the technological
age. It is mostly just symbolism and ritual. It has nothing concrete to
offer in the digital age because it is an ideology crafted in the
industrial age. In 2008, the Left promised an anxious public that this
gift to the void where God once stood would usher in the glorious
future. Instead it was eight years of a stagnant economy, terrorism and
droning speeches from a man who, in the end,
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kga2soqvMF0"
target="_blank">had only one thing to say</a> that mattered to anyone.

Good riddance.
