---
title: "Are Performers Stupid?"
date: "2017-01-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9441"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9441"
---

Are actors and actresses stupid?

Are performers dumber than normal people?

Like most people, I just assume this is so, because actors tend to say
stupid things when not following a script. The actress [Meryl Streep
took to the stage at some awards
show](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/arts-and-entertainment/wp/2017/01/08/meryl-streep-called-out-donald-trump-at-the-golden-globes-read-her-speech-here/?utm_term=.276e3e590a86)
to say Donald Trump gave her the sads. I’ve watched it a few times
trying to figure out what it is she was trying to communicate. Streep is
a great actress so it was well choreographed, but it contained nothing
more than some hyperventilating about imagined bogeymen. My take away
from watching it is that Mx. Streep is not spending her free time
working math puzzles.

Even more obvious examples were on display at the Waddle in Washington
this past weekend. [Ashley Judd went on a deranged
rant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNXMOxBbt6g) that suggested she
needs to be in a nervous hospital again. Madonna of all people was
carrying on about respecting women and committing acts of treason.
Madonna, like all other performers, degrades herself for a living. Other
than being a cautionary tale, she should stay out of any
discussion about respecting women. Yet, this was lost on her and her
fellow performers.

That brings us back to the original question. Is Madonna stupid? Judd
apparently has had a lot of mental problems, but Madonna and Streep have
no history of mental illness. Short of handing out IQ tests, there’s no
way to know if performers are unusually stupid, but perhaps there are
other cognitive traits that performers have in abundance that present as
a low IQ when displayed outside the narrow realm of the stage. Quants
are super smart, but lack social skills, so they are often assumed to be
retarded.

The first thing that springs to mind is that you need a near total
absence of self-respect to be a performer. It is, at best, a degrading
way to make a living. Anyone who has stood in front of a crowd to give a
speech knows it is not as easy as it looks. Imagine standing in front of
cameras, pretending to be someone else, while a crowd of people watch
you play make believe. Often times, the job requires the performer to
make a fool of themselves or do degrading things for the amusement of
the crowd. Most people will not do it.

Even if you put limits on how much you will degrade yourself in public
in order to be a performer, it is a humiliating road to success. Even
the greatest thespians started out as complete hacks, often being
laughed at and yelled at for being dreadful on stage. Movie and TV
people get their start in terrible shows or making commercials for
things like hemorrhoid cream. Then there is the casting couch, which is
a feature of the business for both sexes. Male actors spend their youth
biting a pillow or something else.

There’s something else that is universal to being a performer and that
is a near total inability to judge risk. About one tenth of one percent
of people who go into show business end up with a productive career as a
performer. Most struggle for years and drop out or go into some other
part of the business. New York and Los Angeles restaurants are famously
staffed with the next big stars of stage and screen. Going into show
business is about as logical as spending your life savings on lottery
tickets.

This is probably why performers have money woes and tax problems. Just
google actors and tax problems and you get half a million hits. People
who are terrible with risk assessment are probably never going to be
very good with their money, no matter how much they make. Nicholas Cage
has probably earned half a billion dollars in his career and he is
broke. People with any sense of risk assessment will not waste their
life chasing a dream that is unlikely to materialize, but that’s what it
takes to be a star.

Of course, the big key for any performer is their ability to draw
attention to themselves over the others, who are also good at getting
attention. The world is full of pretty blondes, who know their way
around a penis. In order to gain the attention the star makers, you
better be really good at standing out in a crowd of beautiful people
with the same dream as you. This is why famous performers often have
some weird tick or skill. Samuel L. Jackson got famous because he is a
living satire of the militant black man.

There’s something else. Performers are much more likely to make it when
young than old and young is defined as teens and 20’s. It’s why so many
of the top starts are people who literally grew up in the business.
Their parents were in the business in some capacity. This means that the
typical star is someone who has had little exposure to the world outside
acting. Even those who left home and went to Hollywood to become stars
as young adults have had little experience with the normal world.

Most Americans have never been to Africa so they only know about the
place from books and television. As a result, Americans talking about
Africa sound like morons to people who have lived in Africa. This is the
problem for performers. They talk about America as if it is a foreign
country to them. That’s because it often is a foreign country. How much
does Meryl Streep know about America at this stage of her life? She has
been cooped up in a museum for decades. Death row inmates have a better
feel for America than actors.

That brings us back to where we started. Are performers stupid? The
safest answer is yes, they are very stupid. Being stupid makes it easy
to not notice the long odds of being a performer. Being stupid lets
these people avoid thinking about the moral dilemmas that are inevitable
in the business. Those who are not stupid are so divorced from reality
that they can no longer apply their intelligence to the normal world as
it has become a foreign place for them. This means that most of the
stars are both stupid and ignorant, which is why they so often sound
like drooling idiots when speaking off-the-cuff.
