---
title: "No Tomorrows"
date: "2017-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=11724"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11724"
---

All human societies have some form of belief system, usually based in
the supernatural or in unexplained mysteries. People who study these
things think that belief is one of the earliest modern human traits.
Language and religion, the formalization of belief, most likely evolved
together. That certainly makes sense. Religion has always been a handy
store of knowledge and language is the way in which it can be
transported over time and place. They are complimentary.

That is speculative, but what is not speculative is that all known
people have had something we would consider to be a faith system.
Primitive people have primitive belief systems, usually based in natural
phenomenon like the seasons and elements. American Indians have a whole
collection of deities based in nature. More complex societies create
more complex myths and belief structures. The Greeks and Romans had
complex systems. Christianity is a rich and complex belief system.

We in the modern West tend to think we have moved past this stuff. The
educated classes, while not willing to say they are atheists, scoff at
the religious. The most you will get from the upper classes is the line
about being spiritual, but not religious. The truth is, Western elites
are believers like all people in all times, maybe more so. It is just
that their beliefs are informal and ad hoc. The people toting canvas
sacks to the market are doing so because our better say nature demands
it of us.

Belief systems describe a people. The ancient Egyptians had a complex
belief system like many ancient people. Their religion, however, was
unique in that it was entirely focused on the afterlife. They did not
make sacrifices and pray for the here and now. They built monuments,
complex burial systems and temples in order to prepare the living for
the after life. There is a good argument that this focus on the after
life is what allowed the Egyptians to keep their culture going for 3,000
years.

On the other hand, the Greeks were not overly concerned about the after
life. Their focus was on the here and now. The gods interfered in the
lives of men, so it made sense to focus devotion on swaying the gods to
act on your behalf or against the interests of your enemies. The Greeks
did have the concept of an afterlife, but it was not the focus of their
belief system. Immortality for man was possible by having sons, who
would carry his name, or dying for his polis, which would live on and
remember his name.

The Greeks may have been more concerned with the present, when it came
time to worshipping the gods, but they had a nice long run. It was not
as if they were hedonists, living only in the moment. Even so, this
focus on the now had some odd results. For instance, we know just about
every Egyptian ruler and his deeds. We even have some of their corpses.
The Dorian Greeks, on the other hand, burned their kings, as well as any
record of them. We know nothing about them as a result.

This brings up an important point about our present age. The cult of
Gaia, for example, is long on rhetoric about the future, but its focus
is on present virtue. The greens are not trying preserve the environment
for future generations. They are hoping their efforts snuff out future
generations. The same is true of anti-racism and multiculturalism. These
are all about the present. Calling them suicide cults is useful
rhetoric, but in fact our virtuous rulers do not think past tomorrow. it
is all about grace today.

This is particularly true with regards to migration. Nationalists like
to cook up complex theories as to why our rulers are wedded to the idea
of mass immigration. Some say it is cheap labor. Other say it is cheap
votes. Still others see it as spite. All of those things are true, but
the real motivation is virtue. Instead of a public ceremony where they
sacrifice a bull or consecrate a church, inviting in the poor and
downtrodden is the big public act of virtue. The consequences are down
the road. The grace is today.

It is not just vanity. We are the first people to have no conception of
an afterlife. Even the Greeks believed in the after life and they
believed there was judgement of souls. They may not have made that the
focus of their faith, but they still believed there was something beyond
this life. This spiritual hopelessness of Western elites may be why the
Cloud People couch everything in terms of personal fulfillment and
self-actualization. It is a way of crossing the river Styx without
actually believing in it.

The nuttiness of modern elite culture may simply be a neurosis arising
from the conflict between the natural desire of man to be remembered,
colliding with the lack of any reason to be remembered. Even the
humblest of men will carve his name into a tree or scratch his name on
his prison wall. “I was here” is the primal scream. Today, that impulse
has no outlet. The lonely barren spinster yells “I was here” and the
only thing that happens is the cat stirs and then goes back to sleep.

Maybe this is it for us. Maybe there is no tomorrow for the West.
