---
title: "The Jay Kay Kay"
date: "2017-07-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-07-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=10981"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=10981"
---

Last week, The Anti-Defamation League put out a <a
href="https://www.adl.org/education/resources/backgrounders/from-alt-right-to-alt-lite-naming-the-hate"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">proscription list</a> of hate thinkers
they have deemed to be a danger to the republic. In years past, they
would roll out lists of old geezers from the 1960’s, but now they are
going after the alt-right. They describe Richard Spencer’s thing as “the
most visible extremist movement” in the country. They also listed the
alt-lite as fellow travelers. The point of the list is to intimidate
people into disassociating from the people on the list. The ADL is
trying isolate and ostracize these people.

Ironically, it is not a lot different from what the Klan used to do in a
bygone era. As is true with most things in the current crisis, the
history of the Ku Klux Klan has been retconned to fit the current
narrative. According the prevailing mythologies, the Klan was just like
the 19th century Cossacks. Instead of riding through Jewish villages on
horseback, the Klan drove through black neighborhoods in pickup
trucks.They are portrayed as sort of an off-the-books secret police, run
by southern political leaders.

The truth is something different. The primary role of the Klan was to
keep whites in line, not blacks. Sure, the Klan would terrorize blacks
on occasion, but they were mostly interested in keeping the white
majority in line. A white business that did not strictly adhere to the
color line, for example, could find itself in trouble with the local
Klan. They did not have to resort to physical violence in most cases.
The most effective weapon of the 20th century Klan was social pressure
to force whites to toe the racial line.

The other important bit about the Klan that has been thrown down the
memory hole is that they lost. The reason is that after a while, their
moral authority eroded and therefore their ability to apply pressure on
whites decreased. Think about it. The Klan has no credibility today so
they have no power. That means they had real power only when the white
majority took them seriously. A look at history shows that the Klan was
most active when their influence was on the wane. In that regard, it was
always a rearguard action.

The same logic applies to the ADL and SPLC. Within recent memory, being
called out by either group would ruin a media career and certainly
destroy a political career. People in outsider politics could guarantee
they would remain in outsider politics if they found themselves on the
ADL’s list of bad thinkers. While you could survive having private
doubts about the prevailing orthodoxy on race, you could not survive
even the hint of antisemitism. That’s what made the ADL and SPLC so
powerful.

This list and the SPLC’s recent missteps suggest that like the Klan in
the 50’s and 60’s, these groups are now waning in authority. Including
guys like Gavin McInness on their list of crime thinkers is so
ridiculous, the only proper response is to laugh. The Proud Boys are
about as edgy and subversive as bingo night at
<a href="https://www.thevillages.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Villages</a>. The only reason anyone cares about
them is that McInness is a media gadfly. His “group” is really just a
fan club he maintains to promote his media appearances and internet
show.

Another indication that these groups and their moral authority are on
the wane is the fact that the response has ranged from indifference to
mockery. McInness had a meltdown on twitter, but he was the exception.
Most of the alt-lite people simply ignored it, as there was very little
media coverage. The alt-right people were howling with laughter,
congratulating one another over having made the list. The whole point of
the name and shame campaign is to actually shame people. If they are
laughing, they are not feeling much shame.

There’s another connection to the Klan. These groups, especially their
leaders, have gotten very rich in the skins game. <a
href="http://pamelageller.com/2011/02/southern-poverty-law-fraud-center.html/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Morris Dees has become super-rich</a>
peddling himself as the Hebrew Avenger.
<a href="https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2010/11/26/923486/-"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">When you need to hide your money in the
Cayman Islands</a>, you have a lot of money. The skins game has been
very good to groups like the ADL, just as segregation was a profitable
venture for members of the Klan. The ADL is mostly playing defense now,
hoping for one last payday in the skins game.

Of course, that’s where the analogy breaks down. The Klan was never able
to turn their thing into a profitable enterprise. That’s mostly because
they lost, but there’s not much evidence to suggest they tried to
monetize their movement. The ADL and SPLC have always been money making
schemes from the start. Despite the greed though, they were highly
effective at changing public attitudes. At the very top of the modern
hierarchy of sin is the sin of antisemitism. It’s the one unforgivable
transgression.

Still, the thumbless way that groups like the ADL are responding to the
Dissident Right suggests they have not just lost their way, but lost
their relevance. When Progressive propaganda outlets are running
features like <a
href="http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/06/28/morris-dees-splc-trump-southern-poverty-law-center-215312"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one about the SPLC</a>, the writing
is on the wall. The people in charge no longer respect the moral
authority of these groups and their intended victims no longer fear
them. Like the Klan, the ADL and SPLC can only exist as long as they are
feared or respected. Neither is true now.
