---
title: "The Cloud Party Declares War"
date: "2017-01-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-01-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - The Resistance
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=9506"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=9506"
---

When the Muslim Brotherhood “won” the 2012 election in Egypt, most of
the world just assumed Egypt was going to go down the road to Islamism.
Either a slow trot like we have seen with Turkey or perhaps a faster
pace into something closer to Iran. That did not happen. Instead, Egypt
ground to a halt as the civil service and military, which are
intertwined, refused to cooperate with the new government. The result
was a sort of coordinated work slowdown and the Brotherhood got the
blame for it.

That was not the only reason the Brotherhood failed. They had no idea
how to run a country and they never had the depth of support they
assumed. Still, the bureaucracy set itself to stymieing Morsi, so they
simply stop functioning. People still showed up for work and manned
their posts, but they got nothing done. It was a good lesson in how a
modern country works, even one on the fringe of modernity. Real power is
not in the office, but in control of the system. He who controls the
bureaucracy controls the nation.

That comes to mind after Trump has been in office for little more than a
week. His initial flurry of executive orders has dominated the news
cycles, simply because of the infantile theatrics of the Left. Adult
toddlers throwing tantrums at the local airport makes for good TV,
especially when the people covering it are toddlers themselves. What has
gone unnoticed is the fact that the Republicans appear to have settled
on a  strategy similar to the Egyptian bureaucracy. They will slow walk
everything Trump wants out of Congress.

So far, the Senate has approved the national security appointments
because to do otherwise would make them look bad. The education
secretary is still bottled up for some reason. Allegedly, everyone in
the GOP would just as soon scrap DoE, but they are making a big issue of
this nominee. The AG nomination has similarly been slow walked by the
Senate. Of course, the traitor John McCain is stirring up trouble over
the DHS appointments. The result is there will not be a full cabinet for
months.

The bigger issue is the fact that the GOP Congress has no plan to repeal
ObamaCare or pass tax reform. It’s pretty clear that the people we
thought were secretly supporting Clinton, people like Paul Ryan, really
thought she was going to win, so they never bothered to prepare for
this. The result is all their big talk after he election about major
reforms and repealing ObamaCare was just talk. They were planning for
surrender and suddenly found themselves with a President ready to
sign off on major reform.

That’s probably only part of it. The fact is, the leadership of the GOP
has more in common with the Democrat Party than the emerging Trump
Party. Despite the election results, they cannot let go of their belief
that the winning hand is to turn the country into a flop house for the
refuse of the rest of the world. Globalism is their creed and they will
not let go of it just because the people hate it. They are sure Trump
will fail so they are going to work hard to make it happen, After all, a
prophesy that does not come true is not much use.

Then there is the bureaucracy, which appears to be organizing itself in
opposition to Trump in the early going. Senior people in the State
Department made a big show of quitting the other day. The acting
Attorney General is instructing her department to sit on their hands
over challenges to Trump’s immigration orders. It’s all small time and
petty, but with the aid of the media it’s becoming cool for the
governing class to throw sand in the gears of the Trump administration.
At least that’s the hope in DC.

All of this points out the underlying reality in Washington. There is
the Cloud People Party and an insurgent Dirt People Party. The Cloud
Party and its donor class hate Trump and the people he represents. If
you look at the funding sources from both parties, it comes from areas
Hillary Clinton carried 2-to-1. According to <a
href="https://www.brookings.edu/blog/the-avenue/2016/11/29/another-clinton-trump-divide-high-output-america-vs-low-output-america/"
target="_blank">this Brookings study</a>, the 472 counties that Clinton
won last year accounted for 64 percent of the nation’s wealth, while the
2584 counties that Trump won accounted for the remaining 36 percent.

There are plenty of Republicans who support Trump and a surprising
number of people in the bureaucracy who know reform is long overdue.
Some of the harshest critiques of the state you will hear come from
people in the system. There’s also the fact that Trump is proving to be
an exceptional political athlete. He has a knack for baiting the media
in order to gain public support for his positions. No person has moved
the Overton Window further to the right than Trump has done in my
lifetime. It truly is amazing.

Even so, the next year will be about the Cloud Party conspiring
to undermine the Trump administration, while Trump figures out how to
work around the system to undermine the system. His immigration order is
a foreshadow of what is to come. Instead of looking for compromise, Team
Trump will go big in order to trigger the political class and their
media to overreact. This tends to turn off the public and thus turn the
Cloud Party assets into liabilities, as we are seeing with these
ridiculous protests.

At some point, the Cloud People will shift gears, but for now, the game
will be Trump picking fights and the establishment going bonkers.This
gives Trump cover to do some important stuff, like we see with the H1B
executive order. While the Cloud People are wailing about the so-called
Muslim ban, they did not have time to notice the order to shake up the
visa program Silicon Valley uses to screw its employees. This sort of
cat and mouse game is how an insurgent party must use its speed and
agility to overcome the establishment’s size.
