---
title: "Free Speech In The Custodial State"
date: "2017-12-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2017-12-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12275"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12275"
---

A point I am fond of making is that without freedom of association, you
cannot have any other liberties. You can have the appearance of choice,
like when you stand in the breakfast cereal aisle at the grocery store,
but you can never have real choices. The state not only puts you in that
supermarket, but they also put you in the aisle, along with a bunch of
other people. In order to prevent a riot from breaking out, the state
must supervise your speech, your actions and make sure you focus on
picking from the options on the shelves.

Whether or not our rulers know this is debatable. A feature of
post-modernism is that the people in charge forget everything learned by
prior generations regarding the human condition and human society.
People used to know the link between free association and other
liberties. It is why the state regulated public airwaves. Because it
required effort to avoid speech broadcast over the air, that speech had
to fit community standards. Speech that took effort to consume, like pay
services, were free from state censorship.

Anyway, [the Left is in something close to a full
panic](http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/jurisprudence/2017/12/neil_gorsuch_s_radical_first_amendment_theory_could_sabotage_civil_rights.html)
over the oral arguments in *Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights
Commission*. The reason for this is the way Judge Gorsuch questioned the
attorney for the homosexuals. He correctly pointed out that the “remedy”
for the alleged discrimination, is to force the baker to say things in
public that he would never say and that he finds offensive. Gorsuch did
not say this, but this is how Chinese communists punished heretics in
the Cultural Revolution.

<img
src="http://multimedia.scmp.com/cultural-revolution/images/article/225hei-bang-fen-zi-wang-yilun.jpg"
class="size-full" decoding="async" width="600" height="411" />

Colorado Civil Rights Commission

Put another way, the “remedy” for those not wanting to associate, in
this case do business with another group of people, is to frog march
them into the public square and force them to say things they think are
false and possibly evil. Of course, it is the only remedy, short of
genocide, which is possible in a society without freedom of association.
Once the state can force you to be around other people, people you may
not like, they have no choice but to supervise your speech, your
thoughts and your every move. You are a slave.

That is the reality of the custodial state. The people in charge see
themselves as your caretakers, like a babysitter or care giver. In
reality though, you are their slave, because like a slave, you no longer
control your body. They control where it is and what it is permitted to
do. In this particular case. the state is trying to force this baker to
perform his services for the homosexuals. The efforts to punish him are
no different from a slave master flogging a runaway slave. It is to send
a message to the rest of the slaves.

The homosexual Slate writer senses this reality, but he cannot bare to
face it because it means questioning the One True Faith. Even worse for
him is that homosexuals have created an identity, a sense of worth,
based on this notion they are a protected class, given special
liberties. A white man can be run out of his job by Antifa loons and no
one from the local Civil Rights Commission is coming to his aid.
Homosexual terrorists can stalk the nation’s Christian bakers and they
get the full support of the state.

What makes this case frightening to the Left is that there is no way for
the court to rule in favor of the baker, which does not undermine the
foundation of the modern special rights movement. Let us say they carve
out a religious “exception” to the laws providing homosexuals with
special status. The court is, in effect, saying that religion ranks
higher than sexual proclivity. The gays move down a peg. What happens
when the court has to choose between Jews and Nazis? Or Muslims and
Jews? It quickly becomes untenable.

This is also why the Court will have no choice but to rule against the
baker. The three lesbians and Breyer, of course, are predictable votes
against liberty, but Kennedy and Roberts have proven to be dependable
defenders of the Progressive movement. Kennedy authored the ridiculous
gay marriage ruling, after all. Roberts is smart enough to see how
ruling for the baker will unravel the Progressive project, so he will
probably produce some tortured logic to justify the state compelling
forced confessions from heretics.

This is the other consequence of eliminating freedom of association. The
cost of restoring it always appears too high. Most Southerners before
the Civil War understood that slavery was untenable, but the cost of
ending it was worse. That is what is facing the guardians of our
custodial state. They know the regime cooked up to address blacks in the
1960’s can only lead to tyranny, but unraveling it offers near term
costs that seem more frightening than whatever comes at some later date.
Things will just have to run their course.

It will not end well.

 
