---
title: "Defending Our Own"
date: "2018-06-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14183"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14183"
---

Wishful thinking says that the various tribes in the coalition of the
ascendant, the people we call the Left in America, will turn on one
another. The laws used to punish white people for being competent
society builders will be used by the new tribes against the coalition
and the whole thing will collapse. Then there was the point that the
people leading the coalition are the most tribal people on earth. This
is now playing out in the [lawsuit against
Harvard](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/15/us/harvard-asian-enrollment-applicants.html).

Harvard is not about education. It is about credentials. When you major
in math at Harvard, or any elite college, you are not learning a
different math from the math majors at UMass/Boston. Look through the
[course catalog of an elite
college](https://registrar.princeton.edu/course-offerings/course_details.xml?courseid=013109&term=1154)
and it is noticeably less rigorous than most state universities.
Entrance to an elite university is both an IQ test and social proof. If
you get accepted to Harvard, you are smart and you have the right
temperament to be in the ruling elite.

What is playing out in this Harvard lawsuit is that the dominant tribe
in the coalition is fighting to defend its position against this
insurgent tribe, which has figured out how to game the admissions
system. In order to prevent [Harvard from becoming 50%
Asian](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/harvard-university-admissions-racial-preferences-academic-standards/),
they have rigged the system. The trouble is this is just the same sort
of discrimination that Jews argued against last century. Instead of
WASP’s blocking Jews from admission, it is Jews blocking Asians on
cultural grounds.

It is important to remember that this is not about access to an
education. Exactly no one thinks you learn more at Harvard than at UCLA
or the University of Virginia. In fact, land grant universities, like
Michigan or Wisconsin, offer vastly better education facilitates than
the Ivy League colleges. What Harvard has is a credential that opens the
doors to the nation’s ruling elite. At Harvard, you are with the future
rulers and that has value to the current rulers.

The most probable outcome of this is the court eventually sides with
Harvard, by fashioning some ludicrous exception to the laws that govern
everyone else. After all, the current Supreme Court is made up of nine
Ivy League graduates. Look down at the roster of the Federal bench and
you will not see many guys named Wong who graduated from Cal State
Fullerton. The whole point of having power is to use it to reward your
friends and punish your enemies.

Now, this is amusing from the dissident perspective, but it is also
useful, in that it proves an essential point. That is, individualism is
a sure way to get trampled by a motivated identity group. The people on
top of the regime got there by sticking together and working for their
common good. The people suing them over admissions practices are doing
so as a group. In the world of progressive politics, group identity is
the top-level domain, it trumps everything else in the fight for
position.

The same thing is happening to America as a whole. As of 2011, America
was 60% non-Hispanic white. A majority of school aged children are
non-white. Given the endless flood of migrants into the country, the die
is cast. Within the next generation, whites in America will be a
minority. Given the level of nastiness we see towards whites all over
the popular culture, while whites remain a majority, imagine how
aggressive and violent our new overlords will be when we are a clear
minority.

This proves the other point about the multicultural creed. It inevitably
must lead to lawlessness and group identity politics. [Lee Kuan
Yew](http://www.spiegel.de/international/spiegel/spiegel-interview-with-singapore-s-lee-kuan-yew-it-s-stupid-to-be-afraid-a-369128.html)
was right, “In multiracial societies, you don’t vote in accordance with
your economic interests and social interests, you vote in accordance
with race and religion.”  Look at majority-minority places around the
world, or even cities in America with lots of diversity. Everyone puts
their tribe above all else.

For generations now, white people have been bathed in the poaching
liquid of individualism. Subversives like Ben Shapiro still preach this
stuff, even while he sports a yarmulke and fingers his two passports.
The frontier mentality is part of the romantic mythology of an America
most white people cling to like a life raft. Libertarianism is really
just a weird romanticism for a past that never existed and future that
has been foreclosed by multiculturalism.

This will change as reality becomes clearer. The general lawlessness we
see among our ruling classes is noticed. When white people enter “white
couple” in a [google image
search](https://www.google.com/search?q=white+couple&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjH167AuuzbAhUorlkKHRRcAbsQ_AUICigB&biw=1397&bih=887)
and it returns all race mixers, a white identitarian is born. This
battle between our would-be over-class and our current over-class is the
sort of thing that opens the eyes of white people about the reality of
America. Eventually, those words from Lee Juan Yew become a habit of
mind.
