---
title: "Squid Ink"
date: "2018-06-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14142"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14142"
---

If you scan the so-called conservative sites these days, the remarkable
thing is the dullness of them. The writing is mediocre, at best, and the
arguments are mostly washed-out ideas from the 80’s with a heavy dash of
libertarianism. The major issues of this age, immigration, identity,
populism, and nationalism are largely ignored. When they bother to pick
them up, it is to take swings at the growing army of people to their
right. The main role of so-called conservatism is to confuse and
discourage the rank-and-file conservatives.

[This old
column](https://www.nationalreview.com/g-file/conservatism-definition-difficult-produce/)
from Jonah Goldberg is a good example. It is in the style that he has
become mocked for of late. It is where he lards up his text with Borscht
Belt gags, along with a bunch pointless dissembling. The post is
supposed to take a stab at defining conservatism, but he just does a
bunch of name dropping, while making a hash of the subject. His jocular
style is intended to put the reader at ease, while his hemming and
hawing is supposed to make it seem like conservatism is up for debate.

Now, Goldberg is just an affable guy, who does not want to cause any
trouble, while pretending to be an intellectual. I am surely giving him
too much credit for suggesting his incoherence is intentional. [His
latest book](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13797) is so bad that I
suffered from [vicarious
embarrassment](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/my%C3%B6t%C3%A4h%C3%A4pe%C3%A4)
while reviewing it. Even so, he is not alone. If you look around the
so-called conservative intellectual space, it is a parade of
mediocrities spouting banal nonsense that mostly defends the status quo
against criticisms from the Right.

One argument against mediocrity is Ben Shapiro, who is pitched to us as
a pint-sized wunderkind. He has a billionaire backer for his web site, a
perch at National Review and the full support of Conservative Inc. If
that stuff does not impress you, Shapiro did manage to get into Harvard
at 16 and graduate at 20. Even the Left has started promoting him as the
conservative voice of his generation. Here he is explaining [the core
principles of conservatism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTqUhUJOBiU)
at a Young Americans Foundation event a couple of years ago.

In that speech, he starts out by claiming conservatism is about fairness
of opportunity, rather than fairness of outcome. Then he says
conservatism is about individual rights and individualism. He makes the
point a few times that group identity is invalid, which is rather
amusing coming from a guy who sports a yarmulke all the time. He
actually says we should target people who discriminate and use the law
against them. Not so long ago, conservatives warned that this was the
ultimate goal of the Left. Now, here we are.

Individualism sounds fine, especially if you are a member of a small
group hoping to topple the large group. If you can convince the large
group that it is immoral for them to stick together, then you can pick
them off one at a time. That is why there has never been a military
organized around individualism. It is also why conservatism never
embraced individualism. Deracinated and atomized people are easily
conquered, which is why his people have made group loyalty their
defining characteristic for a thousand years or more.

Shapiro is a smart guy, so he surely sees the contradictions. That means
he says things about conservatism that he knows are false, or at least
at odds with what has been the core of conservatism for centuries. Maybe
it is just what sells, and he is just an ambitious person willing to do
anything to get ahead. None of that really matters because the net
effect is the same. The well-meaning young people who look to guys like
Shapiro to put structure around their temperament are swimming in squid
ink.

One reason conservationism is now a dog’s breakfast of libertarian
nostrums and reworked liberal platitudes is that conservatism is short
of conservatives. The people carrying the banner for Official
Conservatism do not know the first thing about what it means to be
conservative. It is as if they have spent their lives trying to avoid
the great conservative thinkers. There is no trace of intellectual
giants in the ideas of the modern conservative. Take for example the
great quote from the philosopher Michael Oakeshott.

> To be conservative, then, is to prefer the familiar to the unknown, to
> prefer the tried to the untried, fact to mystery, the actual to the
> possible, the limited to the unbounded, the near to the distant, the
> sufficient to the superabundant, the convenient to the perfect,
> present laughter to utopian bliss.

Now, it takes immense talent to write something so powerful and
insightful with such an economy of language. No one can be blamed for
not having that skill. On the other hand, how is it possible to read
that, as a conservative, and not immediately understand that being on
the Right is not about individualism or anti-racism or any of the other
ridiculous fads popular on the Left? The answer is they are either too
dumb to see it or they hope their readers don’t see it. In other words,
the squid ink is intentional.
