---
title: "Understanding The War On Whitey"
date: "2018-11-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15640"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15640"
---

It is tempting to think that the war on white people we see today is
some sort of weird incoherent spasm of Progressivism. As Steve Sailer
likes to believe, it is part of an electoral strategy to keep the
coalition of non-whites from killing each other. If they are focused on
how much they hate white people, white men in particular, then they will
not fall into slaughtering one another. That is a tempting belief,
because it suggests it will abate on its own, once the various tribes of
the Left have exhausted themselves.

While there may be some truth to that assertion, at least in the narrow
confines of electoral politics, the truth is we are simply seeing the
next phase of a war that started not long after the end of the Second
World War. It was not an explicit war on whitey, as we see today, but
rather a war on white ideas about how best to organize a society. One
front was the war on institutions, by overrunning them and turning them
into pillboxes, from which the Left could attack white society. The
academy is the most obvious example.

Another front in this war has been the attack on the basic concepts that
whites in America have accepted as the foundation of order. In the
1960’s, the Left managed to outlaw freedom of association, with civil
rights legislation. The long-held view that you are free to associate
with whom you like was banned, in favor of a system of permissions
administered by the courts. Like in a prison, white people now need to
seek permission to associate or disassociate. You will note that
non-whites are free to organize as they please.

Another white concept that has been under attack for generations is the
notion of free inquiry. A peculiar feature of the West has always been a
curiosity about the world and a willingness to consider new ideas.
Openness predates the Enlightenment and is the reason the Enlightenment
happened where it did. There is no analog in Mesopotamia or Asia, and
certainly nothing similar in Africa. Free inquiry, the willingness to
reconsider old ideas and debate new ideas is a quintessentially white
concept.

Of course, the only way you can have free inquiry is to have the freedom
to challenge accepted notions in public. Free speech, as a political
concept, is just the implementation of free inquiry in the realm of
current affairs. The war on speech that we see today actually started
generations ago, as part of the general war on whiteness. In the 1970’s,
neoconservative thinker [Walter Berns successfully
argued](https://www.amazon.com/First-Amendment-Future-American-Democracy/dp/0465024106/)
that free speech was limited to “good speech” by which he meant speech
that served the interest of his team.

This quickly became neoconservative dogma. In the 1980’s, for example,
neocons attacked Ronald Reagan’s choice of [M.E.
Bradford](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mel_Bradford) to be chairman of
the National Endowment for the Humanities, on the grounds that he was
insufficiently worshipful of Abraham Lincoln. An [essential element of
the neoconservative persuasion](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15363)
is the deification of Lincoln as the true founder of the Republic.
Questioning that questions the neocon role in the American narrative, so
that sort of speech can never be tolerated.

Later, the odious carbuncle Bill Kristol used a similar tactic to drive
off the paleocons, particularly Pat Buchanan. The charge this time was
that the paleos were not sufficiently worshipful of Israel and Judaism.
Of course, the neocon analogs on the Left were more than happy to lock
arms with their brothers in making war on Buchanan. This is something we
see happening again as Jewish intellectuals and commentators across the
political spectrum [lock
yarmulkes](http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/interview-with-anti-semitism-historian-deborah-lipstadt-a-1235929.html)
to fight the menace that is Donald Trump.

That is why we see the overturning of basic contract law and property
concepts by the finance and technology giants. De-platforming is part of
the war on whiteness, specifically the rule of law. When a registrar
steals the domain name of a site they do not like, that is no different
than government agents busting up their property. It is state sponsored
terrorism by proxy. The rule of law and the orderly administration of
the law are white concepts, so overturning them is as important as
attacking white people directly.

This war on whiteness, that has now become an explicit war on white
people, is an accident of history. Some paleocons used to call it
Hitler’s revenge, because it grew out of a response to the holocaust.
Jewish intellectuals after the war struggled to understand why the Jews
of Europe did not fight back. The Warsaw ghetto uprising, for example,
is interesting only because of its uniqueness. Instead of this puzzle
resulting in self-examination, the response was an obsession with
antisemitism and fascism.

The Frankfurt School, for example, started as a project to apply Marxist
concepts to the culture. That is where we get the term “cultural
Marxism.” The project quickly curdled into an obsession
with antisemitism and fascism, culminating in [The Authoritarian
Personality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Authoritarian_Personality),
a model for evaluating the morality of white people. Inevitably, that
moral code was based on what the authors thought was good for the Jews.
Anything that was exclusive or excessively curious about the role of
Jews was deemed to be fascist or proto-fascist.

In a strange way, Hitler’s real revenge was the curdling of diaspora
culture into a war on Western civilization and a self-defeating war on
white people. Of course, the defeat of the Nazis also unleashed American
Progressivism as a global firestorm of cultural destructiveness. The
Nazis could not hold a candle to the viciousness of the modern human
resource department staffed by left-wing harpies. The popularity of Man
in the High Castle is that it seems benign in comparison to today’s
cultural environment.
