---
title: "The Persistence of Bad Ideas"
date: "2018-12-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15725"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15725"
---

The old line about a lie being halfway around the world before the truth
is out of bed is a keen observation, but it also suggests something
about the nature of lies. That is, a lie that gets around has some
appealing quality to it. The reason it spreads so quickly is people want
to believe it. There is something about it that ticks all the right
boxes. As a result, even smart and skeptical people not only want to
believe it, but they want to help everyone else believe it. Some lies
turn everyone they touch into willing accomplices.

Bad ideas are like that too. For some reason, people want to believe
them, even when it really makes no sense to believe them. For example,
most people still think your diet can have a significant impact on your
health. If you eat fatty foods, you will have a heart attack. At the
extremes this is true, but most diseases are genetic. When it comes to
heart disease, [diet has nothing to do with
it](https://jaymans.wordpress.com/2013/08/18/even-george-w-bush-has-heart-disease/).
The same is true of things like cholesterol levels, where there is
[little data to support a
link](https://www.irishtimes.com/news/health/no-evidence-high-cholesterol-causes-heart-disease-say-doctors-1.3627093)
between “bad” cholesterol and heart disease.

Part of what drives the persistence of bad ideas is they seem to address
a need among modern people to believe in free will. As the human
sciences build the case that we are the product of our genetic coding,
the need to believe we can overcome that by force of will become
stronger. Therefore, if you have a family history of heart disease, you
want to believe eating unpleasant food, like some form of preemptive
penance, will ward off the reality of your genetic makeup. Your diet
becomes a *moral* issue for you.

The concept of epigenetics seems to be following a similar path. It is
becoming this catchall idea that lets people ignore what we know, in
favor of speculative nonsense that has no supporting data. [This set of
long
posts](https://arktos.com/2018/11/28/spengler-epigenetics-and-the-idea-of-race/)
on the Arktos site the other day are a good example of the phenomenon.
The argument from the author is that epigenetics proves that experiences
can be passed onto subsequent generation through a biological process,
just as genetic traits like eye color are passed on from parent to
child.

The author is picking up on something Oswald Spengler argued. That is,
the land of a people shapes their sense of identity, how they see
themselves and their purpose. This in turn shapes their culture. The
author of the Arktos piece thinks science is proving that these
collective cultural experiences as a people are shared but also passed
on to subsequent generations via the miracle of epigenetics. He points
to [some
papers](http://www.chd.ucsd.edu/_files/winter2009/waddington-assimilation.pdf)
on the subject and [this
study](https://www.biologicalpsychiatryjournal.com/article/S0006-3223(15)00652-6/abstract)
on the children of holocaust survivors.

The original definition of epigenetics¹ is the study of how genes are
expressed, from a biological perspective. Your DNA contains instructions
for determining your eye and hair color, for example, but it also
contains instructions for more subtle things like personality traits.
You inherit your DNA from your parents. Epigenetics refers to ways in
which those genes are turned on and off. Genes are the blueprint for
creating proteins, while epigenetics is the study of how genes are read.

The way in which epigenetics is used here and in popular writing is the
claim that your experiences can somehow be passed onto your children.
This is complete nonsense and there is no evidence to support it. You
cannot pass on your experiences to your offspring through any known
biological processes. This nutty idea was cooked up by left-wing
agitators so they could claim victimhood by proxy. Their ancestors were
treated poorly, so they are now suffering from the same effects, as part
of their biological inheritance.

To now put this bad idea to use in the name of race realism or the moral
philosophy of Oswald Spengler is amusing, but every bit as a nutty. As
Greg Cochran once put it, this line of reasoning is like saying if you
chop off a cat’s tale, it is kittens will be born without tales. There
is simply no known biological process for passing on experiences or
learned behavior. In fact, the changes to how your genes are read as a
result of environmental factors are reset in the zygote. In other words,
you cannot pass on your experiences.

Now, the author of the Arktos piece is probably a nice guy with good
intentions. His background is history and theology, so he can be
forgiven for not understanding the human sciences part of this. That
raises the question of why epigenetics is so attractive an explanation
for someone without math or science. Why embrace something about which
you know nothing? The obvious answer is it supports his main point, but
another aspect of it is that the old need to believe in free will. We
are not just moist robots.

In this way, bad ideas are like great salesmen. The bad idea always
flatters the person who is willing to believe it. Pitchmen and
motivational speakers have relied on flattery since forever, because
people like being flattered. The flattery of free will is that you,
unlike the rest of those slobs out there, control your destiny. The
promise of epigenetics is that your decisions today will alter the lives
of generations to come, because your decisions will be passed onto them,
whether they like it or not. You are a god.

Of course, it also suggests something about the future. Many think that
the unriddling of the human genome will usher in an age of reason. The
fact that [our theological overlords have suddenly become evangelical
opponents](https://quillette.com/2018/11/30/the-new-evolution-deniers/)
of the human sciences, while embracing things like epigenetics, suggests
otherwise. Belief is powerful magic, that has always found a way to
override factual reality. That is probably the main reason bad ideas are
like drug resistant viruses. They make it easy to avoid facing reality.

¹I’m not writing a biology textbook here, so if you’re tempted to sperg
out on the science, restrain yourself. This is not a post about science.
