---
title: "The Managerial Clique"
date: "2018-09-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15101"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15101"
---

The political philosopher James Burnham is usually credited with coining
the phrase *managerial state*. In his seminal work, *The Managerial
Revolution,* he theorized about the future of world capitalism. He was a
former communist, like a lot of intellectuals of the period, so he
thought about social organization from that perspective. He was mostly
wrong about the evolution of capitalism, but he did describe an emerging
phenomenon that is with us today. That is the semi-permanent managerial
class that runs American society.

Paleocons would later pick up on the phrase and the concept to critique
both the conventional Right, as well as Progressives. Sam Francis, Joe
Sobran, Paul Gottfried, and others would describe the managerial elite
as an amorphous collection of bureaucrats, politicians and academics
that occupies the important institutions. This class maintains power by
not only controlling the institutions, but also public morality.
Gottfried described it as a theocratic religion, that uses accusations
of impiety as a shield against challenges.

Like most theorists of his age, Burnham understood capitalism shaped by
the materialist philosophy of Marx. Therefore, he could not conceive of
an economic model evolving as a weapon used by a new class that formed
out of the bourgeoisie. The paleocons understood this as they lived it.
Their friends and family were often members of this new class.
Paul Gottfried was a college professor, for example. They could see how
a hybrid form of capitalism was used by this new class to maintain power
in America.

Even the paleocons missed an important aspect of this new class. It is
something rooted in man and that is the extreme provincialism in the
managerial elites. Despite their claims to worldliness and cosmopolitan
affectations, these are people with the worldview of burghers. They may
pronounce foreign words with a foreign accent, but their knowledge of
anything outside their tiny bureaucratic universe is limited. With few
exceptions, theirs is a world of small cliques conspiring against others
for bits of turf.

We see this in the unfolding conspiracy within the FBI and the DOJ to
subvert the last election. Taken in total, the FBI portion of the
conspiracy looks like something you would see in high school, where the
nerds plotted some caper against the jocks. Like teenagers, they did
most of their plotting via text message. This is not the work of
sophisticated actors operating on the world stage. This is the work of a
small collection of clerks and functionaries. Its petty provincialism
directed at an outsider viewed as a threat.

This last week, this pettiness was underscored by the revelation that
[Rod Rosenstein was plotting against
Trump](https://www.wral.com/rosenstein-suggested-he-secretly-record-trump-and-discussed-25th-amendment/17863723/).
It could be [a
caper](https://www.conservativereview.com/news/levin-dont-fall-for-the-new-york-times-rosenstein-trap/)
run by the neocon loons that are now infiltrating the New York Times and
Washington Post. More likely, given the source is FBI memos about
meetings with Rosenstein, this is the small group of FBI plotters
stabbing at a former ally for personal reasons. Andrew McCabe was more
concerned with someone he viewed as a rival in his little world, than he
was with the overall plot to subvert Trump.

This is the nature of the managerial revolt we see going on, as well as
the resistance to the Trump agenda within Washington. It is not a
collection of policy professionals with deep philosophical differences
with the White House. It is pods of overgrown college students throwing
tantrums about petty turf disputes and hurt feelings. Look at [the
nature of the push
back](https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2018/09/19/conflicting-reports-over-doj-and-fbi-classification-and-redaction-removal/#more-154280)
against declassifying documents. It is cliques of coevals operating from
purely personal motives. For most of these people, this is just another
playground dispute.

That is the nature of the managerial class now. When you start to look
at the people in these various cliques, you see that they often share
more than just a cultural and class background. They grew up with one
another, went to the same prep schools and worked with one another for
years. Once one member of the clique lands an important position in the
bureaucracy, he sets about recruiting his friends, classmates, and
neighbors to join his team. It turns out that the Dunbar number applies
to the managerial class too.

The crisis we see in Western liberal democracy may be rooted in this
feature of the managerial class. The bureaucratic government of
Diocletian was like a super tanker plodding along through the sea. It
was hard to steer, but even harder to stop. Its strength was in the
sheer force of its size. The modern bureaucracy has evolved not to
defend the secular leadership through sheer force. Rather, it has
evolved to serve the narrow interests of the bourgeoisie class who
populate it, to defend their interests.

Like all things that evolve within a democratic framework, the time
preference of this class is very high. The plotters within the FBI, for
example, were more concerned about jostling for status within their
clique, than what could happen after the election. Judging by the text
exchanges between Strzok and Page, it appears these two had the time
preference of the typical ghetto dweller. None of these people thought
much about what would come next or what could happen if their emotional
needs were not properly satisfied.

Since the dawn of human settlement, the point of the state has been to
maintain the power and position of the people in charge by protecting
the interests of the people. The king gets to be king, and all that
comes with it, by defending his people from threats. This requires a low
time preference as the king expects to be king tomorrow and maybe even
have his heirs sit on the throne when he is gone. Even a republican form
of governance is designed to serve the interests of the property
holders, who obviously have long term interests.

The managerial class that has subsumed western public institutions,
exists to expand and protect the interest of these petty cliques, at the
expense of the public. It is not just parasitic, in terms of undermining
the middle and working classes. It is parasitic within its own
institutions. Since what matters is status within the clique, which has
a transactional relationship within the institution it occupies. No one
within the clique can think long term about the good of the institution.
All they can do is borrow the language of the institution.
