---
title: "The Economics Of Democratic Empire"
date: "2018-12-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15929"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15929"
---

The economics of empire are well understood. Persia for example,
conquered the surrounding people, because it meant those people paid
tribute to Persia. The cost of conquest was covered by the initial
booty, at least in theory. Tribute was calculated on the ability to pay
and the cost of defending the new land. While Ego certainly played a
major role in empire building, economics were also a factor. In agrarian
society, land was the store of wealth, so acquiring new lands was how a
people got rich.

This is the reason empires preferred to negotiate with potential new
vassals, rather than just invade. It made the math predictable. The
initial conquests were all about the warrior spirit or maybe old
grudges, but as an empire matured, it was about economics. If a
city-state on the Aegean, for example, was willing to submit to Persia
without a fight, the cost of conquest was easy to calculate. Not only
that, but it also lowered the cost of maintaining the relationship, as
the new vassal would be cooperative.

This has been the rule of empire since the first empire. The Romans
conquered the Italian peninsula because of age old conflicts with the
neighboring people. They conquered the Mediterranean because it made
them rich. The British Empire was a purely financial empire, as were all
the colonial empires. There were rivalries between the European powers,
for sure, but their main motivation was economic. Conquering the New
World and Africa was all about enriching the conquerors.

There has always been another element to the economics of empire and
that is the nature of rule. Empires have always been defined by personal
rule. A ruling family or maybe a ruling tribe, sat atop the system. They
owned land themselves and treated their conquests as personal property,
even if they were not defined so legally. When new lands were acquired,
the emperor or king got his cut first. Then the rest was distributed to
his lieutenants and supporters down to the soldiers themselves.

Personal rule means personal responsibility. Darius, the Persian
emperor, had a personal stake in the welfare of his vassals. To simply
loot them would be like a shepherd skinning his flock, rather than
shearing them. The economics of empire have always been the same as the
economics of monarchy. The people at the top must treat their vassal
states as they would treat their own property, which means they have a
stake in their prosperity and therefore a motivation to preserve the
value of the conquest.

America is the first democratic empire. The British Empire had
democratic elements, like a parliament and limited suffrage, but it was
a long way from liberal democracy, as we currently define it. By the
time liberal democracy swept the West in the first half of the last
century, the British Empire was in steep decline. That process was the
result of America rising to dominate the West and eventually become the
global hegemon. America elected to conquer the world to spread
democracy.

Democracy, of course, turns the ruling class of a country into renters.
Unlike an owner, a monarch for example, the office holders in a
democracy are in it for short term profit. The next election could find
them back in the dreaded private sector. To hedge against that
eventuality, they must convert as much private property into public
property, to distribute it to friends of government. Democracy is just a
formalized version of [tragedy of the
commons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons), that
always ends in it [murdering
itself](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/49810-i-do-not-say-that-democracy-has-been-more-pernicious).

The question then is how a democratic empire can survive, when the
ruling elite of that empire are motivated to loot the empire. In the
Cold War, this was not a consideration, because the other side was a
similar empire built around communism, which is just the material
implementation of democracy. The natural inclination of both systems to
loot themselves was checked by the very real threat of nuclear
annihilation. The commies invested in territorial integrity, while the
West invested in their economies.

The collapse of the Soviet Empire is something that gets little
attention, as it is just assumed to have been inevitable. Communism,
however, shares something with liberal democracy. The people at the top
have no incentive to invest in society. The Soviets did not develop
their social and human capital. Instead, it ruthlessly exploited it,
along with the natural resources of the territory. The Soviet system was
like a renter using the furniture for firewood. When the energy markets
collapsed, the Soviets collapsed.

Liberal democratic empire, rather than strip mine natural resources from
the land, monetizes social capital through cost shifting. For example,
business brings in foreign workers to suppress wages but then dumps
those workers into the surrounding community. Their cost of support
consumes the social capital of that community through corruption of
local institutions, increases in crime and social alienation. In other
words, the cost of cheap goods is the loss of community and local
control.

Another aspect of the exploitative economics of liberal democratic
empire is how America strip mines foreign lands of their human capital.
Silicon Valley, for example, is majority non-white. The best minds from
around the world are recruited to the economic centers of the empire.
Spend time around the Imperial Capital and it is not only a foreign
country, but also an alien country. It is nothing like the rest of the
empire. That is because it is a collection point for foreign elites
serving the empire.

What collapsed the Soviet system was the same as with any economic
enterprise. The cost of maintaining it exceeded the benefits of
maintaining it. The Soviets ran out of cash to pay their bills and went
bankrupt. The Soviets had to subsidize the vassal states for the local
elites to remain in power. They also had to spend on security forces to
keep those local elites from getting any ideas. The cost of doing those
things eventually exceeded the proceeds of natural resource extraction.

In the American empire, a different crisis is brewing. The destruction
of social capital has reached a point where the middle class is
collapsing. Inequality has never been higher, but it promises to soar as
the Baby Boom generation ages off and their assets are consumed by the
state. The proliferation of private debt to provide the illusion of
prosperity and mask the loss of social capital has beggared the young.
The next generation is guaranteed to have a lower standard of living
than their parents.

The collapse of social capital is surely one cause of [the decline in
entrepreneurship](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lnkax3Vz6Ln4awmQsJNTMotmFxgiP_kk/view).
To start a business is to take a risk. Having social support not only
mitigates the cost of failure, but it also encourages risk taking. As
capital, social and human, has been collected into the control of an
increasingly narrow elite, entrepreneurship has declined while overall
leverage has grown. The rentier system of liberal democracy has turned
the ruling elites into renters, using up resources without replacing
them.

The Russian implementation of democratic communism in an empire became
unstable when the proceeds from energy sales could not cover the cost of
empire. Like a business with a negative cash flow, it simply ran out of
money and collapsed. It is tempting to think something similar happens
in America. After all, government debt at all levels is staggering and
is accelerating. That is a mistake, however, as the state is no longer
in control of the empire. Control now rests in private hands.

Proof of that is the inability of the empire to control the borders.
Across the West, the voters want to sharply reduce legal immigration and
end all illegal migration. Yet supposedly sovereign governments are
unable to do it. In America, the President is stymied at every turn by a
system largely controlled by forces that exist outside the government.
The reason there can be no border wall is the managerial elite that
benefits from and oversees the empire will never permit it.

The more likely source of instability will come from the cannibalization
of social capital that has been the fuel of the “new economy” for
decades. The loss of social capital has reduced social trust, which in
turn has resulted in a decline in trust of national civic institutions.
Why would people put faith in their institutions when their office
holders are powerless? That is a lesson rocketing around Europe. It
explains the “yellow vest” protests and the rise of right-wing populism.

In America, only a fool believes the ruling class. People are becoming
increasingly alarmed by what is happening in the administrative state
and its private partners in the technology and financial class. This
loss of trust will inevitably lead people to look for alternative
sources of legitimacy, authority, and collective security. Identity
politics is just a preview. As America becomes majority-minority,
politics becomes a winner take all proposition, which will foster a rise
of tribal politics.

The traditional empire always stagnated when it stopped expanding. What
followed was a long period of decline. In a democratic empire, the
economics that naturally flow from democracy hollow out the empire, by
converting its social capital into power and status of a detached ruling
elite. The global rulers of today see themselves as detached from those
over whom they rule. Their subjects are just resources to be utilized
and discarded.

The question to be answered is what happens to the American empire when
the social capital is gone? Is it possible for a tiny alien elite to
maintain control of a continent-wide population entirely dependent on
the system for order and stability? Can the culture of the penitentiary
scale up in such a way that the inmates still believe they oversee the
institution? No one knows, because there has never been a democratic
empire, but that is the task facing the ruling class of the American
empire.
