---
title: "The Art of Life"
date: "2018-11-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15514"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15514"
---

At the Mencken Conference, I made a point to some people that if a
reasonably aware and smart person in the 1970’s had fallen asleep, like
Rip Van Winkle, and woke up in our age, he would assume the Soviets had
won the Cold War. After all, we have adopted the aesthetic of the
Soviets. Our cars all look the same and come in black, white or shades
of gray. Our buildings are sterile, utilitarian structures. Our high and
low art is purely ornamentation, rather than imitation.

Living as we do in this age, we do not often notice this, but we live
among the ruins of the culture that made the West. That culture is dead.
It is why our creative side does not create much of anything. The other
day a high-end art auction featured a work that self-destructs. That was
probably the closest thing to art created by a modern artist in several
generations. Otherwise, it is all pointless nonsense. At best, it
matches the decor and provides a tax break for the owner.

The death of Western culture started with the spread of democracy.
Modernism began roughly a century ago with painters of limited skill,
abandoning any attempt to imitate or celebrate the world around them and
instead make increasingly abstract pictures. By the middle of the 20th,
painting meant something closer to what is produced at a daycare center.
Sculpture looked like something found in the local dog park and
architecture had devolved into
[brutalism](https://www.tate.org.uk/art/art-terms/b/brutalism).

The top-down decay made its way into the lower forms of cultural
expression. Look at popular music which probably peaked in the 1970’s
but is now produced by robots and grunting retards with no musical
training. When was the last time someone wrote poetry popular with the
middle-class? Do they even teach school children poetry? The world of
fiction is mostly a poor imitation of what was done in the past. Even
movies, modern creations, are now made by robots and aimed at foreign
audiences.

Imitation is the celebration of life. That is the art of a thriving
culture. Like a child coming into the world, it seeks to capture beauty
through imitation. It is why most of the Western literary canon was
created by young writers, while the great histories are written by old
people. Today, the brightest minds wish to spend years in ugly training
centers called colleges so they can get a cubicle job and participate in
the enforced conformity that defines this age. Our young people have no
souls.

Ornamentation, in contrast, is the sign of a dead culture. There is
nothing left to create, so the goal is merely to “add a personal touch”
to the creation of others. Home builders stamp out the same dozen house
designs but allow the buyer to alter some of the light fixtures, so they
can pretend to be unique. Cars are all aerodynamically designed to look
the same, but you can get the sport package. Every pop song made by the
robots sounds the same, but the singer wears a slightly different
outfit.

As people living in the winter of Western culture, it can be
discouraging. After all, what is the point of trying to preserve
anything, if it is already dead? Why engage in political fights, if the
outcome, in a sense, has been decided? It is important to remember that
the world does not end when an important man dies. The world may go off
in a different direction than if he had lived, but it goes on,
nonetheless. Cultures come into being, grow and thrive, then decline and
die.

Here is the important thing though. The plowed under fields of the one
age become the birthing ground from which will sprout the life of the
next age. For example, imagine if in the next election, all white
Americans decide to sit it out. Whites do not run for office,
participate in the debates, or follow the action. Whites stopped voting.
Fox News would have Ben Shapiro debating Tariq Nasheed diversity but
they will do so as a pantomime to no one.

If whites turn their back on the rest of the people living in this land,
those people will spin themselves like tops trying to get whites to
reengage with them. That is because what we think of as culture is
purely a white thing. That flicker of life is an ember carried from one
white culture to the next. If whites turn their back on all this, they
will not be looking into a void, but into a mirror. They will see
themselves and their power to create. This scales up a new culture being
born.

That is why people on this side of the great divide continue to engage
with whites still trapped on the other side. It is why we engage in
politics, follow the news, and debate the issues of the day. Every
election, every event, is a chance to tap a normal white guy on the
shoulder, so he breaks free from the trance for just a minute, to see
that there is something else going on and he needs to be a part of it.
After every election, after every turn of the wheel, the boats crossing
the river to this side.

We may be living in an ugly age, but you cannot have spring without
winter. It is the normal cycle of western civilization. At some point,
the number of people realizing this reaches a critical mass. The project
then swings from trying to animate the long dead carcass of the past, to
building a new culture for a new people. In time, the aesthetic will
reflect the flourishing of the new, a celebration of life through
imitation. Most people reading this will never see it, but you will
probably live to see the green shoots.

 
