---
title: "The Summer Of Hate"
date: "2018-12-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15770"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15770"
---

The Drudge Report has, for the most part, become a tabloid outlet for
the political cranks and Hollywood degenerates. His page is full of the
crazy rantings of media attention whores or stories about entertainment
figures. The former is due to Drudge being a parasite on the mass media
and the latter is due to his affliction. As a result, it no longer works
as a useful portal to get the news of the day. Still, if you want to
take the temperature of the Progressive loons in the mass media, Drudge
is useful.

Currently, he has a picture of the bug-eyed bug-man Adam Schiff staring
out from the page, in his best Charlie Manson face. In bold letters is
the headline, “SCHIFF STARES DOWN TRUMP FACES JAIL MEDIA PUSH
IMPEACHMENT” Obviously, the point is to grab your attention. A little
below, in the center column, are links to stories from various left-wing
[crazies](https://www.mediaite.com/tv/watergate-journo-bernstein-for-the-first-time-in-his-life-trump-is-cornered-due-to-mueller-probe/)
describing the looming arrest, impeachment and jailing of President
Trump. “There’s a gathering storm…you can feel it” reads [one
link](https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/meryl-streep-why-people-should-be-afraid-trump-star-is-born-1167842).

Left-wing sites like the Huffington Post, of course, have been on the
pending Trump indictment since 2015, so every day they run at least one
post swearing it will happen any minute. Alternatively, they will run a
post
[fantasizing](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/donald-trump-resign-pardon-jennifer-rubin_us_5c0dd8d8e4b035a7bf5c83d2)
about Trump’s last days. They always imagine him as Hitler in the
bunker, because of the usual suspects. Like kids in the week before
Christmas, the Left is sure that any day they will wake up and learn
that Trump has been hauled out of the White House in chains to face
trial for his crimes.

These postings in the media are mostly part of a well-orchestrated
propaganda campaign orchestrated by the NeverTrump loons. Like a
disease, these people have spread from their warrens in so-called
conservative media to all of the mass media. In one of life’s ironies,
these people are determined to prove everyone right about the nature of
subversives. The NeverTrump leaders have apparently decided that Kevin
McDonald’s books were how-to manuals. Thus, we get this organized
subversion of the media.

Putting that aside, the reason these sites are desperate for trashy
stories about Trump being hurled into a dungeon is there is an audience
for it. Just as steam whistles like Sean Hannity dominate conservative
cable, these sites are catering to an audience that wants to hear
confirmation. Because all of the media is run by the usual suspects,
this segment has always been overserved, but that does not change the
fact the audience exists. In America, there are millions who think Trump
is the Hitler described in the prophesies.

The question that arises is what happens if nothing happens? What is
palpable on the MAGA side of the world is that the people who voted for
Trump are becoming dispirited because he has done pretty much nothing in
two years. Nothing that matters to a large swath of his voters. Despite
efforts to spin it otherwise, Trump won on immigration and what it
represents. His failings on the issue have started to convince many of
his supporters that it was all just a big con, and nothing was ever
going to happen.

Of course, as Trump morphs into Jeb Bush, the Washington political elite
has no reason to get rid of him. Trump as useful idiot is certainly
better than Trump as martyr. The base of the Democratic party may want
impeachment, but the people in charge want the status quo, so they are
probably trying to figure out how to look busy, while doing nothing,
hoping that is enough for their crazies. The trouble is the NeverTrump
loons will never quit, so they will be stoking those fires until the oil
runs out.

One result of the Obama years was a rise in black violence, peaking with
series of BLM murder sprees set off by the White House. From the 2010
election forward, Team Obama had been working to get their voters angry,
hoping that would result in good election results in 2012 and 2014. The
trouble was those angry blacks thought it was authentic, and they
expected something to happen. When it did not happen, they decided to
take matters into their own hands. The result was a summer of BLM murder
and mayhem.

Will something like that be in the cards for the summer of 2019? It is
hard to know, but the Democrats take the House in January, and they are
showing few signs of restraint. They toned it down a bit in the election
to not scare the remaining whites in their coalition, but they seem to
be determined to go full crazy once in power. Maybe it is just a pose.
Perhaps they are hoping a well-choreographed bit of theater is enough to
satiate the howling mobs of their coalition. Maybe they have unleashed
forces they cannot control.

On the other hand, Trump has been a cunning political animal, even if he
has been all thumbs when it comes to governance. He clearly thinks
having Adam Schiff and Nancy Pelosi as foils is good for his re-election
campaign. That means he will be doing everything he can to poke that
hornet’s nest. The stage is set for a year of NeverTrump loons stoking
the impeachment fires, while the steam whistles in conservative talk
radio and cable TV blow full blast making sure the red hats are fully
engaged in the fight.

The trouble with the future is it is unpredictable, so how all this
unfolds cannot be known in advance. Most likely, the Democrats have not
yet worked out how to proceed and Team Trump is a circus of confusion.
Still, the ingredients are in place for a very ugly year and when the
Left gets ugly, it always means bloodshed. Now that those Antifa mobs no
longer have Richard Spencer to chase around, they will need to do
something. Odds are, it means attacking red hat wearing Trump supporters
in the coming summer of hate.
