---
title: "Thinking Backward"
date: "2018-01-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - HBD
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12628"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12628"
---

One of the hardest things to do when thinking about a subject is to
start without a desired outcome. Most people start with the end in mind
and work backwards, finding supporting evidence or constructing their
argument. There is noting wrong with it, just as long as you are willing
to change your mind when you stumble upon contradictory data or an
alternative argument. That is hard, though, so most people do not do it.
Ideologues stubbornly cling to their ideology, because it is easier than
confronting their beliefs.

The funny thing is most people do not realize they are thinking
backward. Even with the popularization of the term
[priors](https://wiki.lesswrong.com/wiki/Priors) by economists, few
people bother to examine or even consider that they are working within a
moral framework. In fact, most people do not even consider the
possibility of there being a moral framework. In America, at least,
people who engage in publicize discourse at any level are almost always
operating from the assumption they are freely exploring the full range
of possible outputs and inputs.

The truth is, Progressives have imposed a moral framework on American
public debate and most of their efforts are aimed at maintaining it. The
four mortal sins of the modern age are antisemitism, racism, sexism and
homophobia. There is nothing rational about these sins. In fact, these
crimes have little support in Western history. All of them were cooked
up in the 1960’s as the New Left seized control of public institutions.
A quick look at Google N-Gram for their frequency in print makes this
point quite clearly.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/sexism.png"
class="wp-image-12634 size-full" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 1089px) 100vw, 1089px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/sexism.png 1089w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/sexism-300x121.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/sexism-768x310.png 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/sexism-1024x414.png 1024w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/sexism-500x202.png 500w"
width="1089" height="440" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/sexism.png)

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/racism.png"
class="wp-image-12635 size-full" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 1076px) 100vw, 1076px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/racism.png 1076w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/racism-300x118.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/racism-768x303.png 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/racism-1024x404.png 1024w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/racism-500x197.png 500w"
width="1076" height="424" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/racism.png)

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/antsemiticism.png"
class="wp-image-12636 size-full" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="auto, (max-width: 1115px) 100vw, 1115px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/antsemiticism.png 1115w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/antsemiticism-300x118.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/antsemiticism-768x302.png 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/antsemiticism-1024x402.png 1024w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/antsemiticism-500x196.png 500w"
width="1115" height="438" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/antsemiticism.png)

If you could go back in time and retrieve some of the most Progressive
thinkers from a century ago, and bring them into the present, they would
be baffled by the limitations on modern debate. Teddy Roosevelt would be
baffled as to why Jews, blacks and women were even allowed to
participate in public debate. The point here is that the moral framework
in which we operate as modern Americans is entirely contrived and
entirely new. It is as if we have been colonized by a minority cult
imposing their alien religion.

Few think much about this as most of us have been born into it, but the
way to understand the current troubles and the Dissident Right is to
understand this point. Our public debates in the West are not about
finding the right trade-offs to arrive at a sensible set of public
polices. It is about public piety and defending the dominant moral
framework. For example, when a guy like [Sargon of Akkad decides to form
a new cult](http://liberalists.org/principles/) based on Civic
Nationalism, it is important to focus on what goes unsaid, rather than
what he says.

Now, [I have covered the limitations of Carl
Benjamin](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11648) in the past, but it is
still useful to look through his new cult’s founding principles. What is
missing from his laundry list of items, obviously plucked from
libertarian forums, is freedom of association. The reason for that
omission, and I doubt he thought much about it, is that freedom of
association means the freedom to privately discriminate. If you are free
to associate with whomever you like, you are free to *disassociate* with
whomever you like, for any reason you like.

For guys like Benjamin and his followers, they have been marinated their
whole lives in the morality of the Left. They just assume that private
discrimination is immoral and always has been immoral. They assume it to
be true in the same way people accept gravity. Even when they think
about it, they quickly realize this road leads to heresy, so they change
the subject. In the case of Benjamin, he is publicly in favor of laws
against private discrimination. He thinks the Christian baker should be
compelled to bake the cake.

The amusing thing with libertarians, but also the incoherent liberals
like Benjamin, is that they will fly into a rage if you suggest ending
abortion or oppose drug legalization. They demand the citizen’s absolute
right of dominion over their body. There is one exception. A person is
free to fill their body with drugs or hire someone to rip out their
unborn child, but they have no right to position their body next to
someone else without first getting permission from the state. The
irrationality of that position never occurs to them.

The fact is though, individual liberty starts with freedom of
association. No one has a right to be around you, which is the
fundamental argument underlying the four mortal sins of Progressivism.
Blacks have a right to associate with whites. Women have a right to work
in your business or join your club. Jews have a right to join your golf
club. Homosexuals have a right to be around your kids. Restore freedom
of association and all of those conjured rights become irrational and
unenforceable. Modern liberalism collapses.

That sort of forward thinking is strictly prohibited, so everyone is
forced to think backward, starting with the “Four Isms” and then
creating a moral philosophy within those limits. It is not hard to
imagine Benjamin sweating over his manifesto, with the image in his mind
of a purple faced racist standing in the doorway to block blacks, Jews,
gays and women from entering his business. Liberals and libertarians are
forced to defend liberty within the increasingly constrained space
permitted within the moral framework of Progressivism.

That is the fundamental reason the Dissident Right exists. It is a
rejection of that moral framework. The alt-right kids talk about being
red-pilled, but what they really mean is they asked themselves something
like “why do blacks have a right to be near me?” No one was able to
provide an answer, other than “shut up!” What we are seeing is smart
young white guys figuring out that the starting point of any sane
society must be freedom of association. No one has the right to be
around you or have easy access to your culture.

Group identity is the natural outgrowth of personal liberty. If you are
free to be around whomever you choose, the group has the same right. If
a bunch of libertarians wish to setup a town on libertarian principles
and make adherence to those principles a condition of membership, they
have the right. If on the other hand, everyone must seek permission to
association with others, then there can be no individual liberty of any
kind. Places where people must get permission to speak and move are
called prisons.
