---
title: "The Gangster State"
date: "2018-07-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14318"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14318"
---

The defining feature of gang life is personal loyalty trumps all else.
This is true for low level street gangs, as well as complex organized
gangs. The rules are not written down or agreed to by consensus. They
are imposed top-down by a group of men loyal to one man and to each
other. The head of a drug cartel has lieutenants to enforce discipline
on those down the line. The rules within those groups are similarly
enforced by lieutenants loyal to the guy in charge of the group.

The effect of this is a chaotic lawlessness. The punishment for the
exact same transgression may be wildly different in two different cases.
It all depends upon the relationship between the boss and the offender.
While all criminal organizations have rules against betraying
confidences, there is no fixed rule on the punishment, despite what you
see on television. Baltimore gangsters rat on one another all the time
to get better prison terms, with varying consequences.

Consider what we are watching with our government. <a
href="https://dailycaller.com/2018/07/06/charges-trump-inauguration-protesters/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">News</a> brings word that the US Attorney
is dropping charges against the terrorists who went on a rampage during
the inauguration last year. They announced this on a holiday week, so it
would get the least amount of news coverage. Now, they certainly could
have looked into who financed the riot, who helped organize it and then
went after the shot callers, but they never bothered to do any of that.
Instead, they dropped the case.

Now, we have mountains of laws for dealing with criminal groups. The
Feds could go after a [Lacy
MacAuley](http://jackmurphylive.com/john-goldman-public-charter-school-board/),
who details her activities on-line, in order to figure out who pays her
rent. Then they could go after that person or group. This is basic
police work. At the very minimum, the people financing these terrorists
would know they have some exposure, but that never happens. You see,
everyone knows who finances Antifa and other terrorists operations.

Here is another example. Peter Strzok is the focus of a serious criminal
conspiracy to subvert the last election. A mountain of evidence pointing
to his guilt has been in the public domain for a year, yet he was just
recently fired from the FBI. He has not been charged with anything and
it appears he will never be charged. In fact, he is now telling Congress
he has no intention of testifying. In fact, he is not going to <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2018/07/03/politics/strozk-lawyer-subpoena-cnntv/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">show up</a>. Their silly laws no longer
apply to people in his gang.

Again, this gets to the way in which gang life operates. There may be
rules, but what matters is who enforces the rules and to whom the rules
are to be applied. In this case, the wide-ranging criminal organization
known as the Democratic Party will never let their people get punished
by the Republicans. Those rules about complying with a subpoena from
Congress only apply when the gangsters with power can enforce them and
they will only enforce them when it suits their interests.

This becomes more obvious when looking at the whole criminal enterprise
that is currently called the FBI. There is no question that the people
at the top engaged in a wide-ranging criminal conspiracy to spy on the
Trump campaign and engineer a criminal investigation of his
administration, for the purpose of removing him from office. This is so
obvious that no one bothers to deny it. Instead, the game is to avoid
discussing it in public and pretend it never happened.

Lurking in the secret FBI files can be only three possibilities. One,
there is proof they cooked the whole thing to help get Hillary Clinton
elected. The other is some out of left field explanation for the
mountain of data, that points to an innocent motive. The final option is
a massive hole in the system where the damning proof used to exist but
has now been destroyed as part of the cover-up. To date, [the FBI and
DOJ refuse to comply with Congressional
subpoenas](http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2018/07/06/doj-fbi-still-not-in-full-compliance-with-document-request-sources.html)
to answer this question.

Again, we are back to the gangster model. The people inside these
agencies have a primary loyalty to the gang, not to the laws of the
country or the alleged institutions charged with promulgating and
enforcing the laws. In gang life, you are first loyal to the gang and
that’s what we see with this case. Rod Rosenstein was <a
href="http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2018/06/12/rosenstein-threatened-to-subpoena-gop-led-committee-in-chilling-clash-over-records-emails-show.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">sent</a> to Congress in order to deliver
a threat. In a prior age, Devin Nunes would have found a black palm
print on his door.

Of course, that seems to be what has happened to [Representative Jim
Jordan](http://dailycaller.com/2018/07/05/jim-jordan-accusers/), who is
now having to answer questions about a sex scandal from 30 years ago. He
was an assistant coach at Ohio State, when another coach supposedly had
homosexual relations with some of his players. The liberal media is
running with it, because they are told to go after Jordan. The reason?
Jordan went after Rosenstein at a hearing and his gang did not like it.

You see, Ohio State hired a law firm to investigate the matter. That law
firm is named Perkins Coie, a mammoth firm with global operations.
Coincidentally, they were the <a
href="http://www.abajournal.com/news/article/perkins_coie_hired_company_that_compiled_trump_dossier_on_behalf_of_clinton/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">law firm</a> at the heart of the phony
dossier the FBI used to get secret warrants on the Trump campaign.
Perkins Coie was the Hillary Clinton campaign’s firm, and they hired
FusionGPS to put together the fake dossier, then gave it to the FBI, the
media, and scoundrels like John McCain. It is not hard to connect the
dots here.

What appears to the rest of us to be corruption and lawlessness, is
actually the natural functioning of gang life, in that everything
revolves around who is enforcing the rules and against whom they are
being applied. The first and only question anyone cares to answer is
“how is this good for us?” Everything follows from that answer. The
people in the DOJ and FBI are only concerned about what is good for the
gang. This is gang life and this is life in the gangster state.
