---
title: "Political Violence"
date: "2018-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12913"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12913"
---

Why is George Soros still alive?

For most of human history, a person who caused trouble for rulers found
himself either on the run or on a pike. An earl or prince that made
trouble for the king was dragged before the king, humiliated and then
hanged. If he fought back, then the king sacked his lands, killed his
family and made an even bigger spectacle of killing the troublemaker.
After all, the point of political power is to reward your allies and
punish your enemies. Yet, George Soros, an international troublemaker,
is free to [make trouble wherever he
likes](https://www.politico.eu/article/george-soros-i-wont-butt-out-of-brexit-politics/).

The obvious reply to that is civilized nations no longer rely on
political assassinations to handle their business. Political leaders
have a self interest in discouraging the practice of killing heads of
state. If ruler X has ruler Y killed, because it advantages him, the
other rulers have no choice but to band together and kill ruler X.
Otherwise, it is a lawless world of all against all. President Gerald
Ford issued an executive order in 1976 prohibiting US intelligence
services from conducting political assassinations for this reason.

That makes sense with legitimate political leaders, but George Soros is
a rootless grifter, who has no allegiance to any government. Killing him
would be no different than droning a terrorist. Some argue that
international law prohibits targeted assassinations, but international
law is mostly meaningless. The Israelis have been using targeted
assassination against whoever they like for a long time, including the
murder of Canadian engineer [Gerald
Bull](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerald_Bull). The US has droned more
Arabs than we can count.

The most likely answer is that George Soros is not seen as anything more
than a nuisance and only to certain members of the political class. He
may be a billionaire, but he has no armies and he has no real reach. He
is smart enough to know that, so he makes sure to keep on good terms
with the right people. It is fair to assume that he is a master at not
pissing off the wrong people. The proof of that is he has not suffered
from whatever the Europeans call Arkancide. Still, no one stays lucky
forever, yet Soros still lives.

It is not just Soros. What we do not see in the current age is any
political assassinations in the West. For that matter, there are no
attempts to take out an important person. The last such example in
America was [Patty Hearst](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patty_Hearst)
and there is some question as to the reality of her kidnapping. Maybe
there have been some recent cases of rich people targeted in Europe for
political reasons, but none spring to mind. You would think with all the
Muslim fanatics lurking around that some of them would decide to target
a rich person.

It is a strange thing that makes even less sense when you consider the
realities of the modern age. In the 1970’s, someone like [Squeaky
Fromme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lynette_Fromme) taking a shot at
Ford had a certain logic to it. Today, killing the president does not
make a lot of sense. Sure, Trump is a critical component of the current
fight, but generally the head of state is nothing but the part of the
iceberg we see. The real political power is the cabal of rich people
under the waterline, controlling things out of site of the public.
Regicide has no value these days.

On the other hand, blowing up a few important political influencers in
the Imperial Capital would have an enormous impact. Imagine back in the
Bush years if opponents of the war, started targeting neocons.
Alternatively, think about the impact it would have if Muslim terrorists
blew up Mark Zuckerberg. Sure, taking down an airliner is a big show,
but it is really hard. Killing some billionaires is a lot easier and the
impact is much more significant, assuming you kill the right
billionaires. It never happens though.

Of course, we could be in a transition period as the world of political
violence adjusts to the changing nature of politics. Thirty years ago,
it made a lot of sense for political terrorists to attack civilian
targets. The IRA and the Basques separatists lacked the capacity to take
on the state, so they attacked the people in effort to put pressure on
the state. Today, the state is not the only player and not the most
important player in most of the world. Maybe political actors have not
yet internalized the new global order.

The decline in political violence in the West sounds like a good thing.
Most people would prefer it if car bombs were not going off in their
cities. Even if heads of state are off limits, killing important
political figures is destabilizing. The rise of a global order not only
reduced the need for violence between countries. It may have reduced the
need for violence within countries, as the political factions merged
into a unified managerial ruling class. Rule by hyper-educated
bureaucrat means disputes are handled over cappuccinos.

This may not be a good thing. For all of human history, power brought
risk. The higher someone climbed the hierarchy, the greater their
responsibilities and the greater their personal risk. The very real
threat of personal violence had a tempering effect. Today, people in the
managerial elite do not have to worried about getting fired, much less
assassinated. They occupy a world where no one is ever held accountable
for their actions. As a result, they have become dangerously cavalier
about their duties.

In fact, the main feature of the on-going domestic espionage scandal of
the last administration is the brazen and reckless way the players went
about it. High moral character is what leads good men do the right thing
when no one is looking. Fear of the hangman is what leads lesser men do
the right thing when no one is looking. In the political game, personal
risk has always been what weeds the reckless and dangerous from the
game. That has been removed so our political class is full of reckless
and stupid people.

Nature has a way of correcting itself. If a species evolves down a dead
end, something else evolves to replace it. Maybe what comes next is a
new brand of political violence that meets the needs of the managerial
state. Instead of people shooting political players, managerial class
types will get snuffed out when going for their mocha latte. The
assassination of Seth Rich could turn out to be the model. Maybe what
will evolve to provide vigor and discipline to the managerial state is a
grad school version of Arkancide.
