---
title: "The Death of Tinker Bell"
date: "2018-07-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14363"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14363"
---

The Tinker Bell Effect is an expression for when people want something
to be true so deeply, they believe it actually exists. This is commonly
used in education reform, where the reformers are sure their blank slate
fantasies are true, so they convince themselves their reforms are having
the desired effect. Head Start is a total sham, but proponents pretend
it is wildly successful. It is a step beyond confirmation bias, in that
the believer not only sees the desired result, but they also act on it.

This has been the condition of the America Lef since the election. What
we call progressivism has curdled into a feminist cult. Maybe it was
always thus, but the election made it plain. Maybe the election was a
triggering event. Either way, the Lef is now just angry women who cannot
accept defeat. To cope with this, they have concocted a number of
fantasies about why it happened. The most obvious one involves Boris and
Natasha colluding with Trump.

To most people, the Russian collusion thing has always been absurd, but
to the hardcore Hillary supporters, it is an article of faith. The
Democrats may have quieted down about it, but their supporters have
never stopped believing that Trump won the election because of nefarious
forces out of Moscow rigging the election. For the last eighteen months,
the lef has been operating on the assumption that this is true and [it
will be revealed any
day](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/08/opinion/trump-mueller-impeachment.html).
In other words, they have been operating as if the removal of Trump is a
forgone conclusion.

Another example of the Tinker Bell Effect is with immigration. The Lef
has been swallowing multiculturalism pills for so long, they cannot
imagine an alternative view is possible. They as so sure about what
happens when bad whites are swamped by noble browns, [they have started
to assume that it has already
happened](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/trump-brings-on-the-death-throes-of-white-hegemony/2018/06/01/0cf2d636-65c7-11e8-a69c-b944de66d9e7_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.0c1493355d7d).
As a result, they ran an explicitly anti-white campaign in 2016. They
even had the so-called conservatives convinced of this, which is why
they have yet to get past their hatred of Trump.

This fantasy has been so powerful, that even some people on our side are
sure we are following the path of South Africa. In other words, they
have blown past the Argentina or Brazil models and gone straight to
white genocide being the future. That is why they cannot see how Texas
is much less likely to become California, despite the demographics. They
believe in the vision of white dispossession so strongly, so
emotionally, that any facts or arguments to the contrary are treated as
insults. This is the reverse Tinker Bell Effect.

Another group still clapping their hands, yelling “we believe!” are the
libertarians. They are so sure that Trump prudent economic policies with
regards to trade are going to usher in the end times, Goth Fonzi has
started to stock up on canned goods. Reason Magazine has at least one
post a week working from the assumption that economic devastation is
spreading across the country. [This
one](https://reason.com/blog/2018/07/09/lose-your-job-to-own-the-libs)
is the latest. Amusingly, they now pretend that Trump voters are locked
into some sort of cult, where reality is replaced with fantasy.

Libertarianism, like Progressivism, has always been a cult, so it is not
surprising that libertarians are prone to magical thinking. It is a
requirement of cults to hold a set of beliefs that are at odds with
reality. This way, the adherent invests their energy into believing and
helping their coreligionist believe. It is why there are no cults built
around observable reality. Even so, libertarians are so sure Trump’s
policies are going to usher in the end times, they are convinced that
displaced Okies are now trundling cross America.

In fairness, it is reasonable to think that liberal democracy must rely
on the Tinker Bell Effect. Much of the voluntary conduct of American
citizens is based on the belief in things like equality before the law
and the rightness of our economic model. If people stopped believing in
this stuff, they would act differently. Most Americans believe our
society is morally good, something to sacrifice for, so lots of people
sacrifice to keep the current regime in place. Look at how many young
men join the Army each year.

Reality is that thing that does not go away when you stop believing in
it. [Patriotism has started to
slip](https://www.npr.org/2018/07/04/625980938/as-america-turns-a-year-older-poll-finds-patriotism-has-slipped-a-bit),
as the younger generation, facing the mess their parents created for
them, comes to terms with that reality. Boomers had a great ride in a
great country, so they will remain patriotic and optimist. In fact, the
rise of national populism and the nascent white identity is driven by
the death of Tinker Bell. The younger generation simply does not believe
the things the older generation believed and still believes about
America.

The interesting thing to watch for is what happens to the feminist
scolds when Tinker Bell dies for them. The end of the Mueller probe is
coming sooner rather than later. Trump is not going to be impeached and
he will most likely win in 2020. Similarly, the great brown future is
not just around the corner, so the Lef will be confronted with
demographic reality at the voting booth. Belief is powerful stuff, but
so is disconfirmation. One of the most emotional parts of Peter Pan is
the [death of Tinker Bell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pUHXPv0aSu8).
There is a reason for that.
