---
title: "A Garden of Idiots"
date: "2018-07-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14492"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14492"
---

It is axiomatic that the political class of a society is a reflection of
the culture. That culture is what grows out of the biology of the
people, but there is an interplay between culture and biology. The
ethnic differences between Swedes and Danes, or even Swedes and
Prussians, are trivial, at least in the purely biological sense, but,
the culture of Swedes, Danes and Prussians are different in important
ways. For that matter, the culture that
produced <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YfeyLV5m6WY" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Lion of the North</a> was very different from that
of <a href="http://www.outthere.travel/sweden-youre-welcome/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">modern Sweden</a>.

Another way of looking at this is that the type of men in leadership of
a society are a reflection of the political culture. At the Founding,
the political class of the American colonies was fertile ground. Even
adjusting for two plus centuries of propaganda, the men that birthed
America were extraordinary in quality and quantity. One or two great
minds makes for a special generation of men. The 18th century colonial
political class produced many great minds, indicating an amazingly
fertile political soil at the time.

On the other side of this, during the same period, is the French
aristocracy. One of the remarkable things about that period is that the
political class had no able men. The history of the French Revolution is
the story of one missed opportunity after another to reform and respond
to the changes sweeping the country. All the famous names from that
period are from well outside the political elite. The only reason anyone
remembers Marie Antoinette is she lost her head over remarks attributed
to her that she most likely never said.

Anyway, this comes to mind when seeing a story like <a
href="https://www.politico.com/story/2018/07/19/paul-ryan-conservatives-fight-alt-right-733229"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one</a>.

*Conservatives should “fight back” against the alt-right and white
nationalists, and do a better job reclaiming classic terms to stamp out
identity politics, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said on Thursday.*

*“We have to go back and fight for our ground and re-win these ideas and
marginalize these guys the best we can to the corners,” Ryan said. “Do
everything you can to defeat it.”*

*Ryan made the comments in conversation with National Review senior
editor Jonah Goldberg. The two conservatives spoke at an event hosted by
the American Enterprise Institute. Ryan had harsh words for the
alt-right, an umbrella term for extreme right-wing individuals who
reject mainstream conservatism and often embrace racism and white
supremacy.*

*“That is not conservatism. That is racism. **That is nationalism. That
is not what we believe in. That is not the founding vision, that is not
the founders’ creed**,” Ryan said.*

That goes beyond stupid. It is offensively stupid. Even today, grammar
school civics lessons make clear that the Founders were crafting a new
nation. The entirely of the founding myth is based on “creating a new
nation in the wildness.” The Founders were so nationalistic, they even
wrote it into the preamble of the Constitution.

*We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect
Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the
common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of
Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this
Constitution for the United States of America.*

That is the very essence of nationalism. Now, Paul Ryan is entering that
phase that reminds everyone why it is best to make a change as soon as
it is clear a change must be made. When the employee puts in their
notice, pay them their two weeks and send them home. Ryan is now
unburdened from the need to lie about his true opinions, so he is
speaking his mind, what little there is of it. That just underscores the
fact that this feckless airhead is the best the current political class
has been able to produce.

Ryan is not an isolated example. His predecessor was a raging alcoholic
who would burst into tears at public events. Before him we had Nancy
Pelosi, a women on so many psychiatric drugs she rattles when she walks.
Look around at the elected officials and it is hard to find someone you
would trust to run the second shift at a convenience store. Our
political culture is not just a garden overrun with weeds. The weeds
took over a long time ago and now there is nothing but weeds. It
produces no men of merit.

It is not just a consequence of democracy. Take a look at the
conspirators involved in the sedition scandal. Former CIA Director John
Brennan, who helped form the conspiracy, is a former communist. He
supported the Communist Party candidate in the 1976 election and it was
not an act of protest. He was an actual communist. Today he is an
unhinged fanatic who goes on social media demanding a military coup
against the President. Again, this man was the head of the CIA under
Obama. *The CIA*. How is this even possible?

It does not just stop there. Look at the “intellectual” side of the
ruling culture. Paul Ryan gave that interview to Jonah Goldberg, who is
waddling around with the title “Senior Fellow” at what is supposed to be
a prestigious think tank. Probably the most famous public intellectual
in the academy right now is Steven Pinker, who is
<a href="https://twitter.com/sapinker/status/1019995379796987904"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">prone to the most basic logical
fallacies</a>. The American college campus is a doctrinaire breeding
ground for narrow minded fanatics hellbent on pulling the roof down on
Western Civilization.

The political culture of a society can break off from the general
culture or even start as an alien over class, as in the case of
invasion. The French political class in the 18th century was so divorced
from the rest of the kingdom, they as well have been foreigners. The
Russian political class, what little there was of of it at the end of
the 19th century, was wholly disconnected from the culture of the
Russian Empire. There’s certainly a strong whiff of that in present day
America. Our rulers are nothing like us now.

Even so, whatever the source material for the current ruling elite, what
it is producing is of such poor quality, it suggest a very bad end.
Donald Trump is *our guy*, but let’s face it, he should not be
President. If he is what is necessary to prevent the country’s political
class from strangling the rest of us through staggering idiocy, it is
past time to think weeding the garden is enough. This garden of idiots
is beyond the point where a good dose of weed killer will work. It’s
time to plow it under and salt the earth, starting fresh elsewhere.
