---
title: "Something’s Happening Here"
date: "2018-02-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12885"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12885"
---

True believers are incapable of accepting disconfirmation. The reason
for this is their individual identity becomes so entangled in the cause,
that anything contradicting the cause is viewed as a personal assault.
That’s why Progressives react to contacts with reality as if they have
been violently assaulted. For them, there is no line separating
themselves and the cause. An assault on the cause, even just contrary
facts, is felt like a kick to the groin. It’s why Progressive women
equate free speech with violence.

There’s another product of this and that’s the inability to adapt to
political reality. They set off on a course, with a pleasing narrative
in their head, and stick with it no matter what happens. This delusional
determination is why the Left keeps at their pet causes with a great
deal of success, but it is also why they eventually burn themselves out
in an orgy of recrimination. They can’t let go of the dream, even when
the cause is lost, so they look for people to blame. <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/02/democrats-resistance-to-trump-is-eroding-and-so-are-their-poll-numbers/552845/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">You see that in this Atlantic piece</a>.

*Remember “this is not normal?”*

*A year ago, it was the motto of the self-styled “Resistance”—the
coalition of liberals, Democrats, and a few wayward conservatives who
were implacably opposed to the Trump administration. The endless refrain
represented the refusal to countenance Trump as an ordinary political
actor. Doing so, they feared, would eventually lead to the acceptance of
racism, xenophobia, corruption, and authoritarianism as a regular and
unremarkable feature of politics and society.*

*People articulating  such views were easy to find—online, on the front
pages, and on the streets. The day after President Trump’s inauguration,
the Women’s March turned into one of the largest nationwide
demonstrations in American history. A week later, tens of thousands of
people turned up at airports to oppose and obstruct Trump’s Muslim ban.
By harnessing this unqualified opposition, Democrats were able to score
shocking political and policy victories: stealing a Senate seat in
Alabama, saving Obamacare, winning deep-red districts in state races,
and coming close to taking the Virginia House of Delegates in the face
of heavy gerrymandering.*  
*And yet, today, in the highest circles of Democratic party politics,
resistance is waning. “This is normal enough,” many key Democrats seem
to be saying. When Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer wrote in advance
of Trump’s State of the Union several weeks ago, he focused on finding
ways to “work with” the president, such as infrastructure.*

The lunatics are sure they are winning. It is written in the prophecies.
How can their elected leaders not see this? Why are they quitting just
when victory is at hand? Of course, that’s not reality, but reality is
far too unpleasant to accept, so they are re-imagining the present in
order to hold onto the dream. The Democrat leaders, especially Chuck
Schumer, they know what’s happening. Thanks to Trump’s political
maneuvering, white voters now see the Democrats as the Brown Party.

*The outcome of any final immigration deal is unknown, in part because
Democrats voluntarily relinquished much of their leverage by striking a
bargain on the budget. But there can be little doubt that many in the
party were prepared to make serious—and politically unpopular—policy
concessions to Trump. At one point, that reportedly included funding for
a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border (opposed by 60 percent of
Americans). As it stands, Democrats in both houses appear to be on the
brink of dropping demands to protect the “Dreamers,” undocumented
immigrants brought to the U.S. as children (protections that are
supported by 74 percent of Americans). “He’s not asking for the kind of
money that would build a wall sea to shining sea,” reasoned Missouri’s
Claire McCaskill. “He’s asking for the kind of money that can say he
built a wall.”*

The reality is the Democrats got a better deal from the seditious Mitch
McConnell than they were ever going to get from Trump, so they cut a
deal with the treacherous wing of the GOP. That was smart politics, even
if the lunatics in the Democrat Party refuse to accept it. As it stands,
spending for the wall is now off the table for two years and there is no
reason for the cucks to bring immigration issues to a vote. Basically,
the cucks are doing the heavy lifting for Team Brown to undermine the
patriots.

That’s depressing, but the good news here is that Chuck Schumer suddenly
realized that the whites are waking up to what’s happening and they are
prepared to act accordingly. That means the midterms could very well be
a referendum on Team Brown’s plan to turn America into Brazil. More
important, Trump seems to have figured this out too and he is now
talking about making the midterm a referendum on immigration. That’s a
huge change in the political culture. It speaks to just how fast things
have changed in the last year.

The better news is the mouth breathers of the “resistance” movement have
decided to go full jihad over immigration. They see their leaders as
insufficiently enthusiastic for the great brown future. They will want
to make the midterms about immigration and send a message to their
leaders. For decades, immigration patriots like John Derbyshire and
Peter Brimelow labored just to get politicians to mention immigration.
Now we appear to be heading a big political fight about serious
immigration reform.

It’s just a symbolic fight. Chad and Stacy are now talking about chain
migration and wondering if it makes sense to be importing Somalis into
Minnesota. Up until recent, most Americans have known nothing of visa
lotteries, chain migration and visa abuse. Now the granular details of
the issue are circulating in polite company. People are waking up to the
fact that the nice Hindu at the 7-11, also means a village of his
kinsmen settling in your town, going on welfare and turning your town
into a squalid mess.

It’s a long war, but Team White has gained some ground on Team Brown.
