---
title: "Clown Country"
date: "2018-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14001"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14001"
---

John Derbyshire often says that his home country is lost. That it is far
past the point of reforming itself and becoming anything like its
original self. That is probably true, but not because it has imported a
Muslim ruling class. If the Brits shut off that faucet today, they
remain no worse than 80% white, assuming current fertility rates. If
they could muster a little national pride, they could easily get back to
90% and relegate the Muslim hordes to a despised minority status,
something like the Irish travelers or the Welsh.

That is not going to happen without a revolution, one that results in
the wiping out of the British ruling class. The public is clearly
turning against the lunacy of the prevailing orthodoxy, but they are
saddled with a generation of lunatics, who remain firmly in charge of
the institutions. The whole Tommy Robinson affair makes the point. In a
country with a sane ruling elite, there would be no need for Tommy
Robinson and his situation would never happen. But, the British ruling
class is full of [crazy people worried about
nonsense](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/cycling-london-uk-sadiq-khan-bikes-race-class-gender-a8367916.html).

*Too few women and people from ethnic minority groups cycle in London
and more must be done to promote diversity among a largely white, male
and middle class biking community, the city’s walking and cycling
commissioner has said.*

*Grand schemes, such as the Cycle Superhighway network of
partially-segregated routes linking the suburbs with the centre, are too
often perceived as simply a way of getting “middle-aged men cycling
faster around the city”, Will Norman acknowledged.*

*He said he was considering setting diversity targets for London’s
cycling population to ensure progress was achieved.*

*Black, Asian and minority ethnic groups account for about 15 per cent
of the city’s cycle trips – around two-thirds less than Transport for
London estimates it could be.*

*Speaking to The Independent, Mr Norman, whose job it is to deliver on
Sadiq Khan’s pledge to make walking and cycling safer and easier in the
capital, said: “There is a problem with cycling and the way it is
perceived of getting middle-aged men cycling faster around the city,
which is not the objective at all.*

*“It touches on something which is a real challenge for London cycling,
which is diversity.”*

For starters, in a real country, there is no such thing as a “walking
and cycling commissioner.” That is a job for a retired volunteer at a
charity 5K. That is not a job that should ever exist, and it is not a
job that a fully grown adult would ever accept. The city’s dog catcher
has a more respectable title. More important, this simpleton is
yammering on about diversity as the native population is being chased
off by hordes of savages that have no business in Europe. In a serious
country, he would have been shot by now.

This is the heart of the matter. The Pax Americana, which has guaranteed
peace in Europe for the last 75 years, has done more than pacify the
continent. It has turned the political classes of Europe into children.
They are not real leaders in any meaningful sense, because no matter
what they do, Uncle Sam is there to make sure they never get a serious
boo-boo. Because they are insulated from serious consequences, they have
become the Eloi, playing dress-up and pretending to be big boys and
girls.

This is why the Brexit negotiations have come to a halt. The
renegotiating of Britain’s economic relationship with the Continent is
difficult and complicated. No one on either side of the table is capable
of doing anything other than showing up at a candlelight vigil following
the latest Muslim attack. These are not serious people. Instead, they
are silly people who worry about diversity on the bike path. The only
way Brexit gets finalized is if Trump decides to get involved and forces
the issue. Otherwise, it never happens.

The clownishness does not stop at the political class. The vaunted
British security apparatus has also degraded into play-land. It is
obvious now that they were roped into helping that old fool John
Brennan’s scheme to spy on the Trump campaign. There was a time when the
Brits would have seen that for what it was and not got involved.
Instead, they put on daddy’s old suits and played James Bond, causing a
serious riff between the two countries. Notice Trump’s treatment of
Theresa May versus Emmanuel Macron.

In a better age, when the king realized the court he inherited was not
up for the job, he would get a new court. On the other hand, when it was
clear the new king was dangerously feeble-minded, the king fell off his
horse and they got a new king. In this age, when the people realize
their rulers are supercilious poseurs, incapable of doing the basics of
government, they are supposed to vote for new rulers. The trouble is
this is not a political problem. It is a cultural problem. Britain is
ruled by a clown culture now.

There is only one way to fix that.
