---
title: "Prince Rupert’s Revenge"
date: "2018-04-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13384"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13384"
---

There was a time when it was possible to have cordial and even friendly
relations with people on the Left. I spent many hours debating my lefty
friends over drinks, about the defects of various central planning
schemes. Anyone my age or older remembers the way these debates would
go. One side talked about economic justice for the working class, while
the other side talked about the glory of free markets. Usually, the
“right-winger” would bring up the Soviets.

Often, one side or the other would get mad, but it was rarely personal.
People get hot in political debates, mostly because we are social
animals. Conflict with people *inside* our group vexes us. It makes us
uncomfortable. That was the thing. Liberals and non-liberals could
operate in the same peer group. The reason is the Left and Right back
then, agreed on the goals. Both sides wanted prosperity. The Left
believed socialism produced plenty, while the Right believed a rising
tide lifted all boats.

Thinking back, a strange thing happened in the 1990’s, with regards to
my own debates with lefty friends and acquaintances. The debates in the
90’s were almost all about the peculiar personal lives of Bill and
Hillary Clinton. The Right was always scandal mongering and the Left was
conjuring novel defenses for the degeneracy of Bill Clinton and the
personal corruption of Hillary. These revolved around Red Team/Blue Team
scat fights, that had little to do with policy or ideology. It was just
ritualized tribal warfare.

That changed instantly with the 2000 election. All of my lefty friends
and acquaintances went insane overnight.  They hated Bush with the
intensity of a fanatic. The wars made it impossible to have a discussion
with the Left. Granted, many of us were naïve about the lunacy of the
neocons, but the Left’s opposition was never more than shrieking
madness. How does one debate someone who thinks Halliburton controls the
weather and attacked New Orleans?

I remember thinking my lefty friends would return to sanity after Bush
left office, but that never happened. A few stopped foaming at the
mouth, but for the most part, they crossed into a realm from which there
is no return. In the Obama years, they went from one peculiar fad to the
next. One week it was homosexual marriage, while the next week it was
claims about sex being a social construct. There’s simply no discussion,
much less debating, these issues with them.

Looking back, it’s useful to think about the fight between the Left and
the Right as a set-piece battle on an agreed upon battlefield. At the
center of both sides was economics. The Right had religious archers and
the constitutional conservatives on the flanks, but the center of the
army was formed around economic issues. Similarly, the Left had race
hustlers, second and third wave feminists on the flanks, but their main
line troops, the center of the line, were economic Utopians.

The collapse of the Soviet Union had an enormous impact on the ruling
classes of the West. In America, it meant the center of the Progressive
army broke and fled in all directions. The flanks, however, the racial
justice warriors, the gender dragoons and exotic identity battalions
rushed into the center, forming a new main line of the Left. The Right,
despite carrying the day, was too busy setting up battlefield trophies
to notice that the Left had reformed around sexual and racial fanatics,
so they promptly surrendered.

A curious thing is happening to this new center of the Progressive
battle line. Their moral certainty about the innate equality of man and
his infinite malleability, is crumbling in the face of scientific
reality. The release of David Reich’s book is the latest direct hit on
Boasian anthropology. <a
href="https://www.buzzfeed.com/bfopinion/race-genetics-david-reich?utm_term=.vxMLRnAAmg#.uxPAyP22r9"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The response from the soft sciences</a>,
which has been a key intellectual authority for the blank slate
Progressives, looks like a panicked flight from the battle field. They
simply have no answer to science.

The tent pole holding up modern Progressivism is the assertion that all
humans are essentially the same and that the observable differences are
trivial. All of the Left’s arguments spring from that belief. It’s why
they insist the magic of white privilege is the reason black crime is so
high or rape culture is why girls don’t go into STEM fields at the same
rate as boys. In other words, magic is a plausible answer, as long as
reality is ruled out as an option. Biological realism explodes the
center of Progressive theology.

That’s what we see happening all over the human sciences. Twenty years
ago, <a
href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/at-the-corner-of-privilege-place-and-race-road/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">some guy in a cardigan</a> could claim
that racism was learned behavior and their was no biological basis for
race. He could be held up as an intellectual authority and therefore, a
moral authority. Genetics is undermining the intellectual authority of
those preaching cultural anthropology, multiculturalism and the blank
slate. The main line of the Progressive army is suddenly looking like
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1csr0dxalpI" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">a bunch of primitives chanting oogily-boogily</a>.

It’s tempting to say I’m getting ahead of myself, but we have millions
of people relying on DNA services to map their ancestry. Genetics is
promising new cures for disease and soon, <a
href="https://www.technologyreview.com/s/610339/dna-tests-for-iq-are-coming-but-it-might-not-be-smart-to-take-one/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">people will be able to get their
intellectual destiny</a> for $50. It will not be long before some clever
fertility lab begins offering bespoke artificial insemination, using
donors with desirable traits, based on their genetics. People are
becoming habituated to the idea that humans are different, because of
biology, not culture.

The question, of course, is where does the Left go now. In the late 19th
and early 20th century, what we call Progressivism was mostly a
Protestant crusade. In the 20th century, they shifted to embracing  the
economic utopianism of socialism, with racial and sexual politics as
side acts. For the last three decades, the dream of sexual and racial
utopias has been the dominant theme of the Left. Once the blank slate is
broken on the wheel of biological reality, what comes next?

The answer could be nothing. There are many currents to American
history, but the dominant one is what John Derbyshire calls the Cold
Civil War. It is our inheritance from the mother country. The story of
America has been the good whites and bad whites, the Roundheads and
Cavaliers, fighting for control of the country. It’s also a conflict of
visions, where the Roundheads always embraced extreme egalitarianism,
while the Right has embraced the natural hierarchy of man.
