---
title: "The Leverage President"
date: "2018-10-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15302"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15302"
---

One thing about the Kavanaugh drama that did not get enough attention,
is how Trump leveraged the event to transform the Republican Party into
his party, one that is looking to him for leadership. Just listen to
some of the things GOP senators are saying now and it is as if they have
gone through some sort of religious experience. Not only are they
operating like a real political party, but they are also standing up to
the left’s morality play. It is a remarkable transformation.

Two moves by Trump seem to have set all of this in motion, as well as
making it possible for Kavanaugh to get confirmed. One is Trump did not
take the bait and get into a media fight with the left. In fact, he
remained remarkably quiet, even as the media tried everything to goad
him. Maybe it is just his natural inclination to not go through the door
his opponents open for him, but he seemed to know that it was part of
the trap Feinstein, Katz and Bromwich had cooked up over the summer.

The other thing he did was put the whole thing on the Senate GOP,
particularly Mitch McConnell. This was the key move. By explicitly
saying he was leaving the issue to the Senate to resolve, the focus
shifted from him to the Senate. More important, it put the Republicans
in a bind. They could either face the wrath of the left or they could
face the wrath of their voters. Trump correctly figured out that
survival still counts for something in the GOP, so McConnell had no
choice.

What this says is Trump is getting better at being president and better
at using his brand as a weapon in Washington. I have said since the
beginning that Trump is a very rare guy, who instinctively knows how
others view him. He uses your perception of him as part of the sales
pitch. It is why people find his boasting to be amusing. When he does
it, his supporters feel like they are in on the joke. They get that he
knows it is boast and that it irritates the left.

That is the thing with understanding Trump, something a brilliant
observer [pointed out](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=5029) three years
ago. Trump operates like a famous real estate developer. He is always
looking to leverage his assets to take advantage of whatever
opportunities that may present themselves in the future. In the case of
the Kavanaugh hearing, his best play was to stand aside and let Mitch
McConnell handle it. Regardless of the result, he was getting something
from the transaction.

This is not the 4-D chess nonsense. Trump is not a master strategist, in
the sense that he is four moves ahead of everyone. It is that his
inclination is to always play the game, any game, to maximize his
options when it is his next turn. That is how the world of commercial
real estate development works. You never know what will present itself
next, so you make sure you are able to seize on whatever pops up.
Trump’s applying this to Washington now.

You see this with the Rosenstein situation. The thorn in Trump’s side
right now is Mueller, simply because he has the power to be a nuisance.
Mueller is supervised by Rosenstein, who is clearly compromised in the
FBI scandal. When Congress demanded the FBI documents be declassified,
Trump was ready to leverage it. That gave him the excuse to review all
the requested material, without anyone claiming he was meddling in the
investigation. It also forced Rosenstein’s hand.

At that point, Trump had leverage on Rosenstein. It is why days after
Trump decided to hold off on declassifying the documents, the left-wing
media was running stories about how Rosenstein was going to be fired.
Those stories most likely came from the camp of the conspirators. They
just assumed that once Trump knew the facts, he would fly into a rage
and fire the crooked Rosenstein. Instead, Trump put a saddle on him and
is now riding him around Washington.

That is unlikely the end game. I have always thought that Trump is
waiting until after the election to make his next move in this thing.
Instead, what he has been doing for the last year is maneuvering so that
he has options. There is a very good chance that what Congress has
uncovered, what is in those secret files, implicates former Obama
officials and maybe a few high-ranking Democrats. That is pretty good
leverage for Trump if he is suddenly faced with a hostile House and
Senate.

The other play if the election goes poorly is to simply dump all of it
out during the lame duck session after the election. At which point he
can fire Mueller and Rosenstein, while demanding Sessions appoint a
second special prosecutor to handle the FBI scandal, including the role
of Mueller and Rosenstein. That assumes there are some real bombshells
hiding in those secret files. Given the panic about the effort to
declassify them, it is a safe bet that there is some bad stuff in those
files.

Of course, it is now looking like the brown wave the liberal media has
been predicting is not going to happen. Left-wing outlets are now
talking about maybe a very narrow House win and losses in the Senate.
Given the Kavanaugh loss, it is not out of the question that the GOP
holds the House. Winning has a funny way of motivating the winners and
demotivating the losers. If this momentum carries the GOP to victory
next month, then the options for Trump multiply.
