---
title: "The Game Of Chicken"
date: "2018-10-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15202"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15202"
---

A corollary to [Hanlon’s
Razor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanlon%27s_razor) is “never
attribute to behind the scenes scheming what can more adequately be
explained by chance.” It is always tempting to think there is some great
design or designer behind events, but most of the time chance is the
real hand pulling the strings. Humans in general simply lack the ability
to see more than a few moves ahead and usually just react to what is in
front of them.  We’re seeing this in real time as [the Senate prepares
to
vote](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/409372-red-state-dems-face-nightmare-scenario-on-kavanaugh)
on the Brett Kavanaugh nomination this week.

The game began when Mitch McConnell decided to schedule the hearings and
vote on the nominee before the election. He calculated that it was good
politics for the Republicans and tricky politics for the Democrats. They
have half a dozen Senate seats up this time in very Trump states. Now,
McConnell correctly figured that the Democrats would have to go nuclear
on the nomination, so he and the GOP brain-trust convinced Trump to go
with the cleanest guy on the list. Kavanaugh had been vetted many times,
so he was safe.

That was the first mistake by McConnell. Despite being in Washington for
a lifetime, he somehow failed to notice that the Left never abides by
its own rules. When their rules work against them, they either ignore
them or make up new rules, swearing that the new rules are ancient
traditions handed down by Moses. That is what they did here by hiring
the Jewish lesbian to troll for middle aged women willing to swear
Kavanaugh assaulted them in the time before anyone could verify. They
were going to \#metoo him into withdrawing.

Given the climate in the world in which the beautiful people live, this
seemed like a clever ploy to Feinstein and Schumer. After all, they
could count on the cucks in the GOP to run screaming into the darkness
at the first sign there was heresy afoot. In other words, they never
thought they would have to produce witnesses. That is why Feinstein
leaked the anonymous letter she was holding since the summer. She
figured all she needed was a good whisper campaign run by the fake
reporters in the media.

Despite spending so much time with Kavanaugh, they appear to have
misjudged how he would handle being smeared. It also reveals how
petrified white men in the Democrat coalition feel right now. They just
assumed Kavanaugh was as scared about this stuff as they are right now.
Either way, the judge turns out to be a Boy Scout, who thinks he has a
duty to defend his honor in public against these smears. His speech last
week resonated with white people, who are [the only demographic that
still believes in fair
play](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2018/09/support-for-kavanaughs-confirmation-by.html).

<img
src="https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-rDLA_KhUmtA/W7FtvoaBlZI/AAAAAAAAGNw/FyUj9oGk7cQtUjRqgAhQ_njoWI-2Ps_ZQCLcBGAs/s640/kavsupportracesex.png"
decoding="async" />

Another miscalculation by the tribal leaders of the coalition is they
assumed Trump would light up Twitter about these attacks. That would
allow them to shift the focus from their attacks on an innocent white
man and instead make this into a fight against the pussy-grabbing
womanizer in the White House. Instead, Trump was strangely quiet, saying
it was up to the Senate to decide. Trump’s instinct was that this was
working to his favor so he could just stand aside and let the Democrats
dig their own grave on national television.

An interesting bit from the Hill story on the Democrats is this:

*The lawmaker said Senate Democratic Leader
<span class="rollover-people" behavior="rolloverpeople">Charles
Schumer</span> (N.Y.) is urging undecided centrist Democrats to wait
until three undecided Republicans — Sens. <span class="rollover-people"
behavior="rolloverpeople">Susan Collins</span> (Maine),
<span class="rollover-people" behavior="rolloverpeople">Lisa
Murkowski</span> (Alaska) and <span class="rollover-people"
behavior="rolloverpeople">Jeff Flake</span> (Ariz.) — make their
positions known.*

*“He’s telling them, ‘Keep your powder dry.’ That means you don’t have
to decide this — wait and see how it plays out. There’s some speculation
that Kavanaugh may not last,” the lawmaker said. “They always vow to
stay right until they don’t.”*

*A second Democratic senator said there’s widespread disbelief in the
caucus that Kavanaugh is holding on.*

*“I just had a conversation with a colleague who said they couldn’t
believe he hasn’t dropped out yet,” the second lawmaker said Monday
evening. “There was a time he could have done it gracefully and could
have protected the Supreme Court.”*

In other words, all along the tribal elders were telling the members of
the coalition that they would never have to vote on Kavanaugh. Just as
we saw with vulnerable Democrats being forced to vote for Obama Care in
2010, the tribal leaders of the coalition have no qualms about lying to
their members or putting them at risk. It is what allows them to be so
brazen, but it also means being reckless. The Democrats may have blown
up their chances to win the House and could lose some Senate seats, as
well.

The game is not over yet. McConnell really was out foxed on the smear
campaign, which is a reminder that he is no Machiavelli either. The
hysterical reaction of Lindsey Graham to the discovery that his
“colleagues on the Left” were willing to lie to him, should be a useful
reminder that the average GOP politician is quite stupid. The fact that
Feinstein has not been reported to the ethics committee is another
reminder that the GOP will play fair even when they know the other side
plays dirty. We are not dealing with geniuses here.

Thus, we find ourselves in a strange game of chicken. The Democrats are
praying the FBI pulls their bacon out of the fire by finding anything
they can use to force Kavanaugh to retire. Otherwise, they will have to
vote. On the other hand, McConnell must wonder if his three super-cucks
will fink on him at the last minute, thus blowing up the GOP’s chances
in the November election. Those vulnerable Democrats must be wondering
if it makes sense to be in a party that is so willing to throw them to
the wolves, just for the sport of it.

Of course, what this sorry episode reveals are that the people who have
been building the coalition of non-whites is not as clever as they
assume. They are dishonest and devious, for sure, but they cannot see
around corners. What they always rely upon is their ability to turn the
virtues of white people into vices, that they then use to sow division
in the white population. A point that cannot be made enough is that if
whites thought like Jews or blacks, there would be none of this. After
all, 60% is still a majority in a democracy.
