---
title: "The Russian Stain"
date: "2018-08-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14703"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14703"
---

During the Cold War, popular culture portrayed the Soviets in two ways,
often at the same time. There was the ruthless ideologue, efficiently
going about his business as an implacable enemy of freedom. The other
type of Soviet character was the morally conflicted guy, whose honor
compelled him to serve his country, but he also understood that
communism was immoral. As far as villains go, both types of Soviet were
given a lot of respect, because Hollywood is sympathetic to Bolshevism.

Today, Hollywood rarely uses Russians as bad guys, but our political
class sees them as the epicenter of evil in the modern world. Steve
Sailer
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/wsj-when-russia-invaded-georgia/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">noted</a> the other day that the pundit
class has rewritten recent history to fit this narrative. The neocons
are celebrating the tenth anniversary of something that never really
happened, at least not in the way they currently tell it. Here is neocon
puppet <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/when-russia-invaded-georgia-1533682576"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Mikheil Saakashvili</a>, and <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-west-has-spent-a-decade-playing-right-into-putins-hands/2018/08/07/c1aec698-9a60-11e8-b60b-1c897f17e185_story.html?utm_term=.15ac682ff2d7"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Robert Kagan</a> and <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/russia-invaded-georgia-10-years-ago-dont-say-america-didnt-respond/2018/08/08/ba4279d4-9b3e-11e8-8d5e-c6c594024954_story.html?utm_term=.d3e0a827c316"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Condoleezza Rice</a> repeating the same
whopper.

The funny thing about this myth-making is that it is unnecessary. The
number of people in the political class who could locate South Ossetia
is tiny. Most normal Americans would be puzzled to learn that there is a
country named after the peach state. As a public relations item, this
ten year old non-event is useless. There’s also the fact that the actual
events are <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2014/03/13/world/europe/2008-georgia-russia-conflict/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">easily accessible on-line</a>. It looms
large for the neocons, though, so they can’t stop thinking about it.

The neocons love mucking about in that part of the world. Some would say
their interests go back to the pale of settlement days. That is the sort
of thing that can get your in trouble. Still, there’s pretty good
evidence that the American foreign policy establishment has been
meddling in the region since the Soviet Empire. The <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Maximum-Harm-Tsarnaev-Brothers-Marathon/dp/1611688493/vdare"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Boston Marathon bomber</a> was probably
recruited by US intelligence at some point. His uncle seems to know a
lot of people in the CIA.

The thing that no one has yet to explain is why has the American ruling
elite become fixated on Russia. Even if the reason for the neocon
obsession is ancient hatreds, why is the America left nuts about the
Russians? It could simply be convenience, but there are better villains
in the world for them to hate, at least in practical terms. China, for
example, makes for a much better villain. Iran or Saudi Arabia work much
better with the left’s current deep dive into matriarchy.

Even if you want to believe that the left has been infected by the
ancient hatred that animates the neocons, the tenor of the left’s hatred
is different. The neocons see Russia as a problem to be controlled so it
does not revert back to its imperial habits. The left now sees Russia as
Old Scratch. Russia is not a problem to be managed and more than the
devil can be managed. The very existence of Russia is seen as an affront
to the neo-liberal world order.

This visceral hatred has some similarities to the orogressive loathing
of the imperial governments of Europe prior to the Great War. Wilson
despised the old order, which is why he was so aggressively vengeful
toward the Austrians and Germans. American progressives seem to have
developed the same view of Russia, and to a lesser degree the Visegrad
counties. Their resistance to the neo-liberal order is viewed as an
ideological challenge and that can never be tolerated.

The difference is that a century ago, Wilsonian democracy was ascendant,
while the monarchical order was in decline. America and American leaders
were the new kids on the world stage, pushing aside the old guard.
Today, the neo-liberal order is in a defensive crouch. Meanwhile, Russia
and Eastern Europe are pretty much just normal countries do pretty well.
Perhaps part of the hatred for Russia is the need to find something to
blame for the current troubles in the West.

Of course, it is a reminder of the absolute intolerance of secular
religions. When people assign the natural order to divine forces, they
can be indifferent to alternative forms of worship, as a part of the
great mystery of life. When the natural order is a man made creation and
the moral code is created and maintained by man, any deviation must be
viewed as a challenge to the creator’s legitimacy. The stubborn
existence of European countries practicing the old ways is an insult to
the neo-liberal creators.

There also may be the issue of reach. Russia is poor and relatively weak
compared to the West, but it remains out of reach. It’s ability to
thrive outside the new world order suggests the new world order cannot
include the whole world. Central to the liberal impulse, going back to
Wilson, is totalitarianism. Russia is like a stain that they cannot get
out of the fabric of global society. Putin is a new Tsar, the return of
that same stubborn problem they cannot resolve.
