---
title: "The Cuck Template"
date: "2018-12-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15734"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15734"
---

With news that The Weekly Standard is about to shut down due to the lack
of interest, I wondered what would fill its place. The need for border
security may not be a concern for the political leaders in Washington,
but it is a necessity for the people in charge of the moral orthodoxy.
The system requires there to be a predictable opposition that will
squawk a bit but eventually roll over for the Progressives. That means
there are now job openings in the loyal cuck guard for men (and women!)
willing to guard the walls against us.

If you are to become a paid chattering skull on the “right” then you
better get used to writing and talking about the double-standard. A
standard feature of all cuckservative bleating is pointing how there is
one set of rules for Progressives and another set of rules for everyone
else. [Here is a recent
example](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/marc-lamont-hill-firing-dog-whistle/)
in the premiere cuck site, National Review On-line. This one is about
the black college professor, who was fired from his CNN job, for saying
he hates Jews and wants Israel wiped from the map.

The standard cuck response to these events, is to shift the focus away
from the actual issue onto the double-standard. In this case, the effete
editor of NRO is begging the Left to stop giving wedgies to cucks like
Charlie Cooke, when they fumble their lines. The real issue is why is
criticism of Israel in violation of the morality codes, but hating white
people acceptable? The cuck cannot allow that. His prime directive is to
make sure whitey never thinks about this stuff, so the double-standard
mew is employed to change the subject.

A travelling partner of the double-standard complaint is the
passive-aggressive assertion that the so-called conservatives are more
faithful to the one true faith than their alleged opponents on the Left.
[Here is an example from Power Line
Blog](https://www.powerlineblog.com/archives/2018/11/dissenting-from-the-leftist-party-line.php)
I used last week in a post. The writer is trying to make the case that
he and his fellow cucks are more faithful to Martin Luther King’s vision
of a color blind society. There is, of course, the casual reference to
the fact Lincoln was a Republicans and his opponents Democrats.

This is what the cool kids on social media call DR3, which stands for
“Democrats R the Real Racists.” The Mr. Hanky of cucks, Dinesh D’Souza
has made a business out of claiming that liberals are Nazis and
Klansmen. Of course, what this gag is all about is reinforcing Prog
morality. Racism is bad. So bad that any mention of race or racial
awareness is disqualifying. What the cucks are doing is acting as the
moral enforcers for the Left, making sure no one questions this
essential plank of Progressivism.

A slightly different approach to this tactic is to hair-split claims by
the Left in a way that reinforces their claims. [Here is an example
about the so-called gender
gap](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/11/gender-wage-gap-isnt-51-percent/)
in worker wages. The point of the article is to debunk the claim that
women make less than men, by normalizing the comparison. The cucks have
been making this argument for decades now, so it is familiar to
everyone. That means the argument gets punched up with faux exasperation
and some eye rolling, to indicate this has all been addressed in the
past.

As with DR3, these gender gap articles are not about the arguments made
from the Left, but about reinforcing a bit of the orthodoxy. In this
case, that white women should be in the workplace, rather than at home
tending their kids. The foundation of the argument is the acceptance
that women not only should be working but should have careers that
transcend their lives as mothers, wives, and homemakers. Carrie Lukaks
may as well be arguing for the mass sterilization of white women in that
post.

Another popular position in the cuck army is to be the guy who spends
his days noodling over the rule book. Every time Lefty is about to pull
a fast one in Washington, these guys pop up in the pages of cuck
publications, talking about the finer points of the law. [This
post](http://thefederalist.com/2018/11/30/paul-ryan-right-californias-election-laws-vulnerable-fraud/)
is a recent example from after the election. It is a long snoozer about
the details of California election law, written from the ludicrous
position that the rules matter. If only we can tweak the rules, the
cheating in California will stop!

These are the two faces of the cuck army. When it is time to use the
rules against the Left, they start talking about principles and
morality. When it is time to talk about principles and morality, they
start talking about the rules and the need to respect order. Every time
the Left makes clear the rules do not matter to them and that we live in
a lawless age, the cuck army swings into action, lecturing us about the
rule of law. That is important to know. The tongue lashings and lectures
are always directed our way, never toward Lefty.

Of course, much of the time in any army is spent killing time. An
important part of being in the cuck army is to fill the dead time with
pointless nonsense. Posts that amount to nothing more than advanced
whining are standard filler in conservative publications. [This
post](http://thefederalist.com/2018/11/30/major-publishers-newest-high-school-catalog-leftist-indoctrination/)
at the Federalist is a recent example. What these posts are about is
demoralizing the opposition. “See, it just gets worse, May as well kill
yourself.” An important part of being a cuck is to reinforce the loser
aesthetic on the Right.

Finally, when all else fails, the cuck can always stab the people to his
right. When someone on the right comes up with a way to throw sand in
the gears, the cuck army rushes to stop them. The heretics do not even
have to be effective. If they are getting attention, that is enough for
the cucks to rally like antibodies to surround the heretic and begin
attacking them. [This is a good recent
example](https://pjmedia.com/trending/no-you-dont-need-to-handcuff-yourself-to-twitter-hq-to-ownthelibs/).
Whatever you think of Laura Loomer, it was a funny stunt that drew
attention to a serious problem.

In the end, policing the vast sea of people opposed to the moral
orthodoxy is the number one job of the cuck army. They are the palace
guards, protecting the orthodoxy from challenges. Often, that means
going on the attack and taking out people they see as threats to the one
true faith. Stabbing right is what every cuck is born to do. In some
cases, as we see with The Weekly Standard and probably National Review,
the cuck will be asked to make the ultimate sacrifice for his real
audience.
