---
title: "Old TV Shows"
date: "2018-07-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14510"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14510"
---

I have been working on some projects that have required me to sit in
front of the laptop most evenings. My habit when I have to work in the
evening has been to watch some television while working. Without a cable
subscription, this means watching something off the Kodi or whatever
movies are free on Amazon. I saw they had The Sopranos and The Wire on
prime, so I decided to binge watch those two series. I watched them when
they were on, but it has been ten years, so I figured I had forgotten
most of it.

I enjoy watching old movies just to see the culture change. Watching a
movie from the 1940’s is like watching a foreign film. There are hints
at subversion, as the commies were in deep with Hollywood back then, but
they had to be careful, so it is extremely subtle. A degenerate like
Gore Vidal could slip some [subtle homosexual
stuff](http://articles.latimes.com/2012/aug/01/entertainment/la-et-mn-gore-vidal-charlton-heston-ben-hur-20120801)
into the script, but even in the 1960’s, the degenerates had to be
careful. They had to fear old, weird America, as whites were still in
charge and were willing to fight back.

Anyway, I was a little surprised at having the same sort of reaction
watching shows that are just ten years old now. I watched The Wire
first, as I get asked about it and I forgot most of the story. There
were scenes in the show that would be cut out today, for fear the
anti-racist lunatics would burn down the studio. A realistic portrayal
of black America is no longer permitted, so I wonder if the show would
even get made today. Then there would be the demands from the actors to
make it even more black or make the whites eviler.

The fact is the writers highly glamorized the hell out of black crime in
Baltimore. There are no savvy and clever black drug dealers. All you
have to do is look at the crime reports, and it is obvious. Most of the
murders in the city are between knuckleheads over petty disputes. The
crime is disorganized and random, because the street gangs are just as
disorganized and chaotic as everything else in the black community. The
truth is the smart drug distributors stay far away from the street level
drug dealing in Baltimore.

Similarly, there are no smart, but corrupt black politicians. There is
plenty of corruption, in fact the entire city government is riddled with
hacks. It’s just that they are ham-handed about it. The Feds could lock
up every elected official tomorrow, but that would be both pointless and
politically impossible. Imagine the reaction to seeing black politicians
frog marched out of their offices. Watching these parts of the series, I
had the same reaction as I do when watching a 1970’s portrayal of black
America. It is all sadly alien.

The Sopranos is a show that certainly would not be made today. There is
a part of the story when the main character’s daughter dates a
mixed-race boy at college. For starters, the kid is half-Jewish and half
black, with his mother being black. No way the today’s writers touch a
topic like that unless the mulatto is somehow made into a Wakandian
superhero. Then there are the comments from the mafiosi about blacks
that no actor would agree to utter on screen. There is simply no way it
could get made today.

That said, I forgot how good the program was for a TV show. I recall
that pretentious phonies preferred The Wire at the time, but the truth
is, The Sopranos is a vastly better show. The humor is first rate. That
is the thing that struck me. Our current age is dominated by vinegar
drinking scolds, so nothing is funny anymore. Humor is dead because
everything Hollywood makes is saturated in multicultural proselytizing.
Much of what makes The Sopranos work is that it still has plenty of
old-fashioned jokes about life.

Keep in mind that these shows were made just a decade ago. In the
1980’s, watching shows from the 1970’s meant adjusting to the lower
technical standards and clunky soundtracks. Frankly, I find it easier to
adjust to black and white movies than the campy soundtracks of the
1970’s, but maybe that is just me. The point here is that the damn broke
in the culture war last decade. The lunatics no longer feel any
restraint, so it is endless poz in everything. Someone from the recent
past would not recognize us today.

Something I have mentioned before, but really came to mind while speed
watching these shows is just how much is padding. I now fast forward
through all sex scenes, as they add nothing to the show. Thirty years
ago, I could understand spicing the show with some smut, but in the
world of unlimited porn, there is no need for it in a regular adult
drama. Maybe they put it in there out of habit, like the car chase in
every action film or maybe the actors demand it. They are all vulgar
degenerates, after all.

Another thing I find myself doing is skipping past the pointless
character development stuff that usually makes no sense. Maybe women
like learning about the emotional issues of the fifth guy on the crew,
but it adds nothing to the story, so I do not care. In the Sopranos, I
skipped most of the scenes featuring the kids. I get that they are a
part of how this mob boss is struggling with life, but that can be
assumed. I do not need to spend twenty minutes watching the daughter
interact with the mulatto in her college dorm.
